21-07-2021||Pune||BJP, NCP in war of flexes on leaders’ birthday in Pune||PUNE: Despite appeals from both the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) Ajit Pawar, many party supporters are engaged in a fight to put up hoardings of Devendra Fadnavis and Pawar across the city. With the birthday of both the leaders falling on July 22, representatives of both the parties have put up flexes and hoardings of Fadnavis, claiming as “Vikas Purush”, and Pawar. BJP’s state party office secretary Mukund Kulkarni on July 19 issued an appeal stating, “BJP workers should not celebrate Fadnavis’ birthday in a grand manner by putting up advertisements, hoardings and flexes. Instead, they should contribute towards battling the Covid-19 pandemic.” Though the BJP office instructed the workers and warned them to take action, hoardings wishing Fadnavis on his birthday dot the city. To counter the BJP’s campaign, NCP has also put up posters in the city. When reporters pointed out to Pawar during his visit to the city on Wednesday that some supporters have put up his hoardings, Pawar said, “I have appealed to the party workers not to erect any hoarding. If any person with ulterior motive have put up posters, police should take action against them. The BJP is ruling in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporations. They can take action against such hoardings.`` Pawar said, “I have clearly appealed to all not to organise any event or do campaign by considering the Covid-19 pandemic situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-ncp-in-war-of-flexes-on-leaders-birthday-in-pune-101626892120629.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra begins probe into claims of irregularities in Fadnavis‘s pet project||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has initiated an open probe by the police and an administrative inquiry into alleged irregularities in the Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyan (JSA), a flagship water conservation project of the previous Devendra Fadnavis government. A state-appointed panel under a retired senior bureaucrat, in a preliminary investigation, pointed out several irregularities in JSA and recommended action. After it submitted a report in May, the state recently ordered the inquiries into the irregularities in around 1,000 of the total 1,728 works.The water conservation project, touted as a solution to the water shortage problem of rural areas, was a pet project of Fadnavis. The government has so far spent ₹9,634 crore on it. The committee has set the criterion according to which the district administrations can take action in irregularities. An open inquiry has been recommended in case of the irregularities related to tendering process, submission of wrong information, no actual execution on ground despite payment to contractors while in case of procedural lapses and irregularities, departmental inquiry has been recommended. Open inquiry will be conducted by the police or the anti-corruption bureau, said an official. Nand Kumar, additional chief secretary, soil and water conservation department of state government, said, “We received the report in May, after which the orders for the action have been given after studying it. The probe will be two-fold, the cases with the irregularities will have open inquiry, while the departmental lapses will be probed through departmental inquiry. The district collectorates of the respective districts will conduct the probe.”The committee looked into 600-odd complaints received by the government from across the state and 1,128 cases from 120 villages in six districts (Solapur, Palghar, Ahmednagar, Buldhana, Beed and Nagpur) referred in by the CAG. Of the 1,728 cases, the committee visited a few projects in three districts and found the irregularities. As per the scrutiny by the department, about 900 cases can attract open inquiry, while 100 may see administrative probe. It submitted its 70-page report in the first week of May, after which the state government has decided to take action as recommended by the committee. Besides the 1,728 cases, the district administrations will be free to probe other cases in the given criterion if they feel so.According to information, the committee has found that in many cases, tendering norms were not followed, wrong information was submitted about the implementation of the project, while in some projects the expected results were not achieved. Some of them could not complete the work in stipulated time, while some others failed to adhere to technical compliances.The four-member committee headed by retired additional chief secretary Bijay Kumar was constituted on December 1 after the state cabinet decided probe the allegations of irregularities in the project. The project was implemented in 22,589 villages with 6.41 lakh works were undertaken between December 2014 and March 2020. State government spent Rs9,634 crore on the project and implemented 98% of works were completed, in which Comptroller and Auditor General of India found holes after inspecting 1,128 works allotted and concluded that it failed to achieve its aim. The report was tabled in state legislature on September 8, while state cabinet decided to conduct an inquiry on October 14.“The committee has not identified the number of cases in which the irregularities have found as it was almost impossible to visit every work complained about. The committee visited number of villages in three districts, held meetings with the officials and met the complainants. The committee has found administration irregularities, lapses and irregularities in tendering process and execution of the projects. The district-level authorities will have to take a call on the type of inquiries. The open inquiries can be conducted by local police or the anti-corruption bureau (ACB),” said an official from the water conservation department.Bijay Kumar said, “The report has been submitted in May before I joined MAT. It’s now up to the government to take a call on it.”Ram Shinde, former water conservation minister and BJP leader, said, “This has been one of the best projects implemented after the independence to make villages water neutral. The project reduced the water scarcity in hundreds of villages. The inquiry is nothing, but the vendetta politics by the MVA government.”The CAG report has rapped the previous Fadnavis government for its failure in implementation of JSA envisaged to make villages in Maharashtra drought-free. Besides the deficiencies in planning and lack of provision of adequate funds for maintenance of the works, JSA failed to achieve water neutrality in drought-prone villages and increase the ground water level as intended, the report had stated. The report had stated that even after spending ₹9,634 crore, the Abhiyan had little impact in drought-prone districts, which ended deploying more tankers than in the past. Shinde also added, ““Bijay Kumar was heading the agriculture department between September 2016 and August 2018 and 75% of the implementation of the JSA was done during that period. The department was closely associated with the JSA. Now the question remains is why did the officer did not object to the irregularities at that time itself. Secondly, the irregularities have been found in just 650 of the total 6.5 lakh works undertaken, which means the percentage of works with so-called irregularities is 0.1%, which is negligible if its mammoth size is taken into consideration.The committee was asked to check which cases mentioned in the CAG report need to be probed by open inquiry and in which case, the departmental inquiry needs to be done. It was also mandated to check the type of inquiry needed to be done in 600 complaints received by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-begins-probe-into-claims-of-irregularities-in-fadnavis-s-pet-project-101626891881755.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh DSP found missing from night duty, issued notice||Senior superintendent of police Kuldeep Singh Chahal has issued a notice to a deputy superintendent of police for being absent from night duty, while her two subordinates have been suspended.The SSP was on a round of the city around 2.30am on Wednesday, as part of vigil for Eid celebrations and to keep an eye on protesting teachers who could enter Chandigarh, when he found DSP Rashmi Yadav missing from night duty. As per daily practice, three inspectors and a DSP are on night duty from 12am to 5am. The DSPs get the duty on rotation after every 20 days. The DSP and inspectors report at the Police Headquarters, after which the former briefs the inspectors and checking in respective sub-divisions is carried out.But instead of Yadav, who holds the charge of DSP cyber cell and additional charge of DSP operations, her driver, Vikas, and personal security officer (PSO), Arun Kumar, were found conducting checks. The duo tried to cover up Yadav’s absence, stating that she left for her house in Panchkula after rounds. However, on checking the Headquarters’ record and questioning the inspectors concerned, the SSP established that the DSP never reported for duty. “The driver and PSO were suspended on the spot, while a notice was served to the DSP seeking her explanation about absence from duty,” said Chahal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-dsp-found-missing-from-night-duty-issued-notice-101626891881226.html
21-07-2021||Delhi||CBSE extends deadline to submit compiled marks of Class 12 students; Board to conduct exams for private students from August 16||: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday announced that it has extended till Sunday (July 25) the deadline for schools to submit the compiled marks of Class 12 students; earlier, it was scheduled to end on July 22 (Thursday). The board further said it will conduct in-person Class 12 exams for private candidates between August and September Officials Hindustan Times spoke to said extending the deadline is unlikely to have any impact on the Class 12 results, which the board is planning to declare by July 31. Controller of examinations Sanyam Bhardwaj wrote to heads of CBSE-affiliated schools on Wednesday stating that the board is extending to July 25 the deadline for submission of Class 12 marks. “As the last date, July 22, is approaching and teachers involved are under stress, getting panicky and committing mistakes and sending requests to CBSE to rectify these [the finalized data]…CBSE is aware of the time constraints and problems faced by the schools and teachers. Accordingly, CBSE has decided to extend the last date from July 22 to July 25, 5pm,” wrote Bhardwaj. The extension granted on Wednesday has raised questions about whether the CBSE will be able to declare the Class 12 results by July 31. Reacting to concerns, Bhardwaj told HT, “Generally, we take around 10-15 days to finalise the work [after marks have been submitted]. But since schools are facing issues in compiling results, we had to extend the deadline for submission of marks. We may have to work round-the-clock but will declare results by July 31.”The CBSE’s revised marking scheme for Class 12 students, whose board exams were cancelled on account of the second wave of Covid-19, gives 30% weightage each to Class 10 and 11 scores of a student and 40% weightage to the internal marks secured by the student in Class 12. In order to check for inflation of marks and ensure standardisation, the board has implemented an elaborate moderation scheme and asked schools to strictly follow it. After declaring the results of CBSE’s Class 12 students, the board will conduct in-person exams for private candidates between August 16 and September 15.Private candidates are those who have enrolled in the CBSE’s private or patrachar programme and they will appear for exams along with students scheduled to take their compartment tests for a second time. On June 19, HT reported that CBSE’s alternative assessment plan for Class 12 students may put private candidates at a disadvantage.“Their results will also be declared in the minimum possible time to avoid any difficulty they may face in securing admissions for higher education,” the board said in its notification on Wednesday, adding that the University Grants Commission (UGC) will be “synchronising admission schedule based on the results of these students as was done in 2020.”However, the move has not gone down well with rights activists and private candidates. Mumbai-based child rights activist and advocate Anubha Shrivastava Sahai, who has been demanding a separate evaluation method for private candidates, said the decision to conduct in-person exams in August-September for only these candidates is discriminatory.“CBSE’s claim of not having data on private candidates is incorrect. The data submitted by persons enrolling as private candidates can be used. Several state boards, including Tripura, Odisha, and Maharashtra, have come up with similar plans for private or compartment candidates. The move to conduct exams is discriminatory,” she said.Darshan Kumar, a resident of Thiruvananthapuram, who will appear for a compartment paper, said, “My state is conducting engineering entrance exam on August 5 and results will come on August 25. We are expected to upload our Class 12 marks within a week to secure a seat. How can we do so under the current schedule? Students opting for several other courses will also not be able to enrol in any government college and will have to try their luck at private colleges if they don’t want to waste a year. It would have been better had the board considered our previous scores and evaluated us in a manner similar to that for regular candidates.”CBSE said unlike regular students, whose schools have recorded results of unit tests, mid terms, and pre-board exams, there are no such records available for private candidates “based on which their assessment could be done without the conduct of exams”, thereby necessitating the need for in-person exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cbse-extends-deadline-to-submit-compiled-marks-of-class-12-students-board-to-conduct-exams-for-private-students-from-august-16-101626891821201.html
21-07-2021||Other||Vaccinations dip again in Delhi||New Delhi: The coronavirus vaccination drive in Delhi, which showed signs of picking up pace after an uptick in shots administered on Tuesday, saw fewer vaccinations on Wednesday, with officials attributing it to people being unaware of the functioning of vaccination centres during Eid.Delhi saw 63,265 vaccine doses administered through 729 centres till Wednesday evening, in comparison to almost 72,000 doses administered on Tuesday. Delhi recorded only administration of 25,985 doses on Monday.“The impact of Eid can be seen on the vaccination numbers. Most people may not have known that vaccination centres were running even on the public holiday. Some centres in hospitals, however, remained closed today,” said a senior official from southwest district. In the last two weeks, the number of shots administered daily crossed the 100,000 mark only twice, and has dipped as low as 10,000. The pace of vaccination has been erratic, with the Delhi government attributing it to a shortage of vaccine doses.“At the beginning of the month, we were unofficially informed that the pace of the vaccination will remain slow because of a lack of doses. We cannot operate all our vaccination sites every day because we are getting fewer doses than we can administer. It makes no sense to give every centre 50 doses; instead, we give 300 to 400 doses to each centre that is running,” said another official from South district. The number of vaccines administered had shot up in Delhi after the Centre revised the vaccine procurement policy on June 21, taking up the responsibility of procurement of doses for all states.Before this, free doses provided by the Centre were strictly restricted for those above the age of 45, whereas doses for those between the ages of 18 and 45 years were purchased by the state government at a differential pricing. With a fresh stock of 85,810 Covishield doses on Tuesday, Delhi currently has 108,300 Covishield doses and around 184,000 doses of Covaxin. Only 20% of the Covaxin stock is being utilised for first dose takers to prevent a shortage for those coming in for their second dose.“So far we have completely immunised less than 10% of our eligible population in India. This is not enough to stop the transmission of the infection in the community and thereby protect those at risk of developing severe disease from death. At least 40-50% of the eligible population has to be completely immunised to achieve that,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College-Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccinations-dip-again-in-delhi-101626891820653.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra vaccine drive continues to be hit by shortage||Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 8,159 Covid-19 new cases and 165 deaths. While the number of fresh Covid-19 cases remains high amid experts insisting on vaccinating maximum people to prevent or delay a third wave, the state continues to face a shortage of vaccine. The vaccination drive at civic centres was suspended on Wednesday and most will remain suspended on Thursday, officials said. Mumbai recorded 430 new cases and 13 deaths, with its toll reaching 15,800. The total number of Covid-19 patients reached 6,237,755, of which Mumbai’s share is 732,582.The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 94,745 while the total number of deaths right from the Covid-19 outbreak has now reached 130,918. The state government reconciled 3,509 deaths on Tuesday. Pune leads with 18,312 deaths, followed by Mumbai reporting 15,800 and Thane with 10,937 deaths so far. There are currently 94,745 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 15,566 patients, followed by Thane with 12,087 and Sangli with 10,674. There were 222,270 tests done on Wednesday, while the number of recoveries clocked 7,839.Although the state has crossed the 30 million vaccination mark, it continues to be saddled by the shortage of vaccine supply from the central government. This can be aptly demonstrated as just 105,157 vaccine doses were administered on Wednesday at 1,131 centres across the state.Many centres were closed across the state due to shortage of vaccines. The total number of vaccines administered till date is 40,215,778. This is despite the fact that the Maharashtra legislature had recently passed a resolution demanding 30 million doses monthly.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which had suspended its drive on Wednesday, said in an official statement that it will restart it on Friday.The statement said that will receive a stock of 60,200 vaccine doses late on Wednesday night. Owing to this, the doses will be distributed to public centres on Thursday and the drive will only restart from Friday. Of the 60,200 doses that the BMC will receive, 50,000 will be Covishield and 11,200 will be Covaxin. Overall, 6,567,324 citizens have been vaccinated with at least one dose in the city. Of these, 1,513,126 citizens have been fully vaccinated.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that those who have taken two doses should be allowed to venture out. “Those who have taken two doses should be allowed to venture out in a phase-wise manner. However, we should also keep in mind the impending third wave. This is my personal opinion and the final decision will be taken by the chief minister,” said Pawar.Similar opposition leader of the state council and BJP leader Pravin Darekar said “We should allow those who are fully vaccinated to travel in local trains. Today they are spending major part of their day in standing in lines for buses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-vaccine-drive-continues-to-be-hit-by-shortage-101626891761404.html
21-07-2021||Other||Dissatisfied with police probe, HC asks CBI to investigate Tihar undertrial’s death||New Delhi: The Delhi high court has questioned the prison authorities for not carrying out a proper investigation into the alleged murder of an undertrial prisoner at Tihar Jail by jail officers, and asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to look into the allegations raised by the family. The victim, identified as Shrikant Rama Swami, was supposed to released on the day he allegedly got into a fight with fellow inmates and later died in a hospital.The court’s order comes on a plea by a woman, whose son, identified as Shrikant Rama Swami, was lodged in the Tihar jail since June 13, 2019, in connection with three FIRs which lists offences of attempt to murder, robbery, dacoity, obstructing a public servant on duty, counterfeiting and relevant sections of Arms Act. Swami’s advocate Shailendra Singh said that his client was granted bail and was supposed to be released on May 14 this year. “He was supposed to be released from the jail as he was granted bail under the guidelines of the high powered committee to de-congest jails during the pandemic. However, his dead body came out, “ said Singh.Justice Mukta Gupta on Tuesday said that the post -mortem report of the victim, Shrikant Rama Swami, has not been placed on record before the court, and noted that the investigation into the call received by the victim’s sister a day prior to the incident is also “incomplete”, despite an FIR getting registered two months back.The Director General (DG) of Prisons had informed the court that most of the CCTVs in the Tihar Jail were not working, adding that more than half of the 6,967 CCTVs to be installed in the premises are functional and that the rest would be made operational by August 15.“It is thus evident that no CCTV footage of the incident is available. However, the prime issue which now concerns this court, besides the manner in which the death of the inmate has been caused, is why no proper investigation could be carried out despite the fact that a PCR call was made from a phone number from the jail and the said phone number is duly recorded in the PCR call,” the court said in its eight-page order.“Considering the fact that as per status report filed by the jail superintendent, there was no apparent injury on the deceased. However, the case of the petitioner is that there were deep injury marks on the deceased and an in depth investigation is required... to find out the circumstances under which the deceased made a phone call to his sister expressing his apprehension of death and his subsequent death in the judicial custody... this court finds it fit to transfer the investigation of the case FIR in question to CBI,” the judge added.Pointing to a call received by the victim’s sister a day prior to the alleged assault, the plea filed by Swami’s mother also said that his body had several deep cuts which it claimed could not have been caused by a cricket bat.The jail authorities had informed the court that three undertrials were found beating Swami with cricket bats around 7am on May 14. Later, after he complained of body pain, he was taken to the hospital where he died at 11.30am. They also said that an FIR into the death has been registered at the Hari Nagar police station.The court noted that the investigation based on the mobile phone number as noted in the PCR call still appears to be “incomplete”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dissatisfied-with-police-probe-hc-asks-cbi-to-investigate-tihar-undertrial-s-death-101626891760744.html
21-07-2021||Other||Two dead after falling from under-construction building in east Delhi||New Delhi: A 46-year-old property dealer and his friend died after falling off an under construction building in east Delhi’s Krishna Nagar on Wednesday morning. Police said the two -- identified as Rajesh Rastogi,46, and his friend Amit Malhotra,47 -- had gone to see the property as one of them was planning to buy a flat in the under construction residential building, and suspect that they fell while looking down from the balcony of a fourth floor apartment. Police said they died on the spot.“No foul play and suspicion could be noticed or reported so far. However, we are conducting an investigation into the incident and looking for witnesses and CCTV camera footage that can help us ascertain the exact sequence of events leading to the deaths,” said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram.Police said both the deceased lived in Krishna Nagar, just 150 metres away from the under construction building. Rastogi was a realtor and Malhotra’s family was in the jewellery business.DCP Sathiyasundaram said that the police control room was informed that two persons had fallen down from a building at B-block, behind Shriram hospital, at around 11.30am.A police team found the two men lying upside down outside the building, following which their bodies were shifted to a nearby government hospital and their families were informed.Police said the building’s guard, Gaya Prasad, told investigators that the two men visited the building to see the flat Rastogi was planning to purchase. Rastogi had visited the property earlier as well. “Prime facie, it appears that the two were looking down from the balcony that had no railing. Even the flooring was incomplete and filled with broken bricks. We spoke to the developer who confirmed that Rastogi had contacted him for a flat in the building,” the DCP said, adding that an inquest proceeding was initiated into the deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-dead-after-falling-from-under-construction-building-in-east-delhi-101626891581374.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Daily flight from Chandigarh to Jaipur resumes||With the dip in Covid-19 cases, IndiGo Airlines has resumed its daily flight to Jaipur from the Chandigarh International Airport. The flight was suspended during the pandemic’s second wave in March this year. It will leave Jaipur at 5.25pm to reach Chandigarh at 7pm and depart at 7.20pm to arrive in Jaipur by 8.55pm.“With lifting of Covid restrictions, the airport’s footfall has increased from 3,000 to 5,400 a day. Currently, 28 flights are operational and the number will increase further shortly,” said Ajay Bhardwaj, chief executive officer of the airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/daily-flight-from-chandigarh-to-jaipur-resumes-101626891522265.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali education dept’s staffer arrested for seeking ₹3.5 bribe from teacher||A junior assistant at the district education officer’s (DEO) office has been arrested for demanding ₹3.5 lakh bribe from a government school teacher to release his arrears.The accused, Pritpal Singh, was arrested by the district vigilance department on Wednesday while accepting ₹1 lakh of the bribe amount at the Phase-11 house of the complainant.The teacher, Karamjit Singh, currently posted at Government High School, Karala, was arrested in 2015 in connection with a drugs case. During the trial, he was placed under suspension by the education department and his salary was slashed by half. But after he was acquitted in the case his full salary was reinstated.Karamjit said as he was found not guilty, he approached Pritpal, a junior assistant at DEO Elementary Office, Mohali, to release his withheld salary, which ran up to ₹10 lakh.To meet his request, Pritpal sought 40% of the arrears as bribe and on Karamjit’s plea lowered it to 35%. Of the ₹3.5 lakh, ₹1 lakh was to be paid in advance.Following this, Karamjit approached the vigilance department. “A trap was laid and Pritpal was caught red-handed while accepting ₹1 lakh at the complainant’s house,” said Raj Jit Singh Hundal, senior superintendent of police (Vigilance).Pritpal was booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act and produced before a local court that sent him to three-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-education-dept-s-staffer-arrested-for-seeking-3-5-bribe-from-teacher-101626891281280.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||A month later, Maratha outfits to decide on action||With the one-month period given to the state over and no action on the promises on reservation made to them, Maratha outfits will take a call on action soon. Maratha outfits had started state-wide meetings and protests under the leadership of Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati after the Supreme Court on May 5 quashed 12% and 13% quota given to Marathas in education and jobs under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act, 2018. On June 21, Rajya Sabha MP Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, who has been spearheading the agitation to push for steps for restoration of the reservation, announced to put the agitation on hold after a meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and other ministers. “The state has not kept its promises made during the meeting with us. The recruitment of 2185 Maratha candidates from other category has not been completed, while compliances related to the Sarthi institute and Annasaheb Patil Arthik Magas Vikas Mahamandal have not been done. We were told that the government will begin the collection of data related to the backwardness of the community, but it has not been done. Similarly, the promises related to the hostel and Kopardi case too have not been kept. We had a meeting with Sambhajiraje recently. A decision over the course of action will soon be taken,” said Virendra Pawar of Maratha Kranti Morcha. A senior official from general administration department said, “We have filed a review petition in the Supreme Court. The collection of empirical data can’t start until the decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/a-month-later-maratha-outfits-to-decide-on-action-101626890500507.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||Two months on, a fishing village continues to bear the brunt of Cyclone Tauktae||Cyclone Tauktae brushed past the coast of Maharashtra on May 17 this year, killing at least 19 in the state, damaging between 3,000 to 5,000 acres of standing crops, and unleashing record-breaking rain and winds over Mumbai. Though the event is now firmly in the past for most city folk, a coastal community in Palghar district, around 115km north of Mumbai, continues to deal with the storm’s aftermath – allegedly with little help from authorities.Stranded barge still grounded in Palghar Fisherfolk operating in the vicinity of Vadrai beach (in Palghar’s Mahim village, 10km from the district headquarters), have been particularly affected by the grounding of a cargo barge – the Gal Constructor – which washed up on Vadrai’s rocky shore on the morning of May 18. The vessel, originally anchored in Alibag on contract to ONGC by infrastructure company Afcons, was driven north during the cyclone and remains grounded in Vadrai.At low tide, one can inspect the Constructor’s broken hull, from which several thousand litres of diesel, ballast water and bunker oil began spilling into the ocean around May 28. A spokesperson for ONGC told Hindustan Times that the barge had at least 78,000 litres of high-flash high-speed diesel (HFHSD), “majority of which was recovered directly from the barge.” There was no crude oil on board, the spokesperson said, clarifying that hydrocarbons extracted from oil wells at Bombay High are transported via submarine pipelines.Manendra Arekar, chairman of the Vadrai Sarvodaya Machimaar Society (VSMS), along with several other fisherfolk, said the barge continued to leak a dark, oily liquid for at least eight days before Afcons agreed to contain the spill Afcons later confirmed this. “There was diesel, ballast water and residual fuel oil which was used onboard, hence the dark colour of the spill,” an Afcons spokesperson admitted, seeking confidentiality.“Afcons initially began to empty all the valuables from the barge,” said Arekar, who represents owners of around 50 motorised fishing boats in Vadrai. “Machinery, containers, cranes and all sorts of things. They also began removing the stored diesel, but contracted a separate company to contain the spill only after we forced their hand.” Marginal fishermen hit hard by spillUnfortunately for fish workers, the barge is stranded right in the middle of a productive intertidal fishing ground which yields oysters, shellfish, crab, mudskippers, prawns, mullets, catfish, milk sharks, lobsters, groupers, rays and several other varieties of small fish. These provide not only incomes but also nutrition; they are a valuable source of meat for poor families.“For at least a month after the spill, fishing in the area came to a complete halt,” said 48-year old Nilesh Mahalkari, one of several Vadrai residents who rely entirely on near-shore fishing during the off season, from June to July. Things improved a little after the rains, but the quality of the shellfish, snails and oysters is still bad. People in the market are reluctant to buy from me because they know where I catch my fish. Some of the more valuable stuff, like dhoma, hekru, and prawns, are not coming to that area anymore.”Since the barge arrived on their beach, Mahalkari and others have started going to Shirgaon, 2km north of Vadrai where there is still an abundance of oysters, shellfish and snails – the three main species available in large enough quantities to guarantee a day’s income. It takes about 45 minutes to walk there one way from Vadrai, which means they have less time to collect as much as catch before the tide comes back in and the workers have to return home for lunch.‘The fish tastes like kerosene’For most of these fisherfolk, with incomes fluctuating between ₹100 to 300 per day, the barge accident led to immediate financial losses. Rajni Thapar, a fishmonger from Vadrai, remembers the sight of dead shellfish and oysters in the days immediately after the Constructor began to spill its contents. “We couldn’t sell anything from the area for over a month. The quality of the catch has gotten better only in the last ten or twelve days, but something is still not right about the way the fish tastes,” she said on the morning of July 14, as she made her way back from Shirgaon.This was a common account narrated by over a dozen fishermen and locals. “The fish tasted like rakel (kerosene). It left a burning sensation in the mouth,” said Rekha More, a fishmonger and resident of Mahim village. Women from the nearby adivasi settlement of Rawlepada, which abuts Vadrai beach, also had similar testimonies.“Just this week, I brought home some khubre (sea snails) from near the barge and boiled them. There was such a foul smell that you couldn’t eat the snails. Even the boiled water, which we use for cooking, had to be thrown out,” said Sunita Kawat, from Rawlepada, speaking to HT on July 14. A letter written by over a dozen adivasi women to the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), dated June 28 – pleading with the MPCB’s regional officer to “get to the root of the problem by visiting our coast” – has so far gone unanswered. Vessel will hinder navigation, should be removed at the earliestThe fisherfolk of Vadrai unanimously said that they want the barge removed at the earliest, and voiced opposition to a growing rumour that the vessel may be dismantled on the beach itself. Locals, well aware of the ecological impacts of ship-breaking, expressed concern over how this may further affect intertidal fishing. With the on season for fishing set to begin in just over a week, even fishermen who venture out to deeper waters are foreseeing problems.“The barge is now stuck in the middle of our navigation route. The rest of the beach is too rocky, so when the fishing season starts in August, we will have to take a longer detour to reach our fishing grounds. It will take too much time, and with diesel prices being what they are, it will hurt our pockets,” said Ganesh Meher, an artisanal fisherman from Vadrai and member of the VSMS. Arekar, meanwhile, rued the lack of initiative from any authority in getting the vessel removed from the location. “We have written to Aaditya Thackeray (state environment minister) twice and made representations to everyone from the collector’s office to the maritime board. So far everyone seems to be shrugging responsibility. At the moment, we have no idea as to how and when the vessel will be moved. There are rumours going around that the barge may be broken down at location. This is not acceptable to us. Marginal fishermen have already been affected by the oil spill and we cannot take any risk that threatens the larger community, especially with the fishing season about to start soon,” he said. An official with the MPCB’s regional office in Thane, which also presides over Palghar district, claimed that it is near impossible for the barge to be simply towed away. Given the substantial damage it suffered during the cyclone, along with its age (the Constructor was built in 1978), and the fact that no tugboats will be able to reach it given the rocky shore, authorities have accepted that it will have to be “dis-assembled on site”.“It is the only way,” said the MPCB official, preferring anonymity, “The responsibility rests with the owner of the barge, and not with any other authority. The superintendent of police, Palghar, has already warned both the parent company Tirupati Vessels, as well as Afcons, saying an FIR will be filed in case the issue is not resolved.”Contesting claims on pollution from spillA spokesperson for Afcons, seeking anonymity, denied any wrongdoing on their part. “Our contract with the barge owner and ONGC had already lapsed by the time the accident took place. For a week after the spillage began, we tried to contact the owner but he was not reachable. We only stepped in because Afcons was getting a bad name in the press. We do not have any liability in the matter, and besides, no pollution from the spill reached the shore,” they said.Dr Rajendra Rajput, the MPCB’s regional officer in Thane, however, revealed that there was a total of 84,000 litres of HFHSD on board the Constructor – as against the 78,000 litres claimed by ONGC. Of this, 79,000 odd litres were recovered before they could be spilled. “But about 5,000 litres of diesel, mixed with ballast water and bunker oil were released into the sea. Containment booms were able to soak up about 3,000 litres of the spill, but the remaining 2,000 litres nothing could be done about,” said Rajput.A walk down Vadrai beach shows that several containment booms – long, tubular sponges used to soak up the spilled oil and diesel, and which are classified as hazardous waste – remain washed up on the beach, as far as the high-tide line. However, according to laboratory tests conducted by the MPCB on surface water samples from Vadrai beach over eight days in late May-early June, oil and grease were found to be below the detectable limit. “So ultimately there is no major impact that could be found,” said Rajput.These statements have been contested by locals and independent researchers monitoring the situation. “How can Afcons say that the spill did not reach the shore? The containment booms have themselves washed up on the beach and have not been cleared over two months later. The MPCB has not taken any action or served a notice to Afcons for the same. There should be an unbiased study to understand the impact of this accident, rather than plainly denying any possibility of ecological impact,” said Dhwani Shah, an independent environmental researcher who has been working with fishing communities in Palghar for the last two years.Vessel owner, officials vacillate on taking responsibilityAs far as removing the damaged vessel from the area is concerned, spokespersons for Afcons and ONGC, as well as officials in the Coast Guard and the district collector’s office and the MPCB, all repeatedly emphasised that the responsibility rests with Tirupati Vessels Pvt Ltd.Rajiv Agarwal, a director at Tirupati Vessels, did not provide an official comment for this story despite being contacted multiple times over the past week, while VK Singh, coast guard commandant, declined to comment on the matter until permitted to do so from his headquarters.Officials in the district collector’s office, too, shunned responsibility for the accident, even though the defence ministry’s national oil spill disaster contingency management plan (NOS-DCP) formally mandates them to “provide personnel and equipment for shoreline clean-up and ensure safety and protection of the local population and resources.” “We have written to the Maharashtra Maritime Board, who has further written to the director general of shipping to look into the matter. You may talk to the MMB for an answer,” said Kiran Mahajan, deputy collector, Palghar district, when contacted by HT.Captain Praveen Khara, regional port officer, Maharashtra Maritime Board, also did not respond to multiple calls and messages seeking comment, while SK Nath, head of security and safety at the MMB, could not be contacted despite several attempts to reach him.Yashwant Sontakke, joint director (water), with the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), said there was “no way” to assess the true scale of impact. “We have done a site visit, conducted tests, and not found any significant pollution due to the spill. I cannot 100 percent deny that fisherfolk have been impacted, but the fisheries department is the right authority to comment on that, not the MPCB,” he said.The lack of any environment impact assessment following the incident has irked experts. “There are whole patches of mangroves along Vadrai and the adjacent Thembi beach which turned completely black with oil and died. These are breeding grounds for fish, which the locals rely on for commercial sale and personal consumption. It is irresponsible for officials to say that they cannot conclusively determine any impact, when no such attempt has been made in the first place,” said Bhushan Bhoir, a marine researcher and zoologist based in Palghar, who was present during Afcons’ clean-up operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-months-on-a-fishing-village-continues-to-bear-the-brunt-of-cyclone-tauktae-101626890380643.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||Sub-adult male tiger found dead in Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve; death toll 22 in state||The corpse of a sub-adult male tiger aged around one-and-a-half years was discovered in Tamsi forest block in the core forest area of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve in Chandrapur district around 2pm on Monday. A post-mortem conducted by state wildlife veterinarians on Tuesday failed to determine the cause of death as the carcass was extremely decomposed. They have, however, clarified that there was no indications of poaching as all the tiger’s limbs and organs were in place.Histopathology reports of organ samples are still awaited, which may provide further clues. The sub-adult tiger has been established as the offspring of tigress T31 and has two siblings. While the location of one of the siblings is known to authorities, officials are combing through camera trap footages to triangulate the location of the third sub-adult. The mother is believed to be roaming in Katejhari area of the Tadoba core zone at present, the forest department said in a press note.This incident comes just two weeks after tiger T50, nicknamed Khali, died of injuries at the Gorewada Rescue Centre after being hit by a speeding vehicle on May 8 this year. Officials in the know confirmed there have been at least 22 tiger deaths in Maharashtra this year alone, based on retrieval of carcasses. However, independent data collected by NGO Wildlife Protection Society of India (WPSI) suggests that based on the seizure of tiger parts this year, the number may be as many as 26. Last year, the state had recorded only 16 tiger deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/subadult-male-tiger-found-dead-in-tadoba-andhari-tiger-reserve-death-toll-22-in-state-101626890320550.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai on red alert, chances of over 200mm rain in some parts on Thursday: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) upgraded the weather alert for Mumbai from orange category to red category, indicating widespread heavy to very heavy rains across the city, with chances of extremely heavy rain in excess of 204.5mm in isolated locations on July 22, along with chances of occasional gusty winds of 40-50 kmph, gusting to 60 kmph in some areas.IMD had initially predicted an orange category alert for July 21 and 22 which was upgraded at 1pm Wednesday. “A yellow alert indicating mainly heavy rainfall was there for Mumbai only for July 20. For July 21 we had already indicated chances of very heavy rainfall with orange alert. This has been upgraded today to red alert, indicating chances of extremely heavy rain, keeping in mind the synoptic situation,” said a meteorologist with IMD in Mumbai.Meanwhile, the city woke up to its fourth consecutive day of rainfall on Wednesday, recording 23.9mm of rain in the 24 hours ending 8.30am, down from 38.4mm recorded in the 24 hours before that. The day also saw another 50.2mm till 5.30pm. “These rains are not thunderstorms like we saw on early Sunday. It is the result of very strong westerly winds bringing in moisture from an active monsoon trough that runs along coastal Maharashtra. There is a high chance of Mumbai getting another 50mm to 100mm of rain on Thursday. Most monitoring stations across the city and suburbs saw between 50 and 80mm of rain on Wednesday. The distribution will persist, but intensity may vary from place to place,” said the IMD official.An off-shore monsoon trough at mean sea level near the Maharashtra coast is likely to remain vigorous for the next three to four days along with a shear zone in the mid-tropospheric level, and Mumbai will continue to see an active monsoon spell for the “next four-five days with heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places and extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places”, IMD had said in a bulletin released on Tuesday. A cyclonic circulation over south Gujarat and a low-pressure area forming in the Bay of Bengal around July 23 will also facilitate heavy rains in the Konkan coast for a few days. There is a chance of decreasing rains only after July 24, officials said.The total rainfall for the month of July now stands at just more than 1,000mm, in excess of the 827-mm normal set by IMD. Mumbai has received 1,993.9mm of rain this season so far which 90.5% of the total seasonal normal up to September-end. Officials said the rainfall record for July is extremely likely to cross the 2,000-mm mark by early Thursday. During last monsoon, the city had recorded 1,469mm rain in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-on-red-alert-chances-of-over-200mm-rain-in-some-parts-on-thursday-imd-101626890260663.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||Rain lashes Mumbai; 1 injured in tree fall at Andheri||The city received between moderate and heavy rainfall on Tuesday night and through Wednesday, leading to waterlogging in several parts of south and central Mumbai on Wednesday. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) stated that traffic was not affected due to waterlogging. Meanwhile, a 30-year-old person sustained minor injuries on Mahakali Caves Road in Andheri due to tree collapse at 12.48pm on Wednesday. The person was rushed to Cooper hospital and was discharged after treatment. In the 10 hours ending at 6pm on Wednesday, most areas in the island city recorded high rainfall compared with the suburbs. As per BMC’s automatic weather stations, Grant Road recorded 63mm of rain, Malabar Hill 87mm, Byculla 76mm, Worli 64.26mm, Matunga 68mm, Bandra 66mm, Chembur 64mm, Nariman Point 70mm; in the western suburbs, Malad recorded 42mm rain, Dahisar 47mm, Andheri 60mm, Vile Parle 56mm; and in the eastern suburbs Ghatkopar recorded 52mm rain, and Bhandup 62mm.In a statement on Wednesday, BMC said its recently completed stormwater drains project, in collaboration with Central Railways, at Sandhurst Road Railway station ensured that the chronic waterlogging spot did not flood this monsoon. “A 415-metre-long and 1,800-mm-diameter rainwater aqueduct was laid under the railway track by Central Railway. An additional box drain has been laid beyond the railway boundary to connect this rainwater canal to BMC’s main stormwater drain. The work was done over the past four months since March 2021 in collaboration with the railways. The task was extremely challenging due to Tata’s high-voltage power lines and large water pipes located at the site of the box drain. Micro-tunnelling method was used to ensure railway traffic was not disrupted,” the statement said.Between 8am and 6pm on Wednesday, BMC received five complaints of house collapse, of which one was in the eastern suburbs and four in the western suburbs. BMC also received 15 complaints of tree collapses, of which four were in the island city, five in the eastern suburbs and six in the western suburbs. The civic disaster management department received six complaints of short circuit across the city. No other mishap was reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rain-lashes-mumbai-1-injured-in-tree-fall-at-andheri-101626890261301.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: FYJC CET registration portal temporarily shut due to technical glitch||The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) was forced to shut down the portal for registration of the optional common entrance test (CET) for first-year junior college (FYJC) on Wednesday evening to “fix technical issues”. Thousands of FYJC aspirants across the state have complained of inaccessibility to the website for the second consecutive day.The state board, however, provided no clarity on when the portal will be up and running again.The registration website was to be open between July 20 and 26, but the state education board will extend this deadline by a few days. “The optional CET portal has been shut temporarily due to technical issues. The technical team is trying to resolve the problem. Students need not worry as we will extend the deadline and award more time for students to fill applications for CET,” said Dinkar Patil, chairman of MSBSHSE. The portal — http://cet.mh-ssc.ac.in/, which was supposed to open for online applications from 11.30am on Tuesday, remained inaccessible due to technical issues till Wednesday night and was shut thereafter.“We struggled for hours to access our results and were really hoping that the rest of the process to be smooth. But since Tuesday evening, the CET website has been crashing and many of us have not yet managed to access it,” said Ankush Rahane, an aspirant. He added that even the helpline numbers made available by the state board were running busy all day on Wednesday.Results for the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) were announced online on July 16, but the website crashed within minutes into 1pm. With no board exams this year due to rising Covid-19 cases, the state decided to conduct an optional CET based on the state board syllabus. Around 1.574 million students from the state registered for Class 10 for academic year 2020-21. At present, only state board Class 10 students have received their results. However, students from the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) who are still awaiting their results, can also register for CET.As per a government resolution (GR) made public by the state school education department, priority in admission to FYJC will be given to students based on their CET scores. Remaining seats will be allotted to students based on merit as per marks scored through Class 10 assessment method depending on the vacancy of seats in junior colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtrafyjc-cet-registration-portal-temporarily-shut-due-to-technical-glitch-101626890200536.html
21-07-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: First dose vaccinations on hold||The administration of the first dose of Covishield and Covaxin Covid-19 vaccines will remain suspended at government health centres on Thursday due to a shortage. Officials of the health department said that the focus is on administering the second vaccine shot to eligible people, to increase the coverage of the vaccinated population.“Based on the availability of the vaccine, nearly 150-200 slots are available for the second dose at 29 government health centres on Thursday. Since there has been a shortage of vaccines, the priority is to make the second vaccine shot easily available to people who are in line to get their vaccination completed,” said Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer for Gurugram.On Tuesday, only 198 first doses were administered, of which 100 doses were of the Sputnik V vaccine. About 4,560 second doses were administered, largely covering people above 45 years and front-line workers. Of the 13,330 doses administered on the day, 4,758 were given at government health centres and 8,572 at private hospitals.Over 350,000 people have completed their vaccination schedule, by taking both doses, whereas over 1,334,332 have taken the first vaccine shot. The overall doses administered in the district stands at 1,686,800, the highest in the state.According to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who was in the city earlier this week, there are over 2.5 million people in Gurugram who are to be covered under the Covid-19 vaccination. Based on the CM’s estimates, at least 53.3% population has received at least the first dose and 14% are completely vaccinated.According to Yadav, the first dose inoculation of Covaxin has remained suspended for about a month now. “Doses are reserved for the second shot as per the allocation done by the state health department. Meanwhile, session sites for the first dose are planned based on the supply of Covishield,” said Yadav.The administration of the first vaccine dose has remained disrupted for the past two weeks due to low stocks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19first-dose-vaccinations-on-hold-101626889964662.html
21-07-2021||Gurugram||Palam Vihar residents want stormwater drain repaired on priority||Residents of Palam Vihar blamed the local government bodies for severe waterlogging in the colony earlier this week, alleging that water stagnated on roads as the main stormwater drain in the area was not repaired or cleaned.They said that officials were repeatedly asked to fix the Leg One (L-1) stormwater drain and cover it across its one-kilometre trajectory in the area, failure to undertake which led to the flooding of arterial and main roads in the colony.The residents’ welfare association (RWA) of the E and F blocks said that the stormwater drain has collapsed at many spots in the colony and that the surface of the drain is also giving way at several points, leading to concerns of groundwater contamination. “The drain is damaged at several places and we have repeatedly taken up the matter with the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA). Due to the lack of cleaning and silting, the water carrying capacity has reduced considerably and it caused heavy waterlogging on Monday. Water was stagnating up to a height of two feet on internal roads, “ said Colonel (retd) Davinder Behl, the RWA president.Officials of the GMDA said that tenders for the stormwater drain were already issued but the process was delayed after a resident approached the National Green Tribunal (NGT) over environmental issues that may arise from the project.Pradeep Kumar, the chief engineer of GMDA, said, “Palam Vihar residents have approached us and shared their problems, after which it was decided that a fresh tender should be prepared for carrying out this work. A detailed tender is in the final stages at NIT Kurukshetra and we will soon allot it and get the work started. The concerns of the residents, environmental and others, would be addressed through this work.”Dharmvir Malik, the executive engineer of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), said that the internal drains of the sector have been cleaned but have limited capacity. “Once the main stormwater drain becomes fully functional, this problem will go away,” he said.Residents also said that residential areas and industrial units located upstream from them were discharging sewage into the drain. “The sewage in the drain causes the release of ammonia gas, which causes foul smell. The stagnant water also leads to mosquito breeding and makes life difficult for residents,” said Amar Meena, the general secretary of the RWA.Residents said that the drain should be cleaned at the earliest and relaid so that stormwater can flow freely. “For the last three days, there has been no electricity in our side of the Vyapar Kendra market because of flooding of the basement. The electricity panels are submerged in water,” said Karamvir Singh, a shop owner in Vyapar Kendra.Kumar also said that to prevent flooding and waterlogging, the GMDA would immediately deploy personnel and machinery to clean the drain. “It should be noted that waterlogging took place due to record rainfall on Monday, but it cleared by late evening. The systems put in place worked effectively,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/palam-vihar-residents-want-stormwater-drain-repaired-on-priority-101626889963591.html
21-07-2021||Gurugram||HSVP to auction 35 acres by September||Land parcels owned by the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), on which no developmental activities have been planned, will be auctioned in the next two months for residential and commercial developments, officials said on Wednesday.Officials said that they are in the process of identifying such areas within the city and have identified 35 acres so far, which are likely to be auctioned in August or September.Jitender Yadav, HSVP administrator, Gurugram, said that 20 to 25 such sites have been identified and details of these land parcels were shared with the district town planner to plan them for residential and commercial use. “These sites are around 35 acres and will be put for auction either in August or September,” said Yadav.Faced with a funds crunch of late, senior officials in Chandigarh directed the authority to monetise its unutilised assets. Initially, properties will be identified in estate offices one and two of the city and areas adjoining Pataudi. Later, this process would be carried out in Rewari and Dharuhera as well, said officials.HSVP officials said that every week, a review meeting will be held to bring more such land under planning and development to monetise them. Officials said that the authority owns around 1,500 acres in Gurugram that can be monetised because of the cash crunch being faced by the authority. The focus is to develop this land, they said.Yadav said that plots under estate offices one and two in Gurugram and areas in Pataudi would be auctioned. “This land would be sold either as residential plots or commercial sites to developers through e-auction,” he said.HSVP officials said that large chunks of land owned by the authority have also been encroached upon and the same will be cleared and planned for the development of commercial and residential properties. “All efforts would be made to ensure that the land owned by authority is identified and cleared from encroachments,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hsvp-to-auction-35-acres-by-september-101626889962425.html
21-07-2021||Gurugram||Khori residents seek proof of rehabilitation registry, fearful of being duped again||Residents of Khori village in Faridabad who have registered for a rehabilitation scheme announced by the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) said that they are not being given any proof of registration and raised concerns of being duped, in the absence of formal documentation.Shaheen Afroz (23), a resident of Islam Chowk in Khori village, whose house was demolished last week, said, “First, the authorities are not providing any documentation proof after the registration. Second, we also learnt that the registration form comes with a clause that we will have no right over our plot in Khori village. Those who have registered are clueless about the next course of action.”According to MCF officials, over 440 families have registered for the rehabilitation scheme that was announced last week, after which registrations started at a camp set up at Radha Swami Satsang Beas, near Surajkund.Residents said that registrations are being made on a basic form, which states that they will not have any further rights on land they had in Khori.Demolitions have been underway at Khori since July 14, after the Supreme Court in June directed the Haryana government and the MCF to remove “all encroachments”, consisting of around 10,000 residential units, in the Aravalli forest area, saying “land grabbers cannot take refuge in the rule of law” and talk of “fairness”.As per the rehabilitation policy, the slum dwellers will get flats for economically weaker sections (EWS) equipped with basic facilities such as electricity, water and toilets in Dabua Colony and Bapu Nagar area. The criteria for allotment is that the income of the families must not exceed ₹3 lakh annually, and the name of the head of the family should be registered in the voters’ list of the Badkhal assembly constituency of Haryana as of January 1, 2021.A social activist, requesting anonymity, said, “First, the policy is just a draft, and it has not been notified by the state government. Further, residents who are even registering for the scheme are not being given any documents or registration slip; only their names are being noted down.”Officials, however, said that due process will be followed before allotment of houses is done to those who have registered for the scheme.Garima Mittal, the commissioner of MCF, said, “Around 445 people have already registered for the scheme, and we are checking all documents before taking the registrations. After a person fills the form, there will be multiple levels of checks, likely to be done by a neutral agency, before the allotment is done. All procedures are being followed and the next course of action will be shared soon.”Jitendra Kumar, the nodal officer for the rehabilitation scheme, did not respond to requests seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/khori-residents-seek-proof-of-rehabilitation-registry-fearful-of-being-duped-again-101626889961390.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||Girl trafficked with promise of working in films with SRK rescued in Mumbai||A 17-year-old girl, who was trafficked from Palashipara in West Bengal to Mumbai with the promise of roles in Bollywood films with Shah Rukh Khan, was rescued on Wednesday, news agency ANI reported.“The man, who lured the girl by posing as an event manager on social media, has been arrested,” Dnyaneshwar Katkar, sub-inspector at Dadar Government Railway Police (GRP) was quoted as saying by ANI.This incident has come to light at a time when Raj Kundra, the businessman and husband of Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty, has been held in connection with alleged creation of pornographic films.The 45-year-old was arrested late on Monday along with 11 other persons in connection with the matter. The following day, a Mumbai court had remanded him to police custody till July 23.Kundra has been accused of publishing pornographic content shot in Mumbai and its surrounding regions through a mobile app named ‘Hotshots’. Joint commissioner of police (Crime), Milind Bharambe said that no “active role” of Shilpa Shetty has been found in the case so far.“We are investigating. We will appeal to the victims to come forward and contact the Crime Branch Mumbai and we’ll take appropriate action,” he added.Also Read | Shilpa Shetty's husband Raj Kundra's porn case isn't his first controversy: Here's a look at his brushes with the lawPolice on Tuesday claimed before the Esplanade Court that Kundra was reaping off financial gains through the illegal porn film business by taking subscription fees from users of the apps that stream the content. The Mumbai Crime Branch also stated that there are many WhatsApp chats that revealed he was involved in the financial dealings of the app and its contents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/girl-trafficked-with-promise-of-working-in-films-with-srk-rescued-in-mumbai-101626889188859.html
21-07-2021||Noida||Two bulls found dead in Noida, sparks tension||Two bulls were found dead in Noida Sector 45 on Wednesday morning sparking tension in the area with rumours of foul play doing the rounds. Police, however, said that animals had died of electrocution and managed to keep the crowd that had gathered under control.Wednesday’s carcasses were discovered at around 6am by people of Sadarpur village, police said. “We found a CCTV footage from the area that showed the two bulls were electrocuted due to an exposed power line from a transformer at around 1.30am. However, the locals were under the impression that the bulls had been poisoned. It took a lot of effort to disperse them. We have sent the carcasses for autopsy,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1. The autopsy report later confirmed electrocution, said police.On June 29, a bull’s decapitated carcass was found in a garbage dump in the area. The police recovered a knife from the spot and a case was registered at Sector 39 police station. A probe is still underway in the incident, said Singh. “A decapitated carcass was found here just a few weeks ago. Now, two more bulls were found dead. We thought that someone was targeting the animals. But the police told us that there was no connection between the two cases,” said Himanshu Singh, a resident of the area.Wednesday being Eid, police personnel in the Gautam Budh Nagar were on high alert. “Our units were out for patrolling. Though tensions remained high in the Sector 45 area after the morning incident, there were no law and order issues. Clerics already urged the public to avoid venturing out unnecessarily because of the pandemic. Everything went smoothly,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-bulls-found-dead-in-noida-sparks-tension-101626889002347.html
21-07-2021||Noida||Plot scheme soon in proposed medical device park project||The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) is planning to set up sheds and earmark plots for manufacturing units in the proposed ‘medical device’ park to be developed on 350 acres near the upcoming Noida International Airport in Jewar, said officials.Under the plan, Yeida will build small and large sheds for the units that will produce ventilators, personal protection equipment kits, X-ray machines and other products. However, the authority is yet to decide on the details of the scheme, including the launch date.“It will take a week to finalise things on this project, including the plot size, rates and date of the launch of the scheme,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of Yeida.The park is to come up in Sector 28 and has got in-principle approval from the Uttar Pradesh government. The authority is expecting ₹5,250 crore investment in this project, said the officials.The state government had on August 4 last year appointed Yeida as the agency to execute this project. Subsequently, Yeida roped in the Kalam Institute of Health Technology (KIHT), Visakhapatnam, to prepare the detailed project report.The park will provide necessary infrastructure to support the ‘Make in India’ initiative and provide world-class medical products at an affordable price for treatment, said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/plot-scheme-soon-in-proposed-medical-device-park-project-101626889001751.html
21-07-2021||Noida||GPS-enabled vehicles: Ghaziabad civic body saves ₹70 lakh in fuel expenses a month||Installing tracking systems in 579 vehicles of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation in April this year has saved it almost ₹70 lakh per month in fuel expenses, said officials from the civic body.The vehicles were mostly from the health department deployed from each of the district’s five zones almost daily to carry out solid waste collection and disposal, and sewage cleaning operations.The decision to install GPS-equipped tracking systems was taken in January, said municipal commissioner M S Tanwar.“Initially, there was a lot of resistance from many drivers. But we stood firm and got these devices installed. As per our estimates, we now save about ₹70 lakh per month,” said Tanwar.The tracking systems are linked to a control room at the corporation headquarters, he said.According to a municipal corporation officer familiar with the matter, the monthly fuel consumption in the months of January, February and March was 417,000 litres, 358,000 litres and 373,000 litres, respectively. This dropped to almost 283,000 litres a month from April, he added.The officer said that earlier fuel was distributed on the basis of trips that each vehicle would be expected to cover. The corporation has its own fuel pump near Raj Nagar Extension, while it has also tied up with two private filling stations. The vehicles are allowed to refill only from these stations.“Due to lack of supervision, many vehicles never completed these trips, and these resulted in leakages,” said the officer. “With the tracking system, we can now track the vehicle in real-time and also know if it diverted from its route.”In another decision, the municipal corporation will no longer procure diesel and petrol vehicles and instead go for only natural gas or electric powered vehicles.“We have decided that we will not procure any new vehicles which run on diesel and petrol. All new vehicles that will be purchased will either be electric vehicles or running on CNG fuel. We will carry out disposing of old vehicles in a phased manner. We have categorised these vehicles into three - type A, B and C. Type A consist of those vehicles which need to be taken off road immediately, while the other two categories are also based on age of vehicle and will be phased out in a timely manner as per norms,” Tanwar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gpsenabled-vehicles-ghaziabad-civic-body-saves-70-lakh-in-fuel-expenses-a-month-101626889000518.html
21-07-2021||Noida||GB Nagar to form database of children eligible for scholarships||The Gautam Budh Nagar district social welfare department has been directed to create a database of students from the general as well as reserved categories, who are eligible for pre-matric and post-matric scholarships from the state government for the 2021-22 session.Under the Saksham Scholarship Scheme, the state government will provide financial support to students belonging to the scheduled caste (SC) and scheduled tribe (ST) categories and general category studying in pre-matric (9th and 10th) and post-matric classes (11th, 12th, graduation, PhD and higher degrees or programmes).“The scholarship is provided to students studying in government, government-aided and private educational institutions,” said Shailendra Bahadur Singh, district social welfare officer, GB Nagar.Students can apply for the scholarships on the ‘Saksham’ portal online from July 20 to August 12, the officials said. According to the directives of the directorate of social welfare, the district social welfare department has been tasked to verify the students’ details and issue a timetable for distribution of scholarships/fee reimbursements. The annual income criteria for SC and ST categories is less than ₹2 lakh per annum, while for general category it is less than ₹2.5 lakh per annum, the officials said.“Till 2019, the district used to get around 18,000 to 20,000 scholarship applications. However, last year only 13,000 applications were received due to Covid-19 pandemic. We are hoping this year more eligible students will apply for the same,” said Singh.Last year, 59 students had failed to get the reimbursements, said Singh. “Since many banks merged and some students’ bank IFSC codes changed, their scholarship amount could not be credited. However, GB Nagar saw the lowest failed transactions across UP. This issue will be resolved this year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-to-form-database-of-children-eligible-for-scholarships-101626888881642.html
21-07-2021||Noida||Three of auto lifters’ gang nabbed, 18 vehicles recovered||Three members of a vehicle lifting gang were arrested on Wednesday. The police also recovered 18 stolen vehicles from them. The suspects were identified as Ankit, Saurabh and Abhishek who were nabbed from near Gaur City 2 in Greater Noida West. According to police officials, the suspects were arrested based on tip-offs from two criminals who were apprehended by the Bisrakh police following an encounter earlier this week. “They are all part of a vehicle lifters’ gang active in Delhi-NCR for the past several years. We have recovered two cars, nine Bullet motorcycles and seven other two wheelers from them. They mostly targeted two wheelers, specially Bullets and sports bikes, and sold them in rural areas of western UP for around ₹30,000-35,000 each,” said Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, zone 2. He said that the police have already traced 10 of the recovered vehicles to Delhi, Noida and Ghaziabad and spoken to the owners. At least 20 vehicle thefts have been attributed to the suspects so far, the police said, adding that other members of the gang are being identified. “We are also looking for people to whom these stolen vehicles were sold. Two of the victims are brothers of sub-inspectors in UP Police. The gang’s modus operandi was to use screwdrivers to force start the motorcycles,” said another police official. The suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-of-auto-lifters-gang-nabbed-18-vehicles-recovered-101626888880462.html
21-07-2021||Noida||Noida: GIMS to study safety of administering two different jabs||The Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Greater Noida, has proposed to study 12 important issues surrounding Covid-19, including the safety of administering two different vaccines and the association of the virus with fungal diseases like mucormycosis, also known as black fungus.The proposals have been sent to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which will fund the approved studies.GIMS director Dr (Brig) Rakesh Gupta said that after the second wave of Covid infections, the ICMR had asked medical colleges in the country to propose studies on topics mainly related to the impact on patients after infection.“The last date of sending the proposal was June 30 this year. We’ve sent proposals on 12 important subjects. The main aim of the studies is to examine the impact the pandemic has had on people of different age groups,” he said.He said the studies include the role of the short-term oral medication estradiol in post-menopausal symptomatic Covid-19 patients, evaluation of efficacy and safety of cross vaccination for Covid-19, a sero-immune response based prospective observational study of booster dose of vaccine and maternal and neonatal immunogenicity pattern in Covid-19 recovered and inoculated pregnant and lactating mothers.“We will also look into Covid-19 infections after vaccination among health care workers and genomic and immunological analysis of Sars-CoV-2 mutants and its association with enhanced opportunistic fungal infection with special reference to mucormycosis. If the ICMR is unable to finance us, the GIMS administration will begin the research from their own funds,” he said.Earlier, the ICMR had approved nine studies from GIMS, many of which are on the verge of completion, said Dr Saurabh Srivastava who is the head of medicine and the nodal officer of the Covid-19 ward in GIMS. “It included and assessment of safety and efficacy of convalescent plasma to limit Covid-19, mental and social health of healthcare workers, involved in Covid-19 management and protocol for evaluation of rapid antigen test,” he said. “This time we have also proposed to look into ways to address Covid-19 vaccine hesitancy through evidence based behavioural change in UP.” Dr Srivastava said that there won’t be a cut-off date for the study. Dr NK Sharma, the president of Noida chapter of IMA, said that such research will certainly provide better Covid-19 management techniques. “Medical science is always based on new research. It’ll certainly benefit the medical fraternity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-gims-to-study-safety-of-administering-two-different-jabs-101626888820462.html
21-07-2021||Bangalore||Loyal BJP worker: Yediyurappa urges followers not to embarrass party||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa took to Twitter on Wednesday and urged his supporters to follow party ethics and refrain from indulging in “protests and indiscipline”. He said he was privileged to be a loyal worker of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and it was his honour to serve the party with the highest standards of ethics and behaviour. The 78-year-old leader, faced with dissent, said the party is like a “mother” to him and his supporters’ goodwill should not harm the party’s discipline"I am privileged to be a loyal worker of BJP. It is my utmost honour to serve the party with highest standards of ethics and behaviour.I urge everyone to act in accordance with party ethics and not indulge in protests/indiscipline that is disrespectful and embarrassing for the party,” he wrote.I am privileged to be a loyal worker of BJP. It is my utmost honour to serve the party with highest standards of ethics & behaviour. I urge everyone to act in accordance with party ethics & not indulge in protests/indiscipline that is disrespectful & embarrassing for the party."Your goodwill should not exceed the boundaries of discipline. Party is like a mother to me and disrespecting it will cause pain to me. I believe that my true well-wishers will understand and respond to my feelings," he added.Also Read: Karnataka BJP legislative party meeting cancelled amid buzz over YediyurappaThe statement came amid strong speculations of leadership change in the Karnataka government, even as voices of support for Yediyurappa continued to grow. The influential Lingayat leader has also received an outpouring of support from the community with the All India Veerashaiva Mahasabha leaders warning the BJP of "bad consequences" if the was removed from the post.However, BJP MLC AH Vishwanath criticised the Mahasabha leaders for backing Yediyurappa and asked if they were “backing corruption” by supporting the current chief minister." Vishwanath, who had switched over from the Janata Dal-Secular in 2019 to help the Yediyurappa government come to power, said, "Why is the BJP High Command asking Yediyurappa to move out? The main reason is corruption.When this being the case, what message the seers are sending out? You are giving a message in favour of corruption.”Meanwhile, Yediyurappa cancelled a legislative party meeting he had called on July 26, the second anniversary of his government, in a possible signal that he may still be in control, some BJP leaders indicated. They said Yediyurappa has instead called for a dinner meeting of all MLAs on Sunday.Several BJP leaders, including MP GM Siddeshwara and B Suresh Gowda have expressed confidence in Yediyurappa continuing as the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/loyal-bjp-worker-yediyurappa-urges-followers-not-to-embarrass-party-101626887059251.html
21-07-2021||Bhopal||Ban on Kanwar yatra in Ujjain, only 50 devotees allowed inside Mahakaal Temple||Ujjain district in Madhya Pradesh imposed a ban on Kanwar Yatra on Wednesday following similar bans on the pilgrimage imposed in UP, Uttarakhand and Delhi to prevent a fresh surge of Covid 19 cases, said a top district official.Every year, more than two million devotees visit Mahakal Temple in Ujjain during the auspicious month of Sawan and at least one million of these are Kanwars. The district administration announced that this year it won’t allow more than 50 devotes inside the temple premises at any given point of time to ensure social distancing.“Amid the possibility of the third wave of Covid 19, we can’t allow Kanwar Yatra in Ujjain. Only 50 people will be allowed in the temple at one time,” said Ujjain in-charge collector Narendra Suryawanshi.However, the state government led by chief minister Shivraj Chouhan is yet to take a decision in this regard. Last year, the state government had banned Kanwar yatra.In MP, as many as 15 people tested positive on Wednesday and the number of active cases reduced to 185. The state government relaxed Covid 19 restriction after the positivity rate in the state decreased to 0.01 % and announced reopening of schools for class 11 and 12 students from July 26 and August 15 for classes 1 to 10. The cinema halls have also been allowed to reopen with maximum 50% capacity.As of now, the state government has continued the ban on conducting, social, religious and political programmes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/ban-on-kanwar-yatra-in-ujjain-only-50-devotees-allowed-inside-mahakaal-temple-101626888041138.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||18-year-old strangles mother with belt, held||Vasai police on Tuesday arrested an 18-year-old man for allegedly killing his mother, using a leather belt.The victim Mary Yadav, 40, had lost her husband a year ago. She would often pick up fights, in an inebriated state, with her son Sunny Yadav, over trivial issues. “On Tuesday evening, during an argument, Sunny pushed his younger sister out of the house and then locked the door from inside. He, then, using a leather belt strangulated his mother to death,” said senior inspector Kalyanrao Karpe.Sunny was arrested under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. “The accused has confessed to the crime. He has been remanded in police custody. We have also seized the leather belt used for the murder,” said Karpe. The accused had passed Class 12 and was seeking admission for a degree course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/18yearold-strangles-mother-with-belt-held-101626887740411.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||Tarot card reader Shradha Salla gets bail in 2016 case||The Mumbai sessions court on Monday granted anticipatory bail to socialite Sheetal Mafatlal’s sister and Tarot card reader Shradha Salla in connection with a case registered against them by their mother in 2016 for alleged house-trespass.Salla and Mafatlal’s mother Rajani had alleged that her younger daughter Sheetal, Salla and six others forcefully entered into the bungalow and broke open the lock and started breaking things. They took five to six bags of valuables and important documents with them, alleged Rajani. The incident took place on April 25, 2016, and subsequently, a case was registered with Khar police station.After almost six years since the case was registered, Salla moved a plea for pre-arrest bail on July 7, before the sessions court. Salla’s lawyer had claimed the prosecution story is completely false, baseless and without any substance.“Applicant learnt after the alleged incident that Sheetal Maftlal was in the bungalow continuously for more than 20 days and police were visiting the bungalow for investigation. There is no nexus of the applicant with the crime,” Salla had contended.The court after referring to several documents observed that Salla’s name was “inserted at a subsequent point of time while given of report, with an intention best known to the informant.”“Considering the report dated April 26, 2016, the letter dated April 28, 2016, given by informant to the Khar Police, prima facie there appears to be no involvement of the applicant in the crime,” reads the order.The court, while granting anticipatory bail to Salla, noted that she had attended police station as and when called by the investigator, goes to show an intention of the applicant to co-operate with the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tarot-card-reader-shradha-salla-gets-bail-in-2016-case-101626887740993.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||Pregnant minor jumps of running train in Mumbai, boyfriend arrested||The Kurla government railway police (GRP) on Tuesday arrested a 17-year-old boy after his minor girlfriend jumped off a running train on Sunday. The deceased was five months pregnant at the time.GRP officers said on Sunday they received a call from the station master that a girl had died of suicide near Ghatkopar.On reaching the spot, the GRP personnel found the body of the girl along with her umbrella, purse and mobile phone which was submerged in rainwater owing to flooding near the tracks.The police then registered a case of accidental death and sent the body of the teenager for an autopsy to the Rajawadi Hospital, where they found out that the girl was five months pregnant. The officers said that they then switched on her mobile phone and found out her identity.“On investigating the case, we found out that the girl had an affair with her classmate and had conceived five months ago,” said a police officer from the Kurla GRP.“We have registered a case of rape and arrested the boy, who is also a minor,” added the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pregnant-minor-jumps-of-running-train-in-mumbai-boyfriend-arrested-101626887680417.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Sessions court refuses bail to Raj Tyagi||The sessions court refused to grant bail to Raj Tyagi, son of former Mumbai Police commissioner Ramdeo Tyagi. Tyagi was arrested on June 30 for threatening and stalking his estranged wife even after restraining orders from court.His wife, Diana, had alleged that on June 26, he called her several times and threatened her. On June 29, Tyagi allegedly followed her when she was returning after meeting her lawyer. She further said Raj was carrying a weapon, hence she rushed to Bandra police station and lodged a case against him.The accused’s lawyer had argued that he had entered the vicinity of his wife’s residence only to see his children and had no intention to threaten his wife. The prosecution claimed that Tyagi was arrested for threatening his wife and was released on bail on June 23 after being in custody for almost three to four months. The prosecution also claimed that while granting bail, the high court had imposed a condition that he should not enter the jurisdiction of Bandra police station where his wife stays. He was also restrained from intimidating his wife and children.After hearing both the sides, the court noted, “If at all it was only the intention of applicant to see his children, he could have sent message to the informant about his intention or could have sought help from police by disclosing his intention which has not been done. Therefore, it is not acceptable that the applicant went with only the intention to see his children.’The court also noted that Tyagi, soon after coming out on bail, violated the conditions. “Accordingly, only three days after being released on bail, the second incident took place. Therefore, if the applicant is again released on bail with whatever terms and conditions there is every likelihood that he will again repeat the offence,” the court noted while rejecting his bail plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sessions-court-refuses-bail-to-raj-tyagi-101626887620428.html
21-07-2021||Other||Virar hospital fire: Charge sheet filed against three directors||The Arnala Coastal police have submitted the charge sheet to the Vasai court in connection with the Vijay Vallabh Hospital fire case. Fifteen Covid-19 patients were charred to death after a fire broke out on the second floor of the four-storey private hospitalThe charge sheet was filed in mid-July before the court which named the directors and owners, Bastimal Shah, his son, Dr Dilip Bastimal Shah, 56, Dr Shailesh Dharamdev Pathak, 47, said an officer.The three accused were held under sections 304 (causing death by negligence), 337 and 338 (causing hurt by negligence and endangering human life) of the Indian Penal Code. The sessions court, Vasai, had rejected their bail plea. However, they were released on bail in mid-May, by the high court.The Vasai court observed that only six fire extinguishers were in working condition and the operational validity of 14 fire extinguishers installed, had expired. No official from the civic body or the fire brigade inspected the fire audit certificate, although the check is mandatory after every six months. The fire licence had to be renewed in September 2020, but was renewed only last month, said the police.Furthermore, the MSEDCL in their report to the court said the hospital underused the sanctioned power supply.The framing of charges will commence within a month and the trial subsequently, as per protocol, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/virar-hospital-fire-charge-sheet-filed-against-three-directors-101626887560390.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||Mucormycosis cases drop 56% in Mumbai since June 27||The number of active cases of mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, in Mumbai has dropped to 169 as of July 21, from 384 on June 27, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data. Mucormycosis is a serious, but rare fungal infection caused by a group of moulds called mucormycetes. According to doctors, it causes blindness, organ dysfunction, loss of body tissue and can be fatal if not treated on time.So far, 825 Covid-19 recovered patients have been admitted to private, civic and government-run hospitals for mucormycosis in the city. Almost 70% of patients are not Mumbai residents. The civic body has overall spent around ₹18 crore on antifungal medicines for the treatment.At the biggest civic-run hospital, King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, Parel, so far, a total of 139 mucormycosis patients have been admitted, of which 63 are still undergoing treatment. Data shows22 mucormycosis patients are being treated at BYL Nair hospital, Mumbai Central (total 86 cases so far); 24 at Lokmanya Tilak General (Sion Hospital) (total 78 cases so far); 13 at JJ, Byculla (145 total cases so far); 11 are under treatment at Dr RN Cooper hospital (42 total cases so far). Health officers said the flattening of the pandemic curve has resulted in a drop in the number of patients. “Admission of patients with mucormycosis has declined drastically in the last one month as the daily count of Covid-19 patients has dropped. Most patients who are getting admitted now are referred patients from other hospitals,” said Dr Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC.Doctors have observed that some patients who have undergone surgeries for removal of the dead tissues with the infection are returning to hospitals with the residual mucus. “On an average, each patient has to undergo at least two-three surgeries, which includes aggressive surgical debridement. In severe cases, patients have to undergo five-six surgeries too,” said Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of KEM hospital, which has a special ward to treat mucormycosis patients. Medical history shows that mucormycosis has a mortality rate of around 50%. However, in Mumbai, the fatality rate stands at 20%. Doctors have attributed this to timely intervention with the rise in awareness among people. Over ₹18 crore spent on anti-fungal medicines “Between May 25 and July 21, a total of 31,248 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin B have been procured for treatment of patients with mucormycosis,” said Dr Deshmukh. An analysis of the price shows that over ₹18 crore have been sent for procurement of the antifungal medicines. There are two types of drugs—Liposomal Amphotericin B and plain Amphotericin B. The first one is considered more effective, but the cost is much higher than the later. One vial of Liposomal Amphotericin B costs between ₹5,900 and ₹6,200. As per treatment protocol, when the black fungus infects the nose, sinus or palate, doctors give 5mg per kilogram (kg) of body weight. For instance, if a person is 60kg, he would require 300mg of the dose. Each vial consists of 50mg of the drugs. So, a patient needs 6 vials which costs ₹36,000 daily. But when the infection reaches the brain, doctors have to give 8-10mg per kg of the body weight. This doubles the daily medical expenditures.Dr Deshmukh said, “Many patients who get admitted at private hospitals with mucormycosis are referred to KEM hospital when they can’t afford the expensive treatment. At present, most of the admitted patients are such referral patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mucormycosis-cases-drop-56-in-mumbai-since-june-27-101626887500380.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||Covid vaccination overcharging: Mumbai civic body gets 16 plaints against 12 pvt hospitals||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has received 16 complaints against private hospitals in the city over alleged overcharging for Covid-19 vaccination. The BMC had last month appealed to citizens to file complaints against private hospitals charging more than the cap amount prescribed by the Central government.The Central government has put a cap of ₹780 per dose for the Covishield vaccine, ₹1,410 for Covaxin and ₹1,145 for the Sputnik V vaccine. All private hospitals in the city were asked to follow the cap announced by the Central government. The civic body had on June 11, appealed to the citizens to register a complaint with the health department of the BMC via email address complaint.epimumbai@gmail.com.Following this appeal, the BMC has received 29 complaints, of which 20 are related to vaccine overcharging. Of these 20 complaints, 16 are against private hospitals in Mumbai and the remaining four are of outside Mumbai. The remaining nine have been categorised as other complaints.According to BMC records, the 16 complaints of overcharging of Covid-19 vaccination are against 12 private hospitals in the city, while five are against two private hospitals in the western suburbs and the remaining are against private hospitals across the city.In total there are 412 vaccination centres, of which 103 are private hospitals running the vaccination centres and the remaining are public centres, run by the civic body and the state government. As of Tuesday, out of the total 6.5 million vaccine doses administered in the city, 2.7 million doses were administered in these private vaccination centres. A private hospital against whom the complaint has been received by the BMC said, “We are not overcharging anyone for Covid-19 vaccination. As per the norms, we are supposed to display the amount on the Co-WIN portal. It is for everyone to see there and also, we cannot put any amount which is more than the cap prescribed by the government. We feel the complaint could be from before the cap came into effect, by around June 8, 2021.”However, the BMC has maintained that they have received the complaints after the cap came into effect. Dr Mangala Gomare, chief of BMC’s public health department said, “We have got complaints after the cap for vaccination came into effect. We will have to verify whether the complainants are talking about the charges before the cap comes into effect. I have asked the health officers in each ward to investigate and submit a report regarding the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-vaccination-overcharging-mumbai-civic-body-gets-16-plaints-against-12-pvt-hospitals-101626887440373.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||Raj Kundra had plans to live stream porn content: Mumbai Police||Actor Shilpa Shetty’s husband Raj Kundra, his brother-in-law Pardeep Bakshi and their manager Umesh Kamat had plans to start from February 20, 2021, live streaming of porn content through a new application, ‘Bollyfame’. However, the plan was dropped as Kamat was arrested on February 7, the probe has revealed.A crime branch officer said after some apps were removed from mobile app stores by Apple and Google in 2020, and Maharashtra cyber-crime officers booked directors and owners of various over-the-top (OTT) platforms and websites for allegedly showing obscene content, Kundra and his associates came started working on a new app to live stream porn content.They, the officer said, even created a WhatsApp group in the name of the future application, Bollyfame, and Kundra had revealed his plans on the group to Kamat and others. As per Kamat’s statement to police, initially, they wanted to launch the live streaming in January 2021, but it was delayed and February 20 was fixed as the launching date, the police officer added.Kamat also revealed in his statement to police that Kundra had told them on WhatsApp that they will shut down the Hotshot app and will also remove the obscene contents to avoid the investigation, the officer added.The racket came to light after the property cell received specific information about a porn filming racket and registered a case on February 4, 2021. The cell raided a bungalow in the Madh area and arrested five persons, including two women engaged in shooting a pornographic film. Police claimed to have rescued a young woman, who was allegedly lured into acting in a short film and forced to perform sex on camera.During the investigation police also found the alleged involvement of actor and model Gehana Vashisht in filming porn. Police arrested Kamat as she revealed that bought porn films from her and sent the films to the UK for uploading on Hotshots. Kamat then led police to Kundra.During the course of the probe, the property cell inspected Kundra’s office in Andheri on Tuesday and seized the server and several other electronic equipment from his office to scrutinise the technical aspects to gather more evidence.Kamat, who was also buying pornographic films shot by another arrested accused, Rowan Khan, was working as per the instructions of Kundra and contacted directors like Vashisht, Khan and several others and buy pornographic videos from them and sent those videos to the UK, from where those were uploaded on mobile app Hotshot, said the crime branch officer. The crime branch has so far frozen various bank accounts having deposits of around ₹7.5 crore, including an amount of around ₹3 crore lying in a bank account of wanted accused Yash Thakur, a native of Madhya Pradesh, currently residing in Singapore. The officer said he was running the app Nueflicks. Police are now scrutinising evidence seized from Kundra’s office like subscription hits, WhatsApp chats, agreement papers, emails and account details. Another police officer said the groups mainly targeted young women coming from outside to the city to try their luck in the film and television industry. Police officers said taking advantage of their desperation and helplessness, the accused allegedly lured them by offering roles in short films or web series. Initially, they would ask them to perform some “bold” scenes, but eventually either offer them more money to act in porn films or threaten them with the help of agreements, if they refused to budge.The officers said the gang has exploited many women and men by making several pornography films. The accused have been operating the racket for about two years. Khan threatened actors and forcing them to act in porn videos, said the crime branch officer.The Mumbai Police crime branch claimed Kundra had got a mobile application Hotshot developed for running a pornographic film racket and used to control its entire operation himself through WhatsApp groups and business was operated from his Andheri office.Kundra, along with one Sourabh Kushwah, according to the remand application, had in February 2019 started a company namely, Arms Prime Media Pvt Ltd. Around six months later, the company developed a mobile phone application, Hotshot, and then sold it to Kenrin Ltd., a London-based entity owned by Kundra’s relative Pardeep Bakshi for $25,000. In December 2019, Kundra resigned from Arms Prime Media, after which, one Sanjay Tripathi, a witness in the case, took it over.The mobile phone application, available only to paid subscribers, was used to upload pornographic content, shot in Mumbai and surrounding areas, police claimed. The remand application added that other accused and witnesses in the case have revealed that the pornographic films shot in Mumbai were transferred to Kenrin, London, from where the obscene content was uploaded on the Hotshot app. Kundra controlled the entire operation of the app through three WhatsApp groups that he had created in the name of “HS,” and that Kundra was the administrator of these WhatsApp groups.Police further claimed that it was through these groups — HS Accounts, HS Take Down and HS Operations — Kundra monitored the content, payments to artists and the revenue generated through the app. Bakshi made the payments based on Kundra’s instructions. Kamat was operating from office premises belonging to Kundra and coordinated with Kernin Ltd.Police on Monday night arrested Kundra and one Ryan Thorpe, a Nerul resident and an expert in information technology, who allegedly helped maintain the mobile phone application through two of his associates. Both Kundra and Thorpe are in police custody till July 23 for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raj-kundra-had-plans-to-live-stream-porn-content-mumbai-police-101626887380407.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19 norms go for a toss during Navjot Sidhu’s show of strength in Amritsar||Covid-19 safety norms went for a toss during the show of strength at the Amritsar residence of the newly appointed Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu and during his visit to Golden Temple, Durgiana Temple and Ram Tirath Temple with his supporters.Earlier on Wednesday, pictures released by Sidhu’s office showed a large gathering of MLAs, ministers and other Congress leaders, almost all of whom, including Sidhu, were seen violating the guidelines at his residence. At least 42 Congress MLAs including four cabinet ministers were present at his residence who later accompanied him to Golden Temple and the shrines in a luxury bus.Most of his supporters there were seen without masks and violating social distance norms and this even worsened during their visit to the Golden Temple, which was already witnessing a heavy rush of devotees seen standing in long queues.The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) employees were trying to maintain social distancing among the devotees but after the group led by Sidhu entered the shrine complex, they were seen jostling with each other.“They are part of the government. If they are violating the norms, how can they ensure the compliance of the guidelines in public? How can they teach lessons to the general public,” asked an official of the SGPC, who was performing his duty in the shrine.The officials of the government refused to comment on this mass violation of Covid-19 containment guidelines at a time when courts have taken a dim view of any laxity which may precipitate the third wave of Covid-19 infections in the country.The situation didn’t improve even later in the day when Sidhu’s supporters were seen violating the guidelines at Durgiana Temple and Ram Tirath Temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-norms-go-for-a-toss-during-navjot-sidhu-s-show-of-strength-in-amritsar-101626886721136.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees over 8,000 new Covid-19 cases, 165 deaths; recovery rate at 96%||Maharashtra reported 8,159 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday as the total confirmed cases so far reached 6,237,755, a bulletin from the state health department showed. The death toll climbed to 1,30,918 after 165 more people succumbed to the disease in the last 24 hours. The active caseload currently stands at 94,745, an increase in 152 infections since Tuesday.Cumulative recoveries in the state reached 60,08,750 after 7,839 patients were discharged from the hospitals during the day. The recovery rate currently stands at 96.33 per cent, while the positivity rate is 13.54 per cent, the latest data showed.So far, 4,60,68,435 samples have been tested for Covid-19 of which 62,37,755 turned out to be infected by the virus.Also read | Maharashtra reconciles over 3k Covid deaths pushing India's daily toll to 3,998Pune with 15,566 cases topped the list of districts worst-affected in terms of active cases, followed by Thane with 12,087 cases, Sangli with 10,674 cases, Mumbai with 10,474 cases and Kolhapur with 10,049 cases. Pune also remained the worst-affected district in terms of total positive cases. So far, 10,78,956 people have been infected in Pune making it the only district in the state that has reported more than a million cases.Meanwhile, the capital city of Mumbai recorded 435 new infections on Wednesday as the city’s tally reached 7,32,349, a bulletin from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) showed. Also, 13 people lost their lives taking the death toll to 15,739 in the city.On Wednesday, 29,320 samples were tested in Mumbai and the cumulative test coverage reached 78,41,068 samples.Also, the fresh recoveries outnumbered the new cases in the city as 560 people were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours. With this, the cumulative recoveries reached 7,08,214 and the recovery rate was recorded at 97 per cent, the BMC said. There are six active containment zones in effect within Mumbai.In another development, the BMC announced that all government Covid-19 vaccination centres (CVC) in Mumbai would remain closed on July 22. This is the second day in a row the inoculation drive would remain suspended completely in the city.Dear Mumbaikars, All BMC and Government CVCs will remain closed tomorrow (July 22, 2021).BMC will be receiving vaccine doses by tonight, which will be distributed to the CVCs tomorrow.Please watch this space for updates regarding vaccination centres and schedules. https://t.co/WdmsWfC6qWThe BMC said it would receive 50,000 Covishield doses and 11,200 Covaxin doses on Wednesday night, which would then be distributed to the CVCs to resume vaccination on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-over-8-000-new-covid-19-cases-165-deaths-recovery-rate-at-96-101626884489290.html
21-07-2021||Other||West Champaran hooch deaths: We are being pressurised to change our statement, say victims’ families||The families of hooch tragedy victims in Sabeya village of West Champaran district on Wednesday alleged they were being pressured to change their statements that mentioned that the deaths occurred due to consumption of spurious liquor.According to victim Taj Mohammed’s (60) brother-in-law Wakil Khan, his family, including the deceased’s wife Quairaisa Khantoon, have been facing a lot of pressure to change their statement. “We have been approached by various sources who want us to replace Hardiya village in our statement with any other location where my brother-in-law consumed liquor,” said Wakil Khan, while refusing to reveal the identity of the persons who approached.Azad Miyan (28), son of another victim Jowahir Miyan, also complained of the same issue. “My father consumed liquor with three other co-villagers on July 10 and July 11 at Hardiya village. Some people want us to change our statement but we will not come under any pressure,” said Azad.However, the family members of victim Guddu Miyan (35) denied facing any pressure on his family. “He (Guddu) was a habitual drinker and we are clueless about where he went that day,” said Mohammed Samshuddin, Guddu’s brother, whose family did not specify the location where the victim consumed liquor.The development came days after 16 people died in Ramnagar and Lauriya blocks of West Champaran. Many families accepted in a written statement that the deaths occurred due to the consumption of spurious liquor.Meanwhile, Betiha and Bagaha police arrested 19 people for their alleged involvement in liquor smuggling, police said on Wednesday.According to a press release issued by the police, 132.9 litres of liquor was seized from their possession during raids.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/west-champaran-hooch-deaths-we-are-being-pressurised-to-change-our-statement-say-victims-families-101626882580095.html
21-07-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand Governor meets vice-prez in Delhi, to return today||Jharkhand governor Ramesh Bais will return to the state on Thursday after a two-day visit in the national capital during which he called on President Ramnath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and vice-president Venkaiah Naidu besides other dignitaries, officials said.This was Bais’s first such visit outside the state after taking the oath of office as the Jharkhand governor on July 14.“On Wednesday, the Governor called on vice-president Venkaiah Naidu as a courtesy visit. On Tuesday, he met the President and the Prime Minister. During his two-day visit, several dignitaries including Biplab Deb called on the Governor. He is scheduled to return to Ranchi on Thursday,” an official in the Raj Bhawan said.On Wednesday, the Governor also hosted all parliamentarians from Jharkhand, both Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha, over tea at Jharkhand Bhawan in the national capital, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-governor-meets-vice-prez-in-delhi-to-return-today-101626882520814.html
21-07-2021||Patna||Pandemic holds up employment for govt care girl inmates||The ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has delayed employment of girls of government care institutions run by the state social welfare department by at least three months, officials said on Wednesday. Under an initiative aimed at making them economically independent, altogether 14 inmates were sent to a Bengaluru institution in December last year to join diploma course in hotel and hospitality management. However, according to officials, their training period, which was supposed to start last month, has been postponed due to the pandemic and subsequent lockdown, thereby delaying placement of the girls.“They were sent for training in hospitality and housekeeping, but the entire session has been delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown in Bengaluru. Training sessions are three months late now,” Rajkumar, director, social welfare department, said. Nearly 700 girls, who have either been abandoned or have left home, have been staying at government care institutions across Bihar. Those above 18 years of age have been staying at an after-care home in the state capital, the lone such institution in the state. Currently, over 250 girls stay there. Minor girls stay at 11 care homes in different districts of the state. Among the 14 girls who were sent to Bengaluru, five are from Patna, three from Motihari, and rest from Begusarai, Gaya, Purnia and Madhubani. According to officials, these girls would have been employed by now if the situation was normal. “They had received job offers from various leading hotels in Bengaluru,” Rajkumar said, adding that their placement will be done only after practical training is over. The department is in touch with these girls and their faculty heads, he said. “Another batch of 30 government care institution girls are also preparing to join the course, and if situation allows, they will be sent to Bengaluru in a few weeks.” Another official of the social welfare department, Dilip Kamat, said it is for the first time that such a facility has been provided to girls at government care institutions. The child welfare committee is bearing the cost of training of these girls, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pandemic-holds-up-employment-for-govt-care-girl-inmates-101626882520091.html
21-07-2021||Other||80-year-old temple founder shot dead in Bihar’s Madhepura, body recovered||Police on Wednesday recovered the body of an 80-year-old man after he was shot dead in Madhepura district, officials said. The deceased, identified as Bhola Prasad Shah, was the founder of a local temple. His body was found 300m away from the temple located under Udakishunganj police station area, police said.According to the police, Shah had established the Sukhasini Hanuman Temple after being released from jail in 1998 in a murder case.“The deceased served seven-year imprisonment in connection with a murder case and was released from jail in 1998. After his release, he was active in temple construction work and established the Sukhasini Temple,” Udakishunganj sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Satish Kumar said.However, there was tension in the area following the murder and police into the crime, officials said.Shah’s body was sent to Madhepura sadar hospital for postmortem examination.“My father was dedicated to temple construction work for over two decades and used to sleep in the temple. On the night of the incident, he returned after attending a religious gathering held about one kilometre from the temple,” Shah’s son Vikas Kumar said.He added, “He went to sleep soon after returning. He was shot dead early Wednesday morning, as I saw him sleeping around 2 am.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/80yearold-temple-founder-shot-dead-in-bihar-s-madhepura-body-recovered-101626882460650.html
21-07-2021||Ranchi||J’khand records this year’s lowest active caseload||With new Covid-19 cases consistently remaining in double digits over past several days, active cases in the state have come down to 320, the lowest this year so far, according to the health department’s daily bulletin. On the first day of 2021, Jharkhand recorded 1,659 active cases. The figure kept decreasing gradually till the end of February, before the caseload started heading north as the second wave started making its presence felt since mid-March. The number of active cases peak on May 8 at 61,195.Officials said the falling number is encouraging, as the active cases have decreased despite the health department not lowering guard on daily Covid-19 testing. “We are conducting around 50,000 tests everyday. But, positive cases have remained in double digits every day, which is encouraging. But, we cannot lower guard as we are technically still not out of the second wave, while the threat of another wave persists. The health secretary has directed to increase daily testing and ensure that contact tracing is done of all positive cases. We are especially focusing on incoming passengers from other states at railway stations and airport,” a health department official said on Wednesday.On Tuesday, the health department conducted 53,185 tests, of which only 33 samples were found positive, thereby recording a positivity rate of 0.06%. On the other hand, 49 patients across the state recovered on Tuesday, leaving only 320 active cases in Jharkhand. Of the 24 districts in the state, as per latest data, 11 districts had active cases in single digit, while Giridh district had zero active cases. Ranchi and East Singhbhum (Jamshedpur) districts, which have been worst-affected in both the first and the second waves of the pandemic, led the chart with 67 and 42 positive cases, respectively, on Tuesday.Though Covid-19 case numbers have fallen drastically, several restrictions on mass gatherings, besides a complete 34-hour weekend lockdown, continues to be in place in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jkhand-records-this-year-s-lowest-active-caseload-101626882460056.html
21-07-2021||Patna||Illegal telephone exchange: Four in police custody||Four persons, including women, were taken into custody on Wednesday after two brothers were arrested by a joint team of Patna police and Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) for their alleged involvement in an international telephone exchange scam on Tuesday, police said.The brothers were sent to jail after interrogation on Wednesday. “Four other persons, including women who used to work at the exchange, have been taken into custody for interrogation,” a police official said. The duo was arrested from a house in the Anisabad area under the Gardanibagh police station in this connection. Police recovered 64 SIM cards, internet routers and other equipment from the spot.An FIR was lodged with Gardanibagh police station under sections of the Indian Telegraph Act and Indian Penal Code in this regard, police said.Police said the action was taken based on an Intelligence Bureau’s (IB) report. The IB suspected that the duo was using fake telephone exchanges for “anti-national activists”. During the investigation, it came to light that one of the accused brothers was arrested earlier by Gandhi Maidan police in 2017, but the other brother escaped in the same case, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/illegal-telephone-exchange-four-in-police-custody-101626882400043.html
21-07-2021||Patna||Bihar: Boost to medical oxygen in state facilities by Aug||Cryogenic liquid medical oxygen (LMO) tanks and 30-bedded Covid-19 dedicated paediatric intensive care units (PICU) would be set up at 10 existing state-run medical colleges in Bihar by August 31 as part of the government’s preparation for the third wave of the pandemic, officials said. A separate 10-bed PICU, dedicated for Covid-19 patients, would also be set around the same time at 36 district hospitals in the state, officials said. For storage of medical oxygen, four institutions, including the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH), Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), all in Patna, and the Darbhanga Medical College Hospital at Laheriasarai in Darbhanga, will have two cryogenic LMO tanks of 20 kilo-litre capacity each. The remaining six institutions, including the Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College Hospital (ANMMCH) in Gaya, Sri Krishna Medical College Hospital (SKMCH) in Muzaffarpur, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital (JLNMCH) in Bhagalpur, Vardhaman Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) at Pawapuri (Nalanda) and the Government Medical College Hospitals at Bettiah and Madhepura will have one cryogenic LMO tank each of 20 kilo-litre storage capacity. These tanks will be installed in medical colleges on a rental basis, with the government paying roughly between ₹35,000 and ₹40,000 per tank monthly. The firm installing them will be responsible for the maintenance of tanks and supply of oxygen, officials said. The state has also decided to instal 20 kilo-litre cryogenic LMO tanks at all its upcoming medical colleges, including Bhojpur, Samastipur, Jhanjharpur and Purnia. “In addition to oxygen tanks, the government had also decided to have Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen generation plants at 122 locations for supply of piped oxygen at medical colleges, district hospitals and sub-divisional hospitals,” said Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey. Each of the 36 district hospitals in the state would have at least one such oxygen generation plant. All the 122 oxygen plants would be ready by August 31, he added. One such plant was commissioned at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) in Patna on July 18 while seven others were also on the verge of being commissioned shortly, the minister added. The PSA plant at IGIMS will generate 233 litres per minute oxygen would cater to refilling around 50 D-type oxygen cylinders, each containing around 47 litres of oxygen, in a day, said officials. These steps had been taken given the sharp increase in demand for oxygen during the peak of the second wave of the pandemic in April and May, said officials. Even during the peak of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey claimed that the state managed its demand for medical oxygen with cooperation from the Centre. “The daily requirement of medical oxygen went up 14 times from 16 metric tonnes during the first week of April to 232 MT in 20-25 days. Despite the steep increase in oxygen demand, which no doubt created pressure on the system, we were able to arrange and provide oxygen to all government and private hospitals with cooperation from the Centre. The Centre increased our allocation and also helped in the transportation of medical oxygen, while we increased the number of refilling plants,” added Pandey..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-boost-to-medical-oxygen-in-state-facilities-by-aug-101626882340092.html
21-07-2021||Patna||Floods cause further delay in Panchayat polls||Panchayat polls in Bihar could be delayed further and start from mid-September onwards instead of August as planned earlier, state poll panel officials said, citing flood-like situation in several districts and an intensifying monsoon.The State Election Commission (SEC) has earlier planned to hold polls in 10 phases from August.Several districts in north Bihar, particularly Darbhanga and East Champaran, have witnessed flood-like situation after incessant rains over the past few days. “We want the major part of monsoon to be over so that there is good participation of voters and polling personnel face fewer difficulties in reaching distant places. Right now, things are a bit difficult because of rains, which has hampered communication systems. By September, things would be easy,” said a top SEC official familiar with the matter. “We have to complete the election process by November end so that panchayat bodies come into existence by December,” the official said. At present, the panchayat raj institutions ( PRIs) in the state are being run through advisory committees for a period of six months from June to December following an ordinance brought by the state government. The panchayat polls, scheduled to be held in March- April, were deferred owing to litigation over non-availability of specified electronic voting machines( EVMs) and outbreak of second wave of Covid pandemic in April. Top officials said a new schedule is being worked out based on feedback from the districts and after assessing ground level preparations at 1.14 lakh booths and availability of single-post EVMs. The SEC is also planning to hold election in initial rounds in such blocks where preparations are already at an advanced stage and there is less disruption from rains. Sources said over 1.50 lakh out of the total 2 lakh EVMs requisitioned from across the country have arrived in respective districts. “The first level checking of EVMs will start from August 1 and the process will be completed by August 20,” said SEC secretary Yogendra Ram. This time, the SEC will hold elections for four posts in three-tier PRIs ( gram panchayat member, mukhiya, panchayat samiti member and district board member) through EVMs while polling for two others posts in gram kutcheries , panch and sarpanch, would be held through ballot papers. Security deploymentState’s paramilitary forces, district armed police and Home Guards would be deployed at 1.14 lakh booths during the panchayat polls. Senior SEC officials said at least one police officer and three constables would be deployed on every booth. Panchayat polls in the state over the past one decade have been largely peaceful but there were incidents of large-scale rigging and violence in the 2007 panchayat polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/floods-cause-further-delay-in-panchayat-polls-101626882280063.html
21-07-2021||Patna||Sahni bets on Phoolan’s legacy for VIP footprint in UP||Mukesh Sahni-led Vikashsheel Insaan Party (VIP), a constituent of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar, has decided to install statues of late Phoolan Devi, a bandit who later became a member of Parliament, in several parts of Uttar Pradesh in the run-up to the 2022 assembly elections there, the party chief said. Phoolan Devi belonged to the Nishad community, which consists mainly of boatmen and accounts for 14% of UP’s population along with other subcastes. She was shot dead in New Delhi on July 25, 2001.Sahni, a former Bollywood set designer and now Bihar’s animal husbandry minister, has got built 18 such statues, each 18-foot high.“Phoolan Devi is still alive in our thoughts for her struggles for the pride and prestige of women of our community. We are celebrating July 25 as her martyrdom day in Bihar and UP and we are going to install 18 idols of Phoolan Devi in UP and some in Bihar,” Sahni said. “I will attend one such programme in Varanasi on July 25,” he said. Sahni, who had earlier announced that his party would contest on at least 165 of the total 403 assembly seats in UP and hinted at an alliance with BJP, said Phoolan Devi wanted to bring the Nishad community on one platform and ensure injustice is not done to them. The VIP was founded by Sahni in November 2018. In 2019, the party fought parliamentary polls from three seats in Bihar in alliance with the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Congress, but drew a blank. It, however, won four seats in 2020 assembly elections in Bihar. “Right now, we are focusing on the 2022 UP elections. I am sure we will have more MLAs in Uttar Pradesh and MPs from Bihar, UP and Jharkhand in the 2024 general elections,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/sahni-bets-on-phoolan-s-legacy-for-vip-footprint-in-up-101626882220082.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 vaccination to resume in Mumbai from Friday after stocks arrive||After grappling with shortages of Covid-19 vaccines for days, the municipal corporation of Greater Mumbai said it would receive 50,000 doses of Covishield and 11,200 shots of Covaxin on Wednesday night.The civic body said the doses would be distributed to various government-run vaccination centres and those under its jurisdiction on Thursday, so as to resume the inoculation drive from Friday onwards, news agency ANI posted on Twitter quoting officials familiar with the development.The civic body had to hit the pause button on the vaccination drive on Wednesday owing to non-availability of doses while it operated only 58 of the 309 vaccination centres on Tuesday.Maharashtra reported a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines doses a few days ago, three weeks after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced universal adult vaccination against the viral infection.Even as Maharashtra remains the state with highest number of vaccinated people, its health minister Rajesh Tope had last week told the assembly that the stocks were depleting, prompting several of its districts to halt the inoculation drive on days after they ran out of supplies.The shortage of Covid-19 vaccines coupled with many people flouting health and safety norms necessiated to check the spread of the virus, have raised concerns over the impending third wave of the pandemic.Mumbai on Wednesday recorded 435 cases of coronavirus infection while 13 people succumbed to the viral disease, taking the active caseload to 6,020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-vaccination-to-resume-in-mumbai-from-friday-after-stocks-arrive-101626876781161.html
21-07-2021||Pune||Restaurants, cafes in Pune offer weekend menus on weekdays to attract foodies||PUNE Squeezing time from work-from-home routine and going out for brunch or lunch has become a new trend where youngsters are finding space to chill out with friends during the weekdays.With weekends only parcel service available – restaurants and cafes are focusing on utilising time allotted to them during the weekdays.In Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits, dine-in is allowed only till 4 pm.“We have included breakfast on our menu card. The idea is to attract customers in the available time. We have also introduced light cocktails in our afternoon course. People also don’t prefer hard drinks in the afternoon. Nothing like the weekend crowd, but we are managing to keep things moving with new innovative ideas,” said Karan Kripalani, owner of Hippie@Heart.The live music or bands which were popular features for weekend evenings have now become popular during afternoon hours.“In Kalyani Nagar, many bars and cafes have changed their weekday menu and provide dishes which were earlier reserved only for the weekend,” said Rohan Deshmukh, resident of Kalyani Nagar.Few people are opting to visit cafes to beat the boredom of work-from-home and continuing work with a sip of coffee.“I generally come to Starbucks at 11 am and spend time here. I am doing this at least twice a week. Even a few important meetings of our office take place at coffee shops,” said Kalyani Sakhare, who works at a real estate firm at Balewadi high street.Many restaurant owners do feel that timing should be extended till 10 pm for dine-in on weekdays.“We are ready to follow all norms set by the PMC and continue with seating arrangement with 50 per cent capacity, but the timing should be extended. On weekends, we understand crowd increases, so we don’t have any problem continuing with set regulations,” said Sarvesh Jadhav, owner of Austin 40 café house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/restaurants-cafes-in-pune-offer-weekend-menus-on-weekdays-to-attract-foodies-101626878739882.html
21-07-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka BJP legislative party meeting cancelled amid buzz over Yediyurappa||Amid speculations of a leadership change in the Karnataka government, chief minister BS Yediyurappa has cancelled the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislative party meeting he called on July 26, the second anniversary of his government, in a possible signal that he may still be in control, some BJP leaders indicated.It was speculated that a new leader could be elected in the BJP legislative party meeting that the CM called after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and other senior BJP leaders a couple of days ago in Delhi. However, its cancellation has added to the confusion on Yediyurappa’s political future. Two leaders in the know of the developments said instead of the legislative party meeting, Yediyurappa has called for a dinner meeting of all MLAs on Sunday. The leaders emphasised that it shall not be seen as a meeting of the legislative party. Some BJP leaders say the cancellation is Yediyurappa’s message that a leadership change is not imminent. “You have seen the developments in the last few days. People are rallying behind the chief minister,” said a legislator from Bengaluru on the condition of anonymity. Even though Yediyurappa denied any plan to step down at the conclusion of his meeting with Central high command during New Delhi visit last weekend, many in the party continued to suggest that he will soon step down in accordance with a transition formula agreed upon. These speculations were further strengthened with an audio clip, allegedly of party state president Nalin Kumar Kateel, hinting at a change of guard. Meanwhile, more pontiffs from the religious mutts across the state visited Yediyurappa on Wednesday and extended their support to the chief minister. Among prominent seers who visited Yediyurappa was the pontiff of Siddaganga Mutt, Tumkur, which has a large following among the Lingayat community in the state. Siddaganga seer said it was the view of all pontiffs to allow Yediyurappa to continue as chief minister. “Our wish is that he remains CM for a full term,” he said. Yediyurappa is hosting seers for the second consecutive day after meeting several of them on Tuesday. Veera Someshwara Shivacharya Swami, one of the pontiffs who met Yediyurappa on Tuesday said any move to replace Yediyurappa will have big consequences for the BJP. “Friction is common in politics, let anyone say anything, we have confidence that BS Yediyurappa will continue as the chief minister and complete the term. If there are any shortcomings in this, it will have big consequences for the party,” he said. BJP MP from Bengaluru North and former Union minister D V Sadananda Gowda on Wednesday said there was no chance of leadership change in Karnataka as the BJP central leadership was pleased with the developmental activities and the handling of Covid-19 in the state. “I don’t think there is any truth in the ongoing discussion about the leadership change because these decisions are taken by our Central leaders keeping in view the political situation in the states,” the former chief minister told reporters in Bengaluru. He added that Yediyurappa had explained the prevailing situation in the state and government’s Covid management and developmental credentials to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home minister Amit Shah, and the party realised that a change was not required.“It is my strong gut feeling that there is absolutely no chance of leadership change. These are all speculations,” he said. On pontiffs of various Lingayat matts rallying behind Yediyurappa, Gowda said, “Whenever we do some good work, people appreciate it. As a result, people stand in his favour.” The MLAs who quit the Congress-JD(S) coalition to join the BJP are also concerned about the speculations. The Yediyurappa government’s expansion last week honoured a long standing promise to reward the rebel MLAs who helped the BJP return to power in the state in 2019. “Initially when there was a delay in giving us cabinet positions, it was Yediyurappa who stood by us. We don’t know what is going to happen because there is no clear message from the Central command on change in leadership, we will wait and watch,” said one of the MLAs who had joined BJP after quitting the previous JDS-Congress government in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-bjp-legislative-party-meeting-cancelled-amid-buzz-over-yediyurappa-101626877061130.html
21-07-2021||Delhi||Farmers to hold protests at Jantar Mantar from July 22; DDMA grants permission||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers, got permission to hold ‘staggered’ protests at the Jantar Mantar in New Delhi against the three contentious new farm laws passed by Centre, from Thursday onwards.The farmers' unions said they will hold a 'Kisan Parliament' at Jantar Mantar parallel to the Monsoon Session of the Parliament and around 200 protesters from Singhu border would attend it every day."We will hold 'Kisan Parliament' from July 22 till the monsoon session ends and 200 protesters will go to Jantar Mantar every day. One speaker and one deputy speaker will be chosen every day. In the first two days, there will be discussion over the APMC Act. Later, the other bills will also be discussed every two days,” farmer leaders said on Tuesday.Also Read: 'Kisan Panchayat': 200 farmers to visit Jantar Mantar everyday from July 22News agency PTI reported on Wednesday that the Delhi police also granted permission to the farmers’ group to protest at Jantar Mantar, followed by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) provided on conditions that the protesters follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.The DDMA said farmers setting off for Jantar Mantar from July 22 to August 9 “would be ferried by designated buses and six members of one separate group by a designated SUV on a given route under police escort subject to strict observance of Covid-appropriate behaviour and compliance of all other guidelines issued by the Centre and the Delhi government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-to-hold-protests-at-jantar-mantar-from-july-22-ddma-grants-permission-101626872465334.html
21-07-2021||Other||CEO of Vaishno Devi shrine board reviews video walls project||The chief executive officer of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board (SMVDSB) Ramesh Kumar on Wednesday chaired a meeting of key officials of the executing agency to review the progress of installing six large hi-tech multi-purpose video walls at prominent locations on the tracks leading to the cave shrine. These locations included Darshani Deodi Banganga, New Darshani Deodi Tarakote Marg, Adhkuwari Complex, Bhairon Platform, Langer Point at Tarakote and Sanjichhat Platform.The screens will display live atka arti, mata ki kahani (stage play) and live darshan . They will also display advisories (24X7) about disaster-prone locations on the track, information of missing person / items and early warnings of weather forecast, besides general information about accommodation and facilities.Also Read | India, Pakistan exchange sweets along J&K border to celebrate Eid-al-AdhaKumar directed the executing agency to ensure completion of the project before the Navratras to enable dissemination of real time information to the visiting pilgrims in regard to the yatra. The meeting was attended by Hemkant Prashar, chief accounts officer, SMVDSB, Deepak Dubey and Vishavjeet Singh, deputy CEOs, SMVDSB, other concerned officers/ engineers of the shrine board and representatives of the executing agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ceo-of-vaishno-devi-shrine-board-reviews-video-walls-project-101626871600107.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Fear defeats more people than any other thing in the world||Not so long ago when I was in Australia, on one of the islands within the Great Barrier Reef, preparing for my first-ever snorkelling experience with three other first-timers, our young guide gave us a clear and simple advice. “We will not go far from the beach to remain in the shallow zone but if fear of any kind is radiated, you’ll end up drowning even when there are no chances for it. Just remember, you’ll be safe.” And we did return safely to the beach after 45 magical minutes in the water. Rather, we were back with a thrilling experience, catching glimpses of rare aquatic life. With the fear of coronavirus everywhere, this memory keeps crossing my mind and as it echoes, I go on sharing it with others. Truly, the pandemic has enveloped most of us in fear despite the choice to remain calm. Fear is no panacea; instead, it only snatches away every ingredient of our much-needed tranquillity. Yet, we hold on to it tightly. We forget when calmness is gone, we become more helpless and perplexed. In other words, it makes us cry before we are hurt and if several medical studies are to be believed, fear not only disturbs the digestive system but also plays havoc with our immunity, for which we have been ubiquitously concerned since the pandemic’s arrival. Hence, isn’t it the worst companion? Whenever my octogenarian maternal grandmother called up during the second wave, she always began the conversation with the latest number of Covid deaths. “Don’t go out, just stay home. Keep washing your hands,” she would add after sharing the gravest Covid news she had read or heard. But when my aunt from the village would call, I could sense the serene ringing in her words, which may also be resonating with several books on psychology. She reminded me that it’s all in the mind. “There are many taking all precautions but still scared. But if we tell our mind (also refers to it as a parrot), that we are safe and healthy; we will remain so, because our thoughts hold huge power for our body. We should only think what we want to experience and it works.” The fear of Covid was so high with an elderly woman in the neighbourhood that whenever any vegetable seller would come up, she would throw a fit. “Don’t come here! Go back, right away.” When children would play near her house, she would chase them away angrily. With all precautions in place at her home, neither she nor other members in her family ever got infected with Covid but the fluctuation in her blood pressure turned into an everyday tale. A late uncle of mine who was told by doctors that he may survive only for few months due cancer eventually ended up living for many years. We all believe that it was because what we always believed in and often said: “Cancer can do nothing to me, and I don’t even think that I have any disease.” For an obvious reason, American philosopher Ralph Waldo Emerson came up with this thought: “Fear defeats more people than any other one thing in the world.” I absolutely agree. rameshinder.sandhu@gmail.com The writer is an Amritsar-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fear-defeats-more-people-than-any-other-thing-in-the-world-101626870160025.html
21-07-2021||Lucknow||3 of a family killed as car races train to reach station faster in Varanasi||A family's bid to catch a train turned fatal for three of its members after the car they were travelling in met with an accident near Varanasi. The family members were trying to race ahead of the train to catch it in Varanasi when the driver lost control and the vehicle crossed the divider, and smashed into a truck trailer in the opposite lane, Hindustan Times' sister publication Live Hindustan reported.The incident happened in Rohaniya area of Varanasi.According to Live Hindustan report, Lilavati and his elder son Ashutosh needed to catch a train from Prayagraj to go to Siwan in Bihar. For this purpose, her son, Akhilesh Patel, his younger brother Shailesh, along with Lilavati, Ashutosh, and another named Ajit of the family, left for the station at 4am on Wednesday.Shailesh was driving the car. Ajit occupied the front seat, while the back seats were taken by Lilavati and her grandson Chandan. When the car reached Prayagraj station, the family learnt that the train had already left from there. They then decided to board the train from the next station at Gopiganj. However, when the car arrived at Gopiganj, the train had left from there as well. The next stoppage was Varanasi, and the family decided to drive fast in order to reach the station before the train.Owing to the speed, the car went out of control on the highway near Rajatalab in Varanasi. As a result, the vehicle ran over the divider and drove into another lane before colliding with the trailer. The car’s hood was blown away in the incident. Local people informed the police, but even after they arrived, it took several hours to evacuate those trapped inside the damaged car. Lilavati, Ajit and Chandan died during the evacuation, while Shailesh has been admitted to a hospital in a critical condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-of-a-family-killed-as-car-races-train-to-reach-station-faster-in-varanasi-101626868722356.html
21-07-2021||Bangalore||BJP leader Sadananda Gowda says ‘no chance’ for leadership change in Karnataka||Former Union minister and Bharatiya Janata Party leader Sadananda Gowda on Wednesday denied any leadership change in Karnataka saying the BJP's central leadership is pleased with how the Covid-19 pandemic was handled by the BS Yediyurappa government. Gowda’s remarks came after similar denials by Yediyurappa and the party's state unit.“I don't think there is any truth in the ongoing discussion about the leadership change because these are the decisions which are taken by our central level leaders keeping in view the political situation in the states,” he told reporters in Bengaluru, according to news agency PTI.Yediyurappa met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi on July 16 (Friday) and BJP president JP Nadda the next day. He then denied allegations about his resignation and said that the meeting was only to discuss issues related to the state. He also said that he would visit Delhi again to meet with the leaders in the first week of August.Also read | Yediyurappa shares what Amit Shah told him on Lok Sabha polls, Karnataka affairsGowda, a former Karnataka chief minister himself, further said that there were no reasons to remove Yediyurappa from the top post and the central leadership has appreciated the government’s actions to handle the Covid-19 pandemic and also other development activities. “It is my strong gut feeling that there is absolutely no chance of leadership change. These are all speculations,” he said.When asked about the support expressed by various Lingayat seers in favour of the CM, Gowda replied, “Whenever we do some good work, people appreciate it. As a result, people stand in his favour.”“I feel that there is no chance for leadership change. Rest is left to the national level leaders,” he further reiterated.State home minister Basavaraj Bommai also said that Yediyurappa would continue as the CM. “Chief minister is going to continue, he himself has said it. Our in-charge Arun Singh had also said it. Through all these speculations and rumours they are trying to create political instability,” PTI quoted Bommai as saying on Wednesday.Last month, BJP state in-charge Arun Singh visited the state and met with all members of the unit hearing their complaints and demands. Following this, he too had denied any change of leadership within the government. Some members of the Karnataka BJP unit have expressed their displeasure with Yediyurappa on many occasions earlier, causing the speculations.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bjp-leader-sadananda-gowda-says-no-chance-for-leadership-change-in-karnataka-101626867517661.html
21-07-2021||Patna||Bengal museum for freedom fighter Batukeshwar Dutt awaits inauguration||Batukeshwar Dutt, one of the unsung heroes of India’s freedom struggle, had links with both West Bengal, and Bihar. While he was born in Bardhaman in Bengal, he spent his later years in Patna, Bihar.A museum dedicated to Dutt, a freedom fighter and an associate of Bhagat Singh, was developed in Bardhaman in 2015 but awaits inauguration.The museum is located close to Dutt’s ancestral house in Oanri village where he was born in 1910. Dutt was arrested along with Bhagat Singh in the Central Assembly bomb case in 1929. While Bhagat Singh was hanged to death, Dutt was awarded a life sentence and was deported to the Andaman Cellular Jail. Later, he was shifted to Hazaribagh Jail; from there to Delhi and then to Bankipur jails. Also Read | With eye on Nishad votes, VIP to install Phoolan Devi’s statues in UPIn 1938, he was released because of deteriorating health on the condition that he would not participate in any political movement. Dutt, however, joined Mahatma Gandhi’s freedom movement and was again jailed. He was finally released when the country gained Independence. The freedom fighter died on July 20, 1965.On his 56th death anniversary on Tuesday, his daughter and retired Patna University teacher Prof Bharti Bagchi said, “The honours that he deserved continue to elude him even after five decades of his death.” Though, she added, Dutt’s ancestral house at Oanri in Bardhaman has been renovated and has been declared a heritage monument. “The museum was developed by the West Bengal government, but I donated my land for it. The building was ready in 2015 but has remained locked since,” she said. “Batukeshwar Dutt Sanrakshan Samiti, a committee of the locals, monitors the museum work. They say some work is still pending and that’s why the inauguration has been delayed,” she said. HT tried calling committee members several times to ascertain what was causing the delay but could not get through. Dutt’s house in Patna’s Jakkanpur locality, where he spent his last years, was also set to be declared a protected monument but nothing came of that either. “This house was built by my father. And in 2007-08, there was an initiative by the Archaeological Survey of India, Patna Circle, to get this house declared a protected monument. But soon, the official who took steps in this direction got transferred, and the matter got sidelined,” Bagchi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bengal-museum-for-freedom-fighter-batukeshwar-dutt-awaits-inauguration-101626867821204.html
21-07-2021||Pune||ATM blown up in Pune to steal over ₹25 lakh, cops busy identifying explosive||An unspecified amount was stolen from an ATM in Pune’s Chakan area after it was blown up using an unidentified explosive on Wednesday morning, said police. A private company responsible for refilling cash in the ATM claimed over ₹25 lakh were stolen. However, police said they were yet to ascertain the value of the stolen currency.“The ATM was [owned by] a private company. They are pulling [out] data about the balance in the ATM after the last transaction. The company had not installed CCTV inside the ATM. The explosive was tied to the machine,” a police officer said on condition of anonymity.The police are in the process of identifying the explosive used to blow up the machine. The explosion had sent the doors of the cabin housing the ATM flying. Currency notes of multiple denominations were found strewn inside the cabin, said a police official who visited the spot.A case was registered at Mahalunge police outpost under Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/atm-blown-up-in-pune-to-steal-over-rs-25-lakh-cops-busy-identifying-explosive-101626865900046.html
21-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees spurt in single-day tally with 62 Covid-19 cases, 4 more deaths||The national capital’s daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) went up again as 62 new cases were reported on Wednesday, taking the caseload to 1,435,671, according to the health department’s bulletin. As many as four people succumbed to the viral disease pushing the death toll to 25,039. The 61 recoveries in the previous 24 hours added to the cumulative tally of 1,410,066. The active cases have come down to 566, which is a minor decline from 569 cases on Tuesday.This is the first time in four days that the daily cases in Delhi went above 60. The city had seen 66 cases on July 16 while on Tuesday (July 20), the national capital saw 44 cases and five deaths.The health bulletin showed on Wednesday that a total of 65,811 samples were tested for the Covid-19 disease in the previous 24 hours of which 42,187 were RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and the remaining 23,624 were rapid antigen tests.The containment zones in Delhi have dropped to 403 while the number of patients under home isolation have also declined to 171.A total of 9,439,797 eligible beneficiaries have been vaccinated till now of which nearly 72,000 were vaccinated in the previous 24 hours.The vaccination rate in Delhi has been witnessing instability since June 21, when the Centre took over the charge of purchasing and distributing vaccines to states and Union territories.After seeing a major drop in inoculations for over two days, vaccination picked up pace on Tuesday. Doses were administered in 730 out of the total 1,374 vaccination centres, Hindustan Times reported on Wednesday.On Tuesday morning, Delhi had more than 195,000 doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and 67,880 doses of Serum Institute’s Covishield.Meanwhile, over 415 million doses have been administered across the country of which 328,716,212 have received the first dose and the remaining 86,756,243 have received both doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-spurt-in-single-day-tally-with-62-covid-19-cases-4-more-deaths-101626861143539.html
21-07-2021||Other||TN gets over 8.5 lakh Covid-19 vaccines; test positivity rate up in few district||Tamil Nadu received an additional consignment of more than 8.5 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses, and the same reached the Chennai Airport on Tuesday, Tamil newspaper Dina Thanthi reported.The new consignment came after the state received 18,030,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses last week, which were distributed across all districts. On Monday, however, the state was staring at a possible vaccine shortage with the available stock at 3,42,800 jabs.The development comes amid the Tamil Nadu health department’s consistent demands with the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) for more vaccine jabs. The Central government, following repeated appeals by the state government, agreed to provide additional 5 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines.On Tuesday, the Centre sent a total of 3,60,000 Covishield vaccine doses to Tamil Nadu from its central stock. In the same flight, additional 5 lakh doses of Covishield vaccines were sent in order to meet the demands of the state. Thus, the state government received 8,60,000 coronavirus vaccine doses on Tuesday.The consignment was taken to the Tamil Nadu government’s warehouse at Periamet from the Chennai Airport, and from there, the vaccine doses were sent to all the zones. State health department officials said that the vaccines will be distributed across districts from the zonal warehouses.Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu reported 1,904 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. The state tested 133,149 samples, of which, 1,904 men and 810 women were found to have contracted the virus. Among the infected are 113 children below the age of 12 and 296 persons aged above 60. Districts such as Madurai, Krishnagiri and Erode have witnessed a surge in terms of Covid-19 test positivity rate as opposed to the preceding day’s cases.The state also logged 30 new fatalities, with 22 succumbing to the virus at government hospitals and the remaining eight at private hospitals. The death currently stands at 33,782. A total of 2,439 fresh recoveries were recorded on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tn-gets-over-8-5-lakh-covid-19-vaccines-test-positivity-rate-up-in-few-district-101626862963829.html
21-07-2021||Other||Orissa HC asks guv to dispose of plea to disqualify MLAs for holding office of profit||The Orissa high court has directed the governor of Odisha to dispose of a plea seeking the disqualification of nearly two dozen Biju Janata Dal (BJD) MLAs for holding office of profit.A two-judge bench comprising chief justice S Muralidhar and justice SK Panigrahi, while adjudicating a plea by petitioner Samarendra Beura, asked the governor to dispose the petition by November 8.As per Article 191(1)(a) of the Constitution, a person would be disqualified as a member of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council if he/she holds any office of profit under the government of India or the government of any state. To get around this difficulty, the state government in 2016 had enacted the Odisha Offices of Profit (Removal of Disqualifications) Amendment Act to declare that MLAs who are appointed as chairpersons of district planning committees, special development council and Western Odisha Development Council would not be disqualified from being the members of the legislative assembly.Also Read | Two sentenced to 20-year rigorous imprisonment for raping minor in OdishaHowever, Beura, in his petition before the high court said the 22 BJD MLAs who were appointed as chairpersons of several district planning committees and special development councils have been given minister of state status, giving them pecuniary advantage. Those MLAs, by virtue of being ministers of state, drew a sumptuary allowance, daily allowance and travelling allowance, while enjoying government accommodation and vehicles.The petitioner told the high court that in the case of Brundaban Nayak vs Election Commission of India in 1965, the Supreme Court had ruled that complaints under Article 192 of the Constitution seeking disqualification of MLAs must be disposed of as expeditiously as possible. As per the process, the governor has to obtain the opinion of the Election Commission of India (ECI) and dispose of the applications within a prescribed period.A public relations official in the governor’s secretariat said the order copy from the high court is yet to reach the governor. “He will go through the order once it reaches him and take necessary steps,” the official said.BJD MLA from Koraput, Raghuram Padal, who heads the special development council in the tribal-dominated district, said he does not consider the state government giving him minister of state status as office of profit. “We are doing a lot of work for people and these allowance can’t be called profit,” he said.Similarly, Rajendra Dholakia, BJD MLA from Nuapara and chairman of Nuapara District Planning Board Committee, said he too does not consider his status office of profit. “The state government must have given me the responsibility after a lot of deliberations and vetting by law department. I, therefore, don’t think I hold an office of profit,” he said. A BJD spokesperson, meanwhile, refused to comment on the high court order, saying it was for the governor to comply with.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/orissa-hc-asks-guv-to-dispose-of-plea-to-disqualify-mlas-for-holding-office-of-profit-101626862779623.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena hits out again at Centre over Pegasus spyware||The Shiv Sena on Wednesday again hit out at the Centre over the alleged targeting by Israeli spyware Pegasus of politicians, journalists, and constitutional authorities, saying the issue is more serious than the state of Emergency in the 1970s. In an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana, the Sena said the “cyberattack on the selective Indians” could not have happened without the Centre’s approval. It questioned who will take responsibility for the snooping while demanding a probe by a joint parliamentary committee (JPC). The Sena asked the Supreme Court to take suo moto cognisance of the matter and set up an independent inquiry committee.The party earlier demanded a JPC probe in a letter to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla.Also Read | Some entities want to lower India’s prestige: CM Khattar on Pegasus controversyThe Sena called Union home minister Amit Shah’s statement on media reports about the use of Pegasus spyware as “surprising”. It asked Shah to spell out who is out to defame the country.Shah dismissed the reports as an attempt to “malign Indian democracy and its well-established institutions”.The Sena said: “It is your government and your democracy, so who would have had the courage to do this?” It added whosoever has money, political muscle, and the intent to act in arbitrary fashion can do such a thing.The Sena said that had the incident come to light when the Bharatiya Janata Party was in the opposition, it would have demanded the resignation of the Prime Minister and home minister. “Those who would have demanded resignations are now in power, and they are not even ready to hold a discussion over the issue in the Parliament.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-hits-out-again-at-centre-over-pegasus-spyware-101626859359365.html
21-07-2021||Patna||Bihar: 80-year-old, who established a temple in Madhepura, shot dead||The founder of a Hanuman Temple in Bihar’s Madhepura district was shot dead on Tuesday night and his body found 300 meters away from the temple located in the Budhma police camp of Udakishunganj police station area on Wednesday morning, police said.80-year-old Bhola Prasad Shah established the Sukhasini Hanuman Temple after being released from jail in 1998 in a murder case.“The deceased had served 7-years imprisonment in connection with a murder case and was released from jail in 1998. After his release, he was very active in temple construction work and had established the Sukhasini Temple,” Udakishunganj sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Satish Kumar said.There was tension in the area following the murder and police had begun a probe into the murder. Shah’s body was sent to Madhepura sadar hospital for post-mortem.“My father was dedicated to temple construction for over two decades and used to sleep in the temple and on the night of the incident, he had returned after attending a religious gathering held about one kilometre from the temple,” victim’s son Vikash Kumar said.He added, “He went to sleep soon after and was shot dead early in the morning on Wednesday as I saw him sleeping at around 2 am.”The incident has triggered panic in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-80-year-old-who-established-a-temple-in-madhepura-shot-dead-101626858999438.html
21-07-2021||Delhi||Dilli wali Eid Mubarak! Feel at home with festive delights||Nihari, Sheermal, Biryani, Mutton Korma, Seekh Kebab, Paneer Tikka, Changezi Chicken, Shammi Kebab or Phirni. Does the mention of these dishes remind you of the good old pre-Covid times when you could go out to savour Eid specials at any popular nook in the Walled City? If reading this makes you crave for these delicious dishes, then don’t sit wondering how to relish them. Straight from the bylanes of Old Delhi, around Jama Masjid, dodging the scary crowds, these delicacies can reach your place, this Eid-ul-Adha! And that’s because a few popular eateries are taking requests for home delivery of scrumptious delights, as you revel in the spirit of the festival at the comfort of your home, amid the pandemic. Feast your eyes and tummy, tooFrom Haji Nadeem Shahi Sheermal, which is a stone’s throw from Jama Masjid, one can devour specialities such as the sweet flatbread called sheermal, and the chai time cookie Nan Khatai. Informing that they received quite a few orders, from across Delhi-NCR, in the run up to Eid, Haji Nadeem, who manages the shop, says, “People prefer sheermal because it looks beautiful, has a longer shelf life, and makes for a perfect sweet to be distributed among family and friends on occasions such as Eid. Our Shahi Sheermal remains to be the most popular, although we sell many varieties, ranging from ₹30 to ₹500. These have a coating of pistachio, almonds, and cashews. Some sheermal are coated with ghee. We take orders one day prior, and send the sweets via courier. For those who need sheermal and nan khatai urgently, we get deliveries done sooner, on a little extra payment.” Got to choose Korma or Kebab? Have both!In the mood for Nihari and Haleem this Eid? Look no further than Al Jawahar in Matia Mahal, which is synonymous with Mughlai and north Indian cuisine. “Since the pandemic struck, we have been getting orders online from across the city and we are preparing everything keeping all the safety measures in mind,” explains Mohd Arif, owner of the restaurant, adding, “For Eid, we’ve been receiving orders for our specialities including Mutton and Chicken Korma, Seekh Kebab, Paneer Tikka, Changezi Chicken, and Phirni to finish the food on a sweet note!” He informs that place will remain open from 11am to 10pm, and have tied up with food delivery apps to the farthest possible when it comes to delivering. Indulge the sweet toothNo Eid spread is complete without a rich, gooey and dry fruit laden Shahi Tukda or Phirni. The popular dish Shahi Tukda is prepared with fried bread topped with rabri and slivered dry fruits. Feast on the delectable and warm dessert while choosing from a variety of jalebis like Paneer Jalebi and Mawa Jalebi from the famous Kallan Sweets near Jama Masjid. And it’s easy to say that Eid just got way more sweet. From the home kitchensThose wanting to make their Eid affair a no fuss thing are opting for the elaborate, pre set menu by home chefs. Saira Mujtaba, who runs Saira’s Awadhi Kitchen, in Jangpura, says, “We operate out of my house and do home deliveries as well. Since people are being cautious and preferring low key celebrations, we have received orders for small gatherings, across Delhi-NCR. As part of Awadhi fare, this Eid we have delicacies like Murgh Zafrani Biryani, Galouti Kebabs and Soybean Pulao. And to beat the rush, we started taking orders 24 hours in advance.” Of intimate meals and memoriesFeisal Alkazi, theatre personality, recalls how Eid for him is mostly about the family dining together, and that reminds him of the traditional dish Jareesh. “This Eid, we’ll have a small get together and a contemporary family lunch. We’ll be making Mutton Biryani and Seekh Kebab or Shami Kebab. Everything is made from scratch, at home... My father (late Ebrahim Alkazi, theatre doyen) had an Arab background, and there was a typical dish Jareesh, which we made out of broken wheat, meat and spices. There are very fond memories of eating that while growing up. And they are part of our heritage. But, we tend to not to have it in summer months,” he says. Ustad Shujaat Khan, sitarist, reminisces his childhood, Eidi and Sheer Korma. He adds, “This Eid, there will be five different kinds of meat that we’ll prepare. We’ll also make the Sheer Khurma, Shami Kebab, and Biryani. I remember, as a child, I used to come back from namaz and get Eidi, and wait for Sheer Korma to get ready. When I was young, artistes would come in to wish my father (sitarist, late Ustad Vilayat Khan), and spend the day, hang out, and laugh. I miss meeting more and more musicians now.”Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dilli-wali-eid-mubarak-feel-at-home-with-festive-delights-101626857217093.html
21-07-2021||Delhi||Kisan Panchayat, I-Day: Delhi Police deploys 3-layered security cover||The Delhi Police has enveloped parts of national capital in a triple-layer security arrangement due to the 'Kisan Panchayat' announced by the farmers protesting against the three farm laws near Delhi, and Independence Day on August 15."We are in touch with Special Branch, and Intelligence Bureau (IB). Triple-layer arrangement at all borders of North district will be made. Strong barricading to be created from anti-Kisan point of view at roads leading to Red Fort," Anita Roy, Additional DCP (North), told news agency ANI."To counter anti-drone challenge, staff is being trained on how to respond to unfriendly objects. Coordinated training with Air Force, NSG, DRDO is also in progress," she added.The senior police officer said that a 360-degree anti-drone coverage has been devised by the cops.The farmers have announced launching a 'Kisan Panchayat' to intensify their over eight-month-long agitation seeking scrapping of the three laws passed by Centre in September. The farmers leaders have said that 200 farmers will go to Jantar Mantar daily from the Singhu border till the time the monsoon session of Parliament is on.Talking about the Independence Day, Roy said that the number of people has been scaled down to 50 per cent."The deployment of staff for security checks has been in force for two months. Internal checks at markets, near Chandni Chowk area and inside Red Fort are being done," added Roy.The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has already shut the Red Fort for the public from July 21 to August 15. The historical site usually remains closed for seven days before Independence Day, but this year, the duration has been extended, the ASI said.The Delhi Police had earlier suggested closing the Red Fort from July 15 in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and security reasons. According to news agency PTI, the police made the suggestion in a letter on July 12.Earlier this year on Republic Day, farmers protesting against the three farm laws reached Red Fort during a tractor rally, which led to clashes with the police.The Prime Minister of India hoists the Tricolour and addresses the public from the ramparts of the Red Fort in Delhi every year during the Independence Day as part of the celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kisan-panchayat-independence-day-delhi-police-gears-up-with-3-layered-security-101626855166737.html
21-07-2021||Delhi||‘Centre will soon say there is no Covid-19’: Delhi health minister Jain on ‘no deaths due to oxygen shortage’ remark||Delhi health minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Satyendar Jain attacked the Centre for a Union minister's remark that there have been no deaths due to lack of oxygen during the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis.Jain said on Wednesday that the Centre will soon say there is no Covid-19 pandemic.“If there were no deaths due to lack of oxygen, then why were hospitals going to high court for shortages? This is completely false,” Jain said, adding both hospitals and media had flagged the shortage of the life saving gas daily and claimed there were many deaths in Delhi and other parts across the country.Delhi, along with other regions, recorded a massive surge in cases and deaths due to the viral disease in April when the pandemic was in its worst form.They (Centre) will soon say there was no COVID-19. If there were no deaths due to lack of oxygen, then why were hospitals going to High Court for shortages? This is completely false: Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Centre saying 'no deaths due to lack of oxygen' pic.twitter.com/FTz56X6kUwThe national capital’s health infrastructure saw a near collapse as hospitals struggled with a severe shortage of medical oxygen and could only manage to procure very limited supplies for a very short duration. Many seriously infected Covid-19 patients reportedly died due to the dire unavailability of the life saving gas. On many occasions, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia urged the Centre to provide a daily quota of 700 MT of oxygen to Delhi.However, the AAP-led government also faced the ire of the public and the Centre over the oxygen crisis in April and its unpreparedness to tackle the pandemic. Last month, a war of words broke out between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the AAP after the former, citing a Supreme Court appointed audit panel report, alleged the Delhi government exaggerated its demand for oxygen by over four times between April 25 and May 10.Meanwhile, health minister Jain also said on Wednesday that the Delhi government had formed an audit committee to provide compensation to the victims, which had been stopped by the Centre through the lieutenant governor (L-G). Underlining that complete data of deaths due to oxygen would have been out if the committee was formed, Jain further said, “The Centre is rubbing salt on wounds. We’ll appeal to the L-G to allow us to run the committee.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-minister-hits-out-at-centre-s-no-deaths-due-to-oxygen-shortage-remark-101626854612837.html
21-07-2021||Patna||Army jawan dead, 2 others injured in shooting over property dispute in Bihar’s Saran||An army jawan was shot dead and two of his kin injured at Tilkar village in Saran district of Bihar allegedly over a property dispute on Tuesday. The dispute was over a plot of land, said the police.Police said a case has been registered against nine named accused, all said to relatives of the deceased, Gajendra Mishra. A First Information Report was lodged on the basis of the statement of Mishra’s brother under Sections 302 (murder) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. Mishra, 38, was posted in Jharkhand and was home on leave on July 17. Saran superintendent police Santosh Kumar said the incident occurred around 9pm on Tuesday when the deceased, along with his brother Anand (also posted in the army) and nephew Anubhav reached the Kali Temple for a meeting to resolve the issue of disputed ancestral property. An eyewitness said that two unidentified miscreants were arguing with the army jawan and one of them fired twice at him. One of the bullets hit Mishra on the chest while Anand and Anubhav received splinters injury. The accused fled the scene. The three men were taken to the nearby primary health centre, but as Mishra’s condition was serious, he was shifted to the Sadar hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. Police suspect that professional killers were engaged for the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/army-jawan-dead-2-others-injured-in-shooting-over-property-dispute-in-bihar-s-saran-101626850720594.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||Red alert in Mumbai, chances of over 200mm rain in some parts till July 22||An initial orange category alert for July 21 and 22 was upgraded to red at 1pm by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), indicating higher chances of severe weather events.“A yellow alert indicating mainly heavy rainfall was there for Mumbai only for July 20. For July 21, we had already indicated chances of very heavy rainfall with orange alert. This has been upgraded today to red alert, indicating chances of extremely heavy rain, keeping in mind the synoptic situation,” said a meteorologist with the IMD in Mumbai. “These rains are not thunderstorm rains like we saw on early Sunday. It is the result of very strong westerly winds bringing in moisture from an active monsoon trough that runs along coastal Maharashtra. Mumbai could easily see another 50 to 60mm of rain by this evening,” said the official quoted above.Also Read | Heavy rain over N-W India likely to gradually reduce from todayOn Wednesday, the city woke up to its fourth consecutive day of rainfall, recording 23.9mm of rain in the 24 hours ending 8.30am (down from 38.4mm recorded in the 24 hours prior). Widespread heavy to very heavy rains are expected across Mumbai, with chances of extremely heavy rain (in excess of 204.5mm) in isolated locations through the day, along with chances of occasional gusty winds of 40-50 kmph, gusting to 60 kmph in some areas.An off shore monsoon trough at mean sea level near the Maharashtra coast is likely to remain vigorous for the next three to four days, along with a shear zone in the mid-tropospheric level, and Mumbai will continue to see an active monsoon spell for the “next 4-5 days with heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places and extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places,” the IMD said in a bulletin released Tuesday. A cyclonic circulation over south Gujarat and a low pressure area forming in the Bay of Bengal around July 23 will also facilitate heavy rains in the Konkan coast for a few days. There is a chance of decreasing rains only after July 24, officials said.The total rainfall for the month of July now stands at close to 990mm, in excess of the 827mm normal set by the IMD. Seasonally speaking, Mumbai has now received 1943.7mm of rain, or 88% of the total seasonal normal up to September-end. Officials said that the rainfall record for July may well cross the 2000mm mark in the next 24 hours. For comparison, during monsoon season last year, July had recorded 1469mm of rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-rain-to-continue-till-friday-but-no-indication-of-extreme-weather-yet-101626849038735.html
21-07-2021||Delhi||The lost recipes of festive feast||The way we celebrate festivals has changed over time. What used to be a grand affair not so long ago, is now more intimate and personal. And delicacies that took hours to prepare and had a distinct aroma and flavour to them, are now replaced with quick and ready to eat variants. The festival of Eid ul-Adha today, reminds one of many such great dishes that have been part of the celebrations for generations.“We used to wait entire year to eat bakra musallam (the grilled goat). It was an intricate process; the whole goat was marinated and then grilled in a pit. The meat was shared by the entire community. Now families are nuclear and everyone celebrates it in the close circle and that’s why community dishes are on the verge of extinction,” says Osama Jalali, chef and restaurateur, adding, “All the grilled items used to be the speciality of this Eid. Mutton parchey (fine thin lamb slices, marinated and grilled) used to be another popular dish. Kacche kimme ki tikiya (minced meat kebab) and fresh organ meat such as kaleji were equally popular. One recipe that everyone loved in Rampura cuisine and is completely lost now is gosht ka halwa..” Dahi pakori, or dahi phulki as it is called in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, is also an Eid treat, says food historian and author Anoothi Vishal. “I’d look forward to not just the dahi bada aunty served but also the dry fried seviyan full of dried fruit. While many people know of seviyan cooked in milk, the dry ones, roasted in ghee with sugar and dried fruit are decadent,” she says.It’s all about mutton biryani, mutton qorma, or those frozen packet kebabs now, says food blogger, Sarah Hussain. “My nani, Christina Khan, one of the finest cook I have seen, told me that people have almost forgotten how delicious it is to eat mutton stew, lamb leg roast, bihari boti, kafta kebab and lohori karahi,” she says. Remembering his favourite dishes that are rarely cooked now, chef Anees Khan, says, “Dum or Kimami Seviyan, sweet vermicelli dum cooked with sugar, saffron, nuts and mawa still make me fall on my knees. Traditional sheer kurma which takes six-seven hours to prepare, slow cooked kacchay ghost ki biryani are least known now. More often people on festival days order food from the local caterer) and the tradition of passing down recipes is dying a slow death.”Recipe Gosht Ka HalwaIngredients250 gms mutton mince fine1500 ml milk200 gm ghee5 table spoon green cardamom powder200 gm khoyasugar to tasteSaffron water half litre Almonds and cashew and pistachioStepsIn a heavy bottom pan Boil 500 ml of milk with3 tbsp cardamom powderOnce it comes to boil add the fine paste of meat and let it boil together. After 15 minutes strain the milk .Blend the minced meat along with 1 cup of milk into a smooth paste After that fine sieve the mince meat and add back in a heavy bottom pan Heat ghee in a kadai and add the paste of meat with remaining milk Cook on a medium heat till it turns brown.Add saffron, cardamom powder and sugar and continue to cook on slow heat for almost an hour.Add khoya and nuts and gain cook for half an hourCook till it start leaving side and ghee floats Serve hot garnished with nutsRecipe by chef, Osama Jalali Mutton NihariPut tez pata, cinnamon stick, cloves, and ginger garlic paste in hot oil, and add your mutton pieces, fry it for a few minutes. Now add 2tsp red Chili powder, 1tsp coriander powder, 1/4th tsp turmeric, 1/2 cup yogurt, and 1tsp garam masala and fry it till oil separates. Add a punch of jaifal, cardamom, 2 tbsp fennel seeds, 1/2 tsp black pepper, 1 tsp cumin powder and 3 cups of water and cook on low heat for 3 to 4 hours. Add 2tsp flour, dissolved with 4tsp water and cook for another 10mins. Garnish with coriander leaves, ginger, chilies, and onions. You family will love it. Recipe by chef, Christina Khan Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/the-lost-recipes-of-festive-feast-101626848862941.html
21-07-2021||Lucknow||Seven killed, four injured in rain-related incidents in Uttar Pradesh’s Sitapur||Seven people including an infant were killed, and four others were injured in three separate incidents following heavy rainfall in Sitapur district of Uttar Pradesh in the past 24 hours, district officials said on Wednesday.Sitapur district magistrate Vishal Bharadwaj said, “Four of a family, including a three-month-old child, were killed when a wall fell on them in Manpur area. A couple and an elderly man were killed in similar incident reported form Sadpur and Mahariya areas of the district respectively. Four people were also injured in these incidents. The injured have been admitted to government hospitals for treatment.”The condition of the injured is said to be stable. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to ensure free medical treatment of the injured and to initiate the process of monetary compensation to the kin of those killed.All the three incidents occurred in the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. Sitapur, located 80 kilometres north of Lucknow, recorded 4.1cm rainfall between Tuesday 8am and Wednesday 8am, according to state meteorological department. The excess rainfall was caused by the south west monsoon that resumed in UP last week, after a pause of over 20 days.“Considering the forecast of more rainfall in coming days, we have alerted the district disaster management team. Senior officials are in touch with the meteorological department to monitor the situation,” said DM Bharadwaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/seven-killed-four-injured-in-rain-related-incidents-in-uttar-pradesh-s-sitapur-101626848318612.html
21-07-2021||Other||Suspected drones spotted again over Jammu airport, area adjoining IAF station||After a brief lull of four days, suspected drones were spotted hovering again over Jammu airport adjoining the Indian Air Force station and Peer Baba area in Satwari early Wednesday.According to military intelligence officials, “We received information from sister agencies that during the wee hours of Wednesday, unidentified flying objects (UFOs) were spotted at two different locations in Satwari sector.”At about 0400 hours (4am) a UFO was spotted hovering over the civil airport. A similar UFO was spotted hovering over the Peer Baba area adjoining the airport. “These UFOs disappeared from sight and officials concerned were informed. A search was started to trace the said UFOs,” they said.Also Read | J&K DGP hints at Pak ordnance factory role in IAF base attack“Everything else is normal so far in Satwari,” they added..Drones have been repeatedly spotted in the region since June 27 when a drone was used to target the Indian Air Force base in Jammu with explosives last month. The explosives left two personnel injured.On July 16, at least four drones were spotted hovering over military installations in Jammu, Samba, and Kathua districts of Jammu & Kashmir between 7.10pm and 8.45pm.The June 27 attack on the air force station was the first such instance of suspected Pakistan-based terrorists deploying unmanned aerial vehicles to strike vital installations in India. The National Investigation Agency is investigating the case.Jammu & Kashmir Police DGP Dilbag Singh said he believed the drones come from across the border.There have been several incidents of Pakistan-based terrorists using drones in the border areas of Jammu & Kashmir to drop arms, ammunition, drugs, and money to fuel terrorism in the region.At least 300 drones have been sighted along the border with Pakistan since 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/suspected-drones-spotted-again-over-jammu-airport-area-adjoining-iaf-station-101626847718985.html
21-07-2021||Kolkata||Bengal prepares list of police officers for UPSC to select DGP nominees||West Bengal has for the first time prepared a list of 21 Indian Police Service (IPS) officers for the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) to shortlist three nominees for the post of the state police chief, said bureaucrats aware of the matter. The state government will pick one of the nominees for the post.Virendra, who uses one name, is due to retire as the Bengal police chief on August 31. The 21 officers joined the service between 1986 and 1991 and have served for 30 years.On July 2, the UPSC wrote to West Bengal chief secretary HK Dwivedi seeking a list of eligible officers for the post. The state home department sought the list from Virendra within five days on July 13. HT has seen copies of both letters.Also Read | Police file case against Adhikari over allegations of phone tappingThe states are supposed to send names to the UPSC so that three nominees can be shortlisted based on their seniority, experience, service record, and years left in service. Bengal has been among states such as Punjab that have not earlier followed the process as per the directives of the Supreme Court.The court in 2006 directed that a police chief shall be selected from among the three senior-most officers empanelled for promotion by the UPSC. Many states filed applications seeking an amendment to this. In 2018, the court refused to modify the directions.Last year, the Punjab State Administrative Tribunal set aside the state government’s arguments against the Supreme Court order. Tamil Nadu in June named C Sylendra Babu as the police chief from among three officers impanelled by the UPSC.Many of the 21 shortlisted for the post of Bengal police chief are director-general rank officers. Manoj Malaviya tops the list that also includes a woman, Suman Bala Sahoo.Dwivedi could not be contacted for his comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-prepares-list-of-police-officers-for-upsc-to-select-dgp-nominees-101626847598714.html
21-07-2021||Bangalore||Lingayat mutts and leaders rally behind BSY amid row||Heads of several mutts in Bengaluru met Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa amidst speculations of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) replacing him, despite him saying that the decision would depend on the party high command.“I will have to abide by the decision of the party high command,” the CM is reported to have told the delegation of priests. The political and religious leaders of the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community, which comprises 16 per cent of the state’s population and the biggest vote base for BJP, promised their support to Yediyurappa following the meeting.The Lingayat community is back in focus with speculations of Yediyurappa’s departure. Yediyurappa has been the face of the Lingayat community in the party and has enjoyed big electoral support from its members.One of the pontiffs who attended the meeting said that Yediyurappa told them that he would abide by the BJP high command’s decision.Several of the mutt leaders who attended the meeting have warned the BJP against any move to dislodge the 78-year-old. Veera Someshwara Shivacharya Swami said any move to replace Yediyurappa will have big consequences for the BJP. “Friction is common in politics, let anyone say anything, we have confidence that BS Yediyurappa will continue as the chief minister and complete the term. If there are any shortcomings in this, it will have big consequences for the party,” he said.Muruga mutt seer Sri Shivamurthy Sharanaru held a press conference in support of the senior BJP leader, in Chitradurga district on Tuesday in support of Yediyurappa. “Yediyurappa may belong to the Lingayat caste and religion. But he is a leader for all. He is a mass leader who treats everyone equally. He has worked for the development of people of all castes and religions equally. That is why he must continue as the CM of the state,” the seer said. “Yediyurappa is a grassroots level leader. He has built the party from the scratch. He should not be disturbed. We are here to support him and express solidarity with him. The party will suffer if he is removed,” the Murugha mutt seer added.Yediyurappa is said to have told the delegation that he will have to abide by the decision of the BJP high command, giving some credence to speculation that a change of leadership is on the cards. “Yediyurappa only said that he is not in a position to speak anything on the issue and will have to abide by the decision of the high command. He did not say anything else,” Balehosur mutt’s Dingaleshwar Swamy, who led the delegation of pontiffs, said.“When we questioned Yediyurappa what happened, he said he will not comment on that, and the high command’s decision is final. He did not say anything else. The unanimous opinion of the pontiffs is: don’t replace Yediyurappa. If it is done, you (BJP) will face bad consequences in the days to come,” he added.The pontiff told reporters that if in any situation Yediyurappa is replaced, the BJP will probably get decimated in Karnataka. “This is not only our opinion but of a majority of people of the state,” he added.On Monday, senior Lingayat leader in the Congress party and the former minister MP Patil had said the Lingayat community would be upset if the BJP high command removed Yediyurappa from the post. “Surely, the Lingayats will be displeased with the BJP’s central leaders if they remove the Lingayat leader BS Yediyurappa from the post of the chief minister,” Patil tweeted.Another Congress leader and president of All India Veerashaiva Mahasabha (the largest group within the Lingayat community) Shamanuru Shivashankarappa, who met the chief minister on Monday, said the latter should continue with the post.Shivashankarappa, who met Yediyurappa at his residence for over an hour, had told media that the Veerashaiva community was standing firmly with Yediyurappa and any efforts to dislodge him would not go down well with the community. ”If they dislodge Yediyurappa, the BJP will suffer the same fate that happened when Nijalingappa and Veerendra Patil were removed.The BJP must think about this history before venturing into any adventures. It is BB Shivappa and BS Yediyurappa who toiled hard and built this party. If they remove him, they will be ruined,” he had said.As the speculations continue, Yediyurappa has called the legislative party meeting on July 26. This decision comes after he returned to the state after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda in New Delhi last week.On his return, he told the media that the central leadership asked him to continue. “The central leaders have asked me to continue as chief minister and strengthen the party. We must follow their instructions from time to time. There is no question of leadership change,” Yediyurappa told reporters on his return from Delhi.However, since returning to Karnataka, Yediyurappa has not issued any public statements denying the rumours of his replacement.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/lingayat-mutts-and-leaders-rally-behind-bsy-amid-row-101626846727441.html
21-07-2021||Gurugram||Light rainfall leads to spike in Gurugram's temperature||Despite cloudy skies on Tuesday, Gurugram received only light scattered rain during the day that led to a rise in temperature. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), Gurugram received 3mm of rainfall from 8.30am to 5.30pm on Tuesday.The city on Tuesday recorded a maximum temperature of 30.5 degrees Celsius (°C) and a minimum temperature of 23.4°C. Although the temperatures recorded on Tuesday were four and three degrees lower than normal, respectively, the maximum temperature was four degrees higher than Monday.According to the weekly forecast of the IMD, Gurugram is likely to witness a generally cloudy sky with the possibility of thunder or lightning from July 21-24. The maximum temperature over the next few days can rise to 33°C while the minimum temperature will remain around 25°C, it stated.“Gurugram is likely to witnesses light rain at isolated places on Wednesday too, but the intensity will reduce gradually. Due to this, the temperature in the region can rise. After this, the region is likely to receive rain around July 25-26,” said an official from IMD Chandigarh.On Monday, Gurugram witnessed heavy showers, recording 185mm of rainfall in 33 hours. With this, the district had received 88mm surplus rainfall.Meanwhile, the air quality in Gurugram continued to remain in the satisfactory zone for the past two days, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily air bulletin. On Tuesday, Gurugram reported an air quality index of 55.The air quality in Delhi-NCR is likely to remain in the satisfactory to moderate category over the next five days, according to the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi weather bulletin issued on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/light-rainfall-leads-to-spike-in-gurugram-s-temperature-101626845141077.html
21-07-2021||Patna||Darbhanga MP meets civil aviation minister Scindia for expansion of airport||Member of Parliament from Bihar’s Darbhanga, Gopal Jee Thakur, has requested Union minister of civil aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia to inspect the Darbhanga airport, which became operational on November 8 last year. He also urged the minister to expand the terminal building, increase the number of officers and staff at the airport besides provision of e-vehicle facility for the movement of passengers from the main entrance to the terminal building.Thakur, accompanied by Madhubani MP Ashok Yadav, met Scindia on Tuesday. The MPs urged the minister to expedite the process of renaming Darbhanga airport after legendary Maithili poet Maha Kavi Vidyapati.The MP requested Scindia to ensure acquisition of 78 acres of land at the earliest for development of Darbhanga airport so that passenger facilities can be expanded. He also raised the issue of construction of passenger shade from main entrance of airport to terminal building, speedy completion of runway re-carpeting and relocation of nilgai (bluebuck) and other wild animals from the forest area on airport premises. From the security point of view, Thakur also sought minister’s attention towards necessity of view cutters by elevation of the boundary wall of the airport without delay and to appoint Central Industrial Security Force for the security purpose. As of now, the security of airport is manned by Bihar Military Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/darbhanga-mp-meets-civil-aviation-minister-scindia-for-expansion-of-airport-101626844718286.html
21-07-2021||Other||Gauhati HC stays Arunachal notification on non-issuance of permits to unvaccinated persons||The Itanagar bench of the Gauhati high court has stayed a notification issued by the Arunachal Pradesh government allowing the issuance of temporary permits to only those persons who are vaccinated against Covid-19 to enter the state for work.Acting on a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Madan Mili, a resident of Dibang Valley, justice Nani Tagia, in an order issued on Monday, stated that the notification discriminated between vaccinated and unvaccinated persons. Clause 11 of the notification issued by Arunachal Pradesh chief secretary on June 30 stated that issuance of inner line permits (ILPs) needed to enter the state will remain suspended (till August 1), but temporary permits may be issued for developmental works in private and public sectors “provided such persons are vaccinated for Covid-19.”Also Read | Assam govt makes Covid-19 test mandatory for travellers from NE states The court held the particular clause of the notification violated articles 14, 19 (1) (d) and 21 of the Constitution that dealt with right to equality before law, freedom to move freely throughout India and right to life and livelihood respectively. “There is no evidence either on record or in public domain that Covid-19 vaccinated persons cannot be infected with Covid-19 virus or he/she cannot be carriers of Covid-19 virus and consequently, a spreader of Covid-19 virus,” the court order read. “In so far as the spread of Covid-19 virus to others is concerned, a Covid-19 vaccinated or unvaccinated person or persons are the same. Both can equally be a potential spreader if they are infected with Covid-19 virus in them,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gauhati-hc-stays-arunachal-notification-on-non-issuance-of-permits-to-unvaccinated-persons-101626844598498.html
21-07-2021||Delhi||'Kisan Panchayat': 200 farmers to visit Jantar Mantar everyday from July 22||The government is facing opposition's heat inside Parliament over various issues. The Congress and others parties have said that they will not let monsoon session proceed normally unless the government listens to their demands. And now, there is a fresh problem for the government to deal with outside Parliament.The farmers, who have been protesting near national capital Delhi's borders for more than eight months, demanding the three farm laws enacted in September last year be repealed, have said they will hold a 'Kisan Parliament' at Jantar Mantar from July 22.The farmer organisations leading the protests at Singhu border have decided 200 protesters will go to Jantar Mantar every day beginning Thursday."We will hold 'Kisan Parliament' from July 22 till the monsoon session ends and 200 protesters will go to Jantar Mantar every day. One speaker and one deputy speaker will be chosen every day. In the first two days, there will be discussion over the APMC Act. Later, the other bills will also be discussed every two days,” farmer leaders said on Tuesday.The protesters held meeting with Delhi Police officials on Tuesday, after which a farmer leader said they will hold peaceful demonstrations at Jantar Mantar and no protester will go to Parliament. The protest will go on at Jantar Mantar from 10am to 5pm."When police asked us to reduce the number of protesters, we told them to focus on the law-and-order situation and also gave assurance that the protest will be peaceful,” said Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh national president Shiv Kumar Kakka.The monsoon session of Parliament started on Monday and is scheduled to conclude on August 13.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Farmer leaders and the Centre have held several rounds of talks but the impasse remains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kisan-panchayat-200-farmers-to-visit-jantar-mantar-everyday-from-tomorrow-101626843817055.html
21-07-2021||Patna||Illegal construction near Patna jail poses security threat, say authorities||Several residential and commercial establishments coming up around the high security Beur Central Jail in Bihar’s Patna pose a threat to the security of the high-profile prison. It houses over 4,000 inmates, including over 200 Maoists and terrorists---its capacity is 2,360. The jail is on the outskirts of the city, surrounded by thickly populated areas on three sides and a road at the front. Alarmed at the rate at which illegal dwellings are coming up behind the high-security Beur prison, the jail authorities have written to the state home department (SPH) demanding that the structures be demolished as they pose a serious security concern. Also Read | Bihar: Raids reveal tax evasion worth ₹48.45 croreFollowing this, in April this year, the prison authorities wrote to the urban development and housing department to probe the ownership of the illegally constructed buildings and demolish them. The letter also mentioned the illegal construction near divisional jails at Hajipur, Ara, Chhapra, Sitamarhi, Katihar, Madhepura, Sheikhpura and the Barh sub-jail. According to the jail manual, high-rise building construction is banned within 50 metres for a central jail, 30 metres for a divisional jail and 20 metres for a sub-divisional jail. IG (prisons) Mithilesh Mishra said that the authorities handed over a list of 40 houses to the Patna Municipal commissioner (PMC) which were constructed an unauthorised manner near the prison’s wall and urged him to demolish them.The prison authorities said that every day, there are incidents wherein mobile phones and other items are being tossed over the prison walls. In the last four months, the Beur jail administration lodged 60 separate FIRs with the Beur police station in connection with recovery of prohibited items. An official, requesting anonymity, said, “It becomes easier to hurl lethal weapons over the compound wall, narcotic drugs stuffed inside rubber balls, mobile phones, among other things, for use of the inmates.”The PMC has now served the 40 house owners notice for building illegal structures in the vicinity of the jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/illegal-construction-near-patna-jail-poses-security-threat-say-authorities-101626843758252.html
21-07-2021||Patna||Bihar minister takes boat to visit flood-hit areas||Bihar’s water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha on Tuesday took a boat ride to reach out to people in the flood-affected Kusheahwarsthan and adjoining areas of Darbhanga district. Jha assured people that ridding the area of the scourge of flood was the top priority of the chief minister and the Bagmati flood management scheme, set to be completed by September 2022, will bring relief to the people. He said chief minister Nitish Kumar was monitoring the flood situation. Relief and rehabilitation work was being carried out on a war-footing.Jha, whose boat ride went on for over three hours, interacted with the masses in the villages to know their problems. He also inspected the anti-erosion work on the Kamla Balan river’s embankment in villages of Fuhiya, Kathorgram and Punach. “This area remains inundated for up to six months as it is the confluence of three rivers -- Kamla, Kareh and Kosi. The work on Bagmati flood management scheme (Phase 3B) has started; 52% work has been completed and Phase -5A will commence after that. Phase -5A and Phase -3B will cover areas of Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga and Samastipur in two phases,” he added.He also took stock of the community kitchen being run for the affected people and relief work being carried out. “Flood is an annual scourge in Bihar even if it does not rain much here. This year, there has been heavy rainfall quite early, but the government is ready to live up to people’s expectations in this hour of need. The CM has said that there will be no dearth of resources for relief and rehabilitation work,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-minister-takes-boat-to-visit-flood-hit-areas-101626843278863.html
21-07-2021||Jaipur||5.3 magnitude earthquake hits Rajasthan's Bikaner||An earthquake of magnitude 5.3 on the Richter scale hit Rajasthan's Bikaner on Wednesday.According to the National Centre for Seismology, tremors were felt at 5:24 am about 343 kilometres West North West of Bikaner at a depth of 110 kms."Earthquake of Magnitude:5.3, Occurred on 21-07-2021, 05:24:29 IST, Lat: 29.19 & Long: 70.05, Depth: 110 Km, Location: 343km WNW of Bikaner, Rajasthan, India," said the National Centre for Seismology in a tweet today.Earlier, an earthquake of magnitude 4.1 on the Richter scale hit West Garo Hills in Meghalaya in the wee hours of Wednesday."An earthquake of magnitude 4.1 on the Richter scale hit West Garo Hills, Meghalaya at 2:10 am today," said the National Centre for Seismology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/53-magnitude-earthquake-hits-rajasthan-s-bikaner-101626841844375.html
21-07-2021||Other||Militants shoot at, injure cop’s wife, daughter in south Kashmir||Police claimed that militants of Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) group attacked the family of a police constable in south Kashmir’s Verinag area on Tuesday night.A police spokesman said that militants barged into the house of police constable Sajjad Ahmad at Kokagund Verinag looking for him. He wasn’t home; they then fired at his wife Nahida and daughter Mahida, both of whom sustained injuries and were shifted to a hospital.Also Read | Rainfall, Covid put a damper on Eid festivities in J&KA police spokesman said that eye witnesses identified one of the militants as one Mufti Altaf of Nathipira Door.“The case is being investigated,” he said.Soon after the attack, forces launched an operation and cordoned off the area. Last month, a policeman, his wife and daughter were killed in a similar attack at Hariparigam in south Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/militants-shoot-at-injure-cop-s-wife-daughter-in-south-kashmir-101626842198429.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||Yellow alert issued for Mumbai; Navi Mumbai, Thane under orange warning||The India Meteorological Centre (IMD) on Wednesday issued an orange alert for Navi Mumbai and Thane in Maharashtra as heavy rains continue for the third consecutive day. The weather department also issued a warning of intense rain likely to occur at isolated places. Mumbai was downgraded to yellow alert, a day after the IMD issued a red alert. It has predicted moderate to intense spells of rain in isolated areas for the city.A red alert has already been issued for five districts including Raigad, Pune, Ratnagiri, Kolhapur and Satara, where the weather department has forecasted heavy rainfall at isolated places for the two days -- Wednesday, Thursday.Heavy rainfall has been battering Mumbai and its neighbouring regions over the last two days, leading to severe waterlogging and landslides. Several houses have also been damaged which has resulted in the deaths of at least 31 people. The torrential rain triggered by a thunderstorm hit the state during the early hours of Sunday.Authorities have moved at least 250 people to safety after some villages drowned in the rainwater. Landslides occurred at Sukeli Khind on the Mumbai-Goa route and Jumapatti near Matheran affecting traffic on both routes.According to IMD, a red alert is issued when the weather conditions reach dangerous levels, threatening heavy damage and loss of lives. It directly prompts authorities to prepare to take necessary steps to ensure minimum damage.The yellow alert is issued weather conditions are less severe but people should be aware of the danger. It is a signal of warning for people to remain cautious and take the necessary steps to stay safe. As the weather worsens, the IMD updated Yellow Alert into an Orange Alert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/yellow-alert-issued-for-mumbai-navi-mumbai-thane-under-orange-warning-101626840303129.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai to face more rain today; 5 Maharashtra districts under red alert||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for five districts in Maharashtra, including Raigad and Pune, forecasting extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places for Wednesday and Thursday. It also issued an orange alert for Mumbai for the two days, indicating the possibility of heavy to very heavy rainfall.Also Read: Heavy rain over N-W India likely to gradually reduce from todayThe weather department has also forecast isolated extremely heavy rainfall in Konkan, Goa and Gujarat till Friday.Widespread isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely over east and adjoining central India on July 24.The IMD's regional centre in Mumbai has said that it is 'very likely' that Pune, Raigad, Ratnagiri, Kolhapur and Satara will witness extremely heavy rainfall.Extremely heavy rainfall means precipitation of more than 204.5 mm in 24 hours, the MeT office said.A red alert for rain means authorities should take preventive actions such as evacuation of people from vulnerable areas and deploy rescue teams. The IMD's orange alert for Mumbai between Wednesday and Friday says that heavy to very heavy rain (115.6 mm to 204.4 mm) is likely at a few places in the metropolis.The Marathwada and Vidarbha regions of the state are likely to receive light to moderate showers till Friday, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-to-face-more-rain-today-5-maharashtra-districts-under-red-alert-101626840815918.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra has administered at least 40 million Covid vaccine doses till now||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 6,910 Covid-19 cases and 147 deaths even as it crossed the 40 million mark for vaccine doses. The state administered 186,732 doses on Tuesday, bringing the total to 40,104,788, of which 30,749,812 received one shot and 9,354,976 got both jabs.“Maharashtra has been able to achieve a major feat as it crossed 4 crore (40 million) doses on Tuesday afternoon,” said Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary, public health department.The Maharashtra legislature had recently passed a resolution, demanding 30 million doses every month, saying that it has the infrastructure to administer a million jabs a day. The state said the Centre is not supplying sufficient vaccine doses. Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic, said the vaccination drive should be sped up. “The only solution available to us is vaccination and we should ideally be vaccinating our entire population by this year-end. We need to explore various means to secure the vaccines and speed up the process,” said Dr Mandot. “Vaccination will blunt the effect of the virus and we will see fewer cases as well as deaths. This will play a major role in reviving our economy,” he added.There were 197,267 Covid-19 tests done across the state on Tuesday, while the number of recoveries clocked 7,510. Mumbai on Tuesday recorded 348 new cases and 10 deaths.The number of active cases in Maharashtra stands at 94,593, with Pune topping with 15,042, followed by Thane at 12,549. The state’s death toll has now reached 130,753, with Pune leading with 18,289 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 15,787.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-has-administered-at-least-40-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101626837758940.html
21-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Cloudy sky with a chance of light rain today||Delhi is likely to see a cloudy sky with light rain on Wednesday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be 25 degrees Celsius (°C)while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 34°C.The minimum temperature on Tuesday was 24°C, three notch below normal and the maximum temperature was 31.9°C.Delhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Wednesday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 78. On Tuesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 81.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-cloudy-sky-with-a-chance-of-light-rain-today-101626837098134.html
21-07-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The ABCD boy||The evening showers have stopped one hour ago, but the roadside ditches are still full of rainwater. Some prudent scooterists have actually kept their protective plastic capes wrapped around themselves, in case it rains again. All around, the homeless people living in the area have emerged from the Oberoi Hotel flyover they used as shelter. On this central Delhi avenue, pavements are alight with their cooking fires—from a distance they look like candles.Tonight, the traffic light by the flyover is missing one of its most regular sights—a man often wearing a hat who’s used to going from one car window to another, wordlessly asking for money, and who flashes comradely salutes to most, even to those who decide to ignore him.When the light turns red, a big white car halts, all windows closed. There must be AC inside, shielding its occupants from the humidity outside. The windows are covered with rain drops. A child appears on the road, as if out of thin air, and walks towards the driver’s window. The boy cannot be more than 5 or 6 years old, his head barely reaching the side mirror. He’s wearing a pink T-shirt that is too big for him, and that falls like a kaftan around his thin figure. One expects a usual traffic signal sight—the child knocking on the car window for money. But he doesn’t do that.Instead, he slowly, concentratively writes ABCD on the misty window with his left hand. The next moment the light turns green. The car drives away, along with the rest of the stranded traffic. The boy is no longer seen.That same evening, lawyer Rohan Agrawal posts on his Instagram a picture of a child drawing a similar ABCD on his car window—he clicked it from inside the car.But this picture, he says, was taken at the traffic light outside Bhikaji Cama Place Metro station, and the boy in it is wearing a purple shirt and a chain around his neck. This means that there are at least two kids in our city who, on rainy days, practice their ABCD this special way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-abcd-boy-101626835701092.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu given a warm welcome in Amritsar||Newly appointed Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu was accorded a rousing welcome as he visited Khatkar Kalan, the ancestral village of Bhagat Singh, to pay tributes to the freedom fighter.“I have come here to seek guidance and to awaken the spirit of truth and rights among every Punjabi and Congress worker,” Sidhu told reporters after paying his tributes at a memorial.The 57-year-old Amritsar East MLA also received a welcome when he reached the city. Party rank and file lined up with garlands, banners, flags and bouquets at Golden Gate, the main entrance to Amritsar from National Highway 1, to welcome Sidhu, who was accompanied by four working presidents and Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra, and Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh Saini. Amritsar has sent Sidhu to Parliament three times.Talking to reporters, Sidhu reiterated his focus on the Punjab model. “The 18-point programme released by the Congress high command will pave the way for people to be shareholders of power. Let the power given by the people be returned to them in the form of development,” he said.Meanwhile, a group of 20 farmers arrived outside the Bhagat Singh museum to show black flags to the state Congress chief. They later said they wanted to question Sidhu over the party’s poll promises for farmers. Police kept the protesters at bay till Sidhu left the venue.“The protesters wanted to question Sidhu. The Congress leaders were on the other side and wanted to avoid clashes. No lathicharge was done,” Avtar Singh, station house officer of Banga, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-sidhu-given-a-warm-welcome-in-amritsar-101626827707537.html
21-07-2021||Delhi||LG to decide on reopening of spas, Delhi govt tells high court||The Delhi government on Tuesday informed the Delhi high court that it has forwarded the file for the reopening spas in the national capital to lieutenant-governor (LG) Anil baijal, who will take a final decision in the matter.Justice Rekha Palli said irrespective of when the city government plans to resume spa services, it should consider imposing conditions such as mandatory vaccination of both staff and client, as well as capping the visitor numbers to spas. It granted time to the Delhi government till July 27 to decide on the resumption of services.The court was hearing a plea by spa owners, who contended that they were aggrieved by the “inordinate delay” in allowing spa centres to reopen. The plea sought directions to the authorities to decide the matter of reopening spas in Delhi within a week.A lockdown was imposed in Delhi on April 15, to control the second and most deadly wave of Covid-19 that raged on till Mid-May. All spas along with malls, bars, gyms, restaurants and shops were closed; but except for spas, all other facilities were allowed to reopen in a staggered manner in June.On Tuesday, Delhi government’s additional standing counsel Naushad Ahmed Khan informed the court that the file has been sent to the LG for his final decision and sought time from the court.Advocate Manik Dogra, appearing for spa owners, said thousands of employees have been affected by the indefinite closure. He said as a precautionary measure, they were ready to get the staff vaccinated before reopening.The court noted the submissions and posted the matter for further hearing to July 27.The petitioners have also challenged the guidelines issued by the government on June 26, 2021, through Delhi Disaster Management Authority, by virtue of which salons, gymnasiums and yoga institutions have been allowed.referring to an order of the high court, passed on January 14, directing reopening of spas that were closed during the first wave of the pandemic, the petitioners said the slightly higher percentage of risk due to the proximity of the client and the service provider can be obviated by prescribing stricter measures and safeguards rather than continuing to keep such establishments closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lg-to-decide-on-reopening-of-spas-delhi-govt-tells-high-court-101626827149134.html
21-07-2021||Delhi||Navneet Kalra moves HC challenging suspension of registration of Khan Chacha, Town Hall||The Delhi high court on Tuesday asked the city police to take instructions on businessman Navneet Kalra’s plea challenging the suspension of registration of his restaurants ‘Khan Chacha’ and ‘Town Hall’ in connection with the alleged black-marketing of oxygen concentrators during the second wave of Covid-19.In a search during the second wave of the pandemic in April-May, 524 oxygen concentrators were recovered from Khan Chacha, Town Hall and Nege & Ju restaurants in Delhi, which are owned by Kalra.Kalra, subsequently, was arrested on May 16 and granted bail on May 29.Justice Rekha Palli questioned the authorities for not having passed a final order yet in pursuance to the show cause notices issued with regard to the two restaurants.“You compel people to come here. You should have passed an order by now. Ultimately, he wants to run them. If he is not entitled in law, please pass an order. What is this – you are involved in an FIR – and that is the end of it?” the judge said.The court granted time to the police to clarify their stand and posted the matter for further hearing to July 30.Kalra, through his counsel, challenged the May 11 show cause notice issued by the joint commissioner of police (licensing) suspending the registration of the two eateries in Khan Market. He was granted an opportunity to submit his reply within 15 days.Appearing for Kalra, senior advocate Maninder Singh argued that he submitted the response on June 9; however, since he did not hear back from the authorities, he again wrote to them on June 17. Till date, officials concerned have neither withdrawn the suspension order nor decided on the show cause notice.Delhi government standing counsel Santosh Tripathi sought time to take instructions in the case.In his petition, Kalra also said the order of suspension was issued without first affording an opportunity to show cause and it is, therefore, punitive and illegal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/navneet-kalra-moves-hc-challenging-suspension-of-registration-of-khan-chacha-town-hall-101626826895118.html
21-07-2021||Other||10 new infections, no deaths in Chandigarh tricity area||The tricity recorded 10 new Covid-19 cases and no deaths on Tuesday. Panchkula added only one infection to the tally while Chandigarh and Mohali logged to four and five cases respectively. The UT has not recorded any casualty for the last 15 days. On Tuesday, the city’s daily positivity rate was reported at 0.28%. At present, 42 active patients are under isolation in Chandigarh. The sole case from Panchkula was reported from Sector 15. The district currently has 21 active cases. As per officials, 906 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. Its positivity rate stood at 0.1% and recovery rate was at 98.7% on the day.In Mohali, eight patients recovered from the disease, taking the active case count down to 41. This is Mohali’s lowest single-day active case count of the year so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10-new-infections-no-deaths-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101626813516691.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||16mm rain inundates Chandigarh, expect showers today||The city on Tuesday received 16mm rain, which was enough to leave its roads inundated and bring vehicles plying on these routes to a standstill.The roundabout of Sector 20/21 and the roads around Sectors 18 and 19 were the worst hit. Southern sectors, meanwhile, fared better in terms of waterlogging though it continued to rain throughout the day. It was for the second day in a row that the city experienced continuous showers. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has, however, predicted that the intensity of rain will go down in the coming days.An IMD official said, “Around 16mm rain was recorded at our observatory in Sector 39 but at the airport, around 40mm was recorded. Light rain up to 10mm is likely from Wednesday”Gusty winds up to 40km/h also blew through the city on Tuesday.The maximum temperature went up from 27.7°C on Monday to 30.2°C on Tuesday while the minimum went down from 26.3°C to 25.7°C. In the next three days, the maximum temperature is expected to remain between 30°C and 32°C while minimum will be around 26°C.Power cuts also plagued parts of the city, especially the Southern sectors. Electricity went out around 2pm in Sector 48 and wasn’t restored till around 11.30pm.The UT administrator asked the municipal corporation to tackle the issue of waterlogging in the war room meeting held on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/16mm-rain-inundates-chandigarh-expect-showers-today-101626812916757.html
21-07-2021||Other||GMADA to widen Mohali’s ‘shopping lane road’||With a view to decongest traffic on the busy ‘shopping lane’ road, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) will widen the road starting from Phase-7 light point to Phase-11 light point. It is one of the busiest stretches in the city. The work on the ₹39-crore project will begin in September this year and tenders have already been floated for the same. All old trees, growing on both sides of the road, will be transplanted to other places. As per information, the total length of the road to be widened is nearly 3.5km. From the Phase-7 light point to the one near Punjab School Education Board (PSEB), the road will be widened from 30 metres to 60 metres. From PSEB light point to Army canteen in Phase-10, the road will be widened from 10.5 metres to 30 metres, while from Army canteen lights point to Phase-11 light point, the road will be widened from 10 metres to 30 metres. GMADA chief engineer Davinder Singh said, “Tenders have already been floated and we are hopeful of starting the project in September this year. Residents have long been demanding for the widening of this road stretch due to the traffic congestion.” NS Kalsi, former executive engineer, GMADA, said, “Once widened, traffic will be streamlined and there will fewer accidents. We also request the authority concerned to widen the road from Kumbra Chowk to Bawa White house in Phase-11, which ends at the railway station in Mohali.” MC cycle track project a non-starter Even after three years, the ambitious cycle track project of the Mohali municipal corporation (MC) has remained a nonstarter. In October 2019, the civic body has decided to construct a 6km cycle track from Phase-11 to Spice Chowk in Industrial Area, Phase-7 (till cremation ground) at a cost of ₹2.27 crore, but nothing has been done. At present, there are no cycle tracks in Mohali. The proposed cycle track was to start from Phase-11 in front of NIPER in Sector 67, pass through Kumbra Chowk, PCL light points, and go on till Industrial Area, Phase-7, Mohali. City mayor Amarjeet Singh Sidhu said, “I fail to understand why this project was not implemented. I will hold a meeting with the officers concerned and make sure the project is expedited.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gmada-to-widen-mohali-s-shopping-lane-road-101626812676564.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Finally, Panjab University releases senate poll schedule||A day after Punjab and Haryana high court took Panjab University (PU) senate poll schedule on record, the varsity released the dates on Tuesday. PU had submitted the schedule in HC on July 16 on court directions.According to the schedule, polling will start on August 3 with the constituencies of principals and staff of technical and professional colleges. Voting for the constituency of faculties will be held last, on August 23. The elections were scheduled for August last year but had to be postponed due to the pandemic. After the HC pulled up vice-chancellor Raj Kumar for the delay, it was decided to hold the polls from April 26 but had to be postponed again in view of the second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/finally-panjab-university-releases-senate-poll-schedule-101626811296489.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn releases full grant-in-aid, MC still expected to fall short of funds||The UT administration has released ₹125 crore as grant-in-aid (GIA) to the municipal corporation (MC) for the second quarter of the current fiscal.Belying concerns in the MC for a cut in the GIA, the administration has released the full due amount. UT officials said there would be no cut in the GIA for the last quarter too.The release of funds has given the much-needed financial relief to the MC. Recently, the UT had junked its request for the release of ₹90 crore as additional grant for the current fiscal. The additional grant was sought in lieu of the estimated loss in revenue on account of stay on hike of water tariff.“Even though we are getting the full GIA for July, August and September, the MC will still be short on funds for taking up new development works. The GIA will go in for revenue expenditure like salaries, establishment costs, etc.,” said an official of the MC.Regarding the MC facing a financial crunch, mayor Ravi Kant Sharma had recently met UT adviser Dharam Pal and had raised the issue of the pending ₹40 crore grant for developmental works in 13 villages. He had also requested the adviser to follow up with the Union home ministry on the issue regarding the release of grants to the MC as per the Delhi Fourth Finance Commission recommendations, besides expediting handing over the Registration and Licensing Authority to the MC, and settling the issues of Chandigarh Housing Board on the Delhi pattern. ₹50 crore for village development released earlier this year The UT had approved an annual GIA of ₹502 crore in its budget of 2021-2022 for the MC. In the first quarter also, it had released the full due amount. Earlier this year, the UT had released ₹50 crore for village development in addition to the GIA.The corporation started the current fiscal with a deficit budget of ₹670 crore. The finances of the MC received a major setback when the UT administration decided to stay the hike in the water tariff till March 2022: the civic body was expecting to earn an additional revenue of ₹90 crore from the hike, which was imposed in October last year.“Even though the administration has released the dedicated funds for road recarpeting, village development, and increased the GIA by ₹50 crore over the last fiscal year, the MC is still struggling to start new development works as it is running a deficit budget,” said the MC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-releases-full-grant-in-aid-mc-still-expected-to-fall-short-of-funds-101626811058974.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ahead of Eid-al-Adha, Covid blues hit Manimajra’s goat market||The challenges posed by the two Covid waves and the consequent lockdowns have adversely affected the celebration of festivals in the city, and Eid-al-Adha, which will be celebrated on Wednesday, is not impervious to them either.Even till a day before the festival, goat traders of Manimajra reported minuscule sales. While customers could be seen thronging the market, the traders here said they weren’t making any money.Jeera Khan of Manimajra, one of the oldest goat traders here, said, “Most customers are coming to do window shopping. They are waiting for the prices to fall before they make a purchase. Even today I barely sold any goats. People will come to buy them from us at the last minute.”Eid-al-Adha or the festival of sacrifice celebrates Abraham’s willingness to sacrifice his son Ishmael as an act of obedience to God’s will. A goat is sacrificed on this occasion, and the meat is divided into three parts: a part is kept for personal consumption, another is distributed among friends, family and neighbours; and one part is distributed among the poor.Worst year for selling goats in 40 yearsKhan has the most expensive goats in the market. Named Lallu, Kullu and Shaukeen, the three Amritsari goats that weigh around a quintal each were being sold for ₹60,000 per goat on July 19. However, Khan didn’t find any takers and had to reduce the price of the goats to ₹45,000 each on Tuesday; he was still unable to sell them. Khan added that besides 2020, this was the worst year for selling goats in over 40 years since he had started the business.The market price, this year, was set low with most goats being sold for around ₹20,000, said one Alam from Baddi: “Due to the lockdown, people didn’t have money to spend. We would have sold the goats for double the price if it was pre-Covid time. We didn’t have anything special to feed the goats and they just survived on grazing pastures near our villages.”In 2020, a 150-kilo goat Gabbar Singh was put on sale for ₹1.5 lakh at this mandi, however, it couldn’t be confirmed whether it was sold at the same price. In 2019, a 105-kilo Sheru was sold for ₹80,000.A customer, Abdul Sajid of Manimajra, present here on Tuesday said he had come to the market a day before as well, but wasn’t able to strike any deal: “Everyone has been hit financially so we have been requesting the traders to offer fairer prices on the goats. Hopefully we will find a goat by today.”Prayers to be offered early in the morningAfter the pandemic started, this would be the first Eid where namaz will be offered at the mosques in the city. President of the Muslim Welfare Society, Mohammad Sadiq Sheikh, said, “Namaz will be offered early in the morning and at most masjids of the city to prevent crowding. We appeal to the people to go to the mosques close to their houses and not to collect at a place in large numbers. We will work hand-in-hand with the administration to ensure that Covid protocol is followed.”Maulana Imran of the Manimajra mosque added that along with the namaz, he will personally request all those who attend to get themselves vaccinated.The Chandigarh Police will also station around 300 personnel around the mosques of the city to maintain peace, manage the traffic, prevent crowding, and ensure that all Covid protocols are being followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ahead-of-eid-al-adha-covid-blues-hit-manimajra-s-goat-market-101626811057613.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||HC issues notice to Chandigarh MC over hazards of Dadumajra dump||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday issued a notice to the municipal corporation, acting on a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a Sector-27 resident seeking an end to the air pollution suffered by the people of Dadumajra and surrounding areas.The notice has been issued to the Chandigarh MC for November 26.The PIL filed by Amit Sharma seeks directions to the MC and other state authorities to ensure an end to the air pollution, unbearable stench, and the frequent fires that release toxins in the air, and to address the various health issues being faced by over 50,000 people in Dadumajra and around.Through the petition, Sharma has also sought directions to the MC to follow the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, to reduce the quantum of garbage dumped at Dadumajra.The petitioner has also urged the high court to order an inquiry/probe into the MC’s failure to follow the directions of the National Green Tribunal on waste management and processing. “Why were environmental laws flouted, and what is the outcome of the crores of taxpayers’ money spent on study tours for waste management?” the petition has asked.107% more cases of pneumonia in DadumajraThe petitioner stated that Dadumajra/Dhanas had 107% more cases of pneumonia in 2020 as compared to all the other colonies in Chandigarh.The petitioner pointed out that the “wretched quality of air and life in the area is further aggravated by the frequent toxic fires in the mountain of garbage that is only getting higher by the day. With the MC able to process a mere 13.36% of the waste dumped here last year, and only 16.09% from January to May in 2021, the problem of unprocessed garbage is threatening to swamp the Dadumajra area”.“It is also leading to increased incidents of fire in the dump that the office of the medical officer of health (MOH) is neither able to prevent nor explain. The fire in March this year lasted a week and covered the entire city in a haze, hindering visibility and causing respiratory issues among people in the vicinity,” said the petition.The petitioner accused the MOH of “willfully failing” to manage the waste, the fires, and the health of the people in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-issues-notice-to-chandigarh-mc-over-hazards-of-dadumajra-dump-101626811008843.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University: Submit admission forms for UG, PG courses by Aug 9, 19||Panjab University (PU) will begin the admission process for undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses for the 2021-22 academic session in August.Candidates have to submit online admission forms for UG and PG courses by August 9 and August 19, respectively. Those who have already applied for the entrance tests will also be required to submit the form.The website to submit forms for UG/certificate courses, https://ugadmissions.puchd.ac.in, will be operational from July 20 (Tuesday). For PG/diploma/advance diploma/ PG diploma courses, the website https://onlineadmissions.puchd.ac.in, will be operational from July 22. Candidates who have passed BSc (honours) from PU need not to appear in the entrance test for admission to MSc (honours) in the subject.Those seeking admission to evening courses are required to submit a certificate from their employer or a certificate by self that he is self-employed. The handbook of information 2021 (Part-B), carrying details of courses, eligibility criteria, number of seats etc. can be downloaded from http://puchd.ac.in/important-documents.php. Those seeking admission through sports category, will along with the admission form, submit the certificate/documents in the office of campus sports (gymnasium building, Jawaharlal Nehru Complex).PU-CET (UG) on August 14PU has scheduled the common entrance test for undergraduate courses on August 14. it was earlier scheduled for June, but was delayed due to pending results of Class-12 exams. The prospectus (including application form) is available online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-submit-admission-forms-for-ug-pg-courses-by-aug-9-19-101626811007657.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Team from Panjab University’s UIET granted patent on medical device||The medical devices group from Design Innovation Centre at University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), Panjab University, has been granted a patent on the invention of a device that will be used for early detection of finger or hand related joint disorders.The title of the patent is “wearable apparatus for determining goniometric readings of a body portion of subject”. The device has been designed in consultation with physicians and will ease diagnosis and early detection of finger/hand related joint disorders and is IoT enabled.A team of students including Rashi, Sahil, Varun and Poojita from different engineering branches led by faculty investigators Prashant Jindal from mechanical engineering and Mamta Juneja from computer science developed the device over more than three years.PU, in its official communique, said that the device is particularly useful for real time and remote sense monitoring, due to which patients need not visit a physician physically for consultation. The invention was fully funded by MHRD, Design Innovation Centre, which went through different stages of progression including national and international events organised by Institution’s Innovation Council (IIC), wherein it bagged third prize out of 3,400 other ideas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/team-from-panjab-university-s-uiet-granted-patent-on-medical-device-101626811006549.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh house grab case: Man who bought property surrenders||After evading arrest for almost four months, Saurabh Gupta, who had purchased the Sector-37 house which was illegally usurped from its owner, surrendered before court on Tuesday. He was arrested and sent to one day police custody. Police had even announced reward of ₹50,000 for a who can provide information which can lead to his arrest. Saurabh is among the nine people named in the FIR lodged on charges of kidnapping and torturing Rahul Mehta in April 2017, to secure general power of attorney of his 338 square yards house. It was bought by Gupta in March 2019. Since the beginning, Saurabh had claimed he was unaware of the dispute and was a victim of cheating. He had even sought anticipatory bail, saying that had he known about the dispute, he would not have invested about ₹3 crore in the property. However, he didn’t get relief from the court. In March, police had arrested journalist Sanjeev Mahajan, realtor Manish Gupta, suspended Chandigarh Police inspector Rajdeep Singh, Satpal Dagar, brother of a UT deputy superintendent of police, and Gurpreet Singh, who impersonated Mehta to execute the property’s sales deed in March 2019. A police challan has already been filed into the case. Around 10 men are accused of kidnapping and torturing Mehta, 48, the only surviving heir of his family, to secure the general power of attorney of his house and sell it to Manish’s brother Saurabh Gupta for ₹2.9 crore. Among the other accused are liquor baron Arvind Singla and businessman Khalendra Singh Kadyan, to whom the property’s GPA was transferred, slain bouncer Surjit Singh, and Ashok Arora, Shekhar and Daljit Singh, who purportedly acted as witnesses in the sale of the house. After the transfer of the GPA, Rahul was abandoned at a stud farm in Gujarat in June 2017, before being shifted from one charitable home to another in Maharashtra, Delhi and Rajasthan, where he was finally traced. Later, Gurpreet, Singla and Kadyan had surrendered before the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-house-grab-case-man-who-bought-property-surrenders-101626811005518.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||JEE (Main) Phase 3: Students in Chandigarh find exam well-balanced||After getting postponed in April due to the second Covid wave, the third phase of the JEE Main exam was held in Chandigarh on Tuesday. The attendance was around 90% at centres here. Students say the exam was comparable to the second phase in March, but tougher than the first in February.Jashandeep Kaur from Sangrur said, “The exam was well balanced. We had enough time to attempt all the questions.” Sukhjot from Kharar said the exam wasn’t made easier to make up for the delay, but it went better for him than the previous session. Shubash from Mohali said maths was scoring this time, with emphasis on matrices and determinants. Jasraj Singh from Chandigarh however found the paper lengthy and said he wasn’t able to finish on time with lots of calculations.For the third phase, exams will be held on July 20, 22, 25 and 27. Earlier, the fourth session was also to be conducted in July, but it has been postponed to August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jee-main-phase-3-students-in-chandigarh-find-exam-wellbalanced-101626811004102.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Three months on, Mohali’s Chhatbir Zoo reopens to 888 visitors||The Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park, popularly known as Chhatbir Zoo, reopened after a gap of three months on Tuesday, welcoming 888 visitors on the first day.Punjab forest minister Sadhu Singh Dharmsot inaugurated the reopening and made a round of the zoo to check the arrangements.The zoo will remain open from 9.30am to 4.30pm on six days (Monday closed). As part of safety protocols, the zoo will be allowing 5,400 visitors per day in three slots of 1,800 each.Field director of the zoo Naresh Mahajan said, “Since it was a rainy day, there were only 888 visitors. At present, we have closed the lion safari, deer safari and nocturnal house and we are expecting a good response on weekends.”One of the largest zoos in India, the Chhatbir Zoo is spread over 505 acres of forest area in Mohali and is home to around 1,500 animals and birds, including five adult tigers and three cubs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-months-on-mohali-s-chhatbir-zoo-reopens-to-888-visitors-101626810998066.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Shame that Modi doing injustice to farmers, says Sukhbir||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday said it was a shame that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was doing injustice to the country’s farmers by not resolving the deadlock over their demand for the repeal of the three contentious agriculture laws. Speaking to mediapersons outside Parliament after the Lok Sabha speaker adjourned the House, Sukhbir said “It is the responsibility of the PM to resolve the grievances of farmers who have been protesting at the borders of Delhi for months. But the government is impervious to their sufferings. Such an attitude does not bode well for a healthy democracy.” Holding placards, the MPs of SAD and and its alliance partner Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), including former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, said the BJP-led Centre used its majority to disallow adjournment motion moved by them to hold a discussion seeking repeal of the agriculture laws. Rajya Sabha MPs Balwinder Singh Bhundur and Naresh Gujral were also present. “It was because of this that we decided to boycott a meeting held by the Prime Minister to review the Covid pandemic situation,” Sukhbir added. The SAD-BSP MPs said it was unfortunate that the NDA government was not ready to recognise the sacrifices of farmers and even refused to pay tributes to 500 farmers who died in the course of the agitation. They condemned alleged attempts to defame and suppress the movement. “The Union government should not act in the interests of the large business houses that want to corporatise the agriculture sector. The laws are also against the spirit of federalism,” they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shame-that-modi-doing-injustice-to-farmers-says-sukhbir-101626809381006.html
21-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Buddha Nullah overflows, floods roads||Despite tall claims made by the authorities regarding continuous cleaning of the Buddha Nullah, the drain overflowed near the New Kundanpuri area and entered the adjoining roads and internal streets following heavy rains on Tuesday. Water logging was also witnessed in the low-lying areas alongside the nullah including, New Kundanpuri, Upkar Nagar, Chander Nagar. After the water level of the drain rose above the road level in these areas, the sewer lines got choked. Accumulated rainwater also entered the houses and shops in the Chander Nagar area, leaving residents a harried lot.Rakesh Kumar, a resident of the Chander Nagar area, said, “Rainwater enters the houses and shops here and in the new Kundanpuri area almost every year. The furniture also gets damaged due to the same. People place temporary barricades to prevent the water from entering their premises. Despite all this, the authorities do not pay heed to the problem.”The rising level of nullah kept the officials on toes on Tuesday, and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal also inspected different points of the drain.Sabharwal said teams have been deployed to keep a check on the level of Buddha Nullah. Sandbags were placed at the banks of the nullah at few points including the New Kundanpuri area, to prevent it from overflowing, and the situation came under control.Resident submits complaint with human rights panelIrked over the issue of rainwater accumulation in areas alongside buddha nullah, Keemti Rawal, a resident of Chander Nagar and social activist, forwarded a complaint to the State Human Rights Commission, seeking action against the officials.Rawal said,” Lakhs of residents live in areas alongside Buddha Nullah and face a harrowing time when the city witnesses rainfall. Rainwater enters the houses and chokes sewer lines. Sometimes, it also results in water contamination. The authorities have failed to resolve the issue, due to which I submitted the complaint.”Mercury drops by 3 notches following heavy showers Rain showers of 125.4mm lashed the city on Tuesday, causing the maximum temperature to plummet by three notches at 25°C, while the minimum was recorded at 23.8°C.The maximum rainfall recorded in Ludhiana since the meteorological observatory was set- up in 1970, was on July 12, 1980, at 237.8 mm. On July 16, 2018, 136.2 mm was recorded in the city. Weather experts said the conditions will remain the same for the next 24 hours, but the intensity of showers will be less.Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu, head department of climate change and agricultural meteorology, said, “If we are witnessing 125mm rainfall within a few hours, it is an indicator that the rainfall is not well distributed. While Ludhiana witnessed heavy rainfall, districts in southwestern Punjab including Bathinda and Fazilka remain dry or witnessed light drizzle. The proper distribution of rainfall is very important. The concern is that the duration of rain has decreased and intensity has increased. Within few hours we receive heavy rainfall which leads to waterlogging. Such rainfall does not help in groundwater recharging the water slips off the service and enter the storm sewerage,” said Dr Sidhu.In 19 days of July, the district had received 72.2 mm of rainfall. With 125.4mm rainfall received today, the total rainfall has reached 197.6mm. The average rainfall during the months remains 217mm.Waterlogging causes traffic snarls, damages vehicles in cityAt a time when the movement of traffic has already been disturbed in different parts of the city due to the ongoing construction works, rain water accumulation added to the woes of the commuters.After the recent rain on Tuesday, heavy traffic jams were witnessed on Ferozepur Road, Link Road near the bus stand, Old GT Road (railway station road), Transport Nagar, Gill Road, among other areas. Many vehicles also developed snags near the New Kundanpuri area, alongside Buddha Nullah, and people were seen pushing their vehicles amid heavy rainfall and water logging.Construction work already causing jamsMandeep Singh, a resident of Model Town Extension, said, “Congestion at Ferozepur Road, Pakhowal Road, Malhar Road, and Model Town-Jawaddi Road, due to construction works, was already taking a toll on the movement of traffic. Water logging added to the woes. Heavy traffic jams were witnessed near Verka plant on Ferozepur Road and the road outside Transport Nagar. The authorities should deal with the problem at the earliest,” the resident said.“Potholed roads further add to the misery. There is always a danger of a road accident during rainfall as the potholes are not visible due to water logging. The issue is raised every year, but no authority pays heed to the problem,” said Jaskirat Singh, a resident of Model Town.Meanwhile, the traffic police officials stated that they had asked the civic body to deal with potholes and water logging in around 12 chronic areas in advance. But water logging was still witnessed due to which the traffic movement was also disturbed, they added.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, Traffic) Gurdev Singh said,” We had forwarded a list of problematic areas to the MC including Dholewal Road, Vishwakarma Chowk, Giaspura, Sherpur Chowk, Chandigarh Road, Samrala Chowk, and Transport Nagar. At many sites, the problem was resolved by the MC but water logging was still witnessed in other areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-buddha-nullah-overflows-floods-roads-101626809379797.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||ASI team examines old structure found at Golden Temple||A three-member team of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) on Tuesday visited the Golden Temple to examine the old building structure found during excavation at the site of new jora ghar being constructed for the devotees. Deputy archaeologist AK Tiwari, who led the team, said, “The structure was examined and we will submit our report to the deputy commissioner next week. He will issue a statement in this regard. We can only tell how old this building is. Amritsar is an old city and there are likely to be more similar structures around the Golden Temple.” Sukhpal Singh, another team member, carried out measurements of the building and checked its condition from inside. The archeologists were called by the district administration after Sikh organisations interrupted the ongoing excavation work. ‘Make devotees aware about dismantling of heritage’ Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) should make the devotees aware as how governments have tampered with Sikh heritage. “We don’t want such structures to be tampered with. We have suggested to SGPC chief Jagir Kaur to preserve this structure. The structure should be kept out of the new building of jora ghar so that it can draw the attention of the devotees, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/asi-team-examines-old-structure-found-at-golden-temple-101626809258780.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Faced with opposition, SGPC changes plan to raze oldest operational Golden Temple serai||The Shiromani Gurdwara Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Tuesday decided to change its plan to demolish the Guru Ram Das Niwas, the oldest operational serai in the Golden Temple complex, amid opposition by the Sikh hardliners. The apex gurdwara committee said it will now preserve the serai’s front portion in memory of those killed in the Operation Bluestar and as an evidence of the army action. The demolition plan was postponed several times in the last five years.After an executive committee meeting, SGPC president Jagir Kaur said, “New rooms will be constructed at the site of Guru Ramdas Serai to replace the unusable rooms, but the exterior (front) will remain intact.”Also, portraits of those killed in the serai will be displayed after its revamp, she said. “Many Sikhs were killed in the serai in 1984 and their names along with photographs would be inscribed,” she added.“It was decided that generic chemist stores and laboratories will be opened at historic gurdwaras to provide cheap and quality medicines to the needy. The SGPC has spent ₹1.75 crore to save people during the pandemic. These services will continue,” said Jagir Kaur.‘Draft sent to Rajya Sabha panel on NCERT syllabi’Kaur said the SGPC has sent a draft to include authentic history in syllabus books prepared by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) for different classes. “During a virtual meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, I had raised the issue of distortion of Sikh history in the syllabi. Suggestions were sought from the Rajya Sabha committee in this regard. An appeal will be made to the Rajya Sabha Committee to publish the books only after showing them to the SGPC first,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/faced-with-opposition-sgpc-changes-plan-to-raze-oldest-operational-golden-temple-serai-101626809198772.html
21-07-2021||Other||6th Pay Commission: Doctors’ strike hits health services in Ludhiana||The state-wide strike of joint government doctors’ coordination committee (JGDCC) and the nursing employees hit the health services in Ludhiana. The committee suspended OPD services on Tuesday, leaving the patients high and dry.The doctors and paramedical staff are up against the recommendations of the sixth pay commission pertaining to non-practising allowance and pension benefits.The JGDCC, accompanied by the nursing staff, staged a protest outside Mother and Child Hospital. With the nursing staff also on strike, emergency, Covid, post-mortem and medico, and vetro-legal services were paralysed at the civil hospital.Similar scenes were witnessed in other parts of the district as outpatient and inpatient department services, elective surgeries, and other non-emergency services remained suspended as over 400 doctors posted at the civil hospitals in Ludhiana, Khanna, Jagraon, and 10 community health centres joined the protest.Deepak Shrivastav, a resident of Hargobind Nagar, said amid the rain he somehow managed to reach the hospital only to be told that the doctors were on strike.Asha Rani, who was suffering from fever and cough, also complained.“The government healthcare system is meant to facilitate the poor. Where are the poor supposed to go for treatment when OPDs are closed? We do not have enough money to spend on private treatment,” said Asha.Dr Rohit Rampal, member of the JGDCC, said that due to the Eid al-Adha holiday, OPDs will remain closed on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/6th-pay-commission-doctors-strike-hits-health-services-in-ludhiana-101626809077462.html
21-07-2021||Other||Covid-19: Playway found open in Ludhiana, FIR lodged||Despite restrictions imposed by the state government, a playway school in Gurdev Nagar was found operational on Monday.The Division Number 5 police shut it down and lodged an FIR against the director Tani Sidhu.Sub-inspector Gursewak Singh, who is investigating the case, said they had got information that Little Kingdom Playway School, Gurdev Nagar, was operating despite restrictions put in place by the state government amid the pandemic.He added that the state government had banned the opening of schools due to the coronavirus outbreak. A case under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC has been lodged against the school director.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-playway-found-open-in-ludhiana-fir-lodged-101626809076435.html
21-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana zoo thrown open to public||After 81 days, the Ludhiana Zoo and the tiger safari were finally thrown open for visitors on Tuesday. However, as it rained all through the day, there were only a few visitors.Zoo in-charge Narinder Singh said that they are expecting large footfall on Wednesday, as there is a holiday on the occasion of Eid al-Adha.The department of forests and wildlife preservation, Punjab, had announced the reopening of Chhatbir Zoo and four others at Ludhiana, Bathinda, Patiala and Neelon from Tuesday onwards.The tiger safari and zoo will remain open to the public six days a week (Monday closed). Entry will be allowed from 9.30am to 4:30pm in three slots to ensure social distancing. These are from 9.30am to 11.30pm; 12 pm to 2 pm and 2.30pm to 4.30 pm.It is mandatory for visitors to wear masks and sanitise their hands at the main gate. Also, those who remove the mask inside the zoo will be penalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-zoo-thrown-open-to-public-101626809016411.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Newborn found stuffed in gunny bag in Ludhiana, rescued||A newborn baby boy was found stuffed in a gunny bag that was dumped in garbage near a grain market in Raikot’s Bassian on Tuesday morning. The baby appears to be one-day old, police said, adding that his cries drew locals’ attention, who rescued him and informed sarpanch Jagdev Singh.ASI Surjit Singh Singh, who is investigating the case, said the baby was taken to the Raikot civil hospital. Dr Alka Mittal said that the newborn is fit and fine. He has been sent to Ludhiana civil hospital for further treatment, she added. The police have, meanwhile, registered a case under sections 317 (exposure and abandonment of child under twelve years, by parent or person having care of it) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC. The ASI said they will check the records of hospitals, nursing homes and midwives to prepare a list of pregnant women who had undergone delivery in the past two to three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/newborn-found-stuffed-in-gunny-bag-in-ludhiana-rescued-101626808960767.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Man accused of raping 7-year-old girl nabbed from Ludhiana||Two days after the Punjab State Women Commission chairperson Manisha Gulati visited the house of a seven-year-old rape victim in Roomi village near Jagraon, the local police arrested the accused, Karam Singh alias Kamma, 29, on Tuesday. The FIR against him was lodged 11 days ago and the accused was at large since then. Ludhiana (Rural) senior superintendent of police (SSP) Charanjit Singh Sohal said Karam Singh was nabbed from the bus stand of Dholan village following a tip-off. He was trying to flee in order to evade his arrest, the cop added. The SSP said they were already looking for him. “A special team comprising superintendent of police (investigation) Balwinder Singh, deputy superintendent of police (Jagraon) Jatinderjit Singh, Sadar Jagraon station house officer Jaspal Singh and Sub-Inspector Sharanjit Singh was formed to catch him. The team was aggressively searching for him,” he added. The SSP said that the accused is already facing trial in a liquor smuggling case lodged against him in 2016. The police would produce the accused in a court on Wednesday.The girl was raped by Karam Singh on July 9. The accused had taken the girl to his house on the pretext of playing Ludo, where he sexually assaulted her and also tried to strangulate her.Manisha Gulati had visited the house of the victim on July 18 and asked the police to expedite the process to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-accused-of-raping-7-year-old-girl-nabbed-from-ludhiana-101626808959597.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Waterlogging returns to haunt Ludhiana||The heavy rain that pounded on the city on Tuesday was enough to wash away the tall claims of the civic body regarding monsoon preparedness as most of the city areas were submerged in water. Waterlogging threw life out of gear, leaving the residents a harried lot. Rainwater was accumulated on Chandigarh Road, Rani Jhansi Road, Ferozepur Road, Brown Road, Old GT Road near Dholewal Chowk, Gill Road, and Panjpeer Road among other areas. Waterlogging was also witnessed outside the MC’s Zone-C office and DC’s residence near Rakh Bagh. Other areas which were inundated included Sector 32, Field Ganj, Sham Singh Road, New Kundanpuri, Transport Nagar, and Haibowal, where residents rued that they were unable to even step out of their houses. Shopkeepers also complained of the brunt their business bore as customers couldn’t reach their shops. One of the residents of New Kundanpuri, Ratan Singh, said, “Rainwater accumulation continues to haunt the residents of our area. Despite repeated requests made to the local councillor and MC officials, nothing concrete has been done. The authorities claim that it is a low-lying area due to which waterlogging is witnessed. It seems like the people living in such areas will remain underprivileged.” Highlighting the need to install storm drains across the city, residents slammed the public representatives for their failure to address the perennial problem. Presently, storm sewer lines have been installed in around 10% of the city area. Kumar Gaurav, president of Yuva, an NGO, said, “The councillors and MLAs, who have been elected by the public, have failed to provide any relief in terms of waterlogging. The public should start questioning the candidates, when they come to seek votes.”Installation of storm sewer, cleaning of drains bring partial reliefThough waterlogging was seen on Panjpeer Road, Dholewal, where internal drains were said to be cleaned, shopkeepers near Domoria bridge area were relieved as the rainwater was flushed out effectively. The storm sewer on Old GT Road near the Clock Tower also brought partial relief, while Rani Jhansi road remained waterlogged even after installation of draining facility. Vehicles stuck in pitsFew vehicles, including a truck and a tractor trailer, got stuck in pits after the sand, which was poured to cover the site after building a storm drain, displaced near Rekhi cinema Chowk. A similar situation was also witnessed in BRS Nagar’s Block E as the authorities failed to recarpet the road after fixing sewer lines and a car got stuck in the depression. Former councillor Parminder Mehtra slammed the civic body for ‘mistimed’ project to install storm drains. He said either the drains should have been built before the monsoon or the road construction work should have been completed in time. Situation under control: Municipal chiefAlong with other employees, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal also stayed in the field to expedite the work of draining of accumulated rainwater. Sabharwal, who spent over two hours to oversee the work, said, “Water accumulation was witnessed at large due to incessant and heavy rainfall, but the accumulated water was drained out in a short period of time in comparison to previous years as the civic body had already cleaned the drains, sewer lines and road gullies. We are keeping a check on the water level of Buddha Nullah and the situation is under control.” Mayor Balkar Sandhu and Sabharwal also visited different parts in the city in the evening to take stock of the situation. No complaint submitted to MC flood control roomEven as most of the areas witnessed waterlogging, MC officials claimed that no complaint was lodged with their flood control room set up in Daresi area. Officials said the control room remains operational 24x7 and people can contact them on 0161-2749120. Sabharwal also visited the flood control room and found two officials missing. Explanation has been sought from the officials. Meanwhile, power cuts were witnessed across the city, including in Focal Point areas, parts of Nehru Nagar, Shastri Nagar, Model Town, Sarabha Nagar and BRS Nagar. PSPCL officials were on their toes with feeders being switched off from grid substations due to bad weather. At some places, power was snapped at 10am and restored in the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/waterlogging-returns-to-haunt-ludhiana-101626808958172.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Congress leader’s son injured in snatching attempt in Ludhiana||Son of a Congress block president was attacked by unidentified assailants with sharp-edged weapons who had come with an intention to rob him, police said on Tuesday. The victim is undergoing treatment at a hospital. The Daba police have registered an FIR against unidentified accused and initiated an investigation.The incident had taken place on Saturday, but the victim recorded his statement on Tuesday. Karan Patel, 23, son of Jai Prakash Patel, south block president of the Congress, works at a factory in Jaspal Bangar area. “On Saturday evening, he was going towards a filling station on his motorcycle. When he reached near Simran Palace, two bike-borne assailants intercepted him and tried to rob him. When Karan resisted, one of them assaulted him with a sharp-edged weapon. Karan raised an alarm after which the accused fled the spot,” Jai Prakash Patel told the police. He added that since the accused had attacked Karan on his face, he has suffered severe injuries in his nose and lips, which rendered him unable to speak. ASI Meet Ram, who is investigating the case, said the victim was unfit to record his statement earlier. A hunt is on to nab the accused, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-leader-s-son-injured-in-snatching-attempt-in-ludhiana-101626808899719.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||‘Blackmailed’ by two women, crane operator ends life in Ludhiana||‘Harassed’ by two women, a crane operator ended his life by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his house in Ludhiana’s Sherpur Kalan late on Monday. The family came to know about the incident in the wee hours of Tuesday. Moti Nagar police have found a suicide note near the body, wherein he has accused two women of Muslim Colony, Sherpur, for blackmailing him for money. The police have booked both the women, who are sisters, for abetment to suicide.The FIR has been lodged by the mother of the man.Sub-inspector Kuldeep Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the 28-year-old crane operator was in his room, while his father, mother and twin brother were sleeping in the veranda of the house. His mother stated that they came to know about the suicide when they went to his room following the downpour. The investigation officer said that according to his mother, the crane operator was have a relationship with both the women. She claimed to have deterred her son from meeting them, but to no avail. Now, the women had started blackmailing him for money, she added. She further alleged that her son was reeling under depression for the past few days.The investigating officer said the accused sisters will soon be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/blackmailed-by-two-women-crane-operator-ends-life-in-ludhiana-101626808898622.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Module of illegal arms suppliers busted in Ludhiana, 1 arrested||The CIA Staff-2 of Ludhiana police on Tuesday claimed to have busted another module of illegal weapon suppliers with the arrest of a man from Madhya Pradesh, which is emerging as a new hub of manufacturing and supplying of unauthorised arms. The police have recovered a .32 bore pistol and two live bullets from his possession. The accused has been identified as Parkash Narve of Khargone in Madhya Pradesh.Inspector Parveen Randev, in-charge at CIA Staff-2, said they arrested the accused from Sector 32 A on Chandigarh Road following a tip-off. The accused tried to escape from the spot on seeing a police team, but cops foiled his escape bid, he added. When frisked, the police recovered a weapon from his possession. A case under sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the accused at the Division Number 7 police station. The accused was produced in a court on Tuesday, which sent him to one-day police custody. During questioning, the accused told the police that he had come to Ludhiana to deliver arms. The investigators are now quizzing him to know the details of buyers.The inspector added that around nine days ago too, they had arrested two men and recovered illegal weapons made in Madhya Pradesh from their possession.ACP Surinder Mohan said that Khargone, Barwani and Burhanpur districts of Madhya Pradesh have been emerging as hotspots of manufacturing and supplying of illegal arms. Previous arrestsOn July 11, a team of CIA Staff-2 had arrested two miscreants and recovered illegal weapons from their possession. On May 27, Khanna police had recovered a consignment of illegal weapons bound for Amritsar with the arrest of two Tarn Taran residents and seized eight pistols and 12 magazines from their possession.On May 22, Khanna police had arrested a man for supplying illegal weapons to criminals and different gangs. The police had recovered 11 unauthorised pistols and three bullets from his possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/module-of-illegal-arms-suppliers-busted-in-ludhiana-1-arrested-101626808897510.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Roof collapse after heavy rain kills 4 of family in Patiala||Four members of a family, including three minors, were killed after roof of their house collapsed due to heavy rain in Matauli village of Patran sub-division in Patiala district on Tuesday. All the family members were sleeping when the roof of the house caved in, said Shutrana police station in-charge Shamsher Singh. The deceased have been identified as Mukhtiar Singh, 40, his son Vanshdeep Singh, 15, and two daughters Simranjeet Kaur, 13 and Kamaljeet Kaur, 10. Mukhtiar’s wife Surinder Kaur, who received serious injuries, has been hospitalised. Shamsher Singh said a police team was rushed to spot to carry out the rescue work as the family members were trapped under the debris. He said the roof and the side walls of the house developed cracks due to heavy rain and collapsed. “All victims received critical head injuries,” he added. Village sarpanch Ranjit Singh said Mukhtiar used to work as a daily wager and was living in the house for past three decades. “The villagers heard a loud thud following which we rushed to the spot and found the family buried under the debris,” he said. 4 injured in Amritsar Four members of a family were injured after the roof of their rented house collapsed amid rain in Mule Chak village in Amritsar on Tuesday. The injured are Sukhwinder Kaur, 40, her daughters Seetu, 20, Komal, 13, and son Akashdeep. 15. The incident took place around 10 am, said police.. Sukhwinder’s husband Samsher Singh, who works in Amritsar municipal corporation’s sewerage department, was not in the house at the time of the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roof-collapse-after-heavy-rain-kills-4-of-family-in-patiala-101626808896480.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Rainfall, Covid put a damper on Eid festivities in J&K||While incessant rainfall and the coronavirus pandemic put a damper on Eid-ul-Azha festivities in Jammu and Kashmir, some hustle-bustle was seen in markets as compared to last year when the region was under lockdown. Those selling sacrifical animals also witnessed a slump in business. Earlier, streets would be lined with sacrifical animals in both cities and rural areas. However, this time around only a few vendors were spotted. “Now, most dealers only sell animals at designated places. The sales were moderate as three years of lockdown has left several people in economic distress. I, too, have not been able to afford sacrificing an animal for two years. This year, too, I will be skipping the ritual,” said Aijaz Ahmad, a general store owner in old city.Kashmir Chamber Of Commerce and Industry chairperson Sheikh Ashiq said Eid would give impetus to small businesses in the region. However, for the last couple of years , not much activity was seen in the region. “This time the businessman have managed to do some business. Around 20% sales were seen this year. Things are getting better but businesses will only improve subject to cash flow in the market. Due to liquidity crunch, the spending power of people is down.”A rush was seen outside bakeries and readymade garment shops in the city. “As there were no restrictions, we had prepared several varieties of sweetmeats,” said Bashir Ahmad, manager of a prominent city bakery.The decline in Covid cases encouraged people to step out and make purchases. However, officials had warned people to observe strict standard operating procedures during Eid celebrations. The government has already imposed restrictions on congregational Eid prayers. However, people have been asked to observe prayers in localities in small numbers. Meanwhile, authorities have said that train services in Valley will remain suspended for two days following Eid.Officials said that according to guidelines and standard operating procedures, the train service on the Baramulla-Banihal track will remain suspended on Tuesday and Wednesday as passenger rush could lead to violation of norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rainfall-covid-put-a-damper-on-eid-festivities-in-jk-101626808356539.html
21-07-2021||Delhi||11-yr-old likely to be country’s first documented case of bird flu||An 11-year-old boy, who died of a respiratory tract infection at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences on Tuesday is likely to be country’s first documented case and death of bird flu (H5N1) in humans, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria said.“The samples were sent to NIV-Pune and the National Centre for Disease Control is now following it up,” Guleria said.The boy was admitted to the hospital’s paediatric department in June-end, a senior AIIMS doctor in know of the matter said. “Initially the doctors suspected Covid-19, then influenza. The boy’s samples were sent to National Institute of Virology in Pune for testing. He was found to have bird flu and contact tracing was immediately conducted,” the doctor said, asking not to be named.It is, however, unclear how the boy contracted the infection.According to experts, the virus can be transmitted through contact with faeces and secretions from nose, eye, and mouth of an infected bird. The infection doesn’t usually pass on from humans to humans as the virus is not well adapted to attach to receptors in human cells. It usually happens in people handling dead birds, bird droppings, or infected poultry.The infection leads to lower respiratory tract pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome in humans. It is difficult for humans to get the infection, but once infected avian influenza can be extremely deadly.The mortality rate of the infection can be as high as 60%. In comparison, Covid-19 kills fewer than 3% of the people it infects, according to official data.So far, there have been 862 cases of laboratory confirmed H5N1 infections across the globe, of which 455 succumbed to the infection, pegging the case fatality ratio (CFR) at nearly 53%, according to a May 21 bulletin by the World Health Organization.This year, H5N8 and H5N1 avian influenza have been reported in birds from across India. The country notified the first outbreak of avian influenza in birds on February 18, 2006. Since then, outbreaks have been reported in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, West Bengal, Tripura, Assam, Sikkim, Odisha, Meghalaya, Karnataka, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Chandigarh.“I don’t have specific details of the case so I won’t comment on the case per se; but it won’t be right to call it the first case because there is always a possibility that there may have been a case earlier that did not get documented since not all places have the facility to run specialised tests, such as gene sequencing or certain types of serological tests. There is no documented human case of bird flu, but it’s a respiratory viral disease and symptoms are similar to other such infections. AIIMS has the facility that is probably why it got picked up,” said Dr Samiran Panda, head, epidemiology and communicable diseases division, Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/11yrold-first-likely-victim-of-bird-flu-101626807890463.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Rivers in spate after heavy rainfall in J&K, 1 killed in wall collapse||Rivers and rivulets were in spate while low-lying areas were inundated as Jammu and Kashmir received incessant rainfall for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. Border areas in Kathua, Hiranagar, Samba, Pargwal and Akhnoor sectors were also flooded. A 55-year-old man, Dhani Ram, an employee of the municipal council in Rajouri died instantly after a compound wall of the army’s signal regiment collapsed at the Old Bus Stand area amid rainfall,” said a police officer. A man who was trapped in a flashflood in Tawi River was also rescued in Jammu. In Jammu, city roads remained waterlogged and the rain water entered many localities thereby causing immense hardship to residents. Electricity supply also remained affected in different parts of the city.Shooting stones: Avoid Jammu-Srinagar highway, say police Police have advised people to avoid travel on the 278-km long Jammu-Srinagar national highway as heavy rainfall had triggered shooting stones between the Panthial and Magerkote stretch. Chopper service from the Katra base camp of the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi shrine to Sanji Chhat in Trikuta hills was also suspended for an hour due to dense fog. “Katra (in Jammu division) recorded the highest rainfall (99mm).Expect a significant decrease in rainfall from Wednesday,” said director, meteorological department, Sonam Lotus.Jammu witnessed 44.3mm of rainfall, Batote 26.8mm, Gulmarg 23mm and Srinagar 5.2mm. The weather office has predicted moderate to very heavy rain on Wednesday morning, with the likelihood of it affecting preparations for the festival of Eid-al-Adha, to be celebrated in Jammu and Kashmir from Wednesday. The weather office has asked people living at higher reaches to remain cautious while tourists and trekkers have been advised to avoid camping on mountain or riversides.“The maximum day temperatures have fallen by at least 2 degrees in Kashmir and more in Jammu division,” an official of the meteorological department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rivers-in-spate-after-heavy-rainfall-in-j-k-1-killed-in-wall-collapse-101626807635651.html
21-07-2021||Delhi||In 1st judgment in Delhi riots cases, court slams police for shoddy probe||A city court on Tuesday acquitted a man accused of rioting, unlawful assembly, and dacoity — the first judgment to be delivered in multiple cases related to the northeast Delhi riots cases — and pulled up the Delhi Police for an investigation “that is way short” of what was needed.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat said that prosecution miserably failed to prove its case, forget beyond reasonable doubt, as the testimonies of the witnesses did not match. The court set the accused, Suresh alias Bhatura, free and ruled that he could not be connected to the offence in any manner.Suresh, who thanked the judge with folded hands in the video conferencing hearing, was appearing from Mandoli jail. He was lodged there since his arrest in April 2020.“All the major witnesses are at variance with each other on material terms, impacting the prosecution’s version. It is indeed proved from the testimony of the witnesses that the offence as stated out in the charge­ sheet happened, i.e., formation of unlawful assembly of 15-20 people, rioting, ransacking the shop of the complainant, i.e., shop no. 27/5, Main Babarpur Road, Delhi. There is no testimony worth its salt which connect the accused to the present offence in question,” the judge said.“As can be made out on the cumulative reading of the entire testimonies of all the witnesses, the identification of the accused is not established at all. The investigation carried out is way short of the desired one,” he added.Suresh was arrested on April 7, 2020 on a complaint by Asif, identified by his first name only, who ran a rented shop in the Babarpur area. On February 25, 2020 when he heard commotion, he saw 15-­20 people armed with sticks and iron rods. He alleged that the mob was inciting others to damage and loot the shop because he was Muslim. The complaint said that he tried to reason with the mob, but to no avail, and was threatened with dire consequences if he intervened. Later, the owner of the shop, Bhagat Singh, went to the police and brought head constable Sunil Kumar to the spot, after which the rioters ran away.Communal riots had broke out in the north east part of the national capital amid nationwide protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Delhi Police have registered around 750 FIRs in connection with the riots that killed 53 persons and left 400 others wounded over four days.The police’s investigation has been under criticism from various fronts, including social activists, student groups, and politicians.In its judgment on Tuesday, the court has said that the complainant Asif was not an eye­witness to any incident of the rioting or other connected offences that took place on Feb 25, 2020. It also said that Bhagat Singh, the owner of the shop, and the witness whom the prosecution relied the most, denied identifying the accused on two occasions, and also in the court.The judge noted that Singh was told by head constable Sunil and the investigating officer of the case, Nishant Chaudhary, that Suresh was involved in the rioting, rather than the other way round.The court said that the seized articles from the shop were not sealed by the IO, and neither was there any recording of the incident. It also held that the identification of the accused by the head constable was “untenable”.“If PW6 (HC Sunil) identified the accused at the time of rioting itself, then why he did not record any entry to the said fact on the said date or even till the FIR was filed on February 28, 2020? He also never gave anything in writing to the concerned police station stating that he had identified the accused. He has admitted that till March 1, 2020, he never gave any statement regarding the involvement of the accused in the present offence of rioting and other offences,” the judge noted in his 21-page judgment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-1st-judgment-in-delhi-riots-cases-court-slams-police-for-shoddy-probe-101626806949938.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||3 Punjab gangsters arrested in Uttarakhand after encounter||Three dreaded gangsters from Punjab and the man who allegedly gave them shelter in Udham Singh Nagar district of Uttarakhand were held after an encounter here, officials said.The joint operation was carried out Monday by the Udham Singh Nagar special task force and the Punjab Police following a tip-off. As the joint team arrived at a farmhouse in Gulzarpur near Kashipur in search of the three gangsters, they opened fire, leading to an encounter, US Nagar STF in-charge Purnima Garg said. The three gangsters and the farmhouse owner were held after the exchange of fire, she said. No one from either side was injured in the encounter, she said, adding modern automatic weapons were also recovered from them. Those arrested include Sandip Singh, alias Bhalla Shikhu, from Bathinda, Fateh Singh, alias Yuvraj, from Fatehpur Amandeep Singh and the farmhouse owner Jagwant Singh, she said. The gangsters are wanted in dozens of serious criminal cases, Garg said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-punjab-gangsters-arrested-in-uttarakhand-after-encounter-101626807097012.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Won’t meet Sidhu till he resolves issues with Capt, says Mohindra||ChandigarhPunjab local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra on Tuesday welcomed the appointment of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the state Congress president, but ruled out a personal meeting with him till he resolves issues with chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.Mohindra is considered close to the CM and also held a meeting with him on Tuesday. This is a first remark by any minister in the Amarinder cabinet after Sidhu’s elevation, indicating that the crisis in the Punjab Congress is still not over.In a statement issued here, Mohindra said Amarinder is the leader of the Congress legislative party and as a cabinet minister, he is duty-bound to follow him, making it clear that unless the newly appointed Punjab Congress chief sorts out all issues with Captain Amarinder, there was no possibility of him (Mohindra) meeting him personally. “We have a collective responsibility and hence, I would refrain from meeting the newly appointed Congress president till issues between him and the CM are resolved,” said Mohindra in a statement. Amarinder had already made it clear that he will not meet Sidhu until he tenders an apology for his “derogatory” tweets against him.Burry the hatchet: Ex-Moga MLA Former Moga MLA Malti Thapar on Tuesday suggested both Capt Amarinder Singh and Navjot Sidhu to forget their differences and come together to put up a united face in the interest of the Congress. “Both leaders should show statesmanship and join hands,” she said, adding that the ball is in Sidhu’s court and he should make the first move as Capt is a senior leader. She said the Congress high command has given representation to all sections by making four working presidents except women who have been left out. “They can have five working presidents and give the fifth slot to a deserving woman leader,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wont-meet-sidhu-till-he-resolves-issues-with-capt-says-mohindra-101626807036146.html
21-07-2021||Other||IIT-BHU student develops multiplayer yoga gameplay||Vidyabhushan, a chemical engineering third-year student at the Indian Institute of Technology-Banaras Hindu University (IIT-BHU) has developed the first version of artificial intelligence (A-I) based yoga platform through multiplayer yoga gameplay (MPYG).The platform has been built with mentorship, funding from NASSCOM Foundation, Cisco Thingcubator and technical support from the NCL-IIT BHU incubation centre.Vidyabhushan said that MPYG is an innovation in the field of yoga. It is an artificial intelligence-based and augmented reality-based platform for community yoga. The programme is intended to make people choose yoga keeping health-related factors in mind, and it aims at guiding them in the right direction. Audio-visual features will demonstrate the correct way to practice yoga, he said.Aside from detecting incorrect yoga postures with its auto-detect feature, MPYG uses artificial intelligence to correct them with video and audio assistance. Currently, this platform can be accessed from the website mpyg.in and for other features you can enter your email in the waiting list of the website, he added.NASSCOM foundation head Ramana Vemuri expressed happiness over the student’s achievement and congratulated the team, and assured them of all possible help in future.‘YogaHelp’ will teach correct ‘Surya namaskar’Dr Hari Prabhat Gupta, assistant professor in the department of computer science and engineering of the institute and his team Dr Ashish Gupta, Dr Tanima Dutta, Dr Preeti Kumari and Rahul Mishra have developed a technology called ‘YogaHelp’, which helps people perform yoga without any instructor. It helps in learning the right way of yoga.Dr Hari Prabhat Gupta explained that ‘YogaHelp’ takes advantage of the sensor of the smartphone to recognise the 12-link steps of ‘Surya namaskar’ along with their accuracy level. This technique has been accepted and published in the journal artificial intelligence in June 2021. The technology with full features and cloud support will be available for Android and iOS mobile phone users in October 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iitbhu-student-develops-multiplayer-yoga-gameplay-101626806975611.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Faridkot court grants bail to 4 dera men in Bargari sacrilege case||A Faridkot court on Tuesday granted bail to four Dera Sacha Sauda followers in the 2015 Bargari sacrilege case, wherein torn pages of “bir” (copy of Guru Granth Sahib) were found scattered near a gurdwara. The court directed the accused to furnish bail bonds of ₹90,000 each with one surety of the like amount each.This comes hours after the special investigation team (SIT) probing 2015 sacrilege incidents filed a chargesheet against them in another sacrilege case. The court of judicial magistrate Tarjani allowed the bail applications Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, and Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola, both residents of Kotkapura, Shakti Singh of Daggu Romana village and Baljit Singh of Sikhanwala village in Faridkot district. However, they will not be released as they are in judicial custody in another sacrilege incident wherein derogatory posters were pasted near gurdwara at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala villages in 2015. On October 12, 2015, torn pages of a bir (copy of Guru Granth Sahib), which was stolen from the Burj Jawahar Singh Wala gurdwara, were found scattered near a shrine at Bargari. The SIT probe has found that the accused had scattered the torn pages of “bir” on October 12 at Bargari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/faridkot-court-grants-bail-to-4-dera-men-in-bargari-sacrilege-case-101626806857690.html
21-07-2021||Other||Monsoon-related ailments rise by 50% in Mumbai: Doctors||Monsoon-related ailments have increased by 50% in the city, said doctors who have warned citizens against self-medication as it can delay diagnosis among patients with Covid-19 infection.Due to change in the season, city doctors have witnessed a spurt in the number of cases related to humid weather and waterborne diseases. “They [cases] definitely have increased. Among current hospital admissions of fever cases, about 60-70% are monsoon-related fevers,” said Dr Anita Mathew, infectious disease specialist, Fortis Hospital, Mulund. Similarly, Dr Amit Nabar, head of the emergency medicine and head of surgical intensive care unit (ICU) at SL Raheja Hospital, Mahim, said the hospital has recorded almost 60% rise in ailments especially for malaria and dengue. As per doctors, compared to July last year, the number of monsoon-related ailments has increased this year due to relaxations in lockdown-related restrictions, resulting in free movement of people after the flattening of the pandemic curve in the second wave. “We did not treat many patients with monsoon-related ailments last year because citizens were confined to their houses due to the national lockdown, and construction activity was also low. This year, mosquito-borne illnesses like dengue, chikungunya and malaria cases have increased in the past few weeks, mainly because movement of people has also increased. Normal seasonal flu and gastroenteritis cases have also gone up,” said Dr Shalini Suralkar, consultant physician at LH Hiranandani Hospital, Powai. Till July 18, 240 cases of malaria, 17 cases of leptospirosis, 10 and 13 swine flu cases have been reported in the city, as per the data provided by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Virologists said the number of mosquito-borne diseases will increase further after the rain slows down. “It is known that during downpour, the eggs of the mosquitos get washed away. So the number of mosquitoes-borne diseases always remains low during heavy rainfall. But as soon as the rainfall subsides, the population of mosquitoes increases, giving rise to cases of malaria and dengue,” said Dr T Jacob John, virologist and retired professor at the Christian Medical College, Vellore.Wockhardt Hospital at Mumbai Central has already recorded two cases of leptospirosis – a bacterial disease that causes serious illness, leading to jaundice-reduced platelets, multi-organ failure and death. “Due to heavy rains in Mumbai over the next four-five days, we are going to have more cases of leptospirosis. The infection occurs due to flooding and waterlogging during monsoon, which we are witnessing now,” said Dr Behram Pardiwala, internal medicine at the hospital. Treatment dilemma amid pandemic Covid-19 shares similar symptoms with seasonal infections which often cause treatment dilemmas among doctors. “It is difficult to identify Covid-19 and non-Covid illnesses at times as the symptoms overlap each other. But with a proper case history and correlation with laboratory parameters and clinical examination, we can differentiate between the two illnesses,” said Dr Harish Chafle, consultant intensivist and chest physician at Global Hospitals, Parel.To overrule any possibility of misdiagnosis, all hospitals are conducting reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests among patients with similar symptoms such as fever, cough and respiratory tract infections. “A Covid-19 workup, including RT-PCR, is done for every patient coming with acute febrile illness, and the coronavirus isolation protocol is advised to all until the final diagnosis is made. Special focus has to be paid on the locality from where the patient comes from,” said Dr Nabar. However, amid the pandemic, doctors have strictly prohibited people from self-medication. “It is advisable for a patient to seek medical help if the fever does not subside within two-three days. Also, look for red flag signs such as very high temperature more than 103°F, rash, delirium, severe headache, breathlessness, any bleeding, yellowness of eyes or urine or any other unusual symptoms,” said Dr Suralkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monsoonrelated-ailments-rise-by-50-in-mumbai-doctors-101626806855649.html
21-07-2021||Other||Mumbai’s lakes have water stock for over 100 days||Mumbai’s seven lakes have water that will suffice for more than 100 days, as lake levels increased to 33.22% on Tuesday from Monday’s 28.68%. As on Tuesday, Mumbai’s lakes had 480,783 million litres (ML) of water, in comparison to 415,175ML on Monday. Within 24 hours between Monday and Tuesday morning, water in the seven lakes increased by 65,608ML. BMC supplies 3,850ML of water per day to the city. On Friday, the water quantity was at 17%, prompting Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) hydraulics department to consider water cut for the city, had the situation not improved over the next few days.On July 20 last year, Mumbai’s lakes had 397,607 ML or 27.47% useful water content, while in 2019, the lakes had 751,197 ML (51.9%) of useful water content. Mumbai city receives its drinking water supply from Upper Vaitarna, Modak Sagar, Tansa, Middle Vaitarna, Bhatsa, Vihar and Tulsi lakes, whose total water capacity is 1,447,363ML. Despite the swell in lake levels, the useful water content in Upper Vaitarna remains at 0%. In the 24 hours up to 6am on Tuesday, the lake and its catchment area received 74mm rainfall, and its water level rose by 0.55 metres. On the same day last year, Upper Vaitarna had 12,899 ML useful water content, against 0ML this year. While Vihar lake overflowed on Sunday morning, Tulsi lake overflowed on Friday. Both these lakes now have 100% useful water content. A senior official from BMC explained, “We have the rainfall months of August and September to catch up on our lake levels. But we are in a wait-and-watch situation at present.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbais-lakes-have-water-stock-for-over-100-days-101626806856168.html
21-07-2021||Other||28 evacuated after landslide in Mumbai||eeshanpriya@htlive.comThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) evacuated 28 people from three-four homes near GTB Nagar’s Mukundrao Ambedkar Road, after a landslide was reported on a portion of the nearby Salamati Hill at 11.57pm on Monday. No one was injured in the incident. Sixteen of these residents were relocated to a nearby municipal school, while 12 people were shifted to their relatives’ homes, information by BMC’s disaster management department revealed. In the 24 hours up to 8am on Tuesday, BMC received six complaints – two each in the Island city and eastern and western suburbs – of house collapses or residential wall collapses across the city following heavy rainfall. During this period, BMC also received 21 complaints of tree collapses, of which nine were from the Island city, five in the eastern suburbs and seven in the western suburbs. Nineteen complaints of short circuits – 11 in the Island city, and four each in the eastern and western suburbs – were also reported. One person was injured in a tree collapse in Mulund at 9.23am on Monday morning. Dhanaji Hathiyani, 31, was rushed to Hira Mongi Hospital in Mulund, and his condition is stable, according to BMC. Parts of the city experienced waterlogging on Tuesday early morning for a short while, owing to heavy rainfall after midnight in central Mumbai, Kurla, Andheri and Chembur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/28-evacuated-after-landslide-in-mumbai-101626806735648.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sero survey in Punjab to focus on 6-17 age group||The Punjab government on Tuesday said it will start a sero survey, especially focused on children in the age group of 6 to 17, ahead of a possible third Covid wave. The survey will start this month.Sero surveys or sero prevalence studies are based on analysis of antibodies collected through blood samples.Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh said the outcome of the sentinel sero-surveillance survey, aimed to assess the prevalence of the infection among under 18, will be utilised to determine further localised restrictions as the state prepares for the third wave, according to a government statement. The GIS-based surveillance and prevention tools will be used with an auto trigger mechanism for localised restrictions, he said.With this, Punjab will become the only state in the country to get a children-dominated sero survey conducted to assess the prevalence of the infection among under-18 years. The CM also ordered establishment of a paediatric unit in each district and one centre of excellence in paediatrics for the state. The CM also announced another ₹331 crore to prepare for the possible third Covid wave. Dr KK Talwar disclosed, in response to a query from the Chief Minister, that in the first and second wave, 10% of those infected were under 18, and while there was no concrete data to support such a projection, the state was preparing to handle more cases of children in the third wave. Dr KK Talwar, head of Punjab’s expert committee on Covid-19, said in the first and second waves, 10% of those infected were under 18 and while there was no concrete data to support such a projection, the state was preparing to handle more cases of children in the third wave.100-bed makeshift hospital at Talwandi SaboThe CM virtually inaugurated a 100-bed makeshift Covid hospital at Talwandi Sabo in Bathinda, scaling up the state’s preparedness for a third wave of the pandemic. The hospital has been built at a cost of ₹651.21 lakh, with the help of HMEL Refinery, Bathinda, under the guidelines of CBRI, Roorkee. The fully air-conditioned hospital has 25 beds for level-3 (critical) patients whereas 75 beds are to handle patients with level-2 Covid complications. It also has X-ray machines, ECG and path lab facilities and a 24X7 oxygen supply line.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sero-survey-in-punjab-to-focus-on-6-17-age-group-101626806676088.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Red alert in five Himachal districts||A red alert was issued for five districts of Himachal Pradesh and a yellow warning for the remaining seven on Tuesday as the India Meteorological Department predicted heavy rainfall and flooding in the hill state. The red alert has been issued for Mandi, Shimla, Kangra, Kullu and Chamba till noon on Wednesday. Shimla meteorological centre director Surender Paul said there is a possibility of landslides or trees getting uprooted due to incessant and intense rainfall. Locals and tourists have been asked not to venture near the riverbanks as the river levels may rise.The state has been witnessing torrential rains since Monday night, which has caused multiple landslides across the state. Traffic movement has been disrupted on at least 200 roads due to landslides. Nurpur in Kangra received 131mm rain, the highest in the state, while Dalhousie and Naduan received 77mm rainfall each. Kangra witnessed 69mm rainfall, Dehra Gopipur 63mm, Dharamshala 60mm, Nahan 43mm, Kahu 41 mm and Ghamroor and Guler 37mm each. Similarly, Mandi and Kufri received 36mm rainfall each, Dharampur and Nagrota Surian 35 mm each and Kadrala 33mm. The state capital, Shimla, recorded 25mm rain and Manali received 19mm precipitation . Exercise caution: HP Police to tourists In light of the heavy precipitation in the state, director general of police Sanjay Kundu said urged tourists to exercise caution. “The state witnesses an increase in landslides, flash floods and cloud bursts in monsoon, which may block national highways, as well as other roads. It may also cause loss to life and property,” he said. “This problem may get aggravated during the apple season. Thousands of tourist vehicles, trucks and pickups and others vehicles enter Himachal Pradesh from other states, which may be vulnerable to natural calamities/disaster,” he said. In case of emergency people may call 112.Meanwhile, Kangra deputy commissioner Dr Nipun Jindal said the district had suffered losses adding up to approximately ₹60 crore over the last week due to rainfall. He said relief work was underway in the affected areas. Jindal said floodwater entered several houses in Sansarpur Pekh village of Jaswan Tehsil. The floodwater also damaged paddy and maize crops in the village. Only emergency vehicles will be allowed to ply in Chamba in light of the red alert. 37-year-old man swept away in nullah, diesA 37-year-old man died after being swept away in a gushing nullah in Bhatka village of Kopra panchayat in Nurpur subdivisioin of Kangra district. The victim was identified as Kamal Kumar. Kangra SP Vimukt Ranjan said the victim had been missing since July 18. The family had organised a search after the man failed to return from work. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/red-alert-in-five-himachal-districts-101626806617012.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 4 deaths, 68 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Tuesday reported four more Covid fatalities, taking the death toll to 16,244, while 68 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 5,98,455, according to a media bulletin. Two deaths were reported from Ferozepur and one each from Fatehgarh Sahib and Muktsar, the bulletin said. The state registered a positivity rate of 0.20%, which slightly higher than 0.18% recorded on Monday. Among fresh cases, maximum 10 were reported in Ludhiana followed by 8 each in Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar. The number of active cases stood at 899. With 115 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,81,312. A total of 1,17,20,116 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-4-deaths-68-fresh-covid-cases-101626806556223.html
21-07-2021||Lucknow||Extending an olive branch Cong withdraws expulsion of three veterans||The Congress appears to have extended an olive branch to the party’s expelled old guards, withdrawing expulsion of three veterans who, along with seven others, were expelled from the party for indulging in anti-party activities in 2019. Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu and other party leaders welcomed the three veterans at UPCC headquarters here on Tuesday. The UPCC had expelled 10 senior leaders, including former ministers, for indulging in anti-party activities when they gathered at the residence of their colleagues to celebrate birth anniversary of India’s first prime minister late Jawahar Lal Nehru and former prime minister late Indira Gandhi here on November 14, 2019 and November 19, 2019 respectively. Action to expel them was taken on November 24. This was considered as one of the reasons for an apparent divide in Congress between the party’s old guard and Lallu’s team. “Following approval of All India Congress Committee (AICC) president Sonia Gandhi, AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu, the disciplinary committee of Uttar Pradesh Congress has with immediate effect withdrawn expulsion of former legislators Nek Chand Pandey, Bhudhar Narain Mishra and Gajendra Singh Solanki. AICC secretaries Dhiraj Gurjar and Rohit Chaudhary expect from these legislators that they will play an important role in strengthening the Congress in future,” said UPCC spokesman Ashok Singh in a press statement. Priyanka, during her three-day tour to the state capital last week, had given a call to the party’s old guards and the youngsters to join hands to strengthen the party. She had also asked party’s state leaders to withdraw expulsion of old guards. An expelled leader, however, said withdrawal of expulsion of only three veterans in an expelled group of 10 raised a question mark on the entire exercise of taking all sections of the party together. “We all (10 leaders) had gathered to celebrate the birth anniversary of former prime ministers and did not indulge in any party activity. Those expelled included former minister Ram Krishna Dwivedi and he later died following illness. Action against six leaders is yet to be withdrawn. We were asked to tender an apology. Why should we tender any apology when we did not indulge in any indiscipline,” said an expelled leader. When contacted, Lallu said the Congress was reaching out to all the veterans and all those committed to the party would be welcomed. “Withdrawal of expulsion of three expelled leaders is a good gesture on the part of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who is party’s incharge for UP. Veterans will certainly be helpful to the Congress. A united party is need of the hour. The Congress should get everybody together,” said SK Dwivedi, former head of department of political science, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/extending-an-olive-branch-cong-withdraws-expulsion-of-three-veterans-101626806495625.html
21-07-2021||Other||Mumbai meets 87.6% of rain target||The city woke up to its third consecutive day of rainfall on Tuesday, recording 38.4mm of rain in the 24 hours ending 8.30am – down from 70.44mm of rain recorded in the 24 hours prior to it – and an additional 12.5mm of rain in the eight hours ending 5.30pm.With a marked decrease in the intensity of rainfall, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) downgraded its initial orange category storm warning to a yellow category alert for Friday. However, an orange category alert for Wednesday and Thursday remains in place.The total rainfall for July now stands at 970.9mm, an excess of the 827-mm normal rainfall set by IMD. Mumbai has now received 1932.3mm (87.6%) of rainfall for the season that ends in September.Officials said that with another two to three heavy spells of rain expected before month-end, the rainfall record for July may well cross the 2,000-mm mark. For comparison, last year July had recorded 1,469mm of rain.An off shore monsoon trough near the Maharashtra coast is likely to remain vigorous for the next three to four days, and Mumbai will continue to see an active monsoon spell for the “next four-five days with heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places and extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places,” the IMD said in a bulletin released Tuesday.“A cyclonic circulation over south Gujarat and a low pressure area forming in the Bay of Bengal around July 23 will bring heavy rain to the Konkan coast in a few days,” said a spokesperson from IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-meets-87-6-of-rain-target-101626806496138.html
21-07-2021||Other||Thane civic body lists 14 landslide-prone areas within city||The landslide in Kalwa on Monday, which killed a family of five, has highlighted the fate of thousands of residents who reside in 14 landslide-prone spots identified by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). Every monsoon, TMC serves a notice to those residing in these areas. For decades, they have been staying illegally and have managed to get electricity and water connections. Gholai Nagar in Kalwa, where the landslide occurred on Monday was also shortlisted by TMC. The list also includes areas within Lokmanya Nagar (1), Majiwada-Manpada (2), Kalwa (6) and Mumbra (5). Santosh Kadam, chief of Regional Disaster Management Cell, said, “We cannot estimate how many stay in the landslide-prone areas but there are 14 such spots in the city.” Additional commissioner of TMC, Sandeep Malvi, said, “We are currently focusing on providing temporary shelter to those who have been affected by the landslide in Kalwa.” Meanwhile, some reside in the hilly terrains of Mumbra, Lokmanya Nagar and Atkoneshwar Nagar in Kalwa that fall under the forest department. “With orange alert in the city, we have requested those residing in these areas to move out for their own safety. These are illegal settlements and we cannot provide them with alternatives,” said an officer from the forest department, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-civic-body-lists-14-landslide-prone-areas-within-city-101626806375649.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab demands 40 lakh more Covid vaccine doses from Centre||Citing the current demand of more than 2 lakh Covid vaccine doses for the second jab alone, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday asked the Centre to provide 40 lakh more doses to inoculate the state’s eligible population. Amarinder said the state was expecting 2.46 lakh doses to arrive on Tuesday but noted that vaccines remain in short supply as it has run out of Covishield and was left with a mere 3,500 Covaxin doses as of Monday.Punjab has already vaccinated more than 90 lakh people (nearly 37% of eligible population) and has been utilising the stock without any wastage, said the CM. While the first dose has been administered to 75 lakh people, 15 lakh had got the second dose too. The Centre needs to arrange for delivery to the state to meet the shortfall and enable inoculation of the second dose, while continuing with the vaccination, said the CM. Disability schemes’ benefit to mucormycosis patients Reviewing the state’s Covid situation through a virtual conference, the CM announced extension of benefits of existing schemes for persons with disability to those suffering from disability caused by mucormycosis. The benefits will be extended as per the nature and degree of the disability, he said. The CM directed the medical education department to establish post-Covid care centres in government medical colleges and hospitals for free follow-up of the cured cases of mucormycosis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-demands-40-lakh-more-covid-vaccine-doses-from-centre-101626806256768.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||Clearing slums along slopes in Mumbai : An uphill task||The two landslides in the city in Surya Nagar in Vikhroli and New Bharat Nagar area of Mahul in Chembur, which killed over 30 people on Sunday, have once again raised questions on the responsibility and steps to ensure safety of those living in illegal structures in vulnerable locations.In the backdrop of collapse of illegal structures, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) prepared a draft suggestion note which stated that high cost of living in Mumbai and changing policies regarding increasing the protection date of slums in city are a few reasons why citizens opt to reside in dangerous conditions. The note stated the BMC, in consultation with the state, should formulate a policy on the lines of cluster development or affordable housing etc. for dishoused citizens residing in illegal houses. Not a first As per the 2011 census, 41% of the city’s total 12.8 million population lives in slums. According to the BMC’s data, until 2018, the city had around 250 landslide-prone spots, of which the maximum, 200, were in the eastern suburbs. Ninety-four incidents of landslides were reported in the city between 2011 and 2018, in which around nine people lost their lives and 26 have been injured.Over the past two years, the damage caused by such incidents has increased. For example, a landslide which caused a retaining wall to collapse in Malad East on July 2, 2019, resulted in 32 deaths. In 2020, a landslide was reported on Western Express Highway. There were no injuries in the incident. The common factor in most such incidents is the structures or houses are constructed illegally on government land owned by the collector or the forest department. In Sunday’s incidents too, the land was owned by the suburban collector, leading to a blame game between the BMC and collector’s office. HT reported on Tuesday how the BMC maintained it had asked suburban collector Milind Borikar to take the measures last month. However, the collector’s office said that as per the state government’s directives, it is the BMC’s responsibility to clear encroachments, irrespective of title of the land. Bharat Marathe, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “The question is to where to keep lakhs of citizens residing in such illegal structures after evicting them. In case of Chembur landslide, we have shifted the victims to empty project-affected people tenements.” The BMC’s draft suggestion note stated: “Due to high cost of living in Mumbai and increasing migrants from outside, there is tendency of people compelled to stay in such unauthorized, unsafe areas for meeting their day today needs/ survival.” The BMC’s note also suggested that 3D mapping be done every six months. Solutions?State housing minister Jitendra Awhad said the low-cost housing scheme can be an alternative. Awhad said, “The state can support the civic body as the scheme will require huge funds because of the large number of families residing on hill slopes across the city. I will speak to the chief minister in this regard.” Bhushan Gagrani, principal secretary, urban development department, said, “We can amend the rules as per the requirement and provide additional FSI (floor space index), so they can be relocated. While doing so, securing these (old) sites is also important to ensure they will not be encroached upon in the future.” Officials from urban development said that the only permanent solution to the issue is resettlement of these families, but its implementation is not easy as it requires strong political will and investment. “Gradient lands are very dangerous because those are hills and activities such as tree cutting etc. make them even poorer. All such land should be de-populated completely,” said another official from the urban development department. Mahesh Pathak, principal secretary, urban development, said there is no option but to take preventive measures at the landslide-prone sites. Civic activist Godfrey Pimenta said, “The slopes of hills in Mumbai are perfectly stable. No landslide will occur if they are not disturbed. However, these slopes have been illegally encroached upon by cutting them into vertical faces. More than 60 lakh people are staying in these slum colonies or kuchha structures. These areas are highly vulnerable during contingencies like floods, fire and commotion and we need adequate preventive measures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/clearing-slums-along-slopes-in-mumbai-an-uphill-task-101626806257279.html
21-07-2021||Other||Objectionable post against Ram temple trust secy: HC stays arrest of two accused, asks govt to file reply||The Allahabad high court has stayed the arrest to two men accused of posting objectionable comments on social media against general secretary, Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, Champat Rai.The court also asked the state government to file a counter affidavit (reply) in the case and issued a notice to Sanjay Bansal, who claims to be Champat Rai’s brother, who had lodged the FIR against the two men at Nagina police station of Bijnor district of Uttar Pradesh last month.Justice SP Kesarwani and Justice Piyush Agrawal passed the order in two separate petitions filed by Vineet Narain and Rajneesh Kapur—the two accused in the case. On June 19, a complaint was filed by Sanjay Bansal alleging that the petitioners had posted some objectionable comments on social media against Champat Rai on the basis of false allegations made by one Alka Lahoti from Nagina with the intention of promoting enmity or hatred among sections of the society. It was alleged in the complaint that the social media post had hurt religious feelings of Hindus.The petitioners’ submission was that from the reading of the FIR, no offence was made out and the FIR was malafidely lodged which did not disclose commission of any offence by the petitioners. Therefore, the impugned FIR deserved to be quashed.The court, after hearing concerned parties, observed, “Bare perusal of the impugned first information report shows that even if the allegations made in the impugned first information report are taken in their entirety they do not constitute the offence alleged.”“From the aforesaid it prima facie, appears that the impugned first information report cannot be sustained in view of the law laid down by the Hon’ble Apex Court in State of Haryana and others vs. Bhajan Lal,” the court further said while fixing July 27 as the next date of hearing in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/objectionable-post-against-ram-temple-trust-secy-hc-stays-arrest-of-two-accused-asks-govt-to-file-reply-101626806255568.html
21-07-2021||Other||‘2nd Covid-19 wave to delay 100 UDAN airports by 2 years’||The second wave of Covid-19 has not only led to operational losses for airlines and airports but also has impacted future developments in the aviation sector. According to ratings agency ICRA, the target of operationalising 100 airports under Ude Desh Ka Aam Naagrik (UDAN) will see a delay of two years from 2024 to 2026 due to the impact of the pandemic. The Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) had launched the UDAN scheme in 2016 as a regional connectivity scheme (RCS) to enhance regional connectivity. However, as per ICRA, only 47% of the total routes and 39% of airports (unserved and underserved) have been operationalised under UDAN as on May 31. The number of new RCS routes which started operations increased at a healthy pace and stood at 102 in financial year (FY) 2019-20 and 120 routes in FY2020-21. They have, however, declined on 77 new routes in FY2021-22 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. ICRA said that during FY2018-19 to FY2021-22, ₹3,350 crore has been incurred by the Central government towards the UDAN scheme, while the budgeted outlay for FY21-2022 is only ₹1,130 crore. Moreover, the slow progress of UDAN implementation is not only attributable to delayed upgradation of infrastructure at some of the RCS airports, delays in securing necessary regulatory approvals, low demand on few routes awarded but also to the adverse and unpredictable weather conditions that lead to inconsistent operations and also resulted in closure of operations by airlines in a few cases. “The second wave of the pandemic, which started from mid-March will further impact the UDAN scheme going forward, with aviation being one of the worst-hit infrastructure sectors,” said Shubham Jain, senior vice-president and group head, corporate ratings, ICRA. The civil aviation ministry set a target of operationalising 100 unserved and underserved airports and starting at least 1,000 RCS routes by 2024. Off this, 52 unserved and underserved airports and 357 routes are operationalised as on May 31. To improve RCS network and achieve its target by 2024, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) even launched UDAN 4.1 as a special bidding round under UDAN 4.0 in March to award 392 routes. “The award and implementation of UDAN 4.1 may get delayed significantly due to the second wave of the pandemic in India and its effect on the Indian aviation industry. We expect the target of operationalising 100 airports under UDAN by 2026, with a delay of two years,” Jain said. He added, “The weak credit profile of domestic airlines is expected to have an impact on the existing routes under UDAN scheme, particularly for smaller airlines given the stretched liquidity position, low utilisation in some of the routes and will also impact future bidding of routes under the scheme.” Moreover, there has been a significant impact on financial health of airline operators due to Covid-19 pandemic. According to ICRA’s estimates, Indian airlines will report a significant net loss of approximately 210 billion in FY 2021-22 and estimated net loss of ₹127 billion in FY2021-22, with the industry debt level increasing to around ₹500 billion in FY2021-22. “While some airlines have sufficient liquidity and/or financial support from a strong parentage, which will help them sustain over the near term, there are other airlines, which are already in financial stress. Until the cash inflows improve, the airlines will require funding support to meet their expenses,” ICRA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2nd-covid-19-wave-to-delay-100-udan-airports-by-2-years-101626806137609.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||India’s US envoy Sandhu visits Dalip Singh Saund Post Office in California||WashingtonIndia’s ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu visited Dalip Singh Saund Post Office, named after the first Indian-American lawmaker, during his recent visit to California.This is probably the first time that an Indian ambassador has visited the post office named after Saund, who was elected to the House of Representatives thrice from 1956 to 1962. Born in Chhajulwadi (now Chhajjalwaddi) in Amritsar district of undivided Punjab in a Sikh family, Saund received his bachelor’s degree in mathematics from the University of Punjab in 1919. He immigrated to the United States to study agriculture at the University of California, Berkeley. While at the university, he obtained a master’s degree and a PhD, both in mathematics.The post office was named after him after the then President George Bush signed a bill in this regard into law on July 21, 2005. During his visit to California last week, Sandhu interacted with the Indian American community leaders.He also held meetings with top US lawmakers from the region, including Scott Peters, who serves on the house committee on energy and commerce, committee on small business; Darrell Issa, who is a member of the house committee on foreign affairs - Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa and subcommittee on terrorism, nonproliferation, and trade; and Mike Levin, member of the Hispanic and progressive caucus and house committee on natural resources committee on veterans affairs select committee on the climate crisis.Sandhu visited Los Angeles and San Diego. He had engagements with the community, members of the US Congress and at the University of California.He interacted with the Indian community leaders onboard the historic Star of India ship in the Maritime Museum of San Diego. Built in 1863, Star of India is the world’s oldest active sailing ship.In his remarks, the ambassador said the US has come out in an overwhelming manner to offer support to India during the Covid-19 crisis. He also praised the role of the Indian diaspora during this difficult time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/indias-us-envoy-sandhu-visits-dalip-singh-saund-post-office-in-california-101626806136246.html
21-07-2021||Other||UP Board busy getting model question paper bank ready for next session||At a time when the UP Board is busy preparing the results of high school and intermediate classes of 2021, it has also intensified its preparations for the next session. For the 2021-22 session, which is based on 70 percent syllabus, model question papers for classes 9 to 12 are being prepared by the board. After the approval of the government, the same would be upload it on https://upmsp.edu.in/, the official website of the Uttar Pradesh Madhyamik Shiksha Parishad (UPMSP) as it is formally known as, so that the students can prepare on the basis of that. For preparing the model papers, which would be handy for the students to practice for the exams and tests that would be taken from time to time, expert teachers of various subjects are being roped in by the board, inform UP Board officials requesting anonymity. “Several rounds of virtual meeting of these teachers and the officials of the boards have been held from July 8 to 15. The meetings of course committees have discussed at length the reduced course and the format of modal test paper, pattern of questions that would be asked, how the student can cope up with the stress and how he or she would appear in the test, both in offline and online mode, depending on the situation faced by the country,” said a senior official aware of the development. “Now, as we all are facing the ‘new normal’, the board wants that the students should be better equipped in terms of new modality of teaching, the syllabus and the pattern of exams and tests that would be conducted in coming months”, he explained. The committees, of different subjects have been meeting amongst each other earlier too, but their recent virtual meetings were subject based. On July 8, model test paper for Hindi, Computer, Home Science and Urdu was finalised, on July 9, papers for English, Music, Singing and Playing and Painting were made. Similarly, 15 papers of different languages including Mathematics too have been finalised by the board after these important meetings, officials said. A senior teacher who is on the panel of subject experts of UP Board informed that the model test papers have been prepared in such a way that it would be perform a complete evaluation of the student. The type of questions, difficulty level etc is being decided in the model paper. The question paper will be prepared in such a way that the child can be fully evaluated. For example, in class 9 Mathematics, questions will be asked from section A for 20 marks and from section B for 50 marks. There will be 20 multiple choice questions of 1 mark each and a total of 13 very short, short and detailed answer questions of 50 marks will be asked. Out of 13 there will be 5 very short, 6 short and 2 detailed answer type questions. There will be 14 cognitive questions, 24 for comprehension, 18 applied and 14 marks for skill, informed the teacher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-board-busy-getting-model-question-paper-bank-ready-for-next-session-101626806076258.html
21-07-2021||Mumbai||Pegasus-Maharashtra connection? State starts inquiry into 2019 Israel tour of officials||Maharashtra government’s director-general of information and publicity (DGIPR) has started an inquiry into the tour of five of its senior officials to Israel in November 2019. The inquiry has begun on the heels of the demand by the ruling Congress to probe if the Pegasus reports have any Maharashtra connection. The department has issued notices to the officials, asking them to submit a report on the tour as a preliminary inquiry has found several violations of set rules related to foreign tours.Five senior officials, including a director of the department, had toured Israel between November 15, 2019 and November 25, 2019, when the formation of the government after the Assembly polls was in full swing. The tour was chalked out hurriedly without taking any mandatory permission from the chief minister and the central government or the Election Commission of India (ECI). The team of officials did not submit a report on the tour even one-and-a-half years after it took place, the preliminary inquiry revealed.“Notices have been served to the officials, asking them to submit details of the tour, including objective, itinerary, meetings that took place and efforts by them to ensure that the department benefited from the experience, among others. The account of the expenditure on tour has not been settled as yet, although more than ₹20 lakh was spent. The officials have been directed to submit their say as soon as possible,” said an official from the general administrative department.“The officials had extended their tour by a few days, when the extension of any such official tour is not permitted. The permission from the chief minister of the state is mandatory for any such foreign tour, along with a few ministries of central government. Since the model code of conduct was in place when the tour was being chalked out, the permission from the ECI too was necessary. The DGIPR had taken the permission by the then chief secretary, but it was not sufficient. The rules also mandate for an official invitation from the government of the country they are visiting. In this case, the tour was planned on the basis of the letter given by the consul-general of Israel in Mumbai. We have found gross violation of the laid down rules related to foreign tours of officials,” another official from the government said.Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant on Monday had demanded that the state government should probe if there is any links related to Maharashtra in the Pegasus leaks. The illegal and unauthorised phone tapping done by IPS officer Rashmi Shukla, who headed the state intelligence department during the Fadnavis government, is being probed and the truth will soon come to the fore. But there are also doubts if there are any Maharashtra links to Pegasus leaks and any IPS officer who was posted at Mantralaya was working on it? A few officials from the DGIPR of the state had visited Israel during the Lok Sabha elections in 2019. Questions, including if they got any training, by whose permission they had gone, did they submit any report to the government, how many times did they go to Israel, were there any scheduled meetings in Israel, had government had any correspondence with NSO or any presentation was made to the state government, need to be answered. A probe into the issue will throw light on these questions,” Sawant said.In January 2020,former Madhya Pradesh CM and Rajya Sabha MP Digvijay Singh, in a series of tweets, said: “Is the @OfficeofUT going to give details in public that who was behind snooping and tapping in #maharashtra Who were the officers of Maharashtra Govt who went to #Israel to talk to#NS0 the brain behind malware #pegasus @PawarSpeaks.”After the demand, the then home minister Anil Deshmukh had announced a committee of senior officials from the home department but the probe never took off. Leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said that the team of officers had gone to Israel but it was well after the Assembly polls ended. “The team had gone to study the farming and farm techniques in Israel. Maharashtra government during my tenure as the CM never had taken any services of the NSO. Let the government probe into the case.” The DGIPR is also checking about several Israel tours of a senior officer from DGIPR during the Fadanvis government. The department also has the information about the logistics support provided by a local agency in Israel. “The officials who went on tour may not have direct links with the alleged phone tapping controversy as none of them has any technical knowledge required. We believe that it was a leisure tour organised to oblige senior officials from the government,” a senior official from the GAD said. When contacted, Dilip Pandharpatte, director-general of information and public relations, refused to speak on the issue. Aditi Tatkare, minister of state for general administration, said she was not aware of any probe. “The publicity department does take cognisance of the media reports related to the government. I am not aware if any such probe has been started and if there was any official complaint made by Sachin Sawant.” Meanwhile, upping its ante against the Centre, the Shiv Sena on Tuesday demanded a probe by a Joint Parliamentary Committee in the Pegasus snooping controversy. Sena MPs wrote to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, making the demand, and handed over the letter to the Speaker. Sena’s Lok Sabha group leader Vinayak Raut said, “The issue of phone tapping that has come out is extremely serious. The phones of several prominent people, including ministers who are now serving, have been tapped. Therefore, a probe must be done through JPC.” Sena leader and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said that the incident is not just a “threat to freedom” but also “betrayal of the people” of this country. He further demanded that prime minister Narendra Modi or union home minister Amit Shah must speak on this matter. “Gradually more names will come forward and we are confident that names of political leaders from Maharashtra will also be there. We are sure that Information and Technology and such softwares have been used and possibly be in use to stop us. This is a big conspiracy and nobody can dare to do this without the support of the government,” Raut said in New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pegasusmaharashtra-connection-state-starts-inquiry-into-2019-israel-tour-of-officials-101626805896120.html
21-07-2021||Other||Home vaccination drive will start in Mumbai from August 1: State to HC||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that it will be starting the home vaccination drive in Mumbai from August 1. The state informed HC that its original plan of starting home vaccination on experimental basis from Pune was changed to Mumbai after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) submitted that through a door-to-door survey, it had identified around 3,505 people in 24 wards who are bedridden and severely ill. The court expressed satisfaction over the state government’s decision to formulate the much-delayed policy for home vaccination of severely ill, elderly and bedridden persons and also lauded BMC’s initiative. The court, however, did not mince words and said that the Centre had failed to rise to the occasion by not acceding to the requests for door-to-door vaccination policy and instead stuck to the near-to-home vaccination policy suggested by NEGVAC. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, was hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by lawyers Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari, which sought directions from the Centre, state and BMC to start door-to-door vaccination facility for persons over 75 years of age, the specially-abled and the bedridden.On Tuesday, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni and advocate Akshay Shinde appearing for the state government, submitted that a draft policy for home vaccination of needy persons had been prepared as per HC’s directions. Kumbhakoni submitted that as on Monday, it had identified 17,288 bedridden and immobile persons who requested jabs at their residence online. He added that physically disabled, patients on stretchers, wheelchair-bound persons and patients whose immunity is compromised and terminally ill patients who cannot go to vaccination centres were eligible for receiving vaccination at home. Kumbhakoni then submitted that as on Monday, the BMC had identified around 3,505 patients who expressed interest for home vaccination and hence it was decided to start the drive in Mumbai from August 1 rather than at Pune. The response till Monday from Pune was 50 persons only. He added that the drive in Mumbai would strictly adhere to vaccination protocols. Kumbhakoni then assured the bench that the draft policy would be finalised without major modifications and a status report of home vaccinated persons would be placed before the court in the next hearing.Senior counsel Anil Sakhare for BMC confirmed the willingness of the civic authority to conduct home vaccination free-of-cost from August 1. Sakhare added that a policy was required for private hospitals so that they can also provide facilities of home vaccination. Advocate Dhruti Kapadia said that the initiative by the state government was welcome and added that people over 80 years should also be added in the list of persons eligible for home vaccination. After hearing submissions, the bench noted in the order, “The Centre did not rise to the occasion. However, we record our satisfaction that the state has risen to the occasion and today we find some light at the end of the tunnel.” The bench then sought a status report from the authorities and posted hearing of the PIL to August 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/home-vaccination-drive-will-start-in-mumbai-from-august-1-state-to-hc-101626805895512.html
21-07-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: After slump, slight uptick in vaccinations in Delhi||After a significant dip in inoculations over the last two days, vaccination picked up pace with just under 72,000 doses administered in the Capital on Tuesday, according to data from the government’s CoWIN platform.Delhi had over 195,000 doses of Covaxin and 67,880 Covishield doses on Tuesday morning. The vaccines were administered through 730 out of the total 1,374 vaccination sites in the Capital.The city saw an uptick in vaccinations last Tuesday as well, with over 129,000 doses administered - the only day in the week when the number of shots crossed the six-figure mark.“There is a shortage of vaccines, we are not getting as many as required. So we cannot run all the vaccination sites,” said a senior east district official.The Capital saw only 25,985 doses -- 4,360 doses of Covishield and 21,625 doses of Covaxin -- administered on Monday, according to Delhi government’s vaccination bulletin.The government stopped administering Covaxin for first dose takers in June after running out of vaccines for those coming for their second dose after receiving the first jab in May. Only 20% of the total stock of Covaxin doses are being used for the first jab.“There are days when we end up giving more Covaxin shots because there is a shortage of Covishield. The use of Covaxin for first dose was stopped completely earlier; it resumed only about two weeks ago,” said another southwest district official.After seeing peaks of over 200,000 jabs a day thrice after the Centre changed its policy from June 21 and took control of vaccine purchase for all, the pace of the drive has been erratic. Vaccinations peaked on June 26, when the city administered over 207,000 doses of Covishield and Covaxin. In fact, Delhi vaccinated over 200,000 in a day on three occasions in four days between June 26 and 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-slump-slight-uptick-in-vaccinations-in-delhi-101626804938377.html
21-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi: With curbs on festivities, Eid to be muted affair this year as well||The city will once again observe a muted Eid-ul-Azha, in the shadow of the pandemic, on Wednesday with strict curbs on gatherings and large-scale festivities. The bigger mosques in the capital, including the Jama Masjid and Fatehpuri Masjid, will hold prayers with a handful of people in attendance.Mufti Mukarram Ahmed, the Shahi Imam of Fatehpuri Masjid, said Eid prayers will be offered by the staff of the mosque and a few others. “Since there is a ban on public gatherings, a larger congregation will not take place. We have appealed to people to offer prayers in the same manner as they did on Eid-Ul-Fitr, in compliance with Covid protocols,” said Ahmed. He added that sacrifice could be conducted in cooperation with resident welfare bodies and police while complying with hygiene and sanitation rules.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Tuesday reiterated that a ban on all religious gatherings was already in place and places of worship were open but not to visitors. DDMA also said meetings were conducted with Muslim religious leaders and masjid committees last week.Jama Masjid, one of the country’s largest mosques, will also remain shut to visitors. “According to government guidelines, bigger mosques will remain closed to visitors. Only the staff from the mosque will offer Eid prayers on Wednesday,” said Ansar-Ul-Haq, assistant public relations officer, Jama Masjid.Maulana Mohammad Furquan Qasmi, imam, Sunehri Masjid in Chandni Chowk, said prayers will be offered with only about 10-20 people due to restrictions. “Due to the pandemic, only a handful of people will offer the Eid namaz with adequate physical distancing and other protocols in place,” said Qasmi.Similar to last year, the pandemic has adversely affected the sale of goats. On Tuesday, Old Delhi’s Meena Bazaar, usually teeming with customers, saw a tepid footfall with goat sellers roaming across various locations in search of buyers.Mohd Imran Khan, a goat seller, said the annual market has been disrupted by the pandemic. “During normal (pre-Covid) times, the market used to be crowded with little space to even stand. This time, I have not sold a single goat. People are not ready to pay the amount we seek. There has been no business,” said Khan. Procured from Etah in Uttar Pradesh, he was hoping to sell four goats for a lakh each but is yet to find a buyer.Kanwar Singh, a goat seller from Rewari, who was roaming around Urdu Bazaar in search of customers, said he will not make a profit this year. “We arrived with 15 goats this time and three are yet to be sold. This time, we couldn’t make much profit; people have been affected by the pandemic and are not ready to spend as much as they did in the past,” he said.Mohammad Chand, who sells cutlery outside Jama Masjid, said his business was lukewarm. This year, he had not purchased a goat for sacrifice. “People who used to purchase four goats every year have bought only two. Those who used to get one or two are not planning to buy one this year. Even I’m not getting one this year,” said Chand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-with-curbs-on-festivities-eid-to-be-muted-affair-this-year-as-well-101626804816757.html
21-07-2021||Delhi||Emotional well-being of students is our priority: Manish Sisodia||Interacting with the parents and children of Delhi government schools on the second day of the parent-teacher meeting (PTM), deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said that the government schools are taking steps -- through happiness curriculum, and Yuva counselling helplines -- to ensure the emotional well-being of children during the Covid-19 pandemic.“..The emotional well-being and education of our students have been affected due to the absence of physical classes in schools and through these special PTMs, I am sure all the problems related to online classes, social-emotional and mental well-being of the students will be resolved,” said Sisodia, during his visit to three government schools in New Kondli, East Vinod Nagar, and Mandawali.The education minister also said that the government was taking multiple steps to keep children away from depression and stress during Covid-19. “In order to keep children away from depression and stress during the Covid period, teachers are taking mindfulness practice sessions through online classes under the Happiness Curriculum,” he said.Talking about the Delhi government’s Yuva Helpline number launched in July last year, Sisodia also said, “Whenever a person or student feels that they are stressed or going into a state of depression, they can call the Delhi government’s youth helpline. Our counsellors will help.”On Tuesday, the Delhi government said the dedicated helpline receives an average of 250-300 calls every day. Individuals can call the helpline -- 180011688 or 10580 -- from 7:30am to 8:30pm on all working days to talk to trained counsellors, the government said.The special PTM which started on Monday will continue till July 31. This is the first time that the PTMs are being conducted in collaboration with teachers from municipal corporation schools in Delhi for the students transitioning to state government schools from corporation schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/emotional-well-being-of-students-is-our-prioritysisodia-101626804815511.html
21-07-2021||Delhi||Two days of rain inundate 20 underpasses in Delhi||Flooded underpasses that are meant to decongest traffic-heavy stretches become the symbols of the city’s poor drainage system whenever it rains heavily in the Capital. Following rains on Monday and Tuesday, traffic from at least 20 underpasses was diverted after they were all flooded with rainwater, Delhi traffic police officials said.They said that though drainage at the Minto Bridge has been fixed by the authorities after a man drowned there last year, there are several underpasses across the city that get flooded every year even after moderate showers.Traffic police records show that traffic from at least 20 underpasses was diverted on Monday and Tuesday after these roads witnessed heavy flooding. On Monday, a man drowned in the inundated underpass at southeast Delhi’s Pul Prahlandpur, which has been on the police’s list of most vulnerable waterlogging spots.Besides Pul Prahladpur, the underpasses that were severely impacted were Airport Road underpass, Narela-Lampur underpass, Mehrauli underpass, Zakhira underpass, National Highway-8 underpass, Mehram Nagar underpass and Azadpur underpass. Traffic from all of these routes had to be diverted as the police along with road owning agencies pumped water out.Earlier this month, the Public Works Department (PWD) wrote to the traffic police to temporarily halt traffic movement around underpasses and low-lying areas, if the depth of the flood water crosses 20cm. However, traffic officials said that at a time when enforcement teams are firefighting on-ground, trying to manage traffic jams, diverting traffic while also pumping out water, these “half-hearted” measures do not yield results.“Once the water starts accumulating, it takes minutes for underpasses to get flooded. Though our teams are vigilant around these stretches but commuters are often unable to gauge the depth of the water on the stretches and often think they will be able to pass by. Monday’s case was slightly different though but year-after-year we find ourselves in the same position despite repeated reminders to the road owning agencies,” said a senior traffic official.Also Read | Rain continues for second day in Delhi, triggers waterlogging, snarlsTraffic cops and experts said the sight of underpasses getting flooded to the roof with rainwater is not new, especially in areas around outer Delhi. They said the drainage issues at the Minto Bridge -- which became an iconic picture whenever Delhi recorded heavy rain -- might have been rectified but there are several such underpasses across the city where the problem is much worse. Rescuers including police and teams from the Delhi Fire Services often have to fish out cars, buses and commuters that get trapped in the water.A senior PWD official said since most of the underpasses that witness heavy waterlogging are old, and the drainage capacity is not enough to flush out rainwater quickly. He said the department is now planning to redesign the drainage systems of these underpasses, adding that Pul Prahladpur is on top of their list.“On Monday, when water started accumulating at Pul Prahladpur, we deployed around eight pumps to flush out water. However, these pumps take time to flush out the water when it is constantly raining. Just like Minto Bridge, there is a plan to redesign the drainage at these underpasses. We will share the details of that once the plan is ready,” the official said.Sewa Ram, professor (transport planning) at School of Planning and Architecture, said that Delhi needs a dedicated traffic management plan for monsoon so that vehicular movement can be management more smoothly. He also said that road owning and civic agencies should also be made accountable for risking public life and ignoring the basic rules of designing roads and drainage.“Why should anyone lose their life because of the carelessness of authorities? In every other country when a road is designed, agencies ensure that the drainage can handle water load at least three times its original capacity, but that is not done here. We know that such a problem occurs every year, then why can’t have set diversion plans that will come into effect when waterlogging starts. Agencies can also partner with Google so that commuters can get real-time information on which roads are closed off in advance,” Ram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-days-of-rain-inundate-20-underpasses-in-delhi-101626804760688.html
21-07-2021||Delhi||Tilak Nagar: Domestic help held for kidnapping employer’s daughter||A 23-year-old domestic help was arrested for allegedly kidnapping her employer’s three-year-old daughter from their home in central Delhi’s Patel Nagar and demanding ₹42,000, including her salary, for her safe return.Police said the accused allegedly kidnapped the girl on Monday afternoon as she was annoyed at being scolded by her employer.According to police, the accused allegedly called the child’s mother and threatened to kill the toddler and commit suicide if she did not receive the ransom amount in her bank account.The domestic help was caught and the kidnapped child was safely rescued within three hours, after the Rajasthan Police -- acting on a tip-off from their counterparts in Delhi -- intercepted a bus, heading to Alwar, they were travelling in near Bhiwadi-Alwar border, senior police officers said.A senior Delhi Police officer said the child’s mother, who is a single parent and works in a costume export company in Delhi, approached the Patel Nagar police, claiming that her daughter was kidnapped by her domestic help between 3pm and 3.30 pm, while she was out for work.“The complainant told us that she had scolded the domestic help in the morning for not doing household work properly,” said the officer.Police said a case of kidnapping for ransom was registered and multiple teams scanned the CCTV cameras from the complainant’s neighbourhood, which purportedly showed the help leaving with the child.Investigators learnt that the suspect belonged to Alwar in Rajasthan and had been working at the complainant’s house for the past eight months. Suspecting that she may have left for her hometown, police teams contacted their counterparts in Rajasthan’s Bhiwadi, Alwar and Sikar areas and sought their assistance in rescuing the child.“The Rajasthan Police started checking private and public vehicles entering Rajasthan through Delhi borders. Around 6pm, the Bhiwadi police found the suspect travelling in a bus with the child. The suspect was caught and the child was safely rescued. We sent a team along with the complainant,” said the officer, adding the team returned with the suspect, the child and her mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tilak-nagar-domestic-help-held-for-kidnapping-employer-s-daughter-101626804755609.html
21-07-2021||Delhi||Forest dept survey finds 1,684 trees concretised along roads, housing colonies||An ongoing survey by the south division of the Delhi government’s forest department has found that at least 1,684 trees have been concretised along roads and in residential colonies, with officials claiming that they have issued fines totalling ₹38.7 lakh. The survey, which began last December and covers areas under the south division, aims to identify all such damaged trees and take steps for their revival.“So far, over 1,600 concretised trees have been identified across the area. Most of these are native species such as semal, neem, jamun, amaltas and gular, among others. The trees are aged between 10 years and 40-50 years,” said a senior forest official, who did not wish to be named.According to officials, around 180 trees along the road stretching from Greater Kailash-I (near the Ring Road) to R block red light, and then from there to M-block market, were found to be concretised by different government agencies.The senior official said that the survey may be extended to other divisions -- north and west.“Notices have been issued to offenders. While a fine of ₹38.7 lakh has been imposed, only ₹1.8 lakh has been deposited so far. Besides, corrective measures are being undertaken for affected trees,” said Amit Anand, deputy conservator of forest (DCF), south division.Apart from house and shop owners, the public works department (PWD) and the three municipal corporations --- South, North and East --- are among the offenders, an official said.Filling concrete within one metre radius of a tree trunk is a violation under the Delhi Trees Preservation Act, 1994, as well as of directions issued under the National Green Tribunal’s 2015 order, and can attract a penalty of ₹10,000 and above, depending on the damage.Officials said many of the trees identified by the survey were found to be old with their roots choked and partially dried up, even as the canopies of some others had become sparse.Tree officers who have been carrying out the survey explained that concretisation may even result in gradual decay in some cases. “The trunks and roots of many trees have been cemented while laying/re-laying of pavements, drains or other such construction works on main roads as well as in residential areas. Many residents, while making a driveway or levelling the entrance to their houses or shops, have cemented the area within one metre radius of the trees, which doesn’t leave enough space for water or air to percolate to the roots, resulting in its gradual decay and death,” said an official requesting anonymity.Meanwhile, a senior PWD official said that corrective measures are already being taken at several sites. “Restorative measures will be taken if any tree has been damaged,” said the official, who did not wish to be named.Officials in the South MCD said that they ensure that the contractors remove the concrete if the bases of any tree gets cemented during their work. “Many times, long after the work is over, residents making driveways or guard boxes also end up cementing the soil around the trees,” said a senior SDMC official, requesting anonymity.The Delhi high court had last September asked the state forest department to set up a helpline or a link on its website for people to report complaints of concretisation or any other damage caused to trees. The order came after a petition was filed by a resident of Old Delhi where a number of old trees were concretised over the decades leading to their decay.C R Babu, professor emeritus at Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystem in Delhi University, said that agencies and even individuals need to realise that concretisation of trees is an offence, as it eventually kills the tree. “Trees along the roads are avenue trees that provide shade and oxygen that act as filters against dust and pollution. They already have limited space to grow. When these trees are concretised, their root systems do not get enough space to develop or take the nutrients for its growth from the soil and water. During the monsoon, rainwater has to seep into the soil allowing tree growth, but if it’s layered with concrete, it will eventually die,” said Babu.He pointed out that many trees in Delhi are dying due to termite attack, noting that most such trees are left vulnerable by concretisation. He also pushed for increasing the minimum radius around trees for filling concrete from 1 metre to 2 metres.Last year, HT had reported several instances of concretisation of trees after which action was taken by the forest department against offending agencies.In October 2020, a number of trees on Maharishi Dayanand Marg in south Delhi’s Greater Kailash were found to be concretised and damaged during trenching activity that was being taken up by the public works department (PWD) for constructing a storm water drain in the area. Last September, around 30 full-grown tree bases were concretised at Meera Marg in Lodhi Colony during construction work being taken up by the road-owning agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/forest-dept-survey-finds-over-1-600-trees-concretised-along-roads-housing-colonies-101626804696769.html
21-07-2021||Delhi||24-yr-old held over theft of copper pipes connected to hospital’s oxygen plant||A 24-year-old man was arrested for allegedly cutting and stealing nearly 40kg of copper from a pipeline connected to an oxygen plant imported from Germany and installed at the Sanjay Gandhi Memorial hospital.Deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parvinder Singh said that the pipeline was connected to the newly installed oxygen plant to supply oxygen to the Covid ward and operation theatre (OT)-2 of the hospital.Dr PS Nayyer, medical superintendent of the hospital, said the pipes from cut up from the wards. “There will be no loss to the government as the contractor had not handed off the area to us. Work is still going on,” he said.A senior police officer said the accused was arrested and the cut pipes were recovered within two hours of the theft being reported on July 17.“The arrested man, Pawan, is an alcohol addict and lives in a house near the hospital. He stole the copper to arrange money for buying alcohol. He was previously involved in two gambling cases,” said DCP Singh.Dr Nayyer, however, said the recovered pipes were cut and cannot be used, and that the ward will need new pipelines.He further said that the crime was captured on the hospital’s CCTV camera. “The CCTV footage of the incident showed that the three people stuffed the pieces of the pipe in a sack and left the hospital on a motorcycle. The vehicle number was noted and all the guards were informed. Two of them came to the hospital on the same motorcycle the next day and were caught by a guard. They were handed over to the police. The recovery was made within 24 hours,” said Dr Nayyer.The DCP said that the medical superintendent of the hospital had filed a complaint regarding the theft on July 17 at the Mangolpuri police station. The complainant said that the theft took place on July 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/24yrold-arrested-over-theft-of-copper-pipes-connected-to-hospital-s-oxygen-plant-101626804696112.html
21-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sero survey: Covid antibodies found in 80% of Chandigarh’s adult population||The preliminary findings of the first sero-survey of Chandigarh’s adult population, being conducted by Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, has revealed that around 80% adults have been exposed to Covid-19 and that they have developed antibodies against the virus.Sero survey examines how many people in a population have antibodies against Covid-19, developed naturally or post vaccination. The survey is conducted by using an antibody test, also known as a serology test, and it helps to examine if an individual’s immune system has responded to the infection.“The department of biochemistry of GMCH-32 plans to test 1,200 adults from 30 randomly selected clusters in Chandigarh, including population from urban, rural and rehabilitation colonies. So far, we have tested 662 adults from urban and rural areas, of which 524 (79.4%) tested positive in the serology test,” said GMCH-32 director-principal Dr Jasbinder Kaur.The sero-survey results also found that antibodies are present more in the urban population than the rural population. Of the total persons tested, 132 were from rural areas and 91 (68.8%) of them were found sero-positive. Besides, 208 people from eight clusters and 322 people from urban sectors were also tested, wherein sero-prevalence stood at 83.5% and 79.8% respectively.“However, we are testing more adults in Chandigarh and the complete results of the sero-study will provide an accurate reflection of Covid-19 spread among the population of Chandigarh. The study will also help in studying immune response to the vaccine,” said Dr Kaur, adding that the survey will enable the health authorities to work out better mitigation strategies for prevention and control of the disease. “It will also help in prioritising the at-risk population,” she added.Children also highly exposed to virus in ChandigarhThe sero-survey of Chandigarh’s paediatric population, which is being conducted by the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, has revealed that children in the city were highly exposed to Covid-19 infection. As per the preliminary findings, 71% of UT’s children, in the 6 to 18 age group, have developed natural antibodies against Covid-19. So far, PGIMER has tested 1,968 of the targeted 2,700 children. Antibodies in children have formed without Covid vaccination, indicating that children were infected with the virus and have recovered from it. PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram, said, “So far, we have found that around 67.4% children in UT’s sector areas, 74.3% in rural and 73.2% in colony areas have developed natural antibodies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sero-survey-preliminary-findings-covid-19-antibodies-found-in-80-of-city-s-adult-population-101626796474976.html
21-07-2021||Pune||Heavy rain in catchment areas in Pune sees spike in dam capacities||As rainfall makes a comeback in and around Pune, dam catchment areas have also seen a rise in water storage in the past few days.As per the water resources department, Khadakwasla dam is at 42.84 per cent of capacity. Water storage has increased from 33.71 per cent since July 17.For Panshet dam, water storage has increased from 40.97 per cent to 44.92 per cent between July 17 and July 20. At Warasgaon dam, the water storage has improved from 29.87 per cent to 35.40 per cent in just four days. Temghar dam, which also provides water for drinking purposes to the city, has also seen a rise in storage from 19.78 per cent to 24.41 per cent in the past four days, as per officials.HV Gunale, chief engineer, water resources, Pune division, said that as the monsoon is reviving the catchment areas are receiving good rainfall.“There was less storage due to the monsoon break. However, the catchment area is receiving good rainfall now. In the past few days, water storage has improved as rainfall activity in ghat areas and catchment areas is improving,” said Gunale.Rainfall activity in Pune city and surrounding areas have also seen an improvement. On Tuesday, Shivajinagar reported 2mm of rainfall and Lohegaon reported 3mm. So far, Pune city has seen a rainfall deficiency of 57.3 mm. As per India Meteorological Department (IMD), moderate rainfall is forecast for Pune city till July 22.“Isolated heavy and extremely heavy rainfall is forecast for ghat areas around Pune till July 22,” said IMD Officials.Water storage at damsPanshetRainfall till July 17-- 472 mmRainfall till July 20-- 606 mmWater storage till July 17-- 40.97 %Water storage till July 20-- 44.92 %KhadakwaslaRainfall till July 17-- 237 mmRainfall till July 20-- 277 mmWater storage till July 17-- 33.71 %Water storage till July 20-- 42.84 %WarasgaonRainfall till July 17-- 458 mmRainfall till July 20-- 595 mmWater storage till July 17-- 29.87 %Water storage till July 20-- 35.04 %TemgharRainfall till July 17-- 706 mmRainfall till July 20-- 856 mmWater storage till July 17-- 19.78 %Water storage till July 20-- 24.41 %Source: Water Resource Department||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/heavy-rain-in-catchment-areas-sees-spike-in-dam-capacities-101626792094796.html
21-07-2021||Pune||CM’s prayer: “Let there be sea of devotion in Pandharpur and warkaris be allowed to perform wari on foot again”||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, on Tuesday, said he would like to see devotees thronging the temple in Pandharpur. Thackeray was speaking after he performed the ‘’maha puja’’ of Lord Vitthal and Goddess Rukmini at a temple in Pandharpur, Solapur district, on the occasion of ‘Ashadhi Ekadashi’. The chief minister said he prayed for an end to the Covid-19 crisis and good health of everyone in the state, adding, “”Let there be a sea of devotion in Pandharpur and warkaris be allowed to perform ‘’wari’’ on foot again, and for that, I prayed to Lord Vitthal to eradicate Covid-19 and bless people in the state with good health.” As per the long-standing tradition, the chief minister performed the puja with his wife Rashmi Thackeray at 2.30 am. Ashadhi Ekadashi, one of the most important Hindu festivals, marks the culmination of a pilgrimage called the ‘’wari’’ that devotees (known as warkaris), undertake from across the state on foot, to Pandharpur. However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has not allowed the pilgrimage on foot since last year. The palkhis (palanquins) carrying ‘’padukas’’ (footwears) of saint-poets Dnyaneshwar and Tukaram, left for Pandharpur in flower-decked buses with a limited number of warkaris from Pune district on Monday. Thackeray’s son and state minister Aaditya Thackeray was also present on the occasion when chief minister performed the puja. Warkari couple Keshav Kolte and Indubai Kolte got the opportunity to perform the rituals alongside the Thackerays. Every year, a warkari couple is chosen to perform the official puja with the chief minister. Thackeray said, “I have seen lakhs of warkaris here (in normal times before Covid-19 outbreak), I have seen the sea of devotion flowing every year in Pandharpur. I want to see that picture again and I pray to Lord Vitthal to restore the same by ending the Covid-19 crisis.” He said devotion and self-confidence are needed to come to Pandharpur on foot after covering a long distance, “and that self-confidence helps one wade through challenges”. He noted that every year lakhs of warkaris used to come here on this day, but many of them could not even go inside the temple’s sanctum sanctorum for ‘’darshan’’ and had to return home by just visiting of the temple from outside. “It is the devotion that makes them come here on foot and this provides a strong foundation on which the state and the nation are standing,” he said. Thackeray said he is fortunate that he got the opportunity to come to Pandharpur and perform the ‘maha puja’’. Appreciating the structure of the temple’’s sanctum sanctorum, he said, “Every pillar, every stone and every idol here expresses something.” He asked Solapur district guardian minister Dattatray Bharne to showcase this heritage to the world and suggested undertaking a project for it. The CM handed over a cheque of ₹5 crore on behalf of the state government to the Pandharpur Municipal Council. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cms-prayer-let-there-be-sea-of-devotion-in-pandharpur-and-warkaris-be-allowed-to-perform-wari-on-foot-again-101626790174636.html
21-07-2021||Pune||Students in Pune gear up for Class 11 CET exams||The wholesale market at Appa Balwant chowk see rush of students buying books for the upcoming first common entrance test (CET) for admissions to first year junior college (FYJC) courses. The state education board has announced to conduct CET on August 21. Although the exam is optional for students, many youngsters turned up at the wholesale market for books on Tuesday to purchase CET related books. Students are also enrolling at private coaching classes to crack the test. “As there was no class 10 board exam this year, I scored less than expected marks. Hence, to get a good college for the Science stream, I need to score well in the CET examination. I have come to buy books on four subjects as per the CET syllabus,” said Shruti Jathar, who visited Appa Balwant chowk on Tuesday. Kishore Mhatre, a book stall owner at Appa Balwant chowk, said, “The demand for CET books, guides, notes and other study material has risen since last couple of days. As the exam is going to be held for the first time, the syllabus is new and we are getting the study material in phase wise manner from publication companies.” The CET exam comprises four subjects — Mathematics, Science, Social Science and English. Each subject is given 25 marks weightage and the duration to appear for the exam is two hours. It will be conducted in multiple-choice questions (MCQ) format. Meanwhile, many coaching institutes are offering discounts for CET preparation and class 11 studies. Some are also giving one-month crash course for students to prepare for the CET exam. “We are offering classes for CET exam. As it is the first time that the exam will be conducted, students need to score well to get admissions to their desired colleges.” said Prof Kedar Takalkar, founder-director of Takalkar Classes. Prof Sandeep Bendre, running another private coaching class, said, “We are getting many enrollments for Class 11 CET exams and are starting the online batch from tomorrow (Wednesday). There are two batches as per subjects and we will cover the syllabus in the next 20 days and last 10 days will be for revision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-in-pune-gear-up-for-class-11-cet-exams-101626788254516.html
21-07-2021||Delhi||Long way home: Rescuers struggle to rehab dogs after SGACC shuts down||Many rescue dogs in the Capital are once again facing an uncertain future as one of Delhi’s oldest institutions for sheltering abandoned animals, Sanjay Gandhi Animal Care Centre (SGACC), is temporarily shutting operations from August 1. Former Union Minister Maneka Gandhi, who started SGACC, said the hiatus was to ensure upgraded infrastructure, better staffing and animal sensitivity training. In a statement issued on her Twitter handle, she said, “As of 01.08.2021, after 40 years of functioning, the hospital will be shut down for a complete overhaul.” The statement further mentioned that the centre will be closed to any future rescues, and existing animals will be rehabilitated. “It will be closed to any future rescues, and existing animals will be rehabilitated. We will rebuild this institution again – physically (with the entire dog section rebuilt, with new infrastructure) and more importantly, in terms of staffing,” it stated.In the meanwhile, animal rescuers are aiming to rehabilitate at least 500 dogs from SGACC, battling limited resources and the lack of publicity.Social media to the rescue Elaborating on the changes underway at the SGACC, Mohit Sharma, who has been working at the centre for nearly three-and-a-half years says, “New shelter construct hoga, toh aur space nahin hoga humare paas to rescue dogs and large animals.” In a bid to amplify the cause, the volunteers are using social media to find prospective families. The response so far has been underwhelming, however. “It’s disheartening. Very few people have come forward,” shares Manta Sidhu, from Angel Eyes NGO, who is helping SGACC.Forever homes, no more fosters The rehabilitation process is now focussing on finding forever homes rather than foster ones. Underscoring the need for them, Sidhu says, “It gets difficult for dogs to move from one place to another. It will be tough for them to adjust again with the new dogs here.” The plight of desi breeds Despite Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal for the adoption of Indian dog breeds last year, and various celebs advocating for the desi breed, denizens are still unsure. Animal volunteer Garima Dabla working with the team says, “There is still some hesitancy in adopting abandoned dogs or the indie breed even though these dogs are healthy, vaccinated and spayed/ neutered.” Welcome to spend time at the centre As humans often form instant bonds with animals, the centre is allowing to-be pet parents to visit and spend time with the dogs to make the process smooth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/animal-rescuers-appeal-to-rehome-dogs-after-sanjay-gandhi-animal-care-centre-shuts-down-101626717510988.html
