22-07-2021||Mumbai||At 480mm Mahabaleshwar gets highest daily July rainfall||With extremely heavy rains lashing southern reaches of the Konkan coast and central Maharashtra on Thursday, the hill station of Mahabaleshwar (in Satara district) received its highest ever quantum of daily rainfall in July, at a whopping 480mm in the 24 hours, ending 8:30am on Thursday — breaking the previous record for of 439.8mm (on July 7, 1977). Other hill stations too recorded extremely heavy rain (above 204.5mm over the course of a day), with Matheran (in Raigad district) notching up 331mm of rain and Lonavala (in Pune district) clocking a total 313mm of rain.The downpour led to severe flooding or waterlogging in parts of Ratnagiri, Raigad, Satara and Kohlapur, and had been foreseen by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) a day prior. These districts had been placed under a ‘red’ category storm warning alert, indicating a high possibility of severe weather. IMD had particularly warned of “extremely heavy rainfall likely at isolated places in ghat areas.”“Friday and Saturday are days to watch in these districts, even though they have been placed under an orange category alert. We expect that the intensity of rains will start decreasing from Friday, but doppler radar images from Thursday evening showed very intense rain bands over the western ghats and there is a chance of further heavy spells during the night,” said a spokesperson with IMD’s Pune office on Thursday.Dr J R Kulkarni, a retired meteorologist with the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology in Pune, said, “The intensity of the rain would have been compounded by the orographic effect of the western ghats. Since the Mahabaleshwar area is also the source of the Krishna river and feeds a lot of the channels that flow toward the windward side of the ghats, the runoff would have, no doubt, driven flooding in some of the low-lying areas along the west coast, as well as on the leeward side in places like Satara and Kohlapur.”Kulkarni added that 480mm of rain in a day for Mahabaleshwar is alarming, and certainly bears a strong signature of climate change, but at the same time is not surprising or unusual for the area. He, along with other independent meteorologists HT spoke with, said that forecasting the distribution and intensity of rains in the Western Ghats is far trickier owing to the landscape than in coastal areas. “You see the same problem in the Himalayan foothills, for example. 480mm of rain in a single day in a place like Mahabaleshwar is indeed very hard to predict,” added Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher with the University of Reading, UK. With the average total rainfall (from June 1) standing at 2032.7mm, the Konkan and Goa meteorological sub-division are currently the wettest in the entire country, in absolute terms. The rainfall amount is 45% above the normal up to July 22, which is 1402.7mm. Just this month alone, Konkan and Goa have together recorded an average rainfall amount 1191.9mm, which is 60% above the normal up to July 22, which comes to 747.2mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-480mm-mahabaleshwar-gets-highest-daily-july-rainfall-101626977880694.html
22-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai gets 1.1mm rainfall in 8 hrs; July rain crosses 1,000mm mark for 4th year||The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) monitoring station in Santacruz recorded just 1.1mm of rain in eight hours ending 5:30pm on Thursday, down from 50.2mm during the same time frame a day prior, indicating a significant slowdown in the intensity of rains over the city.However, the day marked a significant milestone in the ongoing monsoon season, as the total monthly rainfall touched 1,040mm, as against the normal rainfall target for July, which stands at 827mm. This is now the fourth successive year in which July rains have crossed the 1,000mm mark. In 2018, the July total was recorded at 1138.8 mm. In 2019 it was 1,464.8 mm and in 2020 it was 1,502 mm — marking its wettest July ever. In 2017, however, the city has recorded just 869.7mm of rain.The city also crossed the 2,000mm rainfall mark for the entire monsoon season (up to September end) on Thursday. Since June 1, Mumbai has received a total of 2,002.5mm of rain, or 90.8% of the total monsoon rainfall target (which currently stands at 2,205mm, as per the IMD). Of this, 961.4mm was recorded in June, which were also more than the monthly normal of 505mm.The IMD has placed Mumbai under an orange category weather alert on July 23, indicating “heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places” and under a yellow alert on July 24 and 25, indicating “heavy rain at isolated places”. On July 26, the city has been placed under a green category weather alert (for the first time in at least a week), indicating only “light to moderate rains” over the city.As per IMD’s seven-day forecast for the city (based on data from its monitoring station in Santacruz), the maximum temperature over the next week will hover between 29 and 30 degrees Celsius, while the minimum temperature will hover between 25 and 26 degrees Celsius. On Thursday, the daytime maximum was recorded at 28.4 degrees Celsius, and the morning minimum stood at 25.8 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-gets-1-1mm-rainfall-in-8-hrs-july-rain-crosses-1-000mm-mark-for-4th-year-101626977820714.html
22-07-2021||Mumbai||MMR inundated: Rivers swell, Thane wells up with woes||The continuous spell of heavy rain since Wednesday night hit the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, causing Ulhas, Waldhuni and Kamwari rivers in Thane district to cross the danger mark and leaving over 5,500 residents stuck at 67 spots on Thursday. Amid shocking visuals from Badlapur, Ambernath, Kalyan and Bhiwandi, authorities claimed all residents stuck in the floods in different parts of Thane district were rescued safely and no casualty or injuries were reported. In Shahapur, around 100 state transport buses were sent to help passengers stranded in mail trains on the Khadavli- Kasara railway route. At Umbarmali railway station, around 2,500- 3,000 passengers who were stranded in a long-distance train due to waterlogging on railway tracks, were safely rescued in buses. Eighteen roads across the district were closed either due to flooding or because they were washed away. The residents were rescued and shifted to 18 locations by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and Thane Disaster Response Force (TDRF). Shivaji Patil, deputy collector, Thane district, said, “There is no casualty anywhere in the district. We had deployed three teams of NDRF one at Umbarmali railway station, one in Kalyan and one in Badlapur. The situation was under control by Thursday evening, however one team of NDRF is kept as standby in case of any emergency. The downpour in short duration led to the overflowing of rivers and further led to flooding in several parts of the district.” The seven talukas in Thane district – Thane, Kalyan, Murbad, Bhiwandi, Shahapur, Ulhasnagar and Ambernath – received 147.8mm rain as of Thursday, while a total of 2,433 mm rain was received since the onset of the monsoon. In Ambernath taluka’s Badlapur locality, 12 residents were rescued from Barage road premises and eight residents from nearby premises. The fire brigade team rescued 70 disabled animals and 10 persons from an orphanage in Chamtoli, Badlapur. Residents were rescued from Suyognagar in Kalyan, while Shastrinagar chawls in Titwala were evacuated. Residents from Varap, Shahad, Kamba and Mharal villages took shelter in a school nearby. In Kamba village, 25 villagers stuck in their homes were rescued using life jackets and tyres. The Raita bridge connecting the Kalyan-Murbad road was shut as the bridge submerged. Eighty families living near the mosque in Balyani, Kalyan (West) were shifted to a school. Residents of Ashoknagar and Shivaji nagar in Kalyan (East) were also shifted. The Mohili pumping station in Kalyan was shut due to waterlogging followed by which water supply to several parts of the city was suspended. “It is a flooding-prone area. Around 1.30am, the water level started rising and we left the houses. The authorities served us notices asking to vacate the houses, but they never gave us an alternative accommodation,” said Chetan Ranpise, 33, whose houses in Shivaji Nagar locality Waldhuni, Kalyan was flooded. The fire brigade team of Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) rescued 20 residents stuck at Ambika Nagar, Anupamnagar and Bhavani nagar, 100 residents stuck at Govindwadi and Waldhuni in Kalyan and Raju Nagar, Motagaon in Dombivli. In Bhiwandi, four truck drivers who were stuck in a nullah at Amne village were rescued after five-hour long operations. Around 40 villagers who were stuck in Ganeshnagar village in Bhiwandi around 12.15am on Thursday, were safely rescued by the team of Thane Disaster Response Force (TDRF) in a four hour long operations. Several villages in Shahapur were submerged. The team of NDRF rescued 59 persons from Kamba village near Kalyan. “Two teams were deployed in Kalyan and Bhiwandi,” said Pavan Dev Gaur, deputy commandant, NDRF. Ten people stuck in a bungalow at Mohan Edge, Barvi road, Badlapur, posted their plight on social media, followed by which the Alert citizen forum of Ambernath alerted the authorities concerned. “The team of fire brigade reached the spot and rescued the residents using boat,” said Satyajit Burman, founder of ACF, Ambernath. DS Gawade, senior police inspector of Badlapur west police station, said, “Our team along with the fire brigade team managed to rescue them and sent them to a safer place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mmr-inundated-rivers-swell-thane-wells-up-with-woes-101626977760717.html
22-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Floods and landslides hit outstation, local trains||As heavy rains lashed the Mumbai Metropolitan Region and Konkan, both suburban and outstation trains were disrupted. While the Mumbai-Nashik route was affected due to landslides in the Kasara ghat section, the Konkan Railway was disrupted due to floods in Ratnagiri and Raigad districts. Though Mumbai local trains did face some problems early morning, the situation was normalised as the day progressed. Rains caused massive damage in terms of track washouts as well as waterlogging on the Central Railway (CR) network. There were disruptions at 21 locations. Throughout the day, 35 trains were diverted, 51 were terminated and 48 were cancelled.The heavy showers in the Bhor and Thul ghats on Central Railway routes of Titwala-Igatpuri and Ambarnath-Lonavala bore the brunt as a boulder fell on the tracks. There were also track washouts, waterlogging, tree fallings as well as damage to signal posts and overhead equipment (OHE). This affected the train services on this route. The CR administration ensured that no trains are held up in between stations and regulated the trains at the stations like Kasara, Igatpuri, Badlapur and Khadavali.Buses were arranged for stranded passengers in Kasara and Igatpuri to transport them to Kalyan. Around 75 buses from Igatpuri transported 4,835 passengers to Kalyan, while 29 buses at Kasara transported 1,249 passengers to Kalyan.In Shahapur, around 100 state transport buses were sent to help stranded passengers of mail trains on the Khadavli-Kasara railway route. At Umbarmali railway station, around 2,500- 3,000 passengers who were stranded on mail trains due to waterlogging on railway tracks, were safely moved through buses.Due to heavy rain, the water level of the Vasishti river bridge between Chiplun and Kamathe stations in the Ratnagiri region rose above the danger level. Due to this, the passenger train services in the sector were suspended.In Mumbai, there was a point failure between Churchgate and Marine Lines station on both slow and fast trains track at 6:12am, due to which, they were diverted on other lines. Normalcy was resumed at 7:26am.The Karmali-CSMT and CSMT-Karnani Tejas Express were cancelled. In addition, the CR also rescheduled the outstation trains of Lokmanya Tilak-Thiruvanthapuram Central Daily-Special as well as Lokmanya Tilak-Manguluru Central Daily-Special by a few hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-floods-and-landslides-hit-outstation-local-trains-101626977641325.html
22-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Modak Sagar and Tansa lake overflow||The Modak Sagar and Tansa lakes began to overflow on Thursday morning, becoming the third and fourth lakes among the seven, that provides water to Mumbai, to overflow this monsoon. The Tulsi lake was the first one to overflow this monsoon, on July 16, followed by the Vihar lake that overflowed on July 18. The Modak Sagar lake overflowed at 3.24am on Thursday, while Tansa lake overflowed at 5.48am. On Thursday, the cumulative water available in the seven lakes that provide water to Mumbai was at 53.86%, up from 33.22% on Tuesday morning. In comparison, on the same day last year, the seven lakes had 28.77% useful water content. On the same day in 2019, Mumbai’s lakes had 53.76% useful water content. As of Thursday, there is enough drinking water to last the city for over 180 days, with a total water stock of 779,568 million litres (ML). BMC provides the city with a total of 3850 ML drinking water per day. Less than a week ago, on Friday, lake levels in Mumbai were at 17%, prompting BMC’s hydraulics department to consider imposing a water cut for the city. The upper Vaitarna lake, which had 0% useful water content until Tuesday went up to 4% useful water content on Thursday morning, as it received 225mm rainfall in the 24 hours until 6am on Thursday, adding 2.07 metres to its water content. Of the total water capacity of Bhatsa, which is 717,037 ML, around 575,700 ML is allotted to BMC for use in the city. Presently, Bhatsa has 368,184 ML useful water, or 51.35% useful water content of its total capacity. Middle Vaitarna has 47.7% useful water content and 92,342 ML water at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-modak-sagar-and-tansa-lake-overflow-101626977580766.html
22-07-2021||Noida||Unique ID of potholes helps officials assess work of contractors||A special software that assigns a unique identification number to each pothole cropping up on city roads is helping officials of the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) to track the number of times patchworks are being carried out in a certain road and demand accountability from the contractors undertaking the work. The system, created under GNIDA’s OneMap Geographic Information System (GIS), helps officials virtually see which road has the maximum patchwork. OneMap is an online integrated and detailed map of Greater Noida that contains details of all utility services, such as sewer lines, electricity cables, internet wires and drains, as well as housing and industrial units and other important civic facilities.The authority’s CEO, Narendra Bhooshan, said, “Officials are closely monitoring on OneMap the number of times contractors are carrying out patchworks on potholes. Once the patchwork is done, the contractor gives it a unique identification number, just like an Aadhaar card, uploads its photograph as well as the geographical coordinates on OneMap. The unique ID gives details about the pothole, its size, its date and its location. Officials can see the photograph of the patchwork and all its details by accessing the ID on OneMap.” “The system ensures transparency and brings accountability,” said Bhooshan adding that in order to make contractors liable for the quality of work they undertake, they will be assessed by the number of times patchworks are done on the road made by them at the end of their contract. “The unique ID has separate codes for each contractor, which will show how many times a contractor had to undertake repairs after making the road. If the road is repaired over 10 or 20 times (the exact criteria is yet to be decided), the contractors will be blacklisted. The contractors will be given a credit rating depending on the work they have done, which will decide if their contract will be renewed or not,” said the CEO. Bhooshan added the junior engineers of the authority will also go on ground to check whether the dimensions given by the contractor are correct and only after verification will their payments be processed. The number of potholes is expected to increase manifold now that the monsoon is here. Anurag Kulshrestha, advisor to Gautam Budh Nagar’s road safety cell and president of TRAX--an NGO working towards road safety, said for four-wheelers, potholes can flatten tires and damage wheels but they can prove to be fatal for two-wheelers. “To ensure safety, it is essential to have quality roads. The height of the area beside the roads should be lower than that of the road so that water can drain out safely. However, such a practice is not followed and potholes keep coming up again and again,” said Kulshrestha.Meanwhile, complaints about potholes are pouring in on the GNIDA’s mobile app ‘Mitra’. These complaints are also notified to the contractor. “Once a resident raises a complaint about a pothole in the Mitra app, the contractor has to complete the patchwork within a certain number of days. Our engineers too keep conducting surveys and notify contractors about potholes that need repairs,” said Bhooshan.He added that a system is being developed to connect the Mitra app with OneMap so that complaints and their solutions can all be accessed on one portal. Currently, OneMap’s beta version is live on the GNIDA’s website and a mobile app of the same was rolled out earlier this month for citizens. However, the map’s official launch is due in August.“The OneMap’s beta version is live on the website for about a year now but it is still in the works. The feature for providing ID and uploading patchwork coordinates and pictures on the map was started in January this year for some parts of Greater Noida and is yet to be rolled out for the whole city,” said Bhooshan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/unique-id-of-potholes-helps-officials-assess-work-of-contractors-101626977340658.html
22-07-2021||Noida||Noida: Lone power theft police station has four officers to solve 3,350 cases||Two years ago in September, the Uttar Pradesh government opened a dedicated anti-power theft police station in each district to relieve the district police of the burden of solving power pilferage cases. And while the lone such station in Gautam Budh Nagar, in Sector 63, has lightened the load on the district police, it may very well fold under the weight of the cases it now shoulders-- the responsibility of solving 3,350 power theft cases with just four officers. Anita Upadhyay, the circle officer of the police station, said currently, there are 19 employees at the police station. Besides her, there is one inspector, two sub-inspectors, nine head constables, four constables and two computer operators. “The sanctioned strength of sub-inspectors for the anti-power theft police station is five. As a result, the responsibility of submitting the charge-sheets lies with only two sub-inspectors,” she said. Upadhyay said over 5,000 cases of power theft have been registered there since its inception. “Of these, we have submitted the final report in nearly 1,600 cases, after recovering ₹1.76 crore from the offenders. In 300 other cases, where the accused didn’t appear to clear their dues or fines, we have submitted the charge-sheet before different courts in the district. Our sub-inspectors are working hard to dispose of the remaining cases but it’s tough considering the huge caseload,” said the circle officer, adding that most of the pending cases are from last year or the current year. “We’ve sent the requisition for more officers, particularly sub-inspectors, to the state headquarters and hope that they are posted soon. It is apparent that after the Covid-19 outbreak, our enforcement and investigation has slowed down. However, the pendency in investigation is mainly due to delay in the assessment of revenue by the power divisions, late submission of reports about the revenue realised and the compounding amount paid by the offender by the sub division/division to the investigating officer. In some cases, the offenders are not informed about the FIR registered against them by the enforcement teams. As a result, (s)he does not pay the penalty till (s)he is informed about the FIR,” said Upadhyay. When contacted, Virendra Nath Singh, the Noida divisional chief engineer of Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL), said since 1986, enforcement squads were constituted, comprising police personnel on deputation to the power corporation, which worked on detecting and preventing power thefts. “The cases, registered by these squads and the corporation’s own enforcement teams were investigated by the local police station. But now, the dedicated police station has been helping the enforcement wings of the distribution companies (discoms) to get the FIRs registered promptly. The monitoring of FIRs and investigations by the officers of the anti-power theft police station has helped us detect and prevent electricity pilferages more effectively,” said Singh. He further said a close followup of the investigations has led to timely disposal of cases. ”On receipt of payment of the compounding amount and the assessed revenue, the final report is filed by the investigating officer. This has resulted in a quantum leap in the number of final reports filed. Only contested cases of revenue assessment lead to the filing of the charge sheets, as the penalty would not be paid. The phenomenal increase in penalty collection has contributed significantly to the exchequer of the discoms,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-lone-power-theft-police-station-has-four-officers-to-solve-3-350-cases-101626977280676.html
22-07-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: BBA student among two held for death of 15-year-old boy||A 22-year-old college student was arrested on Wednesday and a juvenile apprehended in connection with the death of a 15-year-old boy who went missing from Greater Noida’s Rabupura and later his body was recovered on July 17 from a canal in Aligarh. The victim, Mudit, who left home on a motorcycle on July 16, was a resident of Akalpur village, police said. According to police, the two suspects and the victim had gone to a canal near their village for bathing. “But Mudit drowned in the canal. The two suspects got scared, so they threw away his clothes and motorcycle in the canal and fled the spot. They didn’t inform anybody about the incident,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida.The college student, identified as Lokesh kumar, was pursuing BBA from a private institute in Greater Noida, police said. The identity of the other suspect, a 16-year-old juvenile, has been withheld. According to the victim’s family, the boy was a student of class 10. “We launched a search when he did not return home in the evening. Later, a missing complaint was filed at Rabupura police station,” said Rohtan Singh Bhati, the boy’s uncle.“Later, we came to know that Mudit had offered his two friends lift on his motorcycle to the tube well in the farm. We asked the police to interrogate the two youths to get some clues in this case,” Bhati said.Pandey, the additional DCP, said that an FIR was registered against unknown persons under Section 363 (kidnapping) of IPC on July 16. “The post-mortem report revealed that the boy died of drowning. We questioned his two friends -- Lokesh Kumar and a juvenile -- who revealed that Mudit was bathing with them in a canal and he went into deep water and drowned,” he said. The police also recovered the victim’s motorcycle from the canal. The two suspects were also charged under Section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of IPC. Lokesh was produced in court and sent to judicial custody, while the minor was sent to a juvenile home, Pandey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-bba-student-among-two-held-for-death-of-15-year-old-boy-101626975300401.html
22-07-2021||Noida||Luxury car driver booked for breaking through police barricade on DND||Police have booked an unidentified driver of a luxury car for allegedly breaking through a police barricade on the DND Flyway on Tuesday night. The incident took place around 11pm when a regular vehicle checking for the implementation of the night curfew was going on at various points in the city, police said. According to police officials, there were multiple people in the vehicle, a BMW. The luxury car was flagged by a police team to stop but the driver sped up and managed to flee. A case was registered on Wednesday at Sector 20 police station against the unidentified driver for rash driving (Section 279) and attempt to murder (Section 307) of the Indian Penal Code.“A police van was damaged in the incident, but luckily no personnel were injured. We have registered a case and efforts are on to trace the vehicle’s owner. Due action will be taken against the offenders,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1. The officials said police have scanned the footages from CCTV cameras in the area and the vehicle has been traced to Shahjahanpur. The driver will be arrested soon, they said. This is the second such incident in less than a month when a police team was almost hit by a speeding vehicle. On June 27, a man was arrested by Sector 58 police for trying to run down a traffic constable while driving in the wrong direction near the Khoda T-point.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/luxury-car-driver-booked-for-breaking-through-police-barricade-on-dnd-101626975240438.html
22-07-2021||Noida||‘Only farmers with verified credentials will join protest at Jantar Mantar’||As the farmers protesting against the Centre’s three new farm laws launched an agitation on Thursday at the Jantar Mantar, farmer leaders at the UP Gate site said that they have made elaborate arrangements so that no unverified person moves to the protest site in New Delhi. The farmer leaders are treading cautiously this time as their tractor march on January 26 this year ended up in incidents of violence. The Delhi Police had registered FIRs against several farmer leaders in connection with the violence while the latter maintained that the trouble creators during the tractor march were outsiders. “We are sending only those people to the Jantar Mantar whose credentials are verified. Such people in different groups will move to the Jantar Mantar in a bus from Singhu Border and return in the evening the same day. We have adopted a more disciplined approach to our protest,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, UP Gate site spokesperson of Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of different farmer organisations.The contingents of 200 farmers each will reach the Jantar Mantar to protest against the agri laws and hold their own “Kisan Sansad” on each of the working day of the Parliament until the Monsoon session ends, the SKM said in a statement on Thursday. The session is likely to conclude on August 13.The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) said that the farmers have been strictly told that no one other than those verified will move out of the UP Gate site for the protest at the Jantar Mantar. “We have also decided that only three members from one organisation will go to Delhi and one of these three will be a farmer leader. This means that for every two protesting farmers, we will have one leader who will ensure that they strictly follow the route and other norms,” said Dharmendra Malik, national media coordinator for the BKU. On Thursday, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait was among the members of the first group of farmers that left for Singhu Border to join the protest at the Jantar Mantar. “Our panchayat in Delhi is named as ‘Kisan Sansad’. Our people carrying their identity cards will take part in the protest at Jantar Mantar,” Tikait said at the UP Gate site before leaving for Singhu Border. The farmers are protesting at the UP Gate site since November 26 last year, demanding rollback of the new farm laws and a new law on minimum support price. Last year, the Parliament passed three laws -- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. While the government said these laws would be beneficial to the agriculture sector, farmers say that they would severely affect their livelihood. The farmer leaders and the representatives of the government have held 11 rounds of talks but the stalemate continues. The last time the two parties held talks was on January 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/only-farmers-with-verified-credentials-will-join-protest-at-jantar-mantar-101626975185291.html
22-07-2021||Gurugram||1,146 million litres per day of rainwater retained in Aravallis||The district was able to retain 1,146 million litres per day (MLD) of water in the Aravalli region from the heavy spell of rain that lashed the city on Monday, officials from Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) said. The information was shared during a residents’ advisory council meeting held in the city on Thursday. The water was collected in an area of around 600 hectares in the Aravallis from rainfall of over 200mm received between Sunday and Tuesday. Subhash Yadav, head of the urban environment division, GMDA, said, “With our efforts to arrest rainwater in the forests itself and ensure it does not run off into the stormwater drain, around 1146 MLD of water has been retained in the Aravallis. Our teams visited the areas today (Thursday), where check dams were made and saw that this water has already percolated down in the soil.” The GMDA’s chief executive officer also asked officials to determine the total amount of water retained in the whole GMDA area during these two days of heavy rain. On July 18-19, the city received 185mm of rainfall according to the India Meteorological Department, which is almost 39% of the total rainfall it receives in the monsoon. Officials from IMD said that Gurugram received 88mm of surplus rainfall compared to the seasonal average, from June 1 till 22, which is 243mm. Officials said that 1,146MLD of water is equivalent to a four to five-day water supply for the entire city. Suresh Chahal, joint chief executive officer of GMDA, said, “This time, we have been able to catch the rain efficiently. For the first time, we have been able to retain so much water in the Aravallis, which is equal to almost five days of water consumption of Gurugram. This made sure that there was negligible waterlogging on Golf Course Road and also that the groundwater table is recharged.” Sharing further details from the meeting, Chahal said that residents raised issues of flooding in Sector 9 and Sector 4, where improvements are needed. “The chief executive officer has asked officials to check the areas of concern suggested by the residents and issued blank orders that whoever will be deployed for repair work at any location, from either GMDA or Municipal Corporation of Gurugram, will have to take it up despite (any difference in) jurisdiction,” said Chahal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/1146-million-litres-per-day-of-rainwater-retained-in-aravallis-101626975184736.html
22-07-2021||Gurugram||MCG officials face suspensions, salary cuts in surprise check by home minister||Anil Vij, Haryana’s home and urban local bodies (ULB) minister, carried out a surprise inspection of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) office on Thursday and announced the formation of a committee to resolve Gurugram’s drainage issues, suspension of two MCG officials and filing of a police complaint about embezzlement of funds reported in November 2020.Vij visited the MCG’s main office in Sector 34 around 10.30am and continued the inspection till 12.30pm, with the majority of scrutiny being carried out at the MCG’s accounts and engineering wings.During his visit, two subdivisional officers (SDOs) were found to be absent from their seats. Upon inquiring, he found the information on their whereabouts to be unsatisfactory and suspended them with immediate effect.An executive engineer on deputation to the MCG was also relieved of his duties and sent back to his home department by Vij because he was not resolving matters raised by MCG councillors. Further, he also directed MCG officials to deduct the two-hour salary of an official in the MCG’s account branch, whose work was found unsatisfactory.Vij also directed officials to file an FIR in a case related to fake work-satisfactory certificates generated by MCG officials for the alleged embezzlement of crores of funds last year.For all local projects, a work-satisfactory certificate is sought from the ward councillor upon completion of work, based on which funds are issued to the MCG’s contractor. In November last year, the MCG came across at least 12 allegedly fake certificates issued by 10 councillors, whose signatures were found to be illegally replicated.“The department functioning requires improvement and rationalisation of the staff. The office does not maintain any movement register. Suspension orders were given for two SDOs as they were not present in the office,” said Vij, while addressing the media.Vij directed MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja to make an attendance and movement register of all the officers and employees.He also raised the matter of severe waterlogging following heavy rains on Monday, which flooded four underpasses, homes and offices, and also caused road collapses. He directed all MCG officer officials to submit a report to their respective heads on the work they carried out to mitigate waterlogging at their own capacity.Following the inspection, while interacting with the media, Vij said that a committee would be formed to prepare a plan that will find a permanent solution to the problem of waterlogging in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-officials-face-suspensions-salary-cuts-in-surprise-check-by-home-minister-101626975183602.html
22-07-2021||Gurugram||Poultry in Gurugram safe for consumption, say officials after conducting checks||Officials of the animal husbandry department declared poultry in the city safe for consumption after conducting a check at 18 poultry farms in the city, following the death of an 11-year-old Chakkarpur resident earlier this month whose samples tested positive for bird flu (H5N1 virus).Twenty-eight teams of the health department conducted checks a day after the district health department confirmed the boy’s death, whose sample tested positive for bird flu in tests done by the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune. Officials said that no ill bird was found during their checks and that poultry products were safe to consume, provided they are cooked at 70°C for 30 minutes.“Health teams on Thursday visited 16 villages in a radius of 10 kilometres, covering a population of 46, 177. There is no suspected case of bird flu found in the area. Animal husbandry department reported no signs and symptoms of any kind of disease or illness in the birds,” stated a letter issued submitted by the district officer, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), to the state health department. A resident of Bihari market in Chakkarpur died due to a respiratory tract infection at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi on July 11. It is likely to be the country’s first death due to bird flu.“As a precautionary measure, a survey has been conducted in Chakkarpur and the areas around it. The 18 poultry farms in the city that were checked by our teams show no case of infected birds. It is safe to consume properly cooked chicken, eggs and poultry products provided they are cooked at 70°C for 30 minutes,” said Dr Punita Gahlawat, deputy director, animal husbandry department. According to Gahlawat, even before the suspected bird flu death, random inspection and sampling were being done at poultry farms. Gurugram’s deputy commissioner, Yash Garg, also appealed to citizens to give information on dead birds to the animal husbandry department, according to a statement issued by the district health department. An advisory was issued to the poultry farm owners, stating that people who handle live poultry should use gloves and mask to avoid direct contact with raw meat. Human infections with avian influenza A viruses occur due to contact with infected poultry, surfaces, faeces or objects contaminated by their droppings.According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), symptoms of H5N1 infection includes fever, cough, sore throat, and muscle aches. Other early symptoms may include abdominal pain, chest pain and diarrhoea. The infection can progress quickly to severe respiratory illness like difficulty breathing or shortness of breath, pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome and neurologic changes of altered mental status or seizures. Across the globe, there have been 862 cases of laboratory-confirmed H5N1 infections, of which 455 succumbed to the infection. According to a May 21 bulletin by the WHO, it accounts for the case fatality ratio (CFR) at nearly 53%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/poultry-in-gurugram-safe-for-consumption-say-officials-after-conducting-checks-101626975182105.html
22-07-2021||Gurugram||Over 12 cases of assault, armed robbery reported from Faridabad Road this month||Commuting on Gurugram-Faridabad Road late at night has become unsafe, with over 12 cases of assault, snatching and robbery reported so far this month. The police said that four gangs are suspected to be operating on this stretch, where incidents of carjacking are also reported frequently.In the latest incident, around 2am on Wednesday, two unidentified men allegedly intercepted a truck and robbed the driver and his co-driver of cash and mobile phones at gunpoint. The police said that the victims were returning to Faridabad after unloading electrical goods in Manesar, when the incident took place.“When we reached village Ghata near Sector 56, a white i20 car crossed us and intercepted the truck. A man in his late 20s got down, opened the truck door and pulled me out. Before I could understand the situation, another man pulled the co-driver out. They snatched ₹5,000, two mobile phones and assaulted us,” said Brijesh Kumar, a resident of Baharia in Allahabad of Uttar Pradesh, who works as a driver with a logistics transport company in Faridabad.Kumar said they threatened them with dire consequences and after 10 minutes, they left the spot in their car towards Gurugram. The victims then stopped a passerby and borrowed his mobile phone to call the police control room, police said.A team from the Sector 56 police station reached the spot, recorded their statements and registered a case under sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Arms Act on Thursday.Amit Kumar, the station house officer of Sector 56 police station, said that they were scanning CCTV footage of nearby areas to identify the car’s registration number. “The number shared by the victims belongs to some other make of car. Similar incidents have been reported from this stretch this month and the same car is involved in several crimes. We are investigating and teams have been deployed on the stretch,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/over-12-cases-of-assault-armed-robbery-reported-from-faridabad-road-this-month-101626975181056.html
22-07-2021||Noida||Noida’s 7x sectors grapple with parking issues outside markets||One of the fastest developing residential areas of Noida, the 7x sectors are marred by parking issues as most vending zones and markets near high-rises have no dedicated parking space. In the absence of planned development, residents say haphazard parking on the roadside is leading to traffic congestion, especially during the evening rush hour.With the exception of Sector 72, sectors 73 to 79 have group housing societies and an approximate population of two lakh residents, officials said. Needless to say, the local markets in these sectors as well as numerous fruit and vegetable markets, especially the one at the junction of sectors 76 and 77, receive a high footfall throughout the week. But residents say parking is yet to be regularised outside these market areas.They said vehicles are often left parked on the road near the markets, especially near the fruit and vegetable market in sector 76-77, causing traffic congestion during the evening rush hour. “There is no signage or board there specifying where one should park. Near markets, especially the mandi, people often park on the road, obstructing traffic flow. It’s high time that the parking along these markets are regularised,” said Amit Gupta, resident, Prateek Westeria, Sector 77.The major areas that see irregular parking include the markets of Sector 76, Amrapali main road, sectors 74-75 market, the fruit and vegetable makers at sector 76-77, and the market on the road along the Civitech central in Sector 77, among others.“Since parking is unregulated, people park as per their convenience, leaving no space for vehicles moving on the road. We have seen the police imposing fines on a few car drivers at times, but that’s not helping much,” said Sachin Goyal, resident of JM Orchid, Sector 76.“Now that there are some traffic lights functional in the area, officials must work on parking as well. Most of the time, it is difficult to find a parking space and in case you do find space, there would be some other car parked right behind yours. Be it on Amrapali main road, the Sector 76 market, or the vegetable market, the situation is the same everywhere,” said Punit Sharma, resident, Aditya Urban Casa, Sector 77. According to a Noida authority official, who asked not to be named, there are no authorised parkings in these sectors as the need for these had not arisen so far.“There is no authorised parking in the 7x sectors because these are still developing sectors. The mandi from where most of the parking issues are reported stands on land that was not acquired by the authority; hence, authority could make no parking provision. As for the other markets, beside most of them there are high-rises with ample parking space and so there was no need for a separate space. But the situation is changing now. The issues would be dealt with as and when these sectors are fully developed. We are working on resolving these issues,” said Mukesh Kumar Vaish, project engineer, work circle 6, Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noidas-7x-sectors-grapple-with-parking-issues-outside-markets-101626975000434.html
22-07-2021||Other||2kg heroin seized, ex-serviceman among 3 arrested||The anti-narcotics task force of the J&K Police on Thursday said it has arrested three drug peddlers, including an ex-serviceman, and recovered 2kg Afghan-origin heroin from their possession.The arrested peddlers have been identified as Naresh Kumar, Kamal Singh and ex-serviceman Balbir Singh, all natives of Khour, an area close to the Indo-Pak border in Akhnoor sector of Jammu.Anti-narcotics task force SSP Vinay Sharma said, “The consignment was thrown into the Indian territory from across border by Pakistani drug cartels for the trio.”“We have recovered two packets of heroin, 1kg each. The packets have a special marking indicating them to be of Afghan grade,” said Sharma.“Pakistani drug peddlers push narcotics into India through the borders in J&K for their contacts on this side to pick them up for further distribution through their networks,” he added.On July 19, they got an input that Naresh Kumar was on his way from Khour to Akhnoor with a consignment of heroin. They set up checkposts and during checking at one such checkpost, they intercepted his Scooty from which they recovered one packet of heroin with a sign indicating it to be of Afghan grade.During interrogation, Kumar revealed names of two people who were part of the drug cartel. He divulged that one more packet was hidden close to the border.“We arrested Kamal and Balbir. Their interrogation led us to recovery of one more packet of heroin,” he added. The accused have been booked under the NDPS Act.“We are confident of unearthing forward and backward linkages of the drug cartel. During interrogation, names of some Pakistani drug peddlers were also divulged. We will try to get them extradited by various means and if needed, seek assistance of Interpol,” the SSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2kg-heroin-seized-ex-serviceman-among-3-arrested-101626973860693.html
22-07-2021||Other||JKCC demands probe by SC judge into snooping row||The Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC) on Thursday demanded a probe by a Supreme Court judge into the alleged illegal surveillance of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and others using Israeli spyware Pegasus.A party delegation, led by JKPCC president Ghulam Ahmad Mir, on Thursday submitted a memorandum addressed to the President of India with lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha at Raj Bhawan, demanding a probe by a Supreme Court judge into the “unconstitutional hacking of cell phones of Rahul Gandhi, his staff and others, including those holding Constitutional posts, in the country”.The memorandum reads that it was shocking to learn that spyware Pegasus was used to hack cellphones in the run up to the 2019 parliamentary elections.“The Congress party strongly condemns the illegal and unconstitutional hacking of the cell phone of leader of opposition and other constitutional functionaries by the Centre and demand strict action against all those behind this illegal exercise,” the party said in a statement.Mir also had a detailed discussion with the LG on various developmental and other issues concerning people in Jammu as well as in Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jkcc-demands-probe-by-sc-judge-into-snooping-row-101626973745342.html
22-07-2021||Other||Wildlife contrabands, leopard hides recovered in Mandi||The Shimla police have recovered three leopard hides and arrested one person in Mandi town.Police have registered a case under smuggling and the Wildlife Act. Besides skins, police have also seized wildlife contrabands including 14 leopard claws and 12 leopard teeth.Police had raided a hotel following a tip-off from the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau. Police arrested a local who was produced in the court and remanded to police custody, said Mandi superintendent of police Shalini Agnihotri.Police have registered a case and further investigation has been initiated. During the preliminary investigation, the person told police that he used poison-laced meatloaves to kill the leopards. There is a rise in the incidence of poaching and smuggling in Himachal Pradesh during the Covid-19 pandemic.During the last two months, police have recovered six leopard skins, Himalayan Monal bird plumes, and Pangolin scales in Shimla, Solan, Chamba and Hamirpur districts, revealing this disturbing trend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wildlife-contrabands-leopard-hides-recovered-in-mandi-101626973620876.html
22-07-2021||Other||HPU 52nd foundation day: Future of country depends on what ideas students have, says guv||Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar unveiled a bust of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee as part of the 52nd foundation day celebrations of Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla, on Thursday. Addressing an event at the university auditorium, he said education was the foundation of life and learning should never stop.“Both, the teacher and the learner, must know what they are learning. The future of the country depends on what ideas we were giving to the young generation. It was necessary to give them ideas of national interest,” the governor said, adding that foreign invaders targeted our education system time and again.Speaking on the occasion, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said the university played pivotal role in producing educationists, researchers and professionals. “The university has helped the students in providing the new knowledge and skills needed to meet the challenges of sustainable development in a community, in raising public awareness for informed decision-making and responsible behaviour,” he said.Thakur said the most important role the university played was producing highly skilled manpower and research output to meet perceived targets. “The central government has formulated ‘National Education Policy-2020’ which aims at building overall personality of the students by strengthening infrastructure for open and distance learning, online education and increasing the use of technology,” he said while expressing hope that the new education policy will go a long way in preparing the students to meet the emerging challenges.Education minister Govind Thakur and vice-chancellor Sikander Kumar, too, addressed the gathering at the university auditorium.Meanwhile, Student Federation of India (SFI) activists staged a protest at the university against the “backdoor” recruitments and “wasteful expenditure”, alleging that the university authorities flouted the norms while making recruitments during the tenure of incumbent vice-chancellor. The activists also handed over a memorandum of demands to chief minister Jai Ram Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hpu-52nd-foundation-day-future-of-country-depends-on-what-ideas-students-have-says-guv-101626973504389.html
22-07-2021||Other||Flood-like situation in Chiplun, hundreds stranded||PUNE Heavy rain on the of July 21, triggered a flood-like situation in Chiplun, Ratnagiri district, with hundreds stranded as the Vashishti river overflowed on Thursday. To rescue people stranded due to flooding, two teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed, while the coast guard has also been instructed to use a helicopter to air-lift people in need. “We have deployed two teams of NDRF for the rescue operation in Chiplun in Ratnagiri. Coast guards have been instructed to use a helicopter for rescue operations. Our department is taking a constant review of the situation,” said Vijay Wadettiwar, minister for relief and rehabilitation. The region witnessed 300mm rainfall within the last 24 hours. According to local administration, 5,000 residents have been stranded in Chiplun, while a red alert has been issued in the district along with adjoining areas in view of the torrential rains. By evening Thursday, an NDRF team reached Chiplun, though as the town was surrounded by water from all sides, the rescuers were stuck 8km from the city. “We have our vehicles with NDRF jawans at around 8km from Chiplun. However, since the entire town has been surrounded by water, we will have to explore entering to rescue people using boats now,” said NDRF commandant Anupam Srivastava. Sanjay Shinde, Ratnagiri’s additional collector, said, “High tide in the Arabian sea and incessant rain took place at the same time due to which the situation has become critical. Rescue operation is underway using boats. One boat of the administration, one police boat, and one NDRF boat have been pressed into action for Khed and Chiplun. We have summoned coast guard helicopters for rescue missions. The administration is taking all steps to ensure the citizens’ safety, rescue and relief.” Trains on Konkan Railway route affectedDue to the heavy rain, train services on the Konkan Railway route have also been partially suspended on Thursday morning. Baban Ghatge, deputy general manager (Public Relations), Konkan Railway Corporation Limited, said, “Eight trains have been affected due to disruption of the route.” These trains, according to officials, are either rerouted, short-terminated or cancelled. Water level at the Vashishti river bridge, between Chiplun and Kamathe stations in Ratnagiri, has risen above the danger mark, the official said. “In view of the safety of passengers, train services in this section are suspended temporarily,” he said. This is the second disruption on the Konkan Railway route in the last few days. Locals in Chiplun believe that the torrential rains could be a repeat situation which prevailed in 2002 and 2005. Scores of four-wheelers and two-wheelers were seen floating in the water, while many houses in the central part of town were completely submerged in the water. According to the district administration, flood-like situation and inundation was reported at 4.30am, after which flood waters entered the market and other important areas of the city. With water more than five-feet deep citizens had been advised to stay indoors. Traffic has come to a standstill on the Chanderai and Lanj roads of Ratnagiri, as water invaded the highway and connecting roads. Local MP Vinayak Raut has demanded immediate assistance from the state to carry out evacuation and rescue of stranded citizens. Coastguard helicopters, speed boats and NDRF teams have been pressed into action. Savitri river in Mahad overflowingMeanwhile, Mahad in Raigad district, also witnessed heavy downpour and the local administration has sounded a red alerts across the region. At Mahad, gushing water of the Savitri river entered nearby areas with 100 people stranded. Raigad district collector Nidhi Choudhari said, “There is a flood-like situation at Mahad. Savitri river is flowing at the danger level and people have been evacuated from low-lying areas. We have teams from the coastguard and NDRF to assist us in evacuation. So far 500 persons have been moved to safety.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/floodlike-situation-in-chiplun-hundreds-stranded-101626973081367.html
22-07-2021||Other||Khadakwasla close to full-up, water release from dam begins||PUNE Heavy rain in Pune district substantially upped the water levels of most reservoirs on Thursday. The four dams catering to Pune added over 2 TMC of water within 24 hours, with Khadakwasla stock surging to 88.52% of capacity, by Thursday afternoon. By 10 pm, dam authorities had released 10,000 cusecs of water, which could be increased overnight, said officials. This is the first time this year water is being released from Khadakwasla, which has storage capacity of 1.9 TMC. All four dams, Warasgaon, Temghar, Panshet and Khadakwasla, together are filled to 48.84 per cent of capacity, with 14.23 TMC water. Last year, during the same time, the four dams were filled to 32.28 per cent, with 9.70 TMC of water. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), between July 15 and July 21, Pune district has seen 11 per cent more than normal rainfall, which falls in the “normal” category. Whereas, districts like Satara, which have received 17 per cent less than normal rainfall, have also now come in the normal rainfall category. After Pune district reported 53.50mm rainfall till Thursday afternoon, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an orange alert. The ghat areas around Pune are likely to receive isolated heavy rainfall till July 25. Weather officials have alerted that water logging is likely in low-lying areas in the next few days.Districts like Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Raigad, Thane, Nashik, Mumbai, Ahmednagar, Osmanabad, Jalna, Solapur have received a large excess of rainfall between July 15 and July 21. Kolhapur, Parbhani, Washim and Dhule have received excess rainfall during this time. Along with Pune district, Nanded, Latur, Hingoli, Yavatmal, Akola, Jalgaon, Aurangabad have received normal rainfall this week. Districts which still have deficient rainfall are Nandurbar, Amravati, Chandrapur and Gondia. Bhandara, Nagpur and Wardha are districts with large deficiency of rainfall between July 15 and July 21. Many areas reported flooding due to continuous rainfall in the last 24 hours. Traffic on many roads was shut as the flooding of roads occurred. In Kamshet, local authorities reported that due to flooding of bridges and roads, the main roads to 20 villages were closed. However, alternative roads were used to access these villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/khadakwasla-close-to-full-up-water-release-from-dam-begins-101626972901074.html
22-07-2021||Other||Civic body gives nod to start pet clinic||PUNE une: In a spot of cheer for animal lovers, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to start a pet clinic in the eastern part of the city in collaboration with a non-governmental organisation (NGO) that specialises in animal healthcare.The PMC administration on Wednesday gave its nod to the joint venture with the NGO, with the civic health department identifying a 34,000 square feet plot in the eastern part of Pune city. Apart from a small pet clinic run by the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), the PMC currently does not have a clinic exclusively for animals.Speaking on the occasion, Dr Prakash Wagh, veterinary superintendent, PMC, said, “At present, we do not have pet clinics within the corporation limits to treat animals. So, we have decided to start a one. We have 34,000 square feet of land to build the clinic upon; which will provide all modern facilities related to animal healthcare. We will sign a 11-month-agreement with the NGO named ‘Mission Possible’.”“The NGO will run the clinic and bear all the expenses. The PMC will build the structure and hand over to the NGO to run on a contract basis. The NGO will probably take care of the ambulance, treatment, birth control and out-patient department (OPD) among others. At present, we have a provision of ₹45 lakh towards the clinic,” Dr Wagh said.Shivaji Lanke, superintendent engineer of the Bhavan (construction) department, said, “The clinic will be a ground-plus-three storied structure with a parking facility for the ambulance and OPD. We will require around ₹5 crore for the clinic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civic-body-gives-nod-to-start-pet-clinic-101626971580078.html
22-07-2021||Other||FYJC CET: Technical committee to review website crash||PUNE: A day after the launch of the official website of the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) for registration for the Class 11 CET examination, the website suffered technical glitches due to heavy traffic and was eventually shut down. Turns out lakhs of students were trying to register at the same time for the CET exam scheduled on August 21 this year.Dinkar Patil, chairman, MSBSHSE, said, “The website login id saw a heavy rush of users at the same time so it started developing technical issues and we had to close it down.”However, the MSBSHSE has constituted a technical committee to review and repair the website. “I have now instructed our technical committee to review issues in the online registration process and come out with a solution soon. We will try to fix the problem as early as possible and reopen the website for students to register,” Patil said.The Class 11 CET exam is optional and students who wish to appear for it have to register themselves on the website. Registrations began on July 20 and while the original deadline for completion of registration was announced as July 26, the same might be extended due to the technical glitches. As per guidelines, this will be the first such CET exam to be conducted free-of-cost for state board students whereas students from all other boards will have to pay ₹178 in registration fees. Students need to choose their examination centre at the time of registration and hall tickets will accordingly be provided to them online.Furnishing more details, Patil said, “The CET exam will have four subjects including Mathematics, Science, Social Science and English. Each subject carries 25 marks and the duration of the exam is two hours. It will be conducted in the multiple choice objective type question (MCOQ) format.”This year, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Class 10 examination was cancelled and the marks were calculated based on an internal assessment of the students’ performance. A total of 1,575,752 students were registered for the Class 10 exam, of which 1,574,994 passed. The passing percentage is 99.95% which is 4.65% more than last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fyjc-cet-technical-committee-to-review-website-crash-101626971520165.html
22-07-2021||Ranchi||E-kalyan portal to open again as J’khand students complain of missing out on scholarship||The Jharkhand government will open its online platform for post-matric scholarships meant for reserved category students from July 26, officials said on Thursday.An advertisement in this regard was issued on Wednesday.“We issued a fresh advertisement on Wednesday stating that the portal will remain open for students to apply for scholarship from July 26. It will remain open till September 30, after which it will be closed for scrutiny and processing,” a senior official of Scheduled Tribe /Scheduled Caste/Other Backward Classes department said.The development comes close on the heels of a protest held by B.Ed students outside the Governor ‘s house last week. The agitating students alleged that they missed out on the scholarships in the past academic session, as the state government had closed the portal even as counselling procedure for admissions was still on.“The admission process was delayed due to the pandemic. The portal was closed in February when only one round of counselling for admission in B.Ed colleges was completed,” a B.Ed student Jeewan Kumar from Hazaribagh said.Officials, however, denied the charges. They claimed that the department has provided scholarship to around 16,000 more students in the academic session 2020-21 as compared to the previous year.“It is not true. Every year, the portal is opened for a fixed tenure. It has to be closed at a certain date or else the process of scrutiny and disposal of scholarship would not get completed in time. In 2020-21 session, scholarship was provided to 2,93,389 students as against money provided to 2,77,972 students in 2019-20 session,” said a department official.The department of ST/SC/OBC welfare provides different amounts of scholarships for eligible students across different grades. B.Ed students get scholarship of ₹35,000-38,000 per annum for the course.At ₹234.10 crore, the total money disbursed under the scheme was however lesser in 2020-21 as against ₹273.02 crore in the 2019-20 academic session. The official said the lower disbursement was due to closure of hostels due to Covid-19 pandemic last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/ekalyan-portal-to-open-again-as-j-khand-students-complain-of-missing-out-on-scholarship-101626971340070.html
22-07-2021||Patna||Bihar to get 559 MW power from NPGC unit 2, J’khand to benefit too||The second unit of the 660x3 mega watt Nabinagar Power Generating Company (NPGC) in Aurangabad will commence commercial generation of power in the wee hours of Friday, according to a press release issued by the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC). The 72-hour trial operation of this unit was done in March. Bihar, which gets an average daily 4,000-5,000 MW power from Central sectors, would now get an additional 559 MW of electricity, which is 84.8% of the total power generated from this unit. Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Sikkim would share the remaining power from this unit, said NTPC spokesman Vishwanath Chandan. Bihar will draw roughly 1,122 MW power from the two NPGC units each of 660MW. The 660 MW unit-1 of the plant became commercially viable on September 6, 2019. The third unit (660 MW) is expected to be commissioned within the next six months as its construction, testing and optimisation activities were at an advanced stage, Chandan said. Praveen Saxena, regional executive director (east-1) and director (NPGC), praised his team for completing the work braving unprecedented challenges during the Covid-19 pandemic. “The commencement of commercial operation of NPGC unit-2 is a major milestone and a step towards our commitment to ensure energy security to the country,” said its chief executive officer Vijay Singh. The NTPC, eastern region-1, has an installed power generation capacity of 6,660 MW in Bihar out of the total 9,160 MW generated across nine projects in Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. It will add another 7,270 MW once its two ongoing projects at North Karanpura in Chatra district and Patratu Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd at Ramgarh district in Jharkhand are complete.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-to-get-559-mw-power-from-npgc-unit-2-j-khand-to-benefit-too-101626971220034.html
22-07-2021||Patna||Bihar education dept launches e-portal for pvt schools’ accreditation||State education minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary inaugurated the E-Sambandhan portal on Thursday for facilitating the online accreditation process for private schools offering primary education in the state.With the online portal, the entire process, including submission of applications, scheduling of on-ground inspections and disposal of each application for granting recognition to private schools will be done in a transparent manner, said officials of the department.Speaking on the occasion, Chaudhary said, “The online portal would help private school operators in obtaining the necessary no-objection certificate (NOC) and recognition certificate, essential documents required by private schools to get affiliated to CBSE and CISCE boards, from the department. They can simply upload their documents on the portal for registration.”“Besides, a database can be maintained regarding the number of students enrolled in private schools under Right to Education Act (RTE), 2009. It will help the department to keep records, like the total number of private schools in the state, how many students enrolled in private schools and how many schools are entitled to RTE funds”, he added.Additional chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said, “Under the new system, private school management can visit the website edu-online.bihar.gov.in and apply for obtaining recognition of NOC. In case of any technical error, applicants can call on helpline number 7004070073 and 739000010.” Middle and high schools likely to reopen in AugustMiddle and high schools in the state are likely to reopen in the second week of August if the Covid-19 situation remained stable, said Chaudhary.He said that a final decision in this regard would be taken after the review meeting of the crisis management group.“If the pandemic situation remains favourable, middle and high schools will be allowed to partially resume physical classes in the next phase of unlocking after August 6”, he said.Bihar government allowed reopening of higher educational institutions including varsities, colleges and senior secondary schools with 50% strength from July 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-education-dept-launches-e-portal-for-pvt-schools-accreditation-101626971160043.html
22-07-2021||Patna||2nd arrest from Saran village for links to J&K terrorists; Munger on radar again||A man arrested from a village in Saran district of Bihar for allegedly supplying arms to terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir will be taken to Jammu to be produced in court there on or before July 25, officials of anti-terrorism squad (ATS) said, citing an order of a court in Saran which on Thursday granted three days’ transit remand for the accused.Mohammad Arman, 26, was arrested by the ATS late Wednesday from Deo Bahuara village under Marhaura police station in Saran district and produced before the court of acting chief judicial magistrate Randhir Kumar on Thursday.ATS sources said Arman is a close associate of Mohammad Javed, who was arrested from the same village in February this year.“The arrest is in connection with a case lodged in Jammu. The court allowed the police’s prayer and granted his transit remand till July 25,” a lawyer involved in the case said, adding that the Jammu and Kashmir police have alleged that Javed procured six pistols from Munger and supplied them to a terrorist through Arman.According to ATS officials, on February 6 this year, the Jammu police had arrested one Hidaitullah Malik for suspected terror links. Later, his alleged handlers, Suhail Bashir and Kazi Washim, both were arrested from Chandigarh. Suhail was studying as a nursing assistant at an institute in Chandigarh where Javed’s brother Mustaq also studied.ATS sources said six pistols of 7.65 mm, said to be manufactured in Munger, were smuggled to terrorists.Munger in Bihar is notorious for illegal gun factories. Located around 100 kms from Patna, the town has been in news for manufacturing, assembling, repairing and selling all kinds of weapons, from small arms to AK-47 and AK-57 assault rifles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/2nd-arrest-from-saran-village-for-links-to-j-k-terrorists-munger-on-radar-again-101626971040025.html
22-07-2021||Patna||Vaccine trial in Bihar: After first dose, no major side effect in children||Covaxin, India’s indigenous vaccine against coronavirus, could get emergency certification for use in children earliest in September as no anaphylaxis, which is a severe allergic reaction, or major adverse events following immunisation (AEFI), has been reported in children so far during the phase II/III clinical trials of the vaccine, feel experts. “Pain at the site of the injection is the most common AEFI, with no anaphylaxis reported so far during the clinical trial of the vaccine in children of 2-18 years age group,” said a senior doctor associated with the trial who did not wish to be identified, quoting a secrecy clause in it. One can expect the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to grant emergency certification for use of Covaxin in children earliest in September. It is perceived that the regulator has to wait for a minimum of 56 days after completion of the first dose of vaccine, achieved across the seven research centres in India on July 9, said the doctor. Dr Sanjay Rai, principal investigator of the Covaxin trial on children at AIIMS-Delhi, also professor, department of community, and president of the Indian Public Health Association, however, differed on the need to vaccinate children at this stage. “Global evidence suggests that Covid-19 is a very mild disease in children and a majority of them pass off as asymptomatic cases. Around 60% seroprevalence (serology test for antibodies) has been found in children, as per a recent ICMR survey. This means around 27 crore of the 45 crore children in India, less than 18 years of age, have already been infected and went unnoticed. The mortality rate of children to the pandemic has also been low. This has to be assessed against vaccine-associated deaths before deciding to inoculate children. I don’t see any benefit of vaccinating children against Covid-19 at this stage,” said Dr Rai. Dr CM Singh, the principal investigator of the trial at AIIMS-Patna, its medical superintendent and professor and head, department of community and family medicine, also felt that children should not be a priority group for vaccination against Covid-19, especially when the vaccine is scarce for adults. “World-wide evidence suggest that children have been least affected by the Covid-19 pandemic in terms of morbidity and mortality. Despite being equally infected by the virus during the first and second waves of the pandemic, their hospitalisation was less. However, this should not be construed that the development of a vaccine system for children should stop. It has to be put in place besides strengthening infrastructure for paediatric healthcare There is certainly no need to panic about vaccinating children at this stage,” said Dr Singh. Trial protocol suggests checking antibodies at 0, 28, 56, 118 and 208 days of vaccination. However, experts feel that natural antibody is better than vaccination. As part of the clinical trial, a second dose of the vaccine has been administered to children in 12-18 years and 6-12 years age groups at AIIMS-Patna, Dr Singh said. The AIIMS-Patna had selected 53 children for the clinical trial of Bharat Biotech’s vaccine. It divided the children into three sub-categories, selecting four in the 2-6 year age group; 21 in 6-12 years of age; and 28 in 12-18 year age bracket, added Dr Singh. Altogether 525 children, with 175 in each of the three age groups, were shortlisted for the trial pan India. AIIMS-Patna is one of the research sites for Covaxin’s clinical trials in children. The others are AIIMS-Delhi; ESI Hospital, Basaidarapur (Delhi); Prakhar Hospital, Kanpur; Mysore Medical College and Research Institute, Mysuru, Pranaam Hospital, Hyderabad; and Meditrina Institute of Medical Sciences, Nagpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/vaccine-trial-in-bihar-after-first-dose-no-major-side-effect-in-children-101626970980032.html
22-07-2021||Bangalore||In Karnataka, woman taken to hospital in nearby village on 'makeshift stretcher'||Residents of a village in Kempalikoppa in Sagar taluk of Karnataka's Sivamogga district were forced to carry a 45-year-old woman to a hospital in a nearby village as their village does not have a medical facility or transport connectivity, according to a report in Udayavani. The patient, Rathnamma, who complained of severe stomach pain, was taken to hospital amid heavy rain.In the absence of any transport connectivity, a few young villagers prepared a makeshift stretcher out of her charpoy, and carried her to Kalagali village, at a distance of three kilometres. However, the youngsters made sure Rathnamma was fully covered with waterproof material.Rathnamma's condition worsened by the time they reached Bellur bus stand in Kalagali. As of now, she is stable and improving, according to Udayavani.A youth from the neighbouring village, Huliballi, recorded the incident and shared its video on social media, which went viral. In the past, several similar situations went unnoticed. In this case, the viral video brought this incident into the public domain, with details leaving the civil society "shocked."Villagers from the interior areas of the Shivamogga district have often complained about the lack of facilities. The Karnataka government, too, has provided funds for developing roads and power network under the Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana. However, due to stringent rules of the forest department, electricity lines could not be laid in forest areas, as well as in tribal areas.The forest department, however, has a version in its defense. The department, Udayavani points out in its report, is bound by the rules which were enacted in the "interest of the safety of wildlife." Also, there are several other issues affecting the development of roads and power supply networks in human habitations deep in the forests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/in-karnataka-woman-taken-to-hospital-in-nearby-village-on-makeshift-stretcher-101626967295848.html
22-07-2021||Other||Provide power related services via apps, says UP energy minister||LUCKNOW UP energy minister Shrikant Sharma on Thursday said that consumers should get all electricity related services via online applications, and their response would become the base for the ACR entry of the staff – from the JE to the chairman. “Services like bill correction, permanent disconnection and change in category should be made available via online application without the consumer having to come to the office to submit an application,” the minister directed the officials in a review meeting. From next month, the power department app will have the facility for applying online for a change in meter, bill correction, change in sanctioned load, change in name or address, change in category and permanent disconnection. “Incorrect bills should be monitored by the MD and feedback should be taken from consumers,” added the minister. Consumers paying bills regularly would be felicitated, said the minister. The minister directed officials to ensure that there was no tripping problem in all areas. “This summer, over 25,000 mw power is being supplied during the peak and this demand may go up to 28,000 mw next year. Hence preparations should be made from now,” said Sharma. The minister directed the MD and directors to go out in the field to take stock of the problems. He also asked officials to do night patrolling. “Try to get pending bills paid for at least three months. Disconnection is not the correct solution. Transmission loss should be identified where ever high and should be brought below 15% at the feeder level,” said Sharma. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/provide-power-related-services-via-apps-says-up-energy-minister-101626969900012.html
22-07-2021||Lucknow||Pegasus controversy: Congress leaders detained over bid to take out procession in Lucknow||A number of senior Congress leaders were detained by the police here on Thursday as they tried to take out a peaceful protest in Lucknow against the alleged use of the Pegasus software for the purported phone tapping of senior party leader Rahul Gandhi, leaders of other opposition parties, constitutional dignitaries, journalists and others.The Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) had proposed a peaceful procession from Parivartan Chowk to Raj Bhavan in the state capital to hand over a memorandum to governor Anandiben Patel to demand an inquiry by a sitting judge of the Supreme Court and the setting up of a joint parliamentary committee to probe the issue.UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu, Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Aradhna Mishra ‘Mona’ and party MLC Deepak Singh were among those detained by the police and taken to the Eco Garden, the place notified by the district administration for holding protests.“Yes, UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu, along with other partymen, was detained as he tried to move out of his house to lead the party’s procession. The police had reached Lallu’s house here and asked him not to move out. CLP leader Aradhna Mishra was placed under house arrest. Later, she was taken to the Eco Garden,” said UPCC spokesman Ashok Singh.Hazratganj police inspector Shyam Babu Shukla confirmed that the UPCC chief, along with others, was taken into police custody and sent to Eco Garden for holding protests that caused inconvenience to the public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pegasus-controversy-congress-leaders-detained-over-bid-to-take-out-procession-in-lucknow-101626969660846.html
22-07-2021||Lucknow||Yogi, Ayodhya saints welcome National Highway status for Chaurasi Kosi Parikrama Marg||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday welcomed Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari’s decision to declare the Chaurasi Kosi Parikrama Marg in Ayodhya as a national highway (NH). The Ayodhya Sant Samaj has also welcomed the decision.The Chaurasi Kosi Parikrama Marg in Ayodhya is a path meant for circumambulation and known for its importance to pilgrims.“Issuance of notification to declare Chaurasi Kosi Parikrama Marg as national highway under the guidance of respected Prime Minister and under the leadership of Nitin Gadkari is a big step towards the restoration of the ancient glory of Ayodhya. It will provide support to the spiritual tourism sector,” the chief minister said in a tweet responding to the announcement.“Draft notification has been issued declaring Chaurasi Koshi Parikrama Marg as National Highway in the state of Uttar Pradesh,” Gadkari had tweeted before.The Chaurasi Kosi Parikrama covers 275 km, passing through the five districts of Ayodhya, Ambedkar Nagar, Barabanki, Gonda and Basti in Uttar Pradesh. This stretch touches 107 villages. The parikrama route will have 241 culverts, three big and 21 small bridges. Defence minister Rajnath Singh had urged Gadkari to develop the Chaurasi Kosi Parikrama as a national highway. Mahant Kanahiya Das, head of the Ayodhya Sant Samaj, welcomed the government’s decision and asserted that it would also lead to the overall development of Ayodhya. Every year, a large number of devotees assemble in Ayodhya for three parikramas – panchi kosi, chaudah kosi and chaurasi kosi.The state government is also developing routes along all these three parikramas. It is also planning to develop districts on these routes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-ayodhya-saints-welcome-national-highway-status-for-chaurasi-kosi-parikrama-marg-101626969600653.html
22-07-2021||Delhi||Union ministers, farmer leaders condemn attack on journalist||Union minister Anurag Thakur on Thursday condemned the attack on a journalist during the Farmer’s Parliament — a parallel parliament along with the ongoing monsoon session held by protesting farmers — at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi. Journalist Nagendra who works with news agency CNNNews18 was attacked while covering the event and suffered minor injuries.“The electronic media have a major responsibility of gathering information from all over the nation. If a cameraperson has been thrashed, it should not have happened and I condemn this incident,” the Union minister for information and broadcasting was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Union minister Meenakshi Lekhi also condemned the incident and called the protester “hooligan”. “They are not farmers. They are hooligans. These are criminal acts. What happened on January 26 was also shameful criminal activities and the Opposition promoted those activities,” Lekhi was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.They are not farmers, they are hooligans... These are criminal acts. What happened on January 26 was also shameful criminals activities. Opposition promoted such activities: Union Minister Meenakshi Lekhi on alleged attack on a media person at 'Farmers' Parliament' today pic.twitter.com/72OARBh1n0Lekhi further clarified that she did not call protesting farmers 'hooligans' and said that such acts 'can only be committed by hooligans not farmers'. Lekhi also said that she is taking back what she said as it may have hurt sentiments of people but also highlighted that she was 'misquoted' and her comments were misunderstood. मेरे शब्दों को तोड़ा मरोड़ा गया है अगर इससे किसी को ठेस पहुँची है तो मैं अपने शब्द वापस लेती हूँ । pic.twitter.com/s98ezkskzlBharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait took cognisance of the comment and said that farmers provide food and are not ‘hooligans’. He also condemned the incident and said that they do not promote such incidents. “It is wrong to use such remarks for farmers. We are farmers, not hooligans. Farmers are 'annadatas' of the land,” Tikait said.Such a remark is an insult to 80 crore farmers of India. If we're hooligans, Meenakshi Lekhi ji should stop eating foodgrain grown by us. She should be ashamed of herself. We've passed a resolution in 'Farmers' Parliament condemning her statement: Farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka pic.twitter.com/LZQiWpOhEXAnother farmer leader, Shiv Kumar Kakka, said strict action should be taken against those who attack journalists. “I strongly condemn the attack on the journalist. Action should be taken against the person no matter which organisation they belong to — government or the police. We will ensure that action is taken and such incidents are not repeated,” Kakka said.Kakka also slammed Lekhi for her comment and said the Union minister insulted 80 crore farmers with her statement. “Such a remark is an insult to 80 crore farmers of India. If we're hooligans, Meenakshi Lekhi should stop eating foodgrains grown by us. We've passed a resolution in the Farmers' Parliament condemning her statement,'' Kakka further added.Delhi Police arrested the person who attacked the journalist earlier in the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/union-ministers-farmer-leaders-condemn-attack-on-journalist-101626968001494.html
22-07-2021||Delhi||'Unusually large' liver abscess found in 14 Covid-19 recovered patients in Delhi||As many as 14 patients who recovered from Covid-19 were diagnosed with “unusually large” and multiple liver abscesses as post-disease complications in the past two months, authorities at Delhi’s Ganga Ram Hospital said on Thursday.Of the 14 patients, eight had received steroids during the course of their Covid-19 treatment, while one succumbed to the post-disease complication following massive bleeding, doctors said.Dr Anil Arora, the chairman at the Institute of Liver Gastroenterology and Pancreaticobiliary Sciences, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, the hospital received 10 men and four women between 28 and 74 years with liver abscesses in the past two months.“What we found unusual was that within 22 days of the recovery from Covid-19, patients who were otherwise immunocompetent had large areas of both lobes of their liver filled with pus at multiple locations, requiring drainage and hospitalisation,” Dr Arora added.According to doctors, poor nutrition and use of steroids could have resulted in the pus formation and the abscesses.The sole deceased suffered from massive bleeding after the abscess in the abdominal cavity ruptured. “All the remaining patients are stable and have now been discharged,” Dr Arora informed.Last month, five cases of Cytomegalovirus (CVM) related rectal bleeding among patients who recovered from Covid-19 were reported in Ganga Ram Hospital. These patients had complained of bleeding in stool discharge followed by abdominal pain, officials said.In a statement released at that time, the hospital said that the patients of CMV infection were otherwise immunocompetent.What causes formation of liver abscesses?Doctors at Ganga Ram Hospital said that liver abscess – pus formation in liver — is usually caused by a parasite called ‘entamoeba histolytica’, which is transmitted via contaminated water and food.Following the occurrence of the infection, the parasite may get carried by the bloodstream from a patient’s intestines to the liver, thereby causing liver abscess.What was the nature of the post-Covid complications in the 14 patients?According to Dr Arora, of the eight patients who were treated with steroids while infected with Covid-19, six had multiple large abscesses in both lobes of the liver – the largest being 19cm in size.“Three patients, who had blood during stool discharge, showed ulcers in the large intestine, which were detected by colonoscopy,” he added.What could have caused the liver abscesses?Suppression of immunity by Covid-19 besides usage of steroids to treat the disease are probably some factors that caused the formation of liver abscesses in the 14 patients, Dr Arora said.He added that “low index of suspicion for liver abscess and delay in treatment in patients recuperating from coronavirus infection,” could have also contributed to the condition.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/unusually-large-liver-abscess-found-in-14-covid-19-recovered-patients-in-delhi-101626968223278.html
22-07-2021||Other||UP governor, CM launch scheme for 4,050 Covid orphans||HT Correspondent LUCKNOW Governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday launched the ‘Uttar Pradesh Mukhyamantri Bal Seva Yojana’ for 4,050 children orphaned by the Covid-19 pandemic (since March 2020). Out of these, 240 had children lost both their parents while 3,810 had lost either of the parents or legal guardian. Under this scheme, the UP government will provide financial assistance of ₹4,000 per month and free education to children who lost their parents while girls orphaned by Covid would get ₹1,01,000 at the time of marriage. The government transferred three months’ installment of ₹12,000 to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. The governor and the chief minister handed over certificates (of beneficiary), school bags, chocolates and stationary items to 10 students at the event. Speaking on the occasion, Governor Anandiben Patel said: “Uttar Pradesh is the first state in the country to launch such a scheme (for Covid orphan children). She also advised professors in universities to adopt one such student. “Take care of one such student (Covid orphan) and invite him/her to your home once a month,” the governor advised teachers. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said: “The Mukhyamantri Bal Seva Yojana has been launched for children whose parents have died due to Covid.” “The government is formulating another scheme for the welfare of children who lost their parents or legal guardians due to a disease other than Covid,” he said. The CM also announced free education for such children. “Atal Awasiya Vidyalayas are being set up in 18 divisions of UP. Covid orphans in the age group of 11-18 years will be given free education in these institutions,” said the CM. Girls orphaned by Covid will be given admission in Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas, he said. Yogi Adityanath also pointed out that the entire world was suffering due to the pandemic. “Not only India, even developed countries like the US suffered and death rate there was one-and-a-half times more as compared to India despite having better medical infrastructure,” he said. Soon guidelines of the union government sponsored scheme for Covid orphan children, ‘PM Cares For Children’ will be announced, said the CM. BOX FOR BENEFICARIES  ₹486 lakh released by the government for Bal Seva Yojana  ₹1.1 lakh each for girls orphaned by Covid at the time of marriage Tablet/laptop for children who have attained 18 years of age and want to purse professional course||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-governor-cm-launch-scheme-for-4-050-covid-orphans-101626967499829.html
22-07-2021||Delhi||Aam ke daam: Anything for the love of mangoes!||How far have you gone to get your favourite mango? By far, we mean not literally, but in monetary terms. How about as high as ₹1500/kg? On National Mango Day, today, some city based popular personalities share honest confessions about having indulged in their fave variety of the ‘king of fruits’, at quite high prices.‘Bought Ratnagiri Alphonso for ₹1,350’Former model Amanpreet Wahi says she earlier used to eat mangoes of all varieties, “whichever was available in the fridge”. But things changed post Covid-19. “I’m much more at home now, so the stress is on healthy eating and healthy cooking! Since I want to buy the best quality fruits and vegetables available, all these come in my house from a cute organic farm shop. My favourite mango is the premium dussehri, priced usually at ₹160 a kilo. And the lowest I ever bought was ₹60 a kilo. But the most expensive mangoes I’ve even bought are the Ratnagiri Alphonso, a pack of 12 for ₹1,350,” says Wahi who is a true mango lover at heart! ‘Chausa, little pricier at ₹150/kg’For artist Sanjay Bhattacharyya, there’s nothing more delicious than a chausa! “Among all the fruits, mangoes are my favourite, especially the chausa. The sweetness of this particular type is amazing. But, unfortunately these mangoes are like cruel lovers because they just vanish along with the season! In childhood, we use to buy good quality mangoes at ₹8 to 10, and even climb mango trees to eat a mango. But alas, those days are gone. Today we get mangoes only in the market, and I’m sure the next generation will think that mangoes grow within the market itself,” says Bhattacharyya recalling, “The lowest price I ever paid for a mango was ₹80 per kg, for langra. But chausa priced at ₹150/kg is little pricier I feel. But it’s worth when I put them in the fridge and enjoy them chilled in the hot weather. ”Kesar at ₹150 vs Alphonso at ₹1,500Author Manju Kapoor can never forget how she had to shell out a hefty price for her favourite fruit, and found and alternative. “Right at the beginning of this season, we paid ₹1,500 for a dozen Alphonso. Gradually the price came down, but not as down as it usually comes. And because of the pandemic, we ended up buying mangoes online, quite a lot. So the lowest I would have paid in these days would be ₹100 for a kilo of chausa, which is one of my favourite varieties. And in between there was ₹150 a kilo for kesar, which was a discovery for me this year. It’s a most wonderful mango that tasted a lot like Alphonso, but without that crazy price tag.” All smiles even at ₹400/kg!Kathak exponent Shovana Narayan is all smiles at just the mention of mangoes. She says, “The costliest I’ve purchased, or rather my dear husband has purchased, mangoes for was around ₹400 per kg, and the minimum we bought it at was ₹200 per kg. This year, we had a surfeit of mangoes since our farm’s mango tree has given us a lot of dussehri. Also, a friend of mine sent me crates full of langda and malda. It’s only in autumn or winters, that is non season for our mango trees, that we purchase mangoes. Depending on which market one goes to, the price varies.”Highest purchase ₹500/kgPhotographer Aditya Arya says, “I like all kinds of mangoes. When I was young, all the family members used to spend summers at my grandparents house in Roorkee, and there were a dozen of mango trees and each kid used to get a tree, to eat as much they could. Those summer holidays I miss the most. Today, I’m myself growing a special mango called Mallika! But when it comes to buying from the market, I remember the lowest I ever paid was ₹10/kg and the highest has been ₹500/kg.” Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aam-ke-daam-anything-for-the-love-of-mangoes-101626965582550.html
22-07-2021||Other||Pune district reports 1,133 fresh Covid cases and six deaths||PUNE As per the authorities, Pune district reported 1,133 fresh Covid-positive cases in 24 hours. Six Covid deaths were also reported in Pune district in the last 24 hours. Of these, four deaths were reported from Pune rural and one death was reported from Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours. One death was reported from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).As per the state health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 501,641 Covid cases and 8,847 deaths till Thursday. PCMC has reported 255,777 cases so far and a total of 3,294 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 322,671 total cases so far and 6,177 deaths due to Covid. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,080,089 covid cases. Of this, 1,045,637 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 18,583 deaths in the district. At present, there are 15,869 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 7,756 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,016,506 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 96.34%.Across Maharashtra, 120 deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.09%.Currently 5,51,872 people are in home quarantine and 3,743 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reports-1-133-fresh-covid-cases-and-six-deaths-101626965399510.html
22-07-2021||Other||TN’s anti-corruption directorate raids AIADMK leader’s offices and residences||Tamil Nadu’s Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on Thursday carried out searches at over 20 places linked to MR Vijayabhaskar, a former minister and Opposition All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) leader. Officials said the searches began in his native Karur district and his apartment in Chennai in connection with a disproportionate assets case.Searches were also conducted at premises of a private company, residences of an associate and Vijayabhaskar’s personal assistant. The disproportionate assets case has been filed against the AIADMK leader related to his tenure as a minister from 2016 to 2021.“A fresh FIR (First Information Report) has been filed against him (Vijayabhaskar) on account of disproportionate assets,” said a DVAC official, who did not want to be named. “We are raiding his offices and residences. The operation will most likely conclude today (Thursday).”Vijayabhaskar’s lawyer, Selvam , said they were cooperating with the agency. “They asked for accounts. We have given them,” he said. Also Read | Stalin urges PM not to proceed with marine fisheries bill in HouseVijayabhaskar lost this year’s assembly elections to ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)’s Senthil Balaji.The AIADMK condemned the raids and linked it to political vendetta. “The DMK has not even completed 90 days in government, but with an intention to register a false case, they are raiding Vijayabhaskar’s residence,” said AIADMK’s coordinator O Panneerselvam said in presence of former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami and other leaders. “The AIADMK is ready to face any major avenging act of the DMK. We will face any legal action. The DMK government has to stop such anti-democratic activities. It is with political vendetta that they are raiding a party which has governed for the last 10 years for people’s rights and livelihood. Such raids soon after they have come to power will not do good for the political situation in the state.”Investigations against top AIADMK ministers over alleged corruption and establishing a special court to try these cases was one of the DMK’s election promises. The DMK has accused AIADMK leaders including Palaniswami and Panneerselvam of corruption.The AIADMK has rejected the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tns-anti-corruption-directorate-raids-aiadmk-leader-s-offices-and-residences-101626942514894.html
22-07-2021||Delhi||#Cheer4India: Olympic offers galore at eateries in Delhi-NCR||It’s raining offers at city restaurants as Tokyo Olympics are all set to kick start from July 23. The nervousness among fans is palpable, and yet the hopes of India’s victory are high. And it’s this hope that has gripped Delhi-NCR eateries to show support to the Indian contingent, by introducing some special drinks, dishes, and discounts to celebrate the spirit of Olympics 2021!“Olympics is a platform that gets best players from different fields across the world together. And this is a moment to celebrate India’s presence on this wide spectrum,” says Dinesh Arora, founder, Unplugged Courtyard, which has introduced a drink aptly named Shine India, to cheer for the Indian players. “This special drink, Shine India, is available at 15% discount on all our outlets,” adds Arora. And Manish Sharma, founder, Molecule, Delhi and Gurugram, talks about their specially curated drink called Olympus 2021. “This can be availed at 10% discount at all outlets. Also, if you are spotted with quirky nail paint inspired from India, you get a complimentary drink from our side. We have been following all social distancing norms, and are set to celebrate the Olympics spirit,” adds Sharma. For those wanting to celebrate the patriotic spirit over food can avail a special combo at Romeo Lane in Civil Lines. Saurabh Luthra, owner of the eatery, says, “Sports has always united India. And whenever we have won medals for Olympics, we have seen people dining here breaking into a dance of joy, with pride. It’s time to relive those moments and it’s our effort to encourage our patrons to hoot and motivate our Olympians. If anyone enters wearing tricolour mask or T-shirt with India themed slogans, we’ll give them 10% discount on our specially curated drinks and platter called Olympic combo.”Not keen to go out? Worry not for there are also options to get food delivered to your place while you stay glued to the TV screen.The Appumm House in Gurugram sector 57, is offering a flat 15% on all food orders throughout the duration of Tokyo Games, to ensure that one doesn’t miss out any winning moments of our Indian athletes. Priyanka Tiwari, owner, says, “We are happy that things are getting better in terms of Covid-19 situation, but we would still encourage people to be at home and allow us to deliver food at their doorstep. Our offer is to motivate them to stay inside and still enjoy the authentic delicacies that we prepare for them. So call your pals and get your food delivered by us while everyone cheers for their favourite players.”And in anticipation of medals, fingers crossed, Shakespeare Café in Delhi has announced a waiver of up to 50% on all orders. “Each time India bags a gold, silver or bronze medal, in this Olympics, we will surely treat our patrons at never before seen discounted prices,” says a staff member from the cafe. Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cheer4india-olympic-offers-galore-at-eateries-in-delhincr-101626964922262.html
22-07-2021||Delhi||Rains, not so romantic for the homeless: NGOs come to the rescue||With the rain gods finally smiling, most Delhiites have been elated to witness the summer heat make way for the monsoon, after a long wait. But with this mercy comes the dreadful time for the homeless in the city. One such homeless denizen, Anita, used to sleep near the railway tracks along with her two young daughters, until recently. “Bohot tension hoti thi bacchon ki... sara sara din baarish mein bheegne se beemar na pad jayein (I was extremely worried about my kids falling sick due to continuously getting drenched in the rain).” For those surviving on the streets, rains have spelt a major problem in the Covid times. Many are forced to meet challenges such as access to hygienic food and water, a clean place to sleep, and the constant fight to prevent any infections that can lower their immunity. And in this difficult journey, fortunately these homeless are being supported by some Delhi-NCR based NGOs. Anita, who recently got a bed at a shelter, says she feels much safer now. “Hume vaccine ki pehli dose bhi lag gayi hai toh Covid-19 ka darr thoda kum hua hai,” says Anita. And Babboo Singh, a migrant labourer who stays at a shelter at Roshanara Road, says, “We know many who sleep on the footpaths and at bus stands to escape the deluge. I’m grateful that I have been taken in at the shelter, where basic amenities such as food and drinking water are all available.” “We have over 2,000 homeless people staying in our shelters at the moment. And the number may rise with the rains. For their safety, we have to maintain absolute hygiene,” informs Santosh Jha, from Safe Approach NGO, which is running 45 shelters in the city in areas such as at Paharganj and Mangolpuri. Not just sanitisation, but also encountering hunger amid the pandemic is on the agenda of these good Samaritans. “Many, especially the migrants and daily wage labourers, lost their jobs during the pandemic. We’ve been distributing food to them every day, as well as to those residing in the shelters,” says Sanjay Kumar, from Ashray Adhikar Abhiyan, which provides for the needs of the homeless at 12 shelters across Delhi. Kumar adds, “We are working on behavioural changes with the homeless, imparting knowledge of how to maintain hygiene, distributing masks as well as getting them vaccinated. Most of the shelters are pucca buildings and some are portacabins. Because of the rains, there is a concern of waterlogging in some areas, and we have informed the officials at Municipal Corporation Delhi, to clean the clogged drains.” Working hard to ensure proper facilities during the monsoon, Jha adds, “Amid the pandemic, we are operating on 60% capacity in each shelter, in order to maintain social distancing protocols. Also, we are regularly sanitising the premises. To avoid overcrowding, we are arranging alternative living arrangements at other shelters for the poor who are coming to us.” Another NGO, Society for Promotion of Youth and Masses (SPYM) is managing 67 shelters across Delhi, while ensuring the safety of the homeless during the monsoon. Ratan Kapoor from one of its shelters at Sarai Kale Khan, says, “We are not letting rainwater stagnate, regularly cleaning the premises. All shelters are being checked for water leakages because right now our efforts are also focussed at avoiding any outbreak of dengue. The safety of the homeless residing in shelters is our responsibility, and we are doing all we can to ensure they stay safe.” Kudos to these noble souls doing their bit. Are you doing yours?Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rains-not-so-romantic-for-the-homeless-ngos-come-to-the-rescue-101626963480708.html
22-07-2021||Pune||Shabana Azmi, Zarina Wahab, Kanwaljit Singh to attend FTII’s online reunion on July 24||PUNE An online reunion of FTII’s acting batch (1971-73) in celebration of the Golden Jubilee of their entry into the Film Institute of India (now Film and Television Institute of India---FTII) will see some famous actors of yesteryear come together to share memories.The event, organised by FTII’s department of screen acting, will be held from 4pm-6pm on July 24.Among those attending are Shabana Azmi, Zarina Wahab, Kanwaljit Singh, actor-singer Shailendra Singh, Neelam Mehra, Mohan Sharma, Pavan Kumar Dutta, Adil Amaan, Ashwini Dada, Dilip Kumar Prasad and Mirza Mahmood Baig.“The conversation, to be moderated by Siddharth Shasta, head of the department, and Jijoy PR, associate professor department of screen acting, will be a trip down memory lane as the alumni recall their moments of joy and anxiety in the campus, their experience of learning from a legendary teacher Roshan Taneja, their journey as professionals in the industry and more,” said Bhupendra Kainthola, director, FTII Pune.The 1971-73 acting batch, which came at FTII eight years after the first batch entered in 1963, had 22 students: Shabana Azmi, Reeta Bhaduri, Pavan Kumar Dutta, Preeti Ganguly, Mohan Sharma, Zarina Wahab, Mirza Mahmood Baig, Adil Amaan, Shailendra Singh, Neelam Mehra, Rajesh Lahr, Kanwal Jit Singh, Satinder Narula, Kamal Bir Kaur, Sunita Kamal Bedi, Laxmi Sharma, Vinod Khanna, Ashwini Dada, Balman Singh Swar, Nughali Narayan Anil Kumar, Dilip Kumar Prasad and Kuldeep Bhagi.Of them, three are no more--Reeta Bahaduri, Preeti Ganguly and Satinder Narula.In the 60s, 70s and 80s FTII was known mainly for its ‘stars.’ Anyone in India interested in becoming an actor would head for ‘Poona Film Institute’. Shatrughan Sinha, Jaya Bachchan, Om Puri, Naseeruddin Shah, Shabana Azmi, Ranjeeta, Rehana Sultan, Mithun Chakraborty, Raza Murad, Danny Denzongpa, Mukesh Khanna, Navin Nischol, Asrani, Satish Shah, Paintal, Rakesh Bedi, Anil Dhawan, Tom Alter, Rajkumar Rao and others lent further attraction to the charm of the Institute.“Many aspiring actors look up to FTII actors as role models and will find this interaction inspirational. In times to come we plan to arrange more such reunions of FTII’s acting batches which have crossed milestones,” said Kainthola.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shabana-azmi-zarina-wahab-kanwaljit-singh-to-attend-ftii-s-online-reunion-on-july-24-101626959999299.html
22-07-2021||Gurugram||Haryana home minister suspends 2 civic body officers over negligence in work||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Thursday suspended two sub-divisional officers of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) over negligence in work, news agency ANI reported.“There is a need for much more improvement here,” he told ANI, during his inspection of the civic body office. Vij further stated that he has seen staff “sitting and having no work all day.”“I have instructed rationalisation of staff,” the minister said.Vij also said that a scam worth crores of rupees has come forward following an enquiry, and that he has ordered a First Information Report (FIR) in the matter. “All employees of this municipal corporation should submit a self-report on work on Tuesday, and verify it with higher authorities before sending it to me,” Vij was quoted as saying by ANI.Earlier this month, Vij had directed Haryana officers to form a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) monitoring committee in every district of the state, including Gurugram, as a precautionary measure to combat the possible third wave of the virus outbreak.In an official statement, the home minister emphasised that officials of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) along with civil surgeons, police superintendents, deputy commissioners, and officials of urban bodies should be inducted as members of the committee.He had also stated that as part of arrangements to tackle the probable third wave, facilities such as an additional number of beds with oxygen facility, ventilator beds, and those with ICU should be readied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-home-minister-suspends-2-civic-body-officers-over-negligence-in-work-101626956810540.html
22-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra BJP MLAs move Supreme Court against suspension from state assembly for 1 year||A dozen legislators of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from Maharashtra, who, earlier this month, were suspended from the state assembly for a year for allegedly using abusive language with the presiding officer, on Thursday moved the Supreme Court challenging their suspension, according to news agency PTI.Also Read | Maharashtra Assembly: 12 BJP MLAs suspended for a yearAdvocate Abhikalp Pratap Singh, who filed a petition in the top court on behalf of the 12 MLAs, said they have challenged the resolution passed by the assembly suspending them for over a year. The suspended members are: Ashish Shelar, Sanjay Kute, Abhimanyu Pawar, Girish Mahajan, Atul Bhatkalkar, Harish Pimpale, Yogesh Sagar, Jay Kumar Rawat, Parag Alavani, Narayan Kuche, Ram Satpute and Bunty Bhangadia.Also Read | BJP MLAs suspended over misconduct in Maharashtra assembly reach Raj BhavanThe alleged misbehaviour took place on July 5, the first day of a two-day monsoon session of the assembly.The motion to suspend these assembly members was moved the same day by state parliamentary affairs minister Anil Parab, and was passed by a voice vote. Reacting to the proposal, BJP leader and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had admitted "objectionable" language was used against the presiding officer, Bhaskar Jadhav, though he also denied use of any "abusive" language.Fadnavis, the leader of the opposition in the Maharashtra assembly, had further described the suspension as a move to "reduce the number of opposition legislators" in the house, adding that the MLAs had apologised to Jadhav for their "unruly" behaviour.Meanwhile, describing his experience as a "black day," Jadhav had accused the BJP legislators of cornering him in his cabin and using abusive language against him. Jadhav had also denied BJP's allegations of making "uncharitable" remarks, adding he was ready to face any punishment if this was proven true.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bjp-mlas-move-supreme-court-against-suspension-from-state-assembly-for-1-year-101626954744768.html
22-07-2021||Other||Keep disaster mgmt set-up in 24x7 preparedness mode, says Yogi||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday told officials that the disaster management set-up in the state should be in 24x7 preparedness mode to tackle situations arising out of floods and excessive rains.“Keep a close eye on floods and excessive rains. Monitor the level of rivers round the clock. Sharda river in Paliakalan, Saryu in Barabanki, and Kuano in Gonda are flowing a bit above the danger mark. The National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF), the State Disaster Relief Force (SDRF), and disaster management teams should be in active mode 24x7. Arrange boats, relief material and associated things. There should not be any delay in carrying out relief work in flood and excess rain-affected areas. All affected families should be provided immediate relief,” Yogi said at the high-level Covid-19 review meeting.Yogi said that the state’s aggressive ‘trace, test, treat, and vaccinate’ policy had helped a great deal in preventing the spread of Covid infection in UP. “The state, which is the most populous in the country, is doing 2.5 to 3 lakh tests each day and the positivity rate is a mere 0.02%. Till July 21, UP has administered 4.20 crore doses of Covid vaccine,” he said.He highlighted: “For the past several days, not a single district in the state reported cases in double digit. Currently, UP’s active Covid case count is 1,028. In the last 24 hours, 2.34 lakh tests were done, of which only 53 tested positive for Covid while 56 patients recovered. The recovery rate in the state is 98.6%,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/keep-disaster-mgmt-set-up-in-24x7-preparedness-mode-says-yogi-101626955679550.html
22-07-2021||Patna||JD(U), RJD on same page against Centre’s move to skip caste census among OBCs||The Central government’s decision to not hold caste-based census except for Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) in the population census 2021 is being strongly opposed by ruling Janata Dal (United) and opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) in Bihar. These two have hinted at launching a stir in favour of a caste-based enumeration of population. Two days back, Union minister of state for home Nityanand Rai told parliament that caste-wise enumeration of population will not be done except in the case of SCs and STs during Census, an exercise undertaken every 10 years, which got delayed in 2021 due to the Covid pandemic. “We are disappointed and pained by this decision. Caste-wise enumeration is necessary as it would only help in identifying the backwardness in economically and socially weaker groups among backward classes and extend them benefits of welfare schemes. We will press hard for it and not sit silently,” said K C Tyagi, national general secretary of the JD(U). Tyagi said his party, a constituent in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in Bihar, will discuss the matter at the party’s national executive meeting in New Delhi on July 31st and is likely to pass a resolution seeking a caste census. “Chief minister Nitish Kumar will be attending the national executive meeting where we will discuss this matter. We will also bring a resolution to press for a caste-based census,” he added. Tyagi also underlined that there was divergence on key issues among NDA constituents in the absence of a common minimum programmeIncidentally, leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Thursday appeared to be on the same page with the JD(U) as he termed Centre’s decision “unjustified”. RJD insiders said the party is planning to start an agitation to press for caste-based census in coming weeks. Tejashwi, who is in New Delhi for the past few days, said that RJD had long campaigned for caste census as a tool to extend benefits of welfare schemes to the backward classes and asked if it will be possible to allocate funds to welfare schemes targeting the backward classes if their population was not known. “If in census, there can be count of animals, cycles, scooters and enumeration of population practicing different religions, why can’t there be a count of backward classes in each religious group? It would only take one additional column in the census sheet for [this] enumeration. There will be no additional load on the public exchequer,” Tejashwi said, to buttress his point. He said it was difficult to understand why Centre was not keen on caste-based census when the Bharatiya Janata Party, which is in alliance with JD(U) in the NDA government in Bihar, had supported the resolution for a caste-based census passed in both Houses of Bihar assembly.Nawal Kishore Choudhary, a political analyst, feels the rejection of caste-based census by the Centre will have wide political ramification in state polity.He said the issue provides an opportunity to the RJD to unify backward classes putting pressure on the JD(U), which seeks to champion the cause of the backward classes and it will also test JD(U)’s ties with the BJP. “Caste census is an important agenda for regional outfits like the JD(U) and the RJD which have played identity politics [in the] post Mandal era since the 1990s. Now, there could be demand from the rank and file in the JD(U) for caste census. The party also has to see its equations with the BJP. So, there is pressure on it. The JD(U) has taken a different stand on population control legislation recently,” he said. From the 1990s onward, post implementation of Mandal commission report on job reservations, state’s politics has revolved on polarising backward classes, with ailing RJD chief Lalu Prasad playing social justice card during his party’s tenure in power till 2005. Since then Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has consolidated his support base among backward classes by wooing extremely backward classes (EBCs) and also categorizing all 22 sub-castes among scheduled castes as Maha Dalits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jdu-rjd-on-same-page-against-centre-s-move-to-skip-caste-census-among-obcs-101626955139233.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM to attend Sidhu’s coronation tomorrow||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh will attend coronation ceremony of his bête noire Navjot Singh Sidhu in Chandigarh on Friday morning. “Capt Amarinder Singh has invited all Punjab Congress MLAs, MPs and senior party functionaries at Punjab Bhawan for tea at 10am on Friday. They will all then go to Punjab Congress Bhawan together from there for the installation of the new Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee team,” the chief minister’s media adviser, Raveen Thukral, tweeted on Thursday evening. Also read: Busy settling scores with Capt, Sidhu’s forgotten Punjab: AAPSidhu and the four working presidents Kuljit Singh Nagra, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Pawan Goel and Sukhwinder Singh Danny will formally charge at the ceremony at Punjab Congress Bhawan at 11am on Friday. Harish Rawat, the All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs, will attend as the representative of the party’s high command. Nagra, Gilzian call on Amarinder with inviteNagra said Gilzian and he extended a formal invite on behalf of Sidhu and all party MLAs to the chief minister for the installation ceremony. “The 30-minute meeting was very cordial and the CM promptly accepted the invitation. It’s a party function and all are attending,” Nagra said.Sidhu and Capt Amarinder Singh have been at loggerheads for the past few months, with the Amritsar East MLA attacking the CM over the desecration cases.The chief minister also opposed his appointment as the state Congress chief and had said he won’t meet Sidhu until the cricketer-turned-politician apologises for his “derogatory” tweets against him.Hectic behind-the-scenes political activityBefore Sidhu starts his new innings as state party chief, the Congress high command didn’t want to take any chances. Senior leaders from Delhi spent the entire Thursday in hectic behind-the-scenes political activity, calling up state cabinet ministers and asking them to attend Friday’s function. Four cabinet ministers, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and Charanjit Singh Channi, have already backed Sidhu. Other ministers also said that they will attend the event as it is a Congress function. Some party leaders met senior minister Brahm Mohindra, persuading him to attend the event. Mohindra was the lone member of Captain Amarinder Singh’s cabinet to have issued a statement, saying Sidhu should publicly apologise to the CM for his remarks against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-to-attend-sidhu-s-coronation-tomorrow-101626954059227.html
22-07-2021||Patna||Bodies of brothers found a month after they went missing in Jharkhand’s Giridih||The remains of two brothers missing from Jharkhand’s Giridih for a month were found in a forest in Bihar’s Jamui on Wednesday, police said and added their family identified them on the basis of clothes, shoes, and a bike.Chandan Barnwal, 26, and Anshu Barnwal, 22, went missing on June 22. Some people collecting firewood in Manwa Forest spotted their bike, shoes, masks, and clothes in the bushes there.Police have sent the remains for autopsy, which was likely to be conducted on Thursday. “Our team reached the spot and found the bodies in a highly decomposed condition, and it seemed like the two had died days ago. We have sent the bodies for autopsies to ascertain the exact cause of their death,” said Jamui police superintendent Pramod Kumar Mandal. He added the family of the two has told them a gang involved in the circulation of fake currency duped them of over ₹40 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bodies-of-brothers-found-a-month-after-they-went-missing-in-jharkhand-s-giridih-101626953279222.html
22-07-2021||Other||Man dies in hospital, kin allege police brutality in Bihar’s Bhagalpur||A dalit man died in a hospital in Bihar’s Bhagalpur late on Wednesday, 12 days after he was admitted there following alleged physical torture in police custody.Twenty-six-year old Binod Das died at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and hospital (JNMCH). His father lodged a complaint against seven policemen with the Rajaun police station on Thursday. He said Das was detained jointly by the Kahalgaon and Rajaun police on July 7 over a theft in Kahalgaon police station area. After five days of interrogation, during which he was allegedly beaten up, Das returned home. Later, he started vomiting blood and was taken to Amarpur referral hospital in Banka before being shifted to JNMCH. According to Das’s father, the doctors said the man had suffered internal injuries. His complaint said Das allegedly said he was threatened by cops to not tell anyone about his assault. After Das’s death, his relatives held a protest and blocked Bhagalpur-Dumka NH near Hansdiha for over five hours late on Wednesday. A police team managed to pacify the protesters.Banka SP Arvind Kumar Gupta said a team will be constituted to probe the allegation and postmortem will be conducted by a team of medical board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-dies-in-hospital-kin-allege-police-brutality-in-bihar-s-bhagalpur-101626952499050.html
22-07-2021||Bangalore||‘No question of leadership change’: Karnataka deputy CM Ashwathnarayan on replacing BS Yediyurappa||Amid the buzz over a possible leadership change in Karnataka, the state’s deputy chief minister CN Ashwathnarayan on Thursday rubbished the speculations. “At present, there is no question of leadership discussion happening. We are not aware of these things,” news agency ANI quoted the deputy CM as saying.When asked about chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s remarks about JP Nadda’s decision expected on July 25, Ashwathnarayan said that he was not aware of the context in which the CM made those remarks. “I don't know in what context the CM made that statement. We need to hear from him,” the deputy CM said.Earlier in the day, Yediyurappa said that he would abide by any decision the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) high command would make. He also said that an event would be organised on July 26 to mark the completion of two years of his government in Karnataka.Also read | BJP leader Sadananda Gowda says ‘no chance’ for leadership change in Karnataka“Based on the instructions that the central leaders will give me on July 25, I will begin my work from July 26. We have a special programme on July 26 to observe the two years of our government. After attending that programme, I will abide by the instructions from the national president,” news agency PTI quoted the chief minister as saying.However, he also said that the BJP high command has not asked him to quit yet. "Till now I have not been asked to resign. When the directions come, I will quit and work for the party. I have not recommended any name. The party high command has not said anything to me. Let us see what will happen after July 26," ANI quoted Yediyurappa as saying.The 78-year-old leader cautioned anyone against issuing statements on his behalf. “No one should give any statements in my favour or indulge in any kind of protest. It is not appropriate. I appeal for cooperation and refrain from indulging in such things,” he said. Meanwhile, Yediyurappa’s comments were largely perceived as hints of him possibly quitting the state’s top post.Many in the BJP, including state in-charge Arun Singh, have regularly denied about a leadership change in Karnataka ever since such speculations arose. Notably, Singh was asked by reporters in Delhi on Thursday about the party’s Karnataka unit and he said, “We will sit together someday and discuss,” a news report by PTI showed. “All our party workers, ministers and legislators are united and there are no differences of any kind,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/no-question-of-leadership-change-karnataka-deputy-cm-ashwathnarayan-on-replacing-bs-yediyurappa-101626951060187.html
22-07-2021||Pune||Pune’s Rajiv Gandhi zoo gets new cat complex and giant Indian squirrel complex||In a treat for visitors whenever the zoo opens its doors following the state orders, the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Wildlife Research Centre on Wednesday officially inaugurated a cat complex and a Giant Indian Squirrel (locally known as Shekru) complex within its premises.As a result, the jungle cats, leopard cats and rusty-spotted cats will now have a place of their own within the zoo in the form of these brand new enclosures. These enclosures – measuring 160 to 180 square metres – have been built per the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) and boast a state-of-the-art ‘closed glass viewing’ enclosure. The open-to-air enclosures have been built using toxin-free glass fibre reinforced concrete (GRC), keeping in mind the cats’ comfort. This is the same material that is in use in zoos around the world.Sharing further details, Dr Rajkumar Jadhav, director, Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Wildlife Research Centre, said, “At present, the zoo has three species of cats, with 10 jungle cats, but we will be having two on public display and two leopards (male and female). We have built 20 cages, with three cages each for the cats and four for the Shekru.”The three enclosures were inaugurated by Raj Thackeray, president, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS); along with Murlidhar Mohol, mayor; Hemant Rasne, chairman, standing committee; Kunal Khemnar, additional commissioner; Vasant More, corporator; Ashok Ghorpade, gardens superintendent; and Dr Jadhav.Upon visiting the Shekru enclosure, Thackeray said, “The Shekru is the cutest looking squirrel and was the only one to stop the expressway from being completed until it got its ‘endangered species status.”The CZA plans to conserve 72 endangered wildlife species across India and as part of this plan, various zoos across the country have been categorised as wildlife conservation and breeding centres.The Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Wildlife Research Centre has also put forth a proposal to the CZA for exclusive ex-situ or in-captivity breeding and conservation of rusty-spotted cats which are rare with very few found in captivity. “We have submitted our proposal based on the success of the Shekru breeding and conservation programme. There is not enough study on this species and we are lagging in terms of research about this cat,” said Dr Jadhav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-rajiv-gandhi-zoo-gets-new-leopard-cats-shekru-complex-101626951119078.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Busy settling scores with Capt, Sidhu’s forgotten Punjab: AAP||Leader of opposition in the Punjab assembly Harpal Singh Cheema on Thursday accused newly appointed Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu of taking support of corrupt politicians to strengthen his position in the party. Addressing a press conference after opening the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) office in Bathinda, Cheema said to settle political scores with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Sidhu is busy seeking support of Congress legislators. Also read: Sidhu to be crowned as Punjab Congress chief on FridayHe said the AAP hailed Sidhu when he raised issues of misgovernance by the Amarinder Singh-led government. “But now to unsettle Amarinder politically, Sidhu is visiting residences of those Congress leaders whose names figure in liquor and natural resources mafia. Since his appointment, Sidhu has not raised any burning issue of Punjab but is busy garnering the support of the corrupt to belittle Amarinder,” he said. Cheema, however, refrained from taking the name of any Congress leader while making the allegation. He said Punjab is under a debt of ₹3 lakh crore out of which more than ₹90,000 crore was recorded under the present state government since 2017. “Overlooking people’s issues, Amarinder is repeatedly issuing statements that Sidhu should seek an apology from him. The state Congress president has said several times that his party failed to keep all key promises made in the run-up to the 2017 assembly polls. Sidhu and the CM should tender an unconditional public apology for their party’s failure to perform in the last four-and-half years,” said Cheema. Gearing up for polls To a question, Cheema said the party has yet to start identifying candidates for next year’s elections. “The party is not in hurry to announce candidatures but our volunteers are in election mode. The AAP will finalise names after a survey to find fit candidates in all segments. We will soon announce halqa in-charges and it has been decided that these leaders will not contest the elections,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/busy-settling-scores-with-capt-sidhu-s-forgotten-punjab-aap-101626950759037.html
22-07-2021||Other||Three, including 2 minors, held for assaulting man in Thane||The police arrested three people, including two minors, in Nashik for allegedly assaulting a man earlier this month. According to the Kapurbawdi police, the complainant, Azam Khan sells brooms for a living. On July 12, Khan was on his way to Nashik in his tempo to deliver a consignment of brooms when three people on a motorbike chased him and blocked his path on the Saket service road. They forced him out of his vehicle and assaulted him with bamboo sticks and iron rods before fleeing the scene. From the CCTV footage, the police traced the movements of the accused. “We tracked their movement through the footage from 35 different cameras till we found footage that had captured their faces. One of the three, a minor, turned out to be a history sheeter. We had booked him in a robbery case in January this year. We started seeking information about his movements from informants,” police inspector Sanjay Patil, Kapurbawdi police station said. The minor was picked up for inquiry on Wednesday. After questioning him, police identified the other two accused: a minor, and Govind Chavan (21). The police said that about a fortnight before the assault, Khan had an argument with the three accused over a petty issue.”Khan allegedly assaulted the minor and made him apologise in front of everyone else. The felt humiliated so he started keeping a watch on Khan. Subsequently, the trio planned and committed the crime,” police inspector Sanjay Nimbalkar, Kapurbawdi police station, said. The two minors were sent to juvenile remand home, while Chavan was placed under arrest and charged with assault under the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-including-2-minors-held-for-assaulting-man-in-thane-101626950385350.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||CM Amarinder Singh to attend Sidhu's elevation ceremony tomorrow||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has decided to attend newly appointed Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu's elevation event on Friday. The two leaders have been at loggerheads over the past few months and with Assembly election scheduled to be held next year, the central leadership had been struggling to resolve the months-long feud. The CM's media advisor, Raveen Thukral, said Singh has invited all state Congress MLAs, MPs and senior party functionaries at Punjab Bhawan for tea at 10am on Friday. "They will all then go to Punjab Congress Bhawan together from there for the installation of the new PPCC team," Thukral wrote on Twitter.Earlier, it was reported Sidhu had sent an invite for the event to Singh that was signed by about 65 party MLAs.The party’s working president, Kuljit Singh Nagra, said former Uttarakhand chief minister and Congree in-charge of Punjab’s affairs Harish Rawat has said he would come to the programme."As soon as other leaders of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) give any confirmation on their attending the event, we'll tell you," Nagra was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. “We'll meet the CM at 3pm today (Thursday) and give him an invitation,” he had said.Rawat later said the Congress will unitedly welcome the new president on Friday under Singh's leadership. Sidhu, who will replace veteran leader Sunil Jakhar, will formally take charge at a function on Friday.The tiff between Sidhu and Singh turned uglier ever since the Amritsar (East) MLA attacked the CM over the Guru Granth Sahib desecration cases.According to reports, Singh was against Sidhu’s elevation as Congress' Punjab unit chief. Thukral had said the chief minister will not meet Sidhu until he publicly apologises for the derogatory remarks on social media against him.The cricketer-turned-politician was appointed as the new president of the party's Punjab unit on Sunday by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi. She also appointed four working presidents, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra, to assist Sidhu in the run-up to the next Assembly elections scheduled to be held next year.On Wednesday, nearly 60 Congress MLAs had gathered at Sidhu’s residence in Amritsar in what was seen as a show of strength. The MLAs at Sidhu's residence said the party is united and that there is no need for offering any apology. The Congress has 80 MLAs in the Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-to-take-charge-as-punjab-congress-chief-tomorrow-cm-singh-invited-101626947798202.html
22-07-2021||Other||Several stranded in Chiplun due to heavy rain, floods in Maharashtra||Heavy rains triggered a flood-like situation in Chiplun town of Ratnagiri district of Maharashtra, leading to hundreds of people being stranded as water flowing through Vashishti river gushed into nearby areas on Thursday. To rescue those stranded, two teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) were deployed while coast guard was also instructed for a helicopter to airlift people in need.“We have deployed two teams of NDRF for the rescue operation in Chiplun in Ratnagiri. Coast Guards has been instructed for helicopter for rescue operation of the stranded people due to flooding in Chiplun,” said relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar. The region has witnessed around 300 mm rainfall within the last 24 hours.According to local administration, around 5,000 residents have been stranded in Chiplun while red alert has been issued in the district along with adjoining areas in view of the torrential rains.A number of villages in Konkan lost communication, officials said. Ratnagiri additional collector Sanjay Shinde said, “High tide in Arabian sea and incessant rains took place at the same time due to which the situation has become critical. Rescue operation is underway using boats.Train services on the Konkan Railway route were also partially suspended.Konkan Railway Corporation Limited’s deputy general Manager (public relations) Baban Ghatge said, “Eight trains have been regulated due to the disruption of the route.” These trains, according to officials, are either rerouted, short-terminated or cancelled. Water level at the Vashishti river bridge between Chiplun and Kamathe stations in Ratnagiri has risen above the danger mark after the downpour, he said.According to the district administration, inundation was reported at 4.30am. The flood water was over five feet deep. Traffic has come to a standstill in Chanderai and Lanj roads of Ratnagiri as water invaded the highway and connecting roads. Local MP Vinayak Raut demanded immediate assistance from the state to carry out evacuation and rescue of stranded citizens.Meanwhile, Mahad in Raigad district and parts of Kolhapur district are also witnessing downpour and the local administration have sounded red alerts across the region. At Mahad, gushing water of Savitri river entered the nearby areas.In Kolhapur, Panchganga river was flowing 36 feet above the danger mark and 77 check dams have been submerged.Raigad district collector Nidhi Choudhari said, “There is a flood-like situation at Mahad. Saviti river is flowing over danger level and people have been evacuated from low-lying areas. We have teams from coast guard, and NDRF to assist us in evacuation. So far 500 persons have been moved to safety.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/several-stranded-in-chiplun-due-to-heavy-rain-floods-in-maharashtra-101626946665027.html
22-07-2021||Pune||Mumbai-Pune rail traffic disrupted due to rain triggered landslide||Heavy rains since Wednesday night led to suspension of several local and long-distance trains on the Mumbai-Pune section due to accumulation of mud and stones on the tracks, apart from the damage caused by a landslide.A landslide were reported on the Mumbai-Pune railway route between Monkey Hill and Palsadhari section around 3 am on Thursday, leading to cancellation, diversion and short termination of several trains by the Central Railway (CR), officials said.Mud with huge rocks rolled over the railway tracks at one place and the soil under the tracks at some spots was washed away while power supply lines snapped at a few points on the section, bringing the trains to a halt.“There has been a landslide in the Lonavla Ghat section and the trains between the two cities (Mumbai and Pune) including Deccan Express train, Superfast special train have been cancelled while other trains have been short terminated. Railways are working on clearing the mud from the tracks and repair works are going on in full speed,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson.Meanwhile Konark Express train was terminated Thursday morning at Lonavala railway station due to the land slide. Around 700 passengers de-boarded at Lonavla station and they were being counselled to head to their destinations by road if they didn’t wish to wait for the movement of trains to restart on the section.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mumbaipune-rail-traffic-disrupted-due-to-rain-triggered-landslide-101626946365025.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Black and white gang keeps the colours of Nature alive||A few patches of green are left in the concrete jungles that our cities have turned into. Fortunately, our part of Amritsar can boast of an open space, comprising a football field, a basketball court and a hockey ground. School and college students, soldiers from the nearby cantonment and walkers throng the playing field every morning to exercise and train. Coaches keep a vigil on sportspersons and athletes and monitor their progress as they push them hard to better their performance. Once the gruelling practice session is over, the players are offered juices, bananas and milk to supplement their routine diet by the local sports authorities. Players relish the energy-boosting drink after sweating it out on the field but don’t spare a thought before littering the ground with empty tetra packs of juices, plastic straws, polythene pouches of milk, shards of glass and egg shells. Though the men responsible for the ground’s upkeep do their best to maintain the area, their efforts almost always fall short of the pace with which the non-biodegradable waste keeps piling up. Recently, a track and field tournament was held at the ground in which schools of the district participated. Once the meet was over, the ground was left littered with empty cartons, polythene bags and plastic bottles. Unable to clear the amount of garbage generated, the sweepers took the easy way out and swept the garbage to one part of the ground. With one-third of the ground under garbage cover, players and athletes chose to restrict their area of activity rather than clear the litter. We, the morning walkers, also decided to turn a blind eye to the sorry state of affairs, until a shard of glass tore through the sports shoes and a deep wound was inflicted on the foot of my doctor friend. His wound had to be sutured and he could not come to the ground for a fortnight. After a fortnight when he arrived, he had a bundle of black bags and surgical gloves on the carrier of his bicycle. Before I could ask about the bags, my friend said, “Today, we will operate on the ground and get rid of the litter that bugs it.” Everyone nodded and without much ado, we donned the surgical gloves, grabbed a bag each and bent down to pick up the empty bottles and plastic waste. Seeing us clean the ground, football players halted their game, athletes stopped in their tracks and girls practising gymnastics paused to ponder. Soon, they all came rushing towards us to join the cleanliness campaign. They almost snatched the bags of trash from our hands and started collecting unwanted items from the ground. Within minutes, the campaign started by five had transformed into a wave of 50 enthusiasts, lifting every bit of plastic, paper and glass from the ground. Within half an hour, we managed to collect 10 bags full of trash from the playing area. The next morning when we reached the ground, the players welcomed us with a warm smile. The boxing coach applauded our efforts with a firm handshake said, “The black and white gang is the need of the hour to keep our streets, villages and cities clean and green.” Before we could comprehend the reason behind the queer name given to our group, he was quick to elaborate that black stood for the bags and white for the gloves we carried. Since then, our black and white gang, supported by the players, devotes half an hour every Thursday to keep the colours of Mother Nature alive and vivid. rajivsharma.rs201067@gmail.com The writer is an Amritsar-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/black-and-white-gang-keeps-the-colours-of-nature-alive-101626944984721.html
22-07-2021||Delhi||Covishield at govt vaccination centres in Delhi to be reserved for second dose||Covishield will be reserved for administering the second dose of the vaccine at government vaccination centres until July end, the Delhi government said in an order on Thursday citing a limited supply of doses. The order said the beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group, who began receiving the vaccination in May, are due to become eligible for the second shot.“Vaccination of 18 to 44 cohort began on May 1, 2021, and with the completion of 84-day interval for the second dose of Covishield, many of them would not become eligible for the second dose in the coming weeks. In view of a limited supply of vaccines, all slots – both for online booking and walk-in -- … in government Covid Vaccination Centres will be reserved for the second dose with immediate effect till July 31,” said health and family welfare department director Monika Rana in the order.The vaccination drive in Delhi has slowed down in July as fewer doses of Covishield have been available with the government. The number of doses administered in a day crossed the 100,000-mark only twice this month. It has been dipping to as low as 10,000 doses.The number of doses administered shot up in Delhi after June 21 and crossed the 200,000-mark on three days as the government was able to use up the doses in stock for those above the age of 45. Prior to June 21, free doses provided were restricted for those above 45. The doses for those in the 18-45 age group were purchased by the state government at a differential pricing.In June, the government stopped the use of Covaxin for the first dose across all government and even private centres following a shortage of vaccines for administering second doses. Those in the 18-45 age group, who received Covaxin shots, were eligible for their second dose in June after completing the four-week gap.The government resumed using 20% Covaxin doses for the first dose in mid-July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covishield-at-govt-vaccination-centres-in-delhi-to-be-reserved-for-second-dose-101626944084693.html
22-07-2021||Mumbai||Former Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh booked for extortion||A fresh First Information Report (FIR) was registered against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh on Thursday. This time, he was booked based on a complaint lodged by a builder alleging the senior IPS officer had demanded ₹15 crore from him through a DCP and four other policemen.The Marine Drive police booked Singh, presently posted as commandant, Maharashtra Home Guards, four policemen and two civilians on charges of extortion, cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy, etc.Singh was booked in an atrocities case in April this year based on the complaint of a serving inspector of Akola police.The complainant in the Marine Drive case had earlier been booked and arrested by the Mumbai Police crime branch when Singh was commissioner of police, Mumbai. Sections of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) were also invoked against the builder and other accused persons in that case.Also Read | Anil Deshmukh case: Widen probe, says Bombay HC to CBILater, crime branch officers allegedly demanded ₹15 crore from the builder to drop his name from the case. He alleged that the crime branch officers were working on Singh’s instructions.Singh and other accused persons were booked under sections 387 (Putting person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, in order to commit extortion), 388 (Extortion by threat of accusation of an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life, etc), 389 (Putting person in fear of accusation of offence, in order to commit extortion), 403 (Dishonest misappropriation of property), 409 (Criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent), 420 (Cheating), (423 Dishonest or fraudulent execution of deed of transfer con­taining false statement of consideration), 464 (Making a false document), 465 (Punishment for forgery and others of Indian Penal Code). Two people have already been arrested in the case. Singh is facing multiple enquiries after he was shunted out from the Mumbai Police chief’s post in March 2021 for improperly handling the Antilia explosives scare case. Later, Singh wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and alleged that then home minister Anil Deshmukh asked dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze and others to extort bar and pub owners in Mumbai for ₹100 crore every month.Singh also approached the courts with his complaint, following which the Bombay high court ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary enquiry into the matter, a move that forced Deshmukh’s resignation. Based on the CBI FIR, Enforcement Directorate launched a money-laundering probe against Deshmukh and also attached his properties over ₹4 crore a few days ago.Singh is already facing multiple enquiries by state CID. Recently the Anti-Corruption Bureau initiated an open inquiry against him pertaining to corruption allegations made against him by police inspector Anup Dange.Singh did not respond to calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/former-mumbai-top-cop-param-bir-singh-booked-for-extortion-101626941984383.html
22-07-2021||Other||Elephant found dead in Jharkhand’s Palamu Tiger Reserve, third this year||A two-year-old elephant has been found dead in the Bhajna forest range of Jharkhand’s Palamu Tiger Reserve, forest department officials said on Thursday.Chief wildlife warden Rajiv Ranjan ruled out any foul play. “It was a two-year-old elephant, so it had not even developed a tusk. Some wound has been found in the lower part of the stomach and prima facie the probable cause of death appears to be an infection. But exact details could be shared only after we receive the post-mortem report,” said Ranjan.This is the third case of elephant death this year in the reserve spread over 1,129 square kilometres. The reserve has over 150 elephants.An elephant was found dead in the reserve on January 27. The authorities ruled out foul play in that case as well. Around 10 days earlier, a captive elephant was killed in an attack by the wild tuskers on January 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elephant-found-dead-in-jharkhand-s-palamu-tiger-reserve-third-this-year-101626941504718.html
22-07-2021||Other||2,000-year-old brick structure unearthed in Tamil Nadu's Korkai||The archeological excavation being undertaken at Korkai region in Tuticorin district unearthed a 2,000-year-old brick structure, Tamil daily Dinakaran reported on Thursday. The seven-layered structure has evinced the interest of the archeology enthusiasts in the state.Korkai, finding mention in Sangam literature for its pearl fishery, was the ancient port city of early Pandyas. At present, it is a small village in Srivaikuntam taluk of Tuticorin district. It is believed that the ancient city once situated at the banks of River Thamirabarani ended up inland, six kilometres away from the sea, due to river sedimentation and the sea receding.In addition to the existing excavation works, Tamil Nadu state archeology department has commenced excavation work at three places in the state including Korkai. In the region, excavation trenches are dug at Korkai, Sivagalai, and Adichanallur. The excavation work started on February 26 after the state government sanctioned ₹29 lakh.The archeologists dug 17 trenches at Korkai from where cast iron material, glass beads, and signs of industrial activities were found. The recent addition is the seven-layered brick structure indicating that it was a settlement area of the ancient civilization.Between 1968 and 69, the Tamil Nadu government took out archeological research at Korkai and surrounding areas. It was the first time the state government took out such archaeological excavation works after the state archeology department was formed. Past research established that Korkai was an archeologically significant place with 2,800 years of history, archeologists say. The literature and archeological evidence suggest that Korkai was involved in the export and import of goods with other ports of ancient civilizations.It could be noted that the department recently unearthed a sword possibly dating back to 2,500 years and a large clay pot that could be a burial urn at Krishnagiri district’s Mayiladumparai where the excavation works are currently underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2000yearold-brick-structure-unearthed-in-tamil-nadu-s-korkai-101626940912716.html
22-07-2021||Other||All members of newly formed Bodo militant outfit in Assam likely to surrender||All members of a newly formed Bodo militant outfit, National Liberation Front of Bodoland (NLFB), including its chief Binod Mushahary alias M Batha, are expected to surrender at a ceremony in Assam on Thursday. “People’s trust on the govt. policies is reflected by NLFB’s decision to return to the mainstream today. I welcome their homecoming,” Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted on Thursday. “We reiterate our commitment for all-round development of Bodoland and to protect the unique socio-cultural and political identity of Bodo people,” he added. Also Read | CAA, NRC will not hurt Indian Muslims: Bhagwat in AssamNational Investigation Agency (NIA) had announced a ₹10 lakh reward for Batha’s capture. He is reported to be hiding in Arunachal Pradesh along with around 60 cadres. They are expected to lay down their arms at Mazbat in Udalguri district. Batha and his cadres were part of the 1,615 militants who had surrendered in January last year after the signing of the third Bodo peace pact between the Centre and four factions of National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB). But Batha and his followers went back to the jungles after a few months and formed NLFB. Details of the new outfit emerged in February this year after recovery of a large cache of arms meant for NLFB was seized in Assam. In a statement issued in March, the outfit had stated that formation of a separate state of Bodoland for people from the Bodo tribe was their main goal. The NIA registered a case against the outfit in May this year and is probing their activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/all-members-of-newly-formed-bodo-militant-outfit-in-assam-likely-to-surrender-101626937424452.html
22-07-2021||Mumbai||In less than two months, Mumbai receives 90% of monsoon rainfall target||With Mumbai recording 50.2mm of rain in the 24 hours ending 8.30am on Thursday, the total seasonal rainfall recorded at the India Meteorological Department’s monitoring station in Santacruz touched 2001.4mm (since June 1). This is with more than half of the monsoon season yet to go, and makes for 90.7% of Mumbai’s total seasonal normal (up to September-end) of 2205mm.For comparison, the city had recorded 1469mm of rain by end July last year. In the last week alone (from July 15 to July 21), the city received 689.9mm of rain, which is 251% in excess of the weekly normal amount for this time of year, which is 196.7mm.According to IMD’s nowcast warning issued on Thursday morning, Mumbai is likely to experience “moderate to heavy rain/thundershowers in the city and suburbs with possibility of very heavy rainfall at a few places. Possibility of occasional gusty winds reaching to 50-60kmph gusting to 70kmph in some areas.”Also Read | Delhi weather: Hot and humid day likely today, says IMDPopular independent forecaster @IndiaWeatherMan on Twitter, said on Thursday morning, “Mumbai & surrounding areas will get intermittent heavy to moderate showers (not flooding rains) next few hours. At least one more very heavy spell to come in next 72 hours.”According to a meteorologist with IMD’s regional centre in Mumbai, intensity of rains is expected to pick up significantly by Thursday evening. A red category storm warning -- indicating chances of extremely heavy rain -- remains in place for the city on July 22, with orange category alerts (indicating only heavy to very rain) are in place for July 23 and July 24.The ongoing wet spell is the result of an offshore monsoon trough at mean sea level near the Maharashtra coast which is likely to remain vigorous for the next three days, along with a shear zone in the mid-tropospheric level.A cyclonic circulation over south Gujarat and a low pressure area forming in the Bay of Bengal by July 23 will also facilitate heavy rains across the Konkan. Ghat areas -- including Malshej, Matheran, Lonavala, Amboli, Mahabaleshwar -- are expected to receive extremely heavy rainfall (more than 204.5mm in a day), during this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-less-than-two-months-mumbai-receives-90-of-monsoon-rainfall-target-101626936104066.html
22-07-2021||Bhopal||Bear found dead in MP’s Panna Tiger Reserve||A bear suspected to have killed a man on Tuesday was found dead in suspicious circumstances on Wednesday night in Madhya Pradesh’s Panna Tiger Reserve, said a forest official. The official said the bear is suspected to have died of rabies or some other infectious diseases as no sign of injuries was found on its carcass.Also Read | Male tiger raises 4 cubs after death of their mother Panna Tiger Reserve field director UK Sharma said Haridas Ahirwar, 45, was found dead on Tuesday night with injury marks of a bear attack in the Gangaua beat of the reserve. “Forest officials were searching for the bear but much to their surprise, the bear was also found dead a few metres away from the spot. We have sent the bear’s viscera for forensic examination and also sent samples to virology lab to know about any viral infection.”Sharma said they have carried out vaccination against rabies of stray dogs, but still there are chances of its spread.The death of the bear has raised concerns a month after a tigress also died under suspicious circumstances. The tigress’ viscera sample has been sent for forensic examination and the report is awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/bear-found-dead-in-mp-s-panna-tiger-reserve-101626935384210.html
22-07-2021||Mumbai||26/11 Mumbai Police hero cleared of charges after suspension in another case||Senior police inspector Sanjay Govilkar, a 26/11 terror attacks hero who was suspended by then Mumbai police commissioner Sanjay Barve in 2019 for allegedly letting off an accused wanted in another case, has been cleared of the charge.Joint commissioner of police, law and order, Vishwas Nangre Patil, in a recent order -- of which HT has a copy --said the enquiry against Govilkar be closed as the charges were not proved. On August 9, 2019 Barve suspended Govilkar, who was then posted as in-charge of general cheating unit 3 of Economic Offenses Wing (EOW) of the Mumbai police, and assistant inspector Jitendra Shingote.Also Read | Widespread and heavy rain to impact west coast and central IndiaThey were accused of not following the mandatory process and letting off one Sohail Bhamla, who was detained at the Mumbai airport on July 22, 2019, following a Look Out Circular (LOC) in connection with a Juhu bungalow related case of EOW. Bhamla was earlier linked to an underworld case.The enquiry officer concluded that there was no dereliction of duty on part of the two officers.The officers were reinstated in the service after six months of suspension, but the departmental enquiry against them was on. Now they have been cleared of all the charges, said a senior police officer.Govilkar was part of the police team that arrested Ajmal Kasab, one of the ten terrorists who launched a terror attack on Mumbai on November 26, 2008.The team also killed Abu Ismail, the leader of 10 Lashkar-e-Taiba operatives, at Girgaum Chowpatty. Govilkar was awarded the President’s Police Medal for Gallantry -- the highest bravery award given to a policeman. On being cleared of the charge, Govilkar said, “It was painful to see your 25 years of work and service to the nation wiped out. I am still grateful to the department and seniors for reinstating me in service with dignity and clearing us of the false charge.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2611-mumbai-police-hero-cleared-of-charges-after-suspension-in-another-case-101626935084023.html
22-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi food safety dept to ensure quality food in hospitals||Delhi’s food safety department is working to get large kitchens in hospitals, temples, and Tihar Jail certified. The department looks at the quality of food, conditions in which it is prepared, utensils used, water used before conducting an independent audit and awarding a certificate from the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI). So far, Max Hospital, Saket, has been awarded the Eat Right certificate. The processes are underway at Max Hospital, Patparganj, Indraprastha Apollo Hospital, and Sri Action Balaji Hospital, according to officials. “Since people are thronging the hospitals, the department wanted to ensure that all the food available to the patients as well as their relatives was hygienically prepared. The certificate will let people know that,” said Ranjeet Singh, nodal officer for the programme from Delhi’s food safety department. The department is headed by food commissioner Neha Bansal. Also Read | India reports 41,383 new Covid-19 cases, 507 more deathsThe department plans to certify 11 big hospitals and temples, one from each district, by the end of the month. As for temples, Akshardham and Shri Sai Mandir, Najafgarh, have been certified. This action was taken after the department received complaints of Kalkaji temple reusing prasad. “We received complaints that beggars outside the temple were collecting the boondi from those visiting the temples and reselling it to the vendor. That’s when the department decided to certify temples serving food to large number of people,” said Singh. The department will conduct a similar inspection and certify Tihar Jail as well. The food safety officers have to inspect the kitchens, pantry, the area where food is served, the vendors used, and any outsources catering establishments. They look at whether the raw materials are properly stored, whether vegetarian and non-vegetarian food is separately stored and cooked, whether the drainage system is proper, whether the utensils used are made of food grade metal, whether RO water is used for cooking. “The law does not allow for cooking in ground water. RO water has to be used; even then the water needs to be tested twice a year at designated labs. In addition, we also look at whether is wearing apron, mask, hair net, have clean nails etc,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-food-safety-dept-to-ensure-quality-food-in-hospitals-101626933163827.html
22-07-2021||Delhi||T-2 of Delhi airport resumes operations; IndiGo, GoAir start flights||Terminal-2 of the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport in Delhi resumed its operations from Thursday, after remaining suspended since May 18 because of falling passenger footfall and fewer flights caused by the ongoing second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Till now, Terminal-3 had been handling flight operations at the airport.“Starting 22nd July, 00:01 AM, Terminal 2 at #DelhiAirport will resume flight operations with @IndiGo6E 2000 series and all @GoFirstairways domestic flights,” the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) tweeted on Tuesday.Last week, the DIAL said the decision to resume operations at Terminal-2 was taken after the airport saw a gradual increase in passenger footfall as several states started relaxing their lockdown and travel restrictions in June.Starting 22nd July, 00:01 AM, Terminal 2 at #DelhiAirport will resume flight operations with @IndiGo6E 2000 series and all @GoFirstairways domestic flights. #DelhiAirport #T2Reopening #FlySafe pic.twitter.com/sU207hKNaFOperations at the terminal will resume with approximately 200 air traffic movements (100 departures and 100 arrivals) on a daily basis and increase progressively up to around 280 movements by the end of August, the airport operator said in a statement, adding that 16 counters for IndiGo and 11 for GoAir will be available for passengers.The DIAL also pointed out on July 1 that the number of domestic passengers at the Delhi airport increased by over three times between mid-May and June-end. “Delhi airport has witnessed over three times rise in domestic passenger numbers from around 18,000 per day in mid of May 2021 to over 62,000 per day at the end of June 2021,” it said.The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), meanwhile, said on Monday that 31.13 lakh domestic passengers travelled by air in June, which is 47 per cent higher than the 21.15 lakh who travelled in May. In June, IndiGo flew 17.02 lakh passengers, a 54.7 per cent share of the domestic market; SpiceJet flew 2.81 lakh passengers, which is nine per cent of the market share and GoAir carried 5.14 lakh passengers , according to the aviation regulator’s data.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/t2-of-delhi-airport-resumes-operations-indigo-goair-start-flights-101626929345003.html
22-07-2021||Mumbai||Parts of Kalyan, Bhiwandi flooded as rivers overflow after rains in Maharashtra||Several parts of Kalyan, Bhiwandi, Ulhasnagar, Badlapur cities saw heavy flooding since Thursday early morning after Wednesday’s downpour. Ulhas and Waldhuni rivers that flow along the Badlapur, Ambernath, Ulhasnagar and Kalyan city overflowed, leading to heavy flooding in several parts of these cities and the nearby rural areas.Around 40 villagers who were stuck in Ganeshnagar village in Bhiwandi around 12.15am on Thursday were rescued by the team of Thane Disaster Response Force in a four-hour operation. Several villages in Shahapur were submerged.“ Around 40 villagers were rescued and sent to the tehsildar for further arrangements for them,” said Santosh Kadam , chief, regional disaster management cell-Thane municipal corporation.Also Read | Ajit Pawar says fully vaccinated people should be allowed to go outAn overflowing Kamvari river led to flooding in several parts of Nadi Naka. Water entered several homes in the area. Flooding was also reported from Kalyan APMC market, Ganesh ghat durgadi, Yogidham, Shahad flyover, Raita bridge, Mharal village, Varap, Shantinagar in Ulhasnagar.The water supply to Kalyan rural, Dombivli, Kalyan (West) was disrupted after the flood water entered Mohili pumping station. Water entered several residential buildings in Badlapur’s Ganesh nagar, Ramesh wadi, Badlapur railway station area. As per the authorities, the Ulhas river crossed the danger level on Thursday morning. At 8am, the river level was reported as 21metres at 8am on Thursday while the danger level is 17.50m at Badlapur. “ At Mohane in Kalyan west, Ulhas river has crossed the danger level, causing flooding in the region,” said Rajiv Pathak, executive engineer, Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation. KDMC additional commissioner Sunil Pawar said,“Water from Ulhas and Waldhuni river that overflowed on Thursday early morning has led to flooding in several residential areas along the river. No casualty has been reported as of now. Our disaster management team is reaching out the residents in need.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/parts-of-kalyan-bhiwandi-flooded-as-rivers-overflow-after-rains-in-maharashtra-101626929263777.html
22-07-2021||Delhi||Farmer protest to begin at 11am, area around Jantar Mantar turns into a fortress||The Delhi Police has barricaded the entire area around Jantar Mantar, ahead of a planned protest by the farmers, who have been pushing for the repeal of three farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year. The sit-in, called 'Kisan Panchayat', will start near Parliament in a renewed push to pressure the government to repeal the laws.Track Live UpdatesA large posse of policemen and Rapid Action Force (RAF) have been deployed at the site of the protest and heavy barricading put in place. The police have already enveloped parts of the national capital - like Singhu, Tikri and other places where farmers gave been protesting - under triple-layered security cover."We have placed preventive arrangements to avoid the entry of any miscreant at the Tikri border. The arrangement has been put in place as they (farmers) haven't received permission to hold protest here," Parvinder Singh, DCP (Outer District), was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The Delhi Police on Wednesday permitted farmers to hold the demonstration after they took an undertaking from the protesters that they would not march towards Parliament. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has allowed the protest to go on from 11am to 5pm, and permitted only 200 protesters per day who have to follow Covid-19 protocols. The permission has been granted from July 22 to August 9.On Thursday, 200 protesters will gather at Jantar Mantar, a large Mughal-era observatory in central New Delhi that has witnessed countless protests in recent decades.The farmers are getting ready to reach the venue in buses from the Singhu border (near Haryana). Their leader and Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait has said that he will go to Jantar Mantar along with the protesting farmers to monitor Parliament proceedings during the ongoing monsoon session. The session will end in early August.Tens of thousands of farmers have camped out on major highways leading to New Delhi for more nearly eight months.The farmers took out a tractor rally on January 26 (Republic Day) in Delhi during which the angry protesters clashed with police after driving their vehicles into security barriers. More than 80 police officers were injured across the city.The farmers are demanding the withdrawal of the laws which they say favour large private retailers who, prior to the new laws, were not permitted to procure farm goods outside government-regulated wholesale grain markets.The government says the laws, introduced in September 2020, will unshackle farmers from having to sell their produce only at regulated wholesale markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmer-protest-from-11am-area-around-jantar-mantar-turns-into-a-fortress-101626928293324.html
22-07-2021||Patna||Patna electricity board launches helpline number for issues with smart meters||The Patna Electricity Supply Undertaking (PESU) has issued a dedicated helpline number (9264454456) to resolve complaints and address queries related to smart prepaid energy meters for consumers under the Patliputra division. “The number will be functional on all working days during office hours (10am to 5pm) to address queries related to prepaid energy meters under Patliputra division,” said a press release of the power firm, quoting executive engineer Manish Kant. Queries and complaints related to prepaid meters can also be lodged on helpline number 1912. Also Read | Patna Metro work set to begin soon on Akashvani to Rajendra Nagar stretchThe division also organised a one-day workshop for its engineers on Wednesday to create awareness among its staff and aid in providing better service to consumers. Experts from Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) and EDF gave presentations at the workshop. The engineers were explained about the functionality and billing procedure of prepaid meters, besides methods of effectively disposing of consumer complaints, the communique said. “We felt the need to train our engineers and technical staff, as the Patliputra division has the distinction of installing the largest number of Smart prepaid meters in the state,” said Kant. The Bihar government has taken a decision to install prepaid meters in the state in a phased manner to rule out the possibility of consumers not paying their electricity bills, adding to arrears. Chief minister Nitish Kumar had earlier announced that there would be no shortage of funds for installation of prepaid meters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-electricity-board-launches-helpline-number-for-issues-with-smart-meters-101626927343645.html
22-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Hot and humid day likely today, says IMD||Delhi is likely to see another hot and humid day on Thursday, as showers are expected to hit the city only on Friday, forecasters said. Officials in the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that some parts of the city may get some rain, but the activity is likely to pick up by July 23 only. “The rainfall activity is likely to pick up again on July 23 and July 26 when moderate showers are expected,” said a senior IMD official. On Thursday morning, the minimum temperature was recorded as 22.4 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal. After two days of heavy and continuous rainfall on Monday and Tuesday, the city again is back to experiencing hot days without a trace of rainfall. Also Read | Widespread and heavy rain to impact west coast and central India“The day temperature remains high because of no rainfall while the night is cooler because of the easterly winds blowing,” the official added. Weather analysts at IMD said that though July is likely to see more rain, more rainfall in the Capital occurs during August only. “This is because the monsoon trough and easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal, the two primary conditions for rainfall, are more favourable during this time for Delhi. This is why the ‘normal’ monsoon rainfall count in the city for this month is higher (247.7mm) than July (210mm),” said another official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dealhi-weather-hot-and-humid-day-likely-today-says-imd-101626923323336.html
22-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai to receive moderate rainfall, local train service disrupted in places||For the fourth consecutive day, Mumbai received moderate to heavy showers on Wednesday, surpassing its July average of 827.2mm rainfall by a huge margin as the city received 1993.9 mm rainfall till Wednesday evening. By Thursday morning, the city would receive 2,000 mm rains, reports said. While the city received moderate rainfall, suburbs witnessed downpours leading to disruption in local services between Umbermali railway station and Kasara, between Igatpuria and Khardi, news agency ANI reported.Heavy rains battered Mumbai since Saturday night which led to landslides, waterlogged roads and railway tracks. The intensity of the rain has been coming down though the city is under red alert for today as well. The weekend's rainfall caused by a monster thunderstorm over Mumbai and suburbs was different from what the city has been receiving on Tuesday and Wednesday as these showers have been caused by strong westerly winds. The offshore trough running between Maharashtra and Karnataka is carrying moisture-laden westerly winds from the Arabian Sea to land. In addition to the trough, there is an east-west shear zone cutting across Maharashtra. Both the factors combined will keep Mumbai and suburbs in the rain zone for the time being, but no freak weather incident is predicted as of now. As per the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation data, Mumbai recorded 68.72 mm of rain, eastern suburbs 58.75 mm and western suburbs 58.24 mm of rain in 10 hours since 8am on Wednesday morning. The intensity of rainfall dipped in the afternoon but increased again at night.According to IMD prediction, Mumbai is not likely to receive heavy rainfall now and the intensity is likely to be reduced gradually. The Marathwada region of Maharasthra is expected to receive widespread showers till Thursday.Now, the west coast, the adjoining interior areas and Gujarat are likely to receive widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-to-receive-moderate-rainfall-local-train-service-disrupted-in-places-101626914486265.html
22-07-2021||Other||Dengue scare on the rise, fogging yet to commence in Ludhiana||At a time when the district health department has been raising concern over dengue disease amid the ongoing pandemic, the municipal corporation (MC) has failed to commence fogging drive in the city, despite the arrival of monsoon.With the city witnessing heavy rainfall on Tuesday and water logging reported in almost every area, the councillors and residents demanded that the civic body immediately commence fogging to prevent the spread of disease. The public representatives demanded a roster be issued to ensure that each area of the city is covered. The councillors should be given small fogging machines for covering internal streets, they added.The civic body should focus on green belts, parks, public places among other areas with a high possibility of water stagnation, they said.SAD councillor Harbhajan Singh Dang, leader of opposition in MC general house, said,” Monsoon has arrived in the city and water logging was witnessed at large on Tuesday including the open plots, where mosquito breeding can take place. I will also take up the matter with MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal on Thursday as people have also started approaching us for fogging in their respective areas.”Sunita Rani, leader of BJP councillors in MC house, said, “The civic body should immediately commence fogging drive, and priority should be given to the areas falling in the vicinity of Buddha Nullah. If the drive is delayed, then it may result in the spread of dengue, which can be fatal especially during the ongoing pandemic.”The health department officials stated that double infection, Covid-19 along with dengue, can increase the risk of mortality.District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat said the teams of the health department are conducting inspections to keep a check on mosquito breeding in different parts of the city especially, the high-risk areas. He also appealed to the residents to prevent water stagnation in and around their houses.Meanwhile, mayor Balkar Sandhu said that the MC has made necessary arrangements and will soon commence fogging in the city. “The civic body usually commences fogging drive in the mid of August, but we are planning to commence the drive early this year so that residents don’t face problems,” said Sandhu. List of 73 high-risk areas forwardedThe district health department has shared a list of 73 high-risk areas in the city that have a higher chance of mosquito breeding with MC. The high-risk areas include, MC headquarters (Zone A office) near Mata Rani Chowk; Jodhewal Basti; Field Ganj; Chander Nagar; Kundanpuri; Chhawani Mohalla; Dugri Phase-2; Sunder Nagar; Tyre Market opposite railway station; Jawahar Nagar camp; Shimlapuri, and Model Gram, etc. Few posh areas of the city including, Civil Lines, Gurdev Nagar, and BRS Nagar, are also among the high-risk areas, as per the health department.5 cases reported in the district till nowAs per health department officials, five cases of dengue have been reported in the city till now including, one each from Bhamian Road, Chander Nagar, Janta Nagar, Model Town, and Kailash Chowk area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dengue-scare-on-the-rise-fogging-yet-to-commence-in-ludhiana-101626898241661.html
22-07-2021||Other||National Achievement Survey: Ludhiana district education office conducts training session for block mentors||In a bid to excel in the National Achievement Survey (NAS), the state education department has geared up and is training the block mentors and members of Sukhya Sudhar teams of Punjab to prepare the students for the test.The district education office conducted a day-long district-level training of block mentors at Senior Secondary Residential School for Meritorious Students, here on Wednesday. DEO Lakhvir Singh, deputy DEO Charanjit Singh, and district mentor (math) Sanjeev Taneja attended and addressed the session.Taneja made presentations for block mentors of all subjects of Ludhiana and Sikhya Sudhar teams. Sikhya Sudhar team in charge Ashish Kumar and DIET Jagraon principal Rajwinder Kaur had also attended the training. The trainers shared tips regarding the survey that will be conducted in November. “Questionnaires concerning different subjects and learning outcomes were shared with the block mentors on Wednesday. Emphasis was given to further prepare the teachers and students regarding NAS,” said DEO, secondary, Lakhvir Singh. “The trainers addressed the queries of the block mentors concerning NAS,” said deputy DEO Charanjit Singh. “Block mentors have been advised to frame various strategies for the proper implementation of NAS training at school level and to create major awareness among teachers and students about NAS,” said state spokesperson media cell Parmod Bharti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/national-achievement-survey-ludhiana-district-education-office-conducts-training-session-for-block-mentors-101626898182743.html
22-07-2021||Other||Two booked for duping Ludhiana school principal, husband of ₹98.6 lakh||The city police has booked two persons for duping a school principal and her husband of ₹98.6 lakh on the pretext of selling them a flat.The case has been registered after a two-year-long investigation.Investigating officer ASI Gurjinder Singh said the accused have been identified as Harneshpal Singh, resident of Mahal Nagar in Barnala, and Anurag Sharma, resident of Sushant Lok, Phase-1, Gurgaon.The police registered the case on the complaint of Balveer Kaur, principal of a senior secondary school in Haibowal, and resident of Durgapuri, Haibowal Kalan.In her complaint to the police commissioner in November 2019, she stated that her husband Dalbir Singh is a retired Major. About six years ago, he met Anurag, who was posing as a property dealer.Anurag introduced Harneshpal Singh to the couple as the owner of a property in the Paras Panorama area in Kharar. The couple liked the property and after finalising the deal, transferred the total amount of ₹98.60 lakh to the account of the accused. However, after receiving the money the accused snapped all ties with them and went incommunicado.Feeling cheated, Balveer lodged a complaint with the police.Both the accused have been booked under Sections 406, 420,120-B of the IPC for criminal breach of trust, cheating, and criminal conspiracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-booked-for-duping-ludhiana-school-principal-husband-of-rs-98-6-lakh-101626898181653.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana schools gear up for return to in-person learning after four-month hiatus||With the state government allowing schools to reopen for students of Classes 10 and 12 from July 26, government and private schools in the district have started gearing up to switch to in-person learning.The first order of business has been to circulate google forms, and motivational circulars to seek parental consent. Principals and teachers have been drafting a back-to-school plan , which will minimise risk of infection and adhere to standard operating procedures. Several schools have decided to reopen in two shifts, call students on alternate days and prepare a different schedule for students with odd and even roll numbers. Online and in-person classes will be held simultaneously. The sanitisation process in schools will start from Thursday.As per protocol, only vaccinated staff are to be allowed in schools. Most schools have got their staff vaccinated over the last two months.BCM Senior Secondary School, Basant Avenue, Dugri, principal Vandna Shahi says, “We have sent a letter to parents assuring them that all measures have been taken to ensure their wards’ safety.”Around 1,100 students are enrolled in Classes 10 to 12 at DAV Public School, BRS Nagar. Principal JK Sidhu says, “We will plan seating arrangements after we receive parents’ response. All our teachers are vaccinated, and we will ensure that all safety protocols are followed on the school premises.”Enhanced enrolment at govt schoolsThe district education department also held online meetings with government schoolteachers to discuss seating plans, and timetables as the student strength of schools has exceeded the seating capacity in the 2021-22 session.At Government Senior Secondary School, Multipurpose, 2,800 new students have enrolled in Classes 11 and 12. As the school only has 30 classrooms, authorities are planning to ask students to attend classes on alternate days. Principal Navdeep Romana says, “We have around 4,700 students in the three classes. We have decided to call girls and boys on alternate days, while online classes will continue for students who are unwilling to attend physical classes.”Government Model Senior Secondary School, Punjab Agricultural University, has 2,100 students in Classes 10 to 12. The school has around 100 teachers and all of them have received both shots.Principal Sanjeev Thapar says, “We have decided to call Class 10 students in the morning shift and Class 11 and 12 students in the afternoon. We have enough rooms to accommodate students and will depute extra staff in the afternoon shift as over 1,400 students have enrolled in Classes 11 and 12. Last year, when we had reopened schools, 90% of the students had attended classes with parents’ consent. We are expecting a similar response this time as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-schools-gear-up-for-return-to-in-person-learning-after-four-month-hiatus-101626898122549.html
22-07-2021||Other||Will install storm sewers to tackle waterlogging: Ludhiana mayor||Having zeroed in on overburdened sewer treatment plants and the absence of storm sewers as the primary reasons for waterlogging, the city is working on upgrading its infrastructure to tackle the reoccurring issue. Mayor Balkar Sandhu on Wednesday said three sewer treatment plants are being upgraded in Balloke, Bhattian and Jamalpur under the ₹650 crore project to rejuvenate the Budha Nullah — a rivulet that passes through the district — and storm sewer lines are being installed wherever possible, the mayor said. So far, 10% sewer lines have been installed across the city. “We have already installed storm sewer lines at Rani Jhansi Road and Old GT road near the Clock Tower. Water accumulation was largely witnessed due to incessant and heavy rainfall, but the accumulated water drained out relatively sooner as we had the drain lines, sewers and road gullies cleaned ahead of monsoon. Old drains were also cleaned out to expedite the process. There are few other chronic points such as the road outside Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, and Talab Bazaar. We are working on finding a solution to the problem,” said Sandhu. “In the past, sewers of villages outside MC limits have also been joined with the MC lines for a fee, but it has put a burden on the infrastructure. The sewer lines also choke after heavy rainfall due to low capacity of STPs,” said the mayor. Reminder to NHAI A reminder has been sent to the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) to resolve waterlogging at Ferozepur Road, Chandigarh Road, and Sherpur Chowk among other areas. Authorities have been asked to clean the drains along highways, the mayor said. Rain water harvestingDirecting officials to focus on rain water harvesting, Sandhu said he will table a resolution in the next meeting of the finance and contracts committee (F and CC) for installation of grass-paver tiles in the city to allow water seepage. Also, the building branch officials will be directed to ensure rain water harvesting systems in the buildings, where it is mandatory to install the system as per norms fixed by the local bodies department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-install-storm-sewers-to-tackle-waterlogging-ludhiana-mayor-101626897941955.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana mayor announces ban on plastic carry bags from August 1||A day after people were seen wading through knee-deep water after monsoon showers, mayor Balkar Sandhu blamed waste polythene for choking sewer lines and banned the use of plastic carry bags in the city from August 1. The city has been struggling to enforce a complete ban on plastic carry bags since 2016. Asked if this time would be any different, Sandhu said, “Special teams will be formed to carry out intensive drives to restrain the use and trade of plastic carry bags in the city. Violators will be slapped with hefty fines.” On July 14, the MC general house had approved a resolution to ban single-use plastic. While appealing residents to adopt alternatives such cloth bags, the mayor said the MC had cleaned the sewer lines before the arrival of monsoon, but the lines got choked regardless due to plastic carry bags which clogged the drains. The mayor said, “The matter was also highlighted by shopkeepers near the Clock Tower when municipal corporation commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and I had gone for an inspection. I will also ask Punjab Pollution Control Board officials to check manufacturing of banned carry bags.”Though the state government had imposed a complete ban on plastic carry bags in April 2016, the use and trade of plastic bags goes unabated in absence of proper checks. An official, requesting anonymity, said the MC has had trouble enforcing the ban due to political interference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mayor-announces-ban-on-plastic-carry-bags-from-august-1-101626897702287.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Call-centre scam: Ludhiana cops to push for extradition of gang’s UK-based handler||After busting a fake call-centre scam targeting foreign nationals with the arrest of 39 people, police are now looking to extradite the gang’s handler from the United Kingdom. The key accused, Naman Sukhadiya, who was arrested in Gujarat last week, had said that a UK-based handler provided them with the phone numbers of targets in exchange for a 40% cut per fraud. The police are in the process of issuing a lookout circular for the handler’s extradition and have encashed cryptocurrency worth ₹60 lakh.Posing as officials from Her Majesty Revenue & Customs, the UK’s tax, payments and customs authority, the accused would call citizens of the United States of America and Canada through an internet-based calling application and tell them that their identity had been used to carry out tax or insurance frauds in their country and a criminal case was being filed against them. When the victims invariably asked them for a way to nullify the charges, they were told to transfer some money to a UK-based account through hawala or cryptocurrency. Additional deputy commissioner of police (investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti said, “The accused were expanding their racket to other countries, including Australia. The cryptocurrency has been made case property after being granted special permission by a local court.” It has been learnt that another key operator, Lakhan, was about to handover the call centre to Somal Sood, the owner of the building where the call centre was operating. Cops are also looking into Sood’s assets and business transactions. The police will request the ministry of external affairs to reach out to countries where the fraudsters were active to get a written statement from victims.Officials, requesting anonymity, say the Punjab Police was going to scale up the operation as they have found more such fake call centres operating in Mohali. On June 30, the racket was busted after a raid on the call centre on Pakhowal Road. The building was owned by Sood, who allegedly has strong contacts with politicians and in the police department. Subsequently, raids were carried out in Mohali, Delhi and Gujarat to arrest all gang members. Initially, the call centre was operated by Gujarat-based techies.Besides cryptocurrency, police have seized cash and property worth ₹1.52 crore from the gang, besides recovering ₹27 lakh hawala money and freezing ₹39.8 lakh in the accused’s bank accounts. Around 516g gold worth ₹17 lakh, 12 laptops, 26 mobile phones and two cars have been seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/callcentre-scam-ludhiana-cops-to-push-for-extradition-of-gang-s-uk-based-handler-101626897281056.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu to be crowned as Punjab Congress chief on Friday||Navjot Singh Sidhu will formally take over the reins of the Punjab Congress on Friday. Harish Rawat, the All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary and in-charge of Punjab affairs, is expected to arrive here for Sidhu’s coronation as the representative of party’s high command. The event, likely to be a low-key affair, will be held at the party’s Chandigarh headquarter, and the outgoing president Sunil Jakhar will also be a part of it. No invite has been received by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh so far for the event, said sources. “It’s an important event and it is the duty of every Congressman to attend it. In the past too, invitations were never sent to anyone in the party for such an event,” said cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa. The minister, once considered as the right-hand man of Captain, has now distanced himself from the CM and thrown his weight behind Sidhu.Bajwa was also seen with Sidhu, along with his three other cabinet colleagues ----- Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and Charanjit Singh Channi --- at the Golden Temple on Wednesday. More than 40 Congress MLAs, out of 80, were also present there. Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra who has been appointed as one of the four working president, said Rawat has asked everyone to attend the event. “It’s going to be a big show and we will put up a united face of the Congress,” said a working president, who didn’t want to be quoted. Amarinder, who had opposed state unit’s top post for Sidhu, has already announced that he would not meet the newly appointed president till he publicly apologises for his derogatory social media attacks against him. Reportedly, Sidhu is in no mood to budge and so far no attempt has been made to reach out to the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-to-be-crowned-as-as-punjab-congress-chief-on-friday-101626896747089.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Paddy crop on hundreds of acres submerged as rivulets breach in Patiala||Paddy crop on hundreds of acres of land has submerged due to overflowing of seasonal rivulets in villages of the Sanaur, Rajpura and Ghanaur assembly constituencies in Patiala district.The villagers said the canal and irrigation department failed to carry out cleanliness of these rivulets due to which water entered their fields. The district received nearly 150mm of rain in the last two days and the farmers are fearing damage to their recently sown crop. Amreek Singh of Rurki village in the Sanaur constituency said the water enters their fields every monsoon as the government has failed to resolve the issue of poor drainage system. “The authorities had made tall claims of dealing with any emergency but the first heavy rain exposed their ill-preparedness,” he said.The agriculture department has rushed its teams to access the damage and to make farmers about drain the water out of their fields.Deputy commissioner Kumar Amit also visited Daun Kalan, Farm Bahadurgarh, Dhareri Jattan, Baddi Nadi and Chhoti Nadi villages to take the stock of the situation.He said there was no threat of flooding in the district due to rains but they are still monitoring the drainage and flow of rainwater passing through the Ghaggar and other drains. “We have already issued instructions to the departments concerned to be vigilant to avert any flood-like situation. The drainage department and the mandi board has been told not to be slack while disposing of excess water,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paddy-crop-on-hundreds-of-acres-submerged-as-rivulets-breach-in-patiala-101626896206486.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers leave for Delhi to join Parliament march||A group of farmers from Sangrur district in Punjab left for Delhi on Wednesday to participate in a march to Parliament against the Centre’s three contentious agriculture reform laws. The farmers said the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) decided to send a jatha of 200 persons, five from a union each, everyday from Thursday onwards to register their protest. Members of the Kirti Kisan Union will join the second jatha scheduled to march on Friday.Sarabjit Singh Alal, a former sarpanch of Alal village, said the SKM directed them to march to Parliament and they will obey the decision of union leaders by joining the protest march to oppose the three new agriculture laws.“We will hold a peaceful protest and other farmer delegations also will be leaving till the black laws are repealed,” added Alal.Kirti Kisan Union district secretary Darshan Singh Kunran said the central government is not ready to listen to the protesting farmers and they will not get bail or apologise if the Delhi Police arrest them. “We will fight till the battle is won. The farmers will not return home even in case of any unfortunate incident in families. We will spend life in jail but will not come back without repeal of anti-farmer laws,” added Kunran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-farmers-leave-for-delhi-to-join-parliament-march-101626896141990.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||2 children killed, 5 of family injured in Patiala roof collapse||Two siblings, aged seven and nine, were killed while five members of their family were injured after the roof of their house collapsed at Dudhan Sadhan village in Patiala district on Wednesday morning. The deceased were identified as Sachin and his younger sister Tania. The family was sleeping when the roof suddenly fell and all the seven members were trapped under the debris. The victims’ father Bittu, mother Neelam and their three siblings received multiple injuries. Police said the walls of the kutcha house developed cracks due to heavy rainfall on Tuesday. The family was evacuated with the help of villagers and the police. They were rushed to Government Rajindra Hospital where doctors declared the two children brought dead. Dudhan Sadhan tehsildar Sarabjit Singh said as per the government policy, the family will be provided a compensation of ₹4 lakh each for the deceased members and an aid of ₹95,000 will be given for reconstruction of the house.“Bittu works as a daily wager and the condition of the house was not good. The incident took place due to heavy rainfall,” he said.On Tuesday, four members of a family were killed in a similar incident at Matauli village in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-children-killed-5-of-family-injured-in-patiala-roof-collapse-101626896090380.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19 norms go for a toss at Navjot Sidhu’s roadshow in Amritsar||Covid-19 safety norms were violated with impunity during a roadshow to welcome newly appointed Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu in Amritsar on Tuesday. Also, no protocol was followed by the supporters of the Congress leader at his residence and during his visit to the Golden Temple, the Durgiana Temple and the Ram Tirath Temple along with other leaders. Hardly anyone was seen wearing masks or maintaining social distancing when the ruling party MLAs, ministers and other leaders gathered at the residence of the Amritsar East legislator. Even photographs of the gathering were released by Sidhu’s office. The situation turned worse at the Golden Temple which was already witnessing a heavy rush of devotees who were standing in long queues. A large number of police, security personnel and mediapersons added to the chaos. “If those in government violate the norms like this, how can they expect compliance from the public?” asked a Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) office-bearer present at the shrine. Administration officials refused to comment on the mass violation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-norms-go-for-a-toss-at-navjot-sidhu-s-roadshow-in-amritsar-101626896084093.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||144 fresh Covid cases, 1 fatality recorded in J&K||J&K on Wednesday witnessed one death due to Covid, which infected 144 people and pushed the active case count to 1,602.On Tuesday, for the first time since March 17, Jammu and Kashmir’s daily Covid infections had dropped below 100. The last time the UT had recorded fewer cases than July 20 was on March 12 with 73 infections.On Wednesday, there were 109 cases in Kashmir, while the Jammu division saw 29 infections.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 175 with active positive cases dropping to 1,602. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,14,284 prompting the recovery rate to climb to 98.25%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,20,256 and the death toll has climbed to 4,372.Officials said with 65 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 10 in Anantnag. All the other 18 districts had single-digit cases with five districts without any case.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,139 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 832 deaths.The overall cases in July so far have reached 4,450 and death toll stands at 48. After the most devastating month of May, June reported 25,197 cases and 416 deaths related to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/144-fresh-covid-cases-1-fatality-recorded-in-jk-101626895723689.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||HP environmentalists seek implementation of Forest Rights Act||Environmentalists in Himachal Pradesh have asked members of the high-powered committee on land laws to speed up the implementation of the Forest Rights Act, 2006. The panel, which has six different subcommittees headed by MLAs, was formed in September last year with the mandate to review the land laws in the state. The committee was constituted citing a large number of land ownership-related conflict cases pending in the high court that were becoming a cause of concern for the government. Prakash Bhandari of Himdhara Collective said, “The root of this problem dates back to the enactment of the Forest Conservation Act, 1980, which ended up blocking all possibilities of fair and just resolution and regularisation of najayaz kabzas which were indeed legitimate occupations of people facilitated by various state laws like the Nautor Rules. Further, there was a blanket notification issued by the government of Himachal in 1952 that declared all wasteland as forest land.” He added, “The intention of the 1952 notification and Forest Conservation Act may have been to protect forests, but there was a need to follow the process of forest settlement under the Indian Forest Act, 1927, providing a fair opportunity to people with existing rights on the land. But this process was not followed in the years to come.” Declaring lands as ‘forests’ without providing a fair chance to communities who have been dependent on these ancestral lands for generations has been termed “historical Injustice” in the preamble of the Forest Rights Act 2006, he said. The submission made by Himdhara Collective highlights that the Act provides a historical opportunity for the state to clean up both revenue and forest settlement records in a fair manner. “In Himachal, which has a population of more than 1.5 lakh families of gaddis and gujjars, medicinal plant collectors who are directly dependent on forest land for livelihood and 1.65 lakh families who have applied under 2002 encroachment regularisation policy of Himachal government and several thousands, they had been cited as najayaz kabza in revenue and forest records. There is hardly any forest land in the state where local communities do not have forest usage and dependence for livelihood needs,” the submission states. “The Act has been implemented selectively for diversion of forest land for village development activities. Till now, 2,000 cases have been sanctioned by the government under this provision. However, the very few are aware that the main provision of the act is the recognition of Individual Forest Rights (habitation and farm activities) and Community Forest Rights (fodder, fuelwood, medicinal plants, grazing rights). So far, only 35 community rights titles; and 129 individual forest rights have been accorded under the Act in Himachal,” he added. Myths and misconceptionOne of the main reasons of the poor implementation of the law in Himachal is misinformation and lack of awareness about the law within the political machinery. “The Ministry of Tribal Affairs, the nodal agency for implementation of this law, has offered repeated clarifications on the applicability of the Act and eligibility of Himachalis for individual and community forest rights. But be it high-level officials or line officials, who are to recommend the claims, they continue to carry many misconceptions about the act,” said Manshi Asher of Himdhara Collective. “It is only through strengthening the forest-based livelihood of communities dependent on it that conservation can be ensured,” Asher added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-environmentalists-seek-implementation-of-forest-rights-act-101626895722680.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Transfer policy should not be taken lightly: Himachal HC||Taking strong exception to the transfer of employees being made by the state government on the recommendations of extra-constitutional authorities, the high court of Himachal Pradesh has directed the chief secretary to take appropriate action in the matter and implement the directions issued by the court. A division bench comprising Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed these orders on a writ petition filed by one Vipender Kalta, challenging his transfer order. The petitioner has alleged that the transfer has neither been made in public interest nor administrative exigency, rather the same has been made on the basis of a DO Note and therefore the same is not legally tenable. While allowing the petition, the court observed that the recommendations to transfer the petitioner has been mooted by an extra-constitutional authority, which has no role in the functioning and business of the administration, therefore, the impugned transfer of the petitioner cannot be sustained. The court observed that the government is the best judge to decide how to distribute and utilise the services of its employees, however, this power must be exercised honestly, bona fide and reasonably and in public interest. The bench said that courts and tribunals are not expected to interdict the working of the administrative system by transferring the officers to the proper place, however, it becomes necessary for the court to interfere when it notices gross irregularities being committed by the government in the matters of transfer. The court observed that it’s time to turn the searchlight on the state government and remind it that the transfer policy should not be taken lightly or made a mockery or a tool to transfer government employees on the whims and fancies of the politicians. The court observed that the government, being an ideal employer, has a bounden duty to strictly safeguard the interest of its employees against the machinations of politicians. The public servants need to discharge their functions without fear or favour and they need not toe the line drawn by the politicians. The court said that government should not encourage such extra-constitutional authorities to interfere with the administration and governance of the state, or else, there is every likelihood of there being a complete breakdown of rule of law. The court also observed that since the docket of the court is full of cases related to transfers of employees, the government should implement online transfer in its departments, boards, corporations, having over 500 employees by framing an online transfer policy and directions to this effect have already been issued by the court in various writ petitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/transfer-policy-should-not-be-taken-lightly-himachal-hc-101626895721522.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sophia Duleep Singh in the running for UK’s Hidden Heroes statues campaign||Sophia Duleep Singh, daughter of the last ruler of the Sikh empire Maharaja Duleep Singh, is among the historical figures in the running for a “Hidden Heroes” campaign calling for more diversity in new commemorative monuments across the UK.Princess Sophia, the goddaughter of Queen Victoria, was among the leading suffragettes who fought for women’s right to vote in 1900s Britain. Now, Britain’s first Sikh female parliamentarian Preet Kaur Gill has nominated her as a candidate for a new memorial to represent the diversity of the country.“The last few years, we have seen our country more polarised. As an MP, I want to use my voice to bring people together and to build cohesion in the UK,” said Gill.“I am backing the Hidden Heroes campaign because we have so many of our achievements to celebrate and the stories of more under-represented groups can help build pride and a shared narrative of what Britain is today,” she said.The “Hidden Heroes” campaign has been created to build on the diversity of public monuments, statues and art, because fewer than 3% of the statues in the UK are of non-royal women, with other categories hardly represented.“We need more statues, not less. Let’s celebrate people whose values we can all be inspired by and who tell the story of this wonderfully diverse nation,” said Zehra Zaida, campaigner and founder of the “Hidden Heroes” campaign as part of her wider “We Too Built Britain” initiative.“Symbolism in representation has a role to play in cohesion and bringing people together under shared values,” she said.The initiative, to coincide with the ongoing South Asian Heritage Month in the UK, calls on members of Parliament from every constituency to ask local people to nominate their “Hidden Heroes”.Some might be figures that history has somewhat neglected, others might be more local heroes with inspirational stories.Tom Tugendhat, parliamentarian and chair of the UK Parliament’s Foreign Affairs Committee, has long supported the campaign to better memorialise the women spies of the World War II Special Operations Executive (SOE), including Indian-origin SOE agent Noor Inayat Khan.“Britain has always brought together people from different cultures and backgrounds. It’s what has made us strong and adaptable over centuries. We need to celebrate our community with all its differences,” said Tugendhat.The We Too Built Britain campaign, which has attracted cross-party political support as well as celebrity and grassroots backing, was set up with the aim of improving the diversity of representation across legal tender. It led to UK Chancellor Rishi Sunak launching a new “Diversity Built Britain” 50 pence coin series last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sophia-duleep-singh-in-the-running-for-uk-s-hidden-heroes-statues-campaign-101626895361726.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||BJP itself behind attack on mayor, senior leader in Chandigarh: Congress||Upping the ante against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on the recent imposition of prohibitory orders on mass assembly across the city, the Congress has blamed thesaffron fold itself for the attack on the city mayor and a senior BJP leader at the Sector 48 motor market on July 17.Speaking at a press conference in Sector 27 here on Wednesday, Congress city chief Subhash Chawla said, “If an honest investigation is done by the police, it will show that it was the BJP that perpetrated the attack.” Chawla alleged that the attack was carried out to justify the imposition of Section 144 prohibitory orders in the entire city: “Just four months before the municipal corporation (MC) elections, the BJP is attempting to scuttle our protests.”Slamming the UT administration, Chawla said, “The administration is working entirely under the pressure of the BJP that blamed the police for the attack. So for hiding its own shortcomings, the administration has imposed a blanket ban on protests. We request the administration to withdraw these orders at the earliest.”This is the latest in a war of words between the two major political parties after city mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and senior BJP leader Sanjay Tandon had a narrow escape when their vehicles were attacked with rods and stones allegedly by anti-farm-laws protesters in Sector 48. On their part, the BJP leaders alleged that Congress party workers were present at the protest when the incident took place. BJP has also highlighted a viral video from a night before the incident alleging it included Congress workers calling for attacks on BJP leaders.Stating that the Congress would continue with its protests, Chawla said, “We will find new ways to protest, use social media and mainstream media for it.”Party’s chief spokesperson HS Lucky said, “Against our earlier protests, BJP had got multiple FIRs registered against our party workers.”Stating that the BJP was trying to hide its own failures, Congress councillor and leader of opposition in MC Devinder Singh Babla said, “People are still getting hiked water bills and overcharged garbage collection bills. If hiked bills are issued next month too, I will sit on a fast against the BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-itself-behind-attack-on-mayor-senior-leader-in-chandigarh-congress-101626894943269.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Rising water level in Ghaggar worries farmers in Moonak||The water level in Ghaggar is continuously rising in Sangrur district, leaving farmers in the Moonak area worried.The water level in the river was 742 feet on Wednesday evening, just six feet below the danger mark. Farmers said the water level was increasing and it has created cracks at one point in the Moonak area. The local administration sent its teams and MGNREGA workers to strengthen the banks.Amrik Singh, a farmer from Moonak, said that he has been fighting for the strengthening of banks of Ghaggar since 2011 but locals have to face worries every year as the successive governments failed to find a permanent solution of the problem.“When I visited my farm fields today, I noticed that the water was damaging the banks of the river. I made a video and sent it to sub-divisional magistrate and other district administration officials,” said Amrik Singh, who owns 15 acres of land.Pargat Singh, a farmer from Surjan Bhaini village, said the water from fields is drained out with the help of pipes into the Ghaggar, but it weakens the banks and creates cracks. “There should be a permanent solution to the problem and repairs of banks should be done before monsoon,” added Pargat, who owns 32 acres of land near Ghaggar.Moonak tehsildar Surinder Singh said he along with a team of the revenue department visited the site between Moonak and Tohana where a crack developed and it was being repaired by MGNREGA workers. “The labour spent the entire day in strengthening the banks. We are also using machines for the same,” he added.Moonak SDM Aakash Bansal said a team of army had also inspected the banks of Ghaggar a day ago. All the weak points are being strengthened and a team was also sent to fill the crack which developed on Wednesday.In 2019, a breach of over 150-ft was reported in Ghaggar river at Phulad village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rising-water-level-in-ghaggar-worries-farmers-in-moonak-101626894941503.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Farm laws: Bajwa moves notice to suspend business of upper house||Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa on Wednesday gave notice to move a motion to suspend business of the upper house on Thursday to discuss the situation arising out of the controversial farm laws.The notice given jointly by Bajwa and party colleague from Haryana Deepender Hooda under Rule 267 of the Rules of Procedures and Conduct of Business in the Council of State reads: “The House do discuss the extraordinary situation that has arisen over the passing of the farm bills in September 2020. For over six months, lakhs of farmers have been protesting at the borders of Delhi.”It says families of farmers have come out to protest during peak winter and summer seasons to protest around the National Capital Region. “During these protests over 400 farmers have lost their lives. The Parliament represents the will of the people and derives its legitimacy from the citizens of India. As representatives of the people of India it is imperative that we hold a discussion on this matter. Therefore, I urge you to suspend the business in the House so that a forthright discussion can be had in the Rajya Sabha over this issue,” the notice demanded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-laws-bajwa-moves-notice-to-suspend-business-of-upper-house-101626894764199.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Since Covid outbreak, industrial production in Mohali down by 40%||Ever since the outbreak of the pandemic last year, the industry in Mohali has taken a severe hit with the overall production gone down by 40%.The industrialists account the losses to a failure to procure raw material during the first and the second wave. Besides, the reverse migration of the workforce led to further losses, 30% of whom are yet to come back from their native states. Moreover, due to power and other issues, around 50 units have been shifted to neighbouring states.There are around 13,000 micro, small and medium enterprises and 49 major industrial houses in the district employing 1.3 lakh workers.The president of Mohali Industries Association (MIA), Yogesh Sagar, said, “For the past 15 months, the industry has suffered heavily. We were not getting semi-finished products due to the restrictions in other states. Also, 30% of our workforce is yet to come back, which has resulted in the production going down by around 40%.”He further said, due to certain issues and power problems, around 50 units have been shifts to neighbouring states and most of them in Baddi, Himachal Pradesh, he added.Vivek Kapoor, the vice-president of MIA, said due to shut down, manufacturers were not able to sell final products and also there is an acute shortage of steel due to decline in the supply and very high prices in the domestic market, he said.He further said, “The production had also gone down due to the non-availability of oxygen cylinders for manufacturing specially during the second wave. This has led to production going down by 40-50% in most of the units. Though things are coming back to track, it will take some time.”Around 10 industries became operational in Mohali in 1978, growing to about 10,000 units, including manufacturing and IT/service industry. The Industrial Area is divided into different phases: Phases 1 to 4 fall under the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA), Phase 7, 8A, and 8B under the Punjab Small Industries Export Corporation Limited (PSIEC), and Phase 9 under Punjab Infotech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/since-covid-outbreak-industrial-production-in-mohali-down-by-40-101626894763200.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Press Club SAS Nagar gets land for club building in Sector 57||After a wait of nearly a decade, Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu has allotted land for construction of the building of Press Club SAS Nagar. The land has been allotted near Bal Gopal Gaushala in Sector 57. The building will be constructed for all working journalists of Mohali. On Wednesday, mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu laid the foundation stone of the club in the presence of senior reporter Kewal Singh Rana, club president Hillary Victor and general secretary Pardeep Singh Happy, among several senior journalists of the district. During the ceremony, the mayor said a delegation of the club had recently met the health minister regarding the land, following which it had been allotted. Victor expressed gratitude towards the minister and the mayor for accepting the long-pending demand of the district’s journalists, who could now work from one place for the welfare of society.Deputy mayor Kuljeet Singh Bedi, councillor Gursahib Singh, industrialist Sanjeev Garg and Congress leader Gurnam Singh were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/press-club-sas-nagar-gets-land-for-club-building-in-sector-57-101626894761684.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||100-day deadline: Chandigarh depts ready list of works, told to get cracking||The 100-day countdown has begun for UT departments to complete development projects running into over ₹150 crore. In a first, 16 departments, including agencies like Society for Promotion of IT Chandigarh (SPIC), Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL), Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) and municipal corporation (MC), have submitted a list of 33 “priority” works with UT adviser Dharam Pal, while committing to complete these within 100 days. If not completed, Pal warned, “Responsibility will be fixed for the delays and action taken. We will monitor the progress every month.” Most of these projects have been hanging fire for long. For instance, CHB has committed to launch the IT Park Housing Scheme on priority. The project has been in the planning stage for a couple of years now and the launch date has been pushed repeatedly, pending several requisite approvals. Similarly, CSCL’s much-touted public bicycle sharing project has missed several deadlines. Under criticism due to hardships faced by residents in accessing their land records, the Deputy Commissioner’s Office has listed upgrade and digitisation of land records. The UT engineering department has committed to complete the buildings of Government Primary School in Dhanas and Government High School in Raipur Kalan and Raipur Kalan, Phase 3. Education department will also make four schools operational, including two government model senior secondary schools in Raipur Kalan and Maloya; and two high schools in Makhan Majra and Sector 12. The city will get six new community centres in Sectors 20, 21, 30, 35, 38 and Mauli Jagran within the 100-day deadline, the engineering department has stated. The forest and wildlife department will establish a Bird Park for Exotic Birds at Nagar Van. A new oxygen pipeline will be laid at GMCH, Sector 32, and two PSA plants, one each at GMCH-32 and at GMCH South Campus Hospital, Sector 48, will also be installed. Taking note of the delay in completion of several projects, Pal had given a week’s time to the departments to submit their priority lists. “Completion of these projects requires constant monitoring. For that we needed a list with deadlines. Unless there are genuine reasons, action will be taken if the projects stay pending after 100 days,” the adviser said. “The preparation of the list and 100-day road map itself has given the departments incentive to complete the long-pending works, added Pal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/100day-deadline-chandigarh-depts-ready-list-of-works-told-to-get-cracking-101626894643125.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Monitor cotton crop for whitefly, pink bollworm attack: PAU||Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) on Wednesday asked the cotton growers to monitor their crop against whitefly and pink bollworm attack. Entomology expert at the PAU Dr Vijay Kumar said the crop has reached the stage where the attack is apprehended. “According to a survey conducted by the university, so far whitefly population in cotton has not reached economic threshold level (ETL), so the farmers need not fear,” he added. This kharif season cotton is grown over 3.11 lakh hectares in the state, particularly the districts of south-west Punjab. “Some insects of pink bollworm and whitelfly were noticed in the fields of Bathinda and Mansa districts but there is no fear so far, but the farmers should be alert,” suggested director agriculture SS Sidhu. Last year, cotton was grown over 2.51 lakh hectares in the state. It needs mention that 99% of cotton is BT variety and is resistant to American bollworm and tobacco bollworm but not to whitefly and pink bollworm. Dr Kumar asked farmers to spray agrochemicals as recommended by the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/monitor-cotton-crop-for-whitefly-pink-bollworm-attack-pau-101626894341426.html
22-07-2021||Other||Kheri Sikandar first village in Kaithal with 100% Covid vaccination||Taking a lead in administering Covid-19 vaccine, Kheri Sikandar village has become the first village in Kaithal district to achieve cent per cent vaccination against the virus.As per information provided by the district health authorities, all residents of the village, above the age of 18, have been given the first dose of the vaccine.Sunita Rani, auxiliary nurse midwife for the Kheri Sukandar sub-centre, said total 989 residents of the village have been given the first dose.“Of the 989 beneficiaries, 581 are in the 18 to 44 age group, 197 in the 45 to 59 age group, and remaining 211 beneficiaries are in above-60 age group,” she said.Kaithal chief minister officer Dr Shailender Mamgai congratulated residents of the village and said this will encourage more people for the vaccination. “This is a big achievement and will help lessen the risk of the third wave,” said the CMO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kheri-sikandar-first-village-in-kaithal-with-100-covid-vaccination-101626894163778.html
22-07-2021||Other||OP Chautala visits Singhu, Tikri borders||Former Haryana chief minister and INLD chief Om Prakash Chautala on Wednesday visited the Singhu and Tikri protest sites on Delhi-Haryana border, where farmers have been camping against the Centre’s three farm laws that were introduced last year.After the Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders announced that they will not allow any political leader to share their stage, the INLD workers prepared another stage nearly 20m away from the main stage of farmers at Singhu. From there, Chautala addressed the farmers.The INLD patriarch said the Opposition MPs will gherao the Parliament on Thursday in protest against Centre’s three farm laws. He urged them to create a situation which will force the Union government led by BJP to repeal these laws.“The BJP government will be forced by the public to repeal the three farm laws. These laws were brought to the benefit of a few corporate players. There is much needed demand of time to form a third front to uproot the Modi government from the Centre. I will continue to fight for farmers and labourers till my last breath,” the INLD supremo added.Slamming Khattar, Chautala said the CM’s window has been closed and peoples’ problems are not being heard anywhere in state.“During our government, I used to travel to every village and city to hear peoples’ grievances and resolve them. But the Haryana CM has failed to address peoples’ grievances,” he added.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders also asked Chautala to stand clear that he has no family relation with his grandson Dushyant Chautala, who is Haryana deputy CM in the BJP-JJP coalition government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/op-chautala-visits-singhu-tikri-borders-101626894042365.html
22-07-2021||Other||Farmers block Delhi-Dabwali highway for 2 hours||Farmers on Wednesday blocked the Delhi-Dabwali national highway at three different toll plazas in Sirsa from 9am to 11am demanding release of five farmers who were arrested last week for allegedly attacking Haryana deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwa on July 11.The Sirsa administration had sent a proposal to the farmers to hold a meeting before the planned blockade but the farmers turned down the proposal.The farmers sat in the middle of the highway, carrying black flags and their union flags, and raised slogans against the administration and the government. Commuters faced problems and opted for alternate routes through villages.Farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa said they will not approach the administration to hold a dialogue to release the arrested farmers.“The administrative officials will have to visit our protest site to hold an amicable meeting. We will continue to hold peaceful protests until these farmers are released,” he added.Sirsa, who has been sitting on a hunger strike, has refused to visit the hospital despite health complications. Doctors said there is some infection in Sirsa’s urine.The farmers had been booked under Sections 124-A (sedition), 148 (armed rioting), 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (injuring public servants), and 353 (criminal force to deter public servants) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Civil Lines police station in Sirsa on July 11 on complaint of duty magistrate Sushil Kumar, who is posted as district welfare office.The arrested farmers were identified as Balkar Singh, Nikka Singh, Balkaur Singh, Daljit Singh and Sahab Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-block-delhi-dabwali-highway-for-2-hours-101626893982537.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Pegasus spyware: Khattar questions Amnesty International’s credibility||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday raised questions about the credibility of Amnesty International, an international human rights organisation, that conducted forensic examination of mobile devices to detect Pegasus spyware.“Amnesty International didn’t disclose their source of funding to the central government. Rather, they chose to pack their bags and leave the country when they were asked. That means they are linked to certain entities which want to lower the prestige of the country. Their Pegasus Project narrative cannot be trusted,” Khattar said at a press briefing in Chandigarh.He said such made-up stories by the Congress will dent the image of the country globally.“Our credibility will go down. Because of the policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, our country has reached a certain level globally. I condemn such made-up stories,” he said.CITES CONGRESS’ HISTORY OF SNOOPINGThe history of Congress is filled with instances of snooping, he said. “Former PM Chandrashekhar’s government fell because of the alleged snooping by the Haryana CID personnel. That was just an excuse. Congress had wanted to withdraw support,” he said.“Many allies of the Congress including Sitaram Yechury, Jayalalitha, Chandrababu Naidu, and Mamata Banerjee have complained that their phones were tapped during the UPA rule,” Khattar added.The CM said during the UPA rule, former Union finance minister Pranab Mukherjee had accused the then Union home minister P Chidambaram of phone tapping.There’s a list of 9,000 people whose phones were tapped during the UPA rule, Khattar said.‘MY NUMBER COULD ALSO BE ON SURVEILLANCE’He went a step further to say that even his mobile number could be under surveillance by a spying company.“But that does not mean that we (the government) have any role in it. In fact, we could also be the victim. There are so many agencies that do snooping,” he said.“Even my mobile number could be on the database which is the source of media reports. Those 50,000 mobile numbers released worldwide could have been the targets. But there is no proof as to who targeted these numbers, which company did it, and whether the spyware actually worked on these numbers,” Khattar said.The CM said NSO Group, which manufactured the Pegasus spyware, also sells it to private agencies besides governments. “I have spent 10 hours studying this issue and have official information on the matter,” Khattar said.BRIEFING A DAY AFTER PARLIAMENT DISRUPTEDThe CM’s remarks came a day after the Parliament proceedings were disrupted over the issue with the Opposition demanded urgent debates on the issue.The disruptions followed the global investigative consortium reporting that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, former election commissioner Ashok Lavasa and election strategist Prashant Kishore besides two sitting Union ministers and journalists were among people potentially targeted by the Israeli phone hacking software, Pegasus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pegasus-spyware-khattar-questions-amnesty-international-s-credibility-101626893867660.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Three deaths, 68 fresh Covid cases in Punjab||Punjab on Wednesday reported three more Covid fatalities taking the death toll to 16,246. The state also reported 68 fresh cases pushing the infection count to 5,98,521, according to a medical bulletin.With this, the state recorded an all-time low positivity rate of 0.17%.One death each was reported from Faridkot, Jalandhar and Patiala. Jalandhar reported 10 infections, followed by six each in Bathinda and Ferozepur. The number of active cases stood at 869, the bulletin said. With 94 recoveries, the number of cured people reached 5,81,406, the bulletin said. A total of 1,17,60,706 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-deaths-68-fresh-covid-cases-in-punjab-101626893741437.html
22-07-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Her idea of happiness||The rain has stopped and the evening sky is looking like an inverted golden bowl. Divya Babu is enjoying this magical sight perched far above the wet earth mired in flooded underpasses and traffic jams—on the balcony of her 30th floor apartment in Gurugram’s Sector 54. “The sky is straight out of a Turner watercolour,” she says (the above photo was clicked by her husband Sanjay Arora last evening).A watercolour/pencil artist, photographer and “a mother of one”, the high-altitude woman agreed to exploit her balcony me-time by answering the Proust Questionnaire in which folks are nudged to make “Parisian parlour confessions”, all to explore citizens’ distinct experiences.Your main faultProfessional procrastinatorYour idea of happinessPre-Covid timesYour idea of misery or what would be your greatest misfortune?Losing people I loveWhere would you like to live?The place doesn’t matter, the people around me doYour favourite colour and flowerPurple, HibiscusYour favourite prose authorsKeeps changing! Listing the last few I read —Jhumpa Lahiri, Margaret Atwood and Rohinton MistryYour favourite paintersFrida KahloYour heroes/heroines in real lifeMy daughter and kids all over who are braving their childhood being taken away from them by this lockdown lifeWhat characters in history do you most dislike?ChurchillYour heroines in World historyAll the unnamed women who fought both quietly and vociferously to bring us to the point we are today, where we have the right to make our own choicesYour favourite food and drinkMy mother’s prawn curry, ginger chai on a rainy day (specifically on a rainy day—it just tastes different)Your favourite namesSamairaa, my daughter’s name. It is of Persian origin and means ‘enchanting’What do you hate the most?Dishonesty and pompousnessThe military event you admire the mostI can’t say I admire the idea of a military event at all!The natural talent you’d like to be gifted withSingingWhat is your present state of mind?Scared for the world but thankful to be surrounded by the people I loveFaults for which you have the most toleranceIgnorance, because it is bliss||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-her-idea-of-happiness-101626893454684.html
22-07-2021||Chandigarh||Labourer hacked to death in Amritsar village||AMRITSAR A labourer was hacked to death by two unidentified robbers near Chabba village situated on the Amritsar-Tarn Taran road on Wednesday. Police said Ajit Kumar, 33, was returning home after completing his work from an industry in Amritsar when the incident took place. The robbers also snatched the victim’s mobile phone, police said. Ajit was waylaid by the robbers who asked him to give them his mobile phone and cash he possessed. Ajit had denied giving his mobile phone and following which the accused started attacking him with sharp-edged weapons. Ajit fell on the ground and the robbers fled the spot. Some passersby rushed him to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead, said police. Chatiwind station house officer Manmeet Pal Singh said they have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) and 379-B (theft by force) against the unidentified accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/labourer-hacked-to-death-in-amritsar-village-101626893441288.html
22-07-2021||Pune||Man buying golden retriever puppy online duped of ₹9,000 in Pune||A man from Pune was duped of ₹9,000 by a social media account holder who promised to sell him dog of expensive breed. The transaction happened on August 15, 2020, when the man was looking to buy a pet. The case, however, was registered on Tuesday. A complainant in the matter was lodged by a 34-year-old resident of Bhairavnagar in Dhanori, Pune. The man was buying a puppy of golden retriever breed based on a post on a social media platform. The account holder asked for ₹9,000 and then told the man that the puppy was no more. However, he refused to return the money as well, according to the complainant. A case under Sections 419 (personation) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(c) of Information Technology Act was registered at Vishrantwadi police station. Police inspector (crime) Manisha Zende is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-buying-golden-retriever-puppy-online-duped-of-rs-9-000-in-pune-101626893380801.html
22-07-2021||Lucknow||UP cabinet okays proposals for rural jobs, improve Ayodhya’s road infrastructure||LUCKNOW: The Yogi Adityanath cabinet cleared 29 proposals at its meeting on Wednesday, some of them aimed at boosting religious tourism by upgrading the road network in Ayodhya and Mathura while generating employment especially in rural Uttar Pradesh (UP) where the ruling BJP recently swept the rural panchayat polls for the first time.A 42-kilometre by-pass project, directly connecting Kaushambi to Prayagraj, too was cleared to improve connectivity with Kaushambi, where several archaeological remains of Buddhist period have been found and which, the Yogi government wants to develop on par with other prominent Buddhist circuit sites like Sarnath, Kushinagar, Kapilvastu and Shravasti. UP minister Sidharth Nath Singh said the government has also decided to create about 1.6 lakh jobs, two in each of the 58,189 gram panchayats in the state by appointing a computer operator and assistant who would work from panchayat bhawans or rural secretariat buildings to be constructed at gram panchayats where such infrastructure doesn’t exist at the moment. At present, rural secretariat buildings exist in 33,577 panchayats and those requiring repair or renovation too would be identified.The government hasn’t clarified how much the two staffers would be paid. The minister hinted it could be ₹6,000 per month. “I think this is what has been broadly suggested,” Sidharth Nath Singh said while briefing reporters about the 29 proposals cleared by the cabinet chaired by chief minister Yogi Adityanath at the Lok Bhawan on Wednesday evening. Besides, the government will also recruit 6,000 people against sanctioned posts of village panchayat officers and village development officers. As of now, only 10,000 of the 16,000 sanctioned posts are manned.“It will be mandatory to employ local people to work in these rural secretariats as this would aid the objective of boosting village economy through job creation,” Singh said. “The chief minister has set a six-month deadline for completing this process in rural UP,” Sidharth Nath said. The deadline is timed just ahead of the UP polls early next year. The state government has already rolled out ‘Mission employment’ in the state under which all vacancies in the government departments are being filled. Before the cabinet meeting Adityanath had handed over recruitment letters to 130 youths who were appointed as excise inspectors. 40 lakh more to get free medical insuranceThe state government has decided to include 40 lakh antyodaya ration card holders, essentially the unemployed, women and elderly, under the mukhyamantri arogya yojana, the chief minister’s free medical insurance scheme that provides for up to ₹5 lakh free insurance cover and is modelled to cover those left out of a similar scheme announced by the Centre. Mathura road widening project curtailedA road widening project in Mathura has been curtailed from a four-lane to a two-lane road due to environmental concerns, the state government indicated. “An 82 kilometre long, four-lane project for which ₹505.72 crore was sanctioned and was aimed at decongesting Kosi, Nandgaon, Barsana, Govardhan route has now been changed to two lane one as the project meant 12,982 trees would have had to be felled,” Sidharth Nath said.“As per existing norms, this would have had to be compensated by carrying out ten times more plantation. To do that you also require enough land and hence keeping environmental concerns in mind, it has been decided to downgrade the four-lane road widening project in Mathura into a two-lane one,” Sidharth Nath said. “Trees would still be felled but comparatively a lot fewer as the downgraded road widening project would now require 1,966 trees to be felled.”The road widening project has been undertaken to facilitate movement of international tourists to places in Mathura that are associated with Lord Krishna’s childhood and are a part of what the minister described as “baal leela of Krishna.” Ayodhya in focusThree road widening projects in or around Ayodhya were cleared by the state cabinet.“A grand temple is coming up at Ayodhya. We expect global tourist footfall to increase and hence a major push to better road infrastructure has been undertaken,” Sidharth Nath said. The road widening projects include the Ayodhya-Akbarpur-Baskhari route. This project is aimed at easing traffic congestion in Azamgarh, Mau, Varanasi and Ballia route, officials associated with the project said. After the cabinet meeting, the chief minister sat through a presentation by departments of tourism and culture on the proposed spiritual theme park at Ayodhya, culture policy and upgradation of Vindhyavasini temple project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cabinet-okays-proposals-for-rural-jobs-improve-ayodhya-s-road-infrastructure-101626893202479.html
22-07-2021||Pune||State starts helpline for students applying for Class 11 CET||In a bid to help out students who are applying for the Class 11 Common Entrance Test (CET), the Maharashtra state board has started helpline numbers as per the divisions for students. The CET exams are going to be held on August 21 and already large number of students have started applying for it, on the first day itself more than 1.25 lakh students registered for the exam.As per the circular issued by Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE), the examination is optional for students and it is going to be conducted for the class 11 admissions which are affiliated to the stats board. There are nine divisions of the board in the state and students across are now applying for the CET.“To help out the students in their registration process and if found any difficulties this helpline numbers are been given by the board. We appeal to students to take benefit of these helpline numbers and get their issues solved,” said Ashok Bhosale, secretary of Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education.This year due to the Covid-19 pandemic exams of class 10 were cancelled and the marks were calculated based on the internal assessment of students’ performance. A total of 1,575,752 students were registered for Class 10 exams of which 1,574,994 have passed. The passing percentage is 99.95, which is 4.65 per cent more than last year. Sunny Gandhi, a student, said, “Today when I was trying to login on the given website for most of the time it was showing error and was not able to register. There might be some technical issue, so I will be trying tomorrow again to register myself for the exam.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-starts-helpline-for-students-applying-for-class-11-cet-101626893140731.html
22-07-2021||Pune||State teacher eligibility test to be taken between September and December this year||Pune - In a major relief to teacher candidates in the state, the Maharashtra education department will conduct the state teacher eligibility test (MAHATET) between September and December this year. The exam was delayed since last two years due to Covid-19 pandemic. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad said the exam is going to be held for selection of teachers for class 1 to 8. Gaikwad tweeted, “Here’s an opportunity for candidates aspiring to make a career in teaching. We’ve permitted the Maharashtra State Council of Examination to conduct the Maharashtra Teacher Eligibility Test ( MAHATET, 2021) between Sept 15 & Dec 31. More than 10 lakh aspirants are expected to appear for MAHATET which is being held after a gap of two years. I’m confident that this will lead to increase in employment opportunities for bright young teaching talents.” Santosh Jagdale, an aspirant, said, “I am waiting for this exam to happen since last two years. As the exam was not scheduled, I was working in private schools on low salary.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-teacher-eligibility-test-to-be-taken-between-september-and-december-this-year-101626892960692.html
22-07-2021||Pune||Same ATM robbers made one failed attempt three days ago in Pune||PUNE: The men suspected in the ATM explosion and theft case in Chakan are also reported to have made a failed attempt in an ATM in Ranjangaon on July 18, according to Pimpri-Chinchwad police officials. The method of theft has been found in several parts of the country few years ago - Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Telangana, according to the police. The men used a vehicle which was stolen from the same area few days before the theft, according to Sudhir Hiremath, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pimpri Chinchwad police. The Pimpri Chinchwad police have recorded a total of 11 ATM thefts in 2021 so far. “Most of the attempts are by single person and therefore unsuccessful. Of the seven cases, we have detected 3-4. Of the successful attempts In the past month alone, there have been multiple cases where attempts have been made to either uproot or break open ATMs in Pune city, Pimpri Chinchwad, and Pune rural police jurisdictions. While there have been successful attempts in the past, the past cases have only come to show that it takes planning and brut mechanical force to be able to break open the score. The Pune rural police had found a stolen ATM hours after it was stolen from Jejuri industrial area in the month of May. The machine had been abandoned in a secluded spot around 3-4km away from the ATM center. Reason? The thieves were not able to cut open through the cash vault of the machine. There have been multiple cases where machines were found abandoned or the machine was left in the ATM center as the thieves could not successfully damage the covering. On the night intervening July 10 and July 11, the doors of an ATM center along Pune-Solapur road were broken open in Uruli Kanchan. The machine was also found with dents in it but the insides were left intact. This was perceived by the Pune city police as a failed attempt. On the same night, the Pune city police night patrol team in Kharadi arrested two men who were unsuccessfully trying to open an ATM machine. Same was the case in the early hours of July 1, when Pimpri Chinchwad police found an ATM in Ganeshnagar area of Talwade with signs of unsuccessful tampering. The Pune rural police had arrested two members of a gang which had tried to uproot an ATM but failed in Shirur on July 7. It only comes to prove that getting inside the ATM’s cash vault is a difficult task. PCMC police record 11 cases in 2021 7 attempts of ATM thefts recorded since January 1, 2021 4 successful cases of ATM thefts All cases detected after arrest of a gang from Nuh in Haryana||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/same-atm-robbers-made-one-failed-attempt-three-days-ago-in-pune-101626892720768.html
22-07-2021||Pune||Dosage shortage sees fall in inoculation numbers in Pune||Pune: After a lukewarm response, private centres cut down on vaccination centres in Pune while government centres are also not getting adequate doses. This has led to a drop in inoculation in the city. On the vaccination drive, Dr Dhananjay Kelkar, medical director at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital said that when private hospitals were given permission to start inoculation, around 2,000 beneficiaries received the jab each day. “Now there has been a drop in inoculation. From the last week of July, we are expecting to see more people coming for vaccination. As the 84-day time period of first dose beneficiaries for the age group 18 to 45 years will be over, more beneficiaries are likely to come to private centres for their second dose,” said Kelkar. Dr Roshan Palresha, consultant, emergency medicine, Columbia Asia Hospital, Pune said that the government and manufacturing companies should send regular supply of vaccines. “Government and manufacturing companies should look into the production and supply problems to ensure maximum inoculation,” said Dr Palresha. Stock of Covishield vaccines was over in the district for the last two days. Since Tuesday, no vaccination centre were administering Covishield vaccine. In Pune city around six centers were administering only Covaxin to beneficiaries, first and second dose. Dr Sachin Edke, district Immunisation officer, on Wednesday said that a total of 62,000 doses of Covishield were sent for Pune district on Wednesday. “Out of these, Pune rural will get 27,000 doses, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will get 21,000 doses and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will get 14,000 doses,” said Edke He added that on Wednesday, the district also received 12,620 doses of Covaxin. “Pune rural will get 5,620 doses, PMC 4,000 doses and PCMC 3,000 doses,” said Dr Edke. As per PMC officials, Pune city will have 53 government centres for administering Covishield on Thursday as the supply for Covishield has arrived. “There will be on spot registration for 20 per cent beneficiaries whereas rest will need to book an online appointment for their first and second dose of Covishield. Beneficiaries who have received their first dose before April 28 will be eligible for their second dose and can register through Co-WIN application,” said an official notification issued by the PMC.Vaccine counts July 20, 2021 Total beneficiaries inoculated in Pune district-- % Government—8,323--38.76 Private—13,147--61.23 Total—21,470--100 July 1, 2021 Total beneficiaries inoculated in Pune district-- % Government—6,696--18.90 Private--28,726--81.10 Total--35,422--100 June 22, 2021 Total beneficiaries inoculated in Pune district-- % Government—41,520--59.40 Private—27,860--40.10 Total--69,380--100 *Source: District health department||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dosage-shortage-sees-fall-in-inoculation-numbers-in-pune-101626892360806.html
22-07-2021||Delhi||Heat and humidity return to Delhi, more rain only from July 23, says IMD||After two days of heavy rainfall, heat and humidity made a comeback in Delhi on Wednesday, making it uncomfortable to remain outdoors during the daytime. India Meteorological Department (IMD) said heavy rain is likely to resume again from July 23.On Wednesday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 34.7 degrees Celsius (°C). The minimum temperature was 22.4°C, which was five degrees below the season’s normal.“The rainfall activity is likely to pick up again on July 23. Moderate showers are expected till July 26,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.He said though July is likely to see more rain, the capital gets most of its yearly rainfall in August. “This is because the monsoon trough and easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal, the two primary conditions for rainfall, are more favourable during that time for Delhi,” said Srivastava.IMD recordings show that parts of Delhi received trace rainfall late Wednesday. Scientists said that patchy rain is expected to continue in some parts but conditions are likely to be humid on Thursday.Even though the monsoon arrival in Delhi-NCR was delayed this time, the city, as on July 21, has made up its rainfall deficit and is currently surplus by nearly 27%, thanks mainly to the high intensity rain between July 18 and July 20, weather analysts said.The IMD in early June had forecasted that the south-west monsoon would reach north-west India, including Delhi, by June 15, which would have been the earliest monsoon ever for the region. But that date, as well as several others put forward by the IMD, turned out to be wrong as the monsoon took a break before finally making an official entry on July 13 -- a delay of 16 days from its usual onset.Met officials said despite the delayed arrival, July is likely to record “normal to above normal” rainfall.“We have around 10 more days to go in July and it is expected that we will see a normal to above normal rainfall this month. The rainfall deficit for the season was made up by the intense rain on Monday and Tuesday,” said a senior Met official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/heat-and-humidity-return-to-delhi-more-rain-only-from-july-23-says-imd-101626891701449.html
22-07-2021||Other||Delhi govt draws up home education plan for out-of-school children with special needs||Five years ago when Kanta Bhardwaj, a 33-year-old resident of Hamidpur, was told that her son would never be on par with other children, she said she left the hospital feeling “hopeless.” Her eleven-year-old was diagnosed with cerebral palsy. While Bhardwaj tried to teach him alphabets and numbers in the subsequent years, she said it has been challenging for them.“Earlier this year, the state education department reached out to us to enrol our child for their home-based education plan. Interacting with the resource person has helped us in many ways. The teacher shared resource material that keeps our child engaged and also spoke to us about how we can teach him or interact with him,” she said.Last year, the directorate of education’s (DoE) inclusive education branch rolled out a home-based education plan for 251 of the 649 children with special needs, who are not enrolled in formal schooling due to their disability or other reasons. The department allotted resource persons to each child and was responsible for screening the children for 21 disabilities as given in the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPWD) Act, 2016. The special educators also conducted skill-based and academic assessments to develop individualized education plan as per the needs and requirements of the children between January-February this year.Following a fresh round of survey that is set to end this month, the department is now planning to extend the programme to all out-of-school children with special needs so that those who cannot come to school can continue home-based education.A senior official in the inclusive education branch of the education department said it is the first time that the department has rolled out such a plan. “The idea is to help these children learn basic tasks and routine activities such as brushing, eating, wearing clothes, and using washroom, and then focus on basic reading and writing. The concerned resource persons will also help enrol these children in government or open schools based on their learning levels and upon completion of the intervention. We also plan to help these children learn some skills or vocation if they express the desire and inclination to do so.”While the resource persons are expected to do fortnightly visits to these families, parents HT spoke to said that the lockdown impacted the process.Saurabh Kumar (18), a resident of Amrit Vihar in Burari, said the resource person assigned to his 15-year-old sister, who has celebral palsy, paid only a few visits since January due to the second wave of Covid-19 but kept in touch with the family through calls and text messages.“My sister has attended school only till the age of nine. When she started getting fits more frequently, the private school she was enrolled in said they could no longer handle it. I tried teaching her but she was easily irritable and refused to learn. The resource person we were assigned in January this year shared a list of activities that we could do with her,” said Kumar.The department has been handing out flashcards to identify fruits, vegetables, and modes of transport, therapeutic clay, and spongy balls to improve fine-motor skills, picture books and colouring books to improve visual sense, and even different textures of cloth or paper to improve their tactile sense under the programme.Bharat Bhushan, who has been the point-person for five such children in the north district, said, “Each child is different and so they require a specialised learning plan. We have children suffering from intellectual disability to cerebral palsy to quadriplegia or monoplegia. These children mostly come from families where there isn’t much awareness of the different disabilities.”“We also help the family understand how they need to approach daily tasks, do exercises with children to improve their muscles and speech exercises to improve their communication,” said Bharat.Family members of children with special needs enrolled in the home-education plan said the intervention has led to minor changes in their wards in the past few months. “Due to cerebral palsy, my sister’s body is weak and she cannot walk easily. That has changed. Now, she is motivated to get out of bed and do tasks assigned to her for the day. She can now identify colours, can speak more clearly, and can wear clothes with little help,” said Kumar.Bhardwaj too cited the same. “My son now takes interest in activities. I am now teaching him how to form sentences while speaking. This gives us hope because our child loves to play and do all the naughty things that any 11-year-old does. I will do everything we are asked to if it improves my child’s life,” she said.However, Anita Ghai, dean of School of Human Studies at Ambedkar University and a disability rights activist, said home-based learning plans could only work if they are done in a blended mode. “Limiting these children to home will restrict their development of the self. Even if the severity of certain disabilities does not allow children to come out of their homes and learn, a module has to be developed where there is some element of interaction with the society to ensure that disability is understood in an epistemological way. If my parents had kept me in the house, I would not have reached where I am today.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delh-govt-draws-up-home-education-plan-for-out-of-school-children-with-special-needs-101626891700664.html
22-07-2021||Delhi||AAP, BJP lock horns over distribution of dry ration||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD) have refused dry ration to students enrolled in primary schools who failed to attend online classes. The BJP said the allegations are “false”.Physical classes are currently suspended in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic and families of students enrolled in primary schools across the country are entitled to dry ration as a substitute for midday meal as part of a central government scheme.“Despite government reports stating that 40-45% of students are unable to take online classes due to lack of infrastructure, the BJP-ruled MCDs have refuse to give ration to those who did not attend online classes. It is shameful that the BJP-ruled MCDs are not giving midday meal ration to... children who failed to attend online classes because their parents can’t afford Android phones,” said Durgesh Pathak, AAP’s in charge of municipal affairs.Pathak further said, “Many children from very poor families study in MCD schools. It is a sin to rob their midday meal ration. In the last one and a half years, the BJP managed the midday meal scheme and engaged in corruption. This ration does not belong to you. I request with folded hands to the BJP’s top leaders to distribute the midday meal ration to all the children.”Praveen Shankar Kapoor, spokesperson of Delhi-BJP, said: “The allegations are false. The MCDs have introduced no such provision that denies dry ration to students who fail to attend online classes. We fail to understand the logic behind such lies...It seems the AAP’s only purpose is to malign MCDs.”While the AAP is in charge of the government in Delhi, the BJP rules the three MCDs. Delhi goes to municipal polls next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-bjp-lock-horns-over-distribution-of-dry-ration-101626891580671.html
22-07-2021||Delhi||Connaught Place shop owners struggle to get permission for basic repairs||Traders from Connaught Place are demanding relaxation in norms for permission to carry out basic repair and maintenance work in their shops and restaurants in the heritage market, claiming that it sometimes takes over three months to get the approval from the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) and the Heritage Conservation Committee (HCC) for the same.As the buildings in Connaught Place market, which was constructed in 1933, are notified as Grade II heritage structures, NDMC officials said HCC’s permission is mandatory even for basic maintenance and internal repairs, including painting the premises and relaying floor or wall tiles.“To do the basic repairs such as painting, re-flooring, wood works or changing the wiring or fix the damage due to seepage or leakage, we have to take permission from NDMC and HCC. The process is cumbersome and takes months to get the approval... Why can’t the process be simpler and faster?” said Atul Bhargava, president of New Delhi Traders Association (NDTA).The NDTA, which represents traders from Connaught Place market, has been raising the issue for the last two years.The market association said that HCC’s November 9, 2020, direction to NDMC to not forward applications where there is a dispute regarding ownership of the building or between the landlord and tenant -- “to avoid HCC getting involved in litigation” -- has made it virtually impossible to carry out necessary repairs.Manpreet Singh, owner of Zen restaurant in Connaught Place’s B-block, pointed out that a large number of restaurants and shops in the heritage market are run by tenants.Singh, who is also the treasurer of National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), said, “There are over 50 restaurants operating in Connaught Place. It is difficult for tenants to get permission from landlords for repair and maintenance. It is a heritage building and requires frequent repair and maintenance. The norms for it should be relaxed.”Last year, the NDTA wrote to the HCC, calling its decision “contrary to the rules and byelaws”. “If the landlord doesn’t carry out repairs and the tenant is also not allowed to do the same, the property and its condition will deteriorate,” said Bhargava.Though HCC officials did not respond to requests seeking comment, the minutes of an HCC meeting held on January 11 this year puts the onus on NDMC: “In view of the issues raised by the NDTA and as ownership related issue falls within the jurisdiction of the concerned local body i.e. NDMC in this case, they may adopt an appropriate system to prevent involvement of the HCC in ownership related disputes.”NDTA members said that since then the issue has been in a limbo.“The Prime Minister talks about ease of doing business, but traders feel harassed due to stringent norms even for basic repairs and maintenance of their establishment,” said Bhargava.Traders said that in some cases, like whitewashing or painting of the premises, the owners end up spending more money on the process of getting an approval than on the actual repair or maintenance work.“One of the reasons why I have not renovated my restaurant is the lengthy process involved in obtaining permission. The process even involves roping in an architect to upload the documents and drawing. We end up spending more money than the actual repair cost,” said Singh.When contacted, a senior NDMC official aware of the development said, “In some cases, the process takes time as there are deficiencies in the documents uploaded by the traders. According to HCC norms, a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the landlord is a must. We are just following HCC’s decision to not send applications where there is a dispute over ownership or NOC is not there.”Author, historian and heritage expert Swapna Liddle said that the colonial-era business district needs a proper maintenance plan and guidelines on the type of repairs allowed. “This is a huge block of buildings which are similar in characteristics. A plan or comprehensive guidelines on the list of things which are allowed should be put in place with respect to Connaught Place. For important structures like Connaught Place, a management plan should be prepared like we have it for Rashtrapati Bhavan. So that if any work has to be done within the scope of the management plan, people should be allowed to do it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/connaught-place-shop-owners-struggle-to-get-permission-for-basic-repairs-101626891461217.html
22-07-2021||Delhi||Homeless man’s disappearance from North Delhi leaves cops guessing||For the last one month, an unattended cycle-rickshaw with some rotis staling on its seat, an old mattress covered by a mosquito net tied to the rickshaw’s frame, and some dirty clothes hanging on the iron railing of the adjacent park near Sewa Kutir Complex in north Delhi’s Kingsway Camp, are the only signs of a 40-year-old man whose disappearance over a month ago has left the police and locals searching for answers.The man, identified as Ram Prasad, better known as Rakesh, has been missing since June 21, a day after he was allegedly attacked and injured by a blind man and was admitted to Babu Jagjivan Ram hospital by a security guard and some employees of the Sewa Kutir Complex, which comes under the social welfare department and also has a boys hostel for blind. He was later shifted to Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) from where he went missing on June 21. A social welfare department official said Rakesh died at RML and was cremated by the police but neither the police or others who knew him were aware of this.At the Sewa Kutir Complex, Rakesh’s belongings lie unattended and rusting near the entry gate of the campus, bearing a sore sight for the many who knew him.The employees of the Sewa Kutir complex, local shopkeepers and some residents who go for a morning or evening walk daily said that Rakesh had been staying on the campus for nearly 20 years and earned his livelihood as a rickshaw puller. He mostly ferried blind residents of the hostel from one place to another, and many remember him as the one feeding stray dogs every morning and evening.“All his items are getting damaged in the rain and heat. Neither the police nor the officials of Sewa Kutir have made any efforts to preserve his belongings or do anything to find him. I become upset whenever I visit the campus and see the rickshaw and other items lying untouched,” said a government officer, who lives nearby.Upender Yadav, who belongs to Rakesh’s hometown in Bihar’s Madhubani and works at Sewa Kutir, said, “We visited the hospitals a couple of times but could not find him. His absence and unattended belongings make us feel sad. I just pray that he is alive. The police should do something to find him.”Recalling the incident of June 20, Prabhat, the security guard who was on night duty at the complex, said that he was having his dinner in the guard room when he heard a scream for help at around 11.30pm. He said he found a blind man, who had been living in the hostel for the blind on the campus at the time, allegedly attacking Rakesh with a sharp or blunt object.“Some blind men living in the hostel also reached there and they all caught the attacker. I informed the police control room about the attack. We rushed Rakesh to Babu Jagjivan Ram hospital and gave the blind man’s custody to the police at the Mukherjee Nagar police station. I don’t know what happened after that. All I know is that Rakesh went missing from RML hospital and has not returned yet,” said Prabhat.In the hospital’s and police’s records, Rakesh, was declared as LAMA, a term used to refer to patients who leave (hospitals) against medical advice. The police, which was informed about the crime, have not even registered a first information report (FIR).When contacted, deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani said, “When our team went to record the victim’s statement, he was not in a state to give one. Later, the victim disappeared from RML hospital during treatment and did not come back to file a complaint or record his statement. He was declared a LAMA in the hospital’s medical record. Since, the victim’s statement or complaint could not be recorded, no case was registered and we had to shift the blind man to a shelter home run by a non-governmental organisation (NGO) in outer Delhi.”RML hospital officials were unable to give details pertaining to Rakesh’s treatment till the time of going to press.When contacted, chief probation officer (CPO) of the social welfare department Mahesh Sharma said that they have launched an enquiry. “We have learnt that Rakesh died at RML hospital and his body was cremated by the police. To authenticate this, we will be speaking to all the police personnel associated with the incident. Also, the blind man was an ex-resident of our hostel and had left it in 2015. However, he used to visit the hostel to meet some residents. Rakesh was not staying in any shelter home inside the complex. We also have learnt that the actual owner of the rickshaw is someone else. Why the owner has not removed the rickshaw till date and how it was allowed inside the premises is also being looked into,” said CPO Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/homeless-man-s-disappearance-from-north-delhi-leaves-cops-guessing-101626891460617.html
22-07-2021||Delhi||Shorter, more intense rain spells a flood worry for Delhi||Over the last decade, the Capital has been receiving shorter and more intense spells of rain, scientists from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said, a change in monsoon patterns that is the primary reason behind increasing instances of urban flooding and flash floods in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR).Rainfall data maintained by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) in Pune shows that in the 1980s and 1990s, in July, Delhi used to record 15-20 rainy days on an average, which in the last decade has reduced to eight to 10 days. Met officials concurred, and said that rainfall in the Capital used to be distributed more uniformly, but it is now seen in short and more intense episodes.An example of this can be seen in this year’s monsoon pattern.Despite a slow start to the monsoon, the Capital, with just five days of heavy rains has managed to record a rainfall surplus of 27% so far. Till July 17, Delhi rainfall was at a deficit of 51%. The usual date for monsoon arrival in Delhi is June 27, but the onset this year was 16 days late, and the Capital received its first monsoon shower on July 13.After the onset, the city has got rain on only five days. In these days alone, 248.2mm rainfall has been recorded, as against the usual 192.9mm.The hourly rainfall recordings between July 18 (8.30am) to July 19 (8.30am) at the Safdarjung observatory showed 69.6mm rainfall, while the Palam weather station received 99.3mm rains, Lodhi Road 62mm, the Ridge 58mm, and Aya Nagar 51.6mm.Madhavan Nair Rajeevan, secretary of the Union ministry of earth sciences, also said that the rain spells in Delhi were getting shorter, but more intense.“The number of rainy days is decreasing, but when it rains, it rains very heavily for short periods. This is a pattern that we have been observing not just in Delhi but in many metro cities. When this happens, instances of flash floods in cities increase because rainfall that was supposed to have spread across say, a week, is now being received in a day,” Rajeevan said.Flash floods are a sudden flood of water caused by heavy rainfall in a region. Over the last two days, when Delhi and NCR recorded intense showers, the Capital, and satellite towns such as Gurugram saw massive flooding that led to roads, footpaths, underpasses and even residential and office buildings being inundated.In Delhi’s Pul Prahladpur a 27-year-old drowned in flooded underpass, and a nine-year old boy died after drowning in a rain-water filled pit in outer Delhi’s Metro Vihar on Monday.To be sure, one big reason for this is lack of maintenance and cleaning or de-silting by the various agencies of the Delhi and Gurugram administration.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet Weather, a private forecaster, attributed the change in monsoon patterns to the climate crisis.“Earlier, rains in Delhi continued for three or four days. And this rain used to be from altostratus clouds, but this type of cloud has almost stopped forming in the tropics now,” said Palawat.“Air temperatures are increasing because of the climate crisis and global warming. When this happens, the moisture-carrying capacity of the air also increases. This leads to the formation of intense clouds, called convective clouds, which are capable of producing heavy thunderstorms and rainfall in shorter periods,” he added.Forecasters said that, in the coming years, such short, intense spells are likely to increase and cities must prepare for increased urban flooding.“There is no doubt that such instances will only increase in the coming years. IMD has recently come up with a flash floods warning system and scientists are experimenting with advancing the technology further. However, we can keep giving warnings, but there should also be a plan to act upon these warnings. Cities should be prepared on how, within a span of three to four hours, we can respond to flash floods, evacuate public places etc,” Rajeevan said.Urban planning experts also stressed on the need to redesign cities keeping this scenario in mind.Sewa Ram, professor (transport planning) at the School of Planning and Architecture, said that flooding during heavy showers is unavoidable on concretised surfaces, which water cannot percolate through. So, the way forward has to be to find innovative ways to design roads and drainages.“The trend of urban floods is not new anymore. We must go back to the drawing board, study our roads and drainage systems and come up with ways in which water stagnation reduces. Old drainage systems must be redone, so that they can flush out more water,” Ram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rain-spells-getting-shorter-and-intense-delhi-must-prepare-for-more-flash-floods-episodes-weather-scientists-101626891400684.html
22-07-2021||Delhi||Oxygen mess gets political again: Sisodia lashes out at Centre||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday accused the Centre of “lying” in Parliament that no deaths were caused due to a shortage of oxygen during the second wave of Covid-19 infections in the country.The comment pertains to the Union health ministry’s statement in Parliament that no state reported any fatality due to oxygen shortage, which triggered criticism from several political leaders – Sisodia first criticised the stand in a statement on Tuesday.In response, the Bharatiya Janata Party blamed state governments, including the Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi, for not declaring any of the deaths were linked to oxygen shortage, and contended that the Centre’s reply was simply based on data from the states.Addressing a digital press conference on Wednesday, Sisodia said, “The Centre blatantly and shamelessly lied to the Parliament on Tuesday. There was a genuine oxygen crisis across the country between April 15 and May 10. During this period, there was utter oxygen mismanagement by the Centre because of which, there was chaos in hospitals. The Centre is now lying to hide its mistakes. It changed its oxygen distribution policy after April 13, which led to a total disaster. The Centre will have to take responsibility for this.”The Centre, Sisodia added, started rationing supplies to states on April 13 based on demand, case load and so on. It also rearranged plants from where states were to get their oxygen supplies. Delhi, for instance, was allocated plants in distant states like West Bengal and Odisha apart from a few that were in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, the deputy chief minister said.The crisis in Delhi reached the Delhi high court as well as the Supreme Court, before judicial orders were made to enhance Delhi’s supplies.BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra cited a Delhi government submission to a court to point out that the authorities in the city had denied such deaths took place, even as hospital administrators blamed flaws in the recording mechanism for lack of data on the issue.“The Centre says that health is a state subject. It says that it just collects the data, it doesn’t generate it. None of them said that a death occurred in their state and Union Territory due to shortage of oxygen, there is no data for that. Did the Centre generate this data? No,” said Sambit Patra, BJP spokesperson.Experts said the problem was there was no mechanism to record oxygen deaths.“This is all a political gimmick. There is no mechanism to report deaths due to oxygen shortage,” said a senior doctor from Batra Hospital, asking not to be named.Dr Sudhanshu Bankata, executive director of Batra hospital, on May 1 said in the Delhi high court: “We have lost lives,” when asked about the oxygen crisis. He refused to comment.“All Covid-19 deaths are reported to the state government in a pre-defined format. There is no mechanism to separately report a death due to oxygen shortage. There was a report that the Delhi government set up a six-member committee, but the hospital has received no communication from them,” said an official from a large private hospital in the city.The committee being referred to was the panel constituted by the Delhi government to survey deaths due to lack of oxygen so that the families of the deceased can be compensated – the exercise was halted after the Lieutenant Governor rejected the scheme.Calls to three of the six committee members by HT went unanswered.One of the members answered the call and said: “The committee met only once and the scope of the work was discussed during the meeting. There hasn’t been any communication from the committee to hospitals so far. After the initial meeting, there hasn’t been any communication on whether and when the next meeting would be held.”Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain accused the Union government of impeding in the exercise to determine the number of people who died due to the oxygen crisis. “The Centre will soon say there was no Covid-19. If there were no deaths due to lack of oxygen, then why were hospitals going to high court for shortages? This is completely false. We had formed an audit committee for oxygen to provide compensation to victims, which was stopped by the Centre through LG. The Centre is rubbing salt on wounds. We’ll appeal the LG to allow us to run the committee,” Jain said.One of the most high-profile cases of possible deaths to oxygen shortage was in Delhi’s Jaipur golden hospital, where 20 mostly critical Covid-19 patients died due to oxygen shortage in the night between April 23 and 24. A Delhi government committee on May 5 later told the Delhi high court that that the deaths, due to “respiratory failure”, were not because of oxygen shortage.Addressing a question on this, Sisodia said: “We have told the high court that the Centre is not allowing us to make a committee which is to investigate all such deaths... If you ask us today, we have no data of deaths that happened due to oxygen shortage. We will be able to get such a number only if the Centre allows us to form the committee.”Family members of those that died during this period criticised the governments.Erick Massey, whose mother Delphin Massey (61) died in Jaipur Golden Hospital on the night the hospital ran out of oxygen supply, said: “Both Centre and Delhi government are shrugging off the responsibility. If the hospital went on record to say over 20 people died due to oxygen shortage then what other proof do they need? Delhi government tried to suppress it but why did the central government not initiate any probe into it when everything is in the open?”Jagjyot Singh, whose mother Sarabjit Kaur (58) also died in Jaipur Golden hospital the same night, said: “People died due to negligence of the governments. Now the same governments are insulting the dead by not acknowledging that they died because of oxygen shortage. The patients died of cardiac arrest, lungs collapse, etc because the hospitals could not provide them oxygen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oxygen-mess-gets-political-again-sisodia-lashes-out-at-centre-101626891340626.html
22-07-2021||Noida||Covid: Noida, Gzb gear up to restrict entry of travellers from high-risk states||Noida and Ghaziabad district authorities are putting in pace to implement an Uttar Pradesh government advisory to screen people travelling from states having a weekly Covid positivity rate of 3% or more from July 24. Such travellers will be required to carry a negative RT-PCR report not older than four days, or a vaccination certificate indicating that they had been administered both doses.Government officials said the measure were to prevent or delay a possible third wave of Covid-19. Uttar Pradesh has been recovering from the second wave that struck it in April-May. According to the state control room figures released on Wednesday, the state has only 1,093 active cases with 31 in Noida and 30 in Ghaziabad.“We have directed our health department to chalk out a strategy at the earliest. We will rely on around 600 surveillance teams, called ‘Nigrani Samitis’, active in their respective areas in the district,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of GB Nagar. “Since we do not have any major railway station or interstate bus terminals (ISBTs), a majority of travellers from other state come to Noida by roads. It is not possible to stop all vehicles at Noida’s UP borders. So, these Nigrani Samitis will help us out with information about such travellers.”The official website of the director general medical health, UP, stated that travellers coming to Uttar Pradesh from high Covid positivity states of Manipur, Mizoram, Kerala, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Maharashtra, Goa, Odisha or Andhra Pradesh between July 24 to July 31 must make one of the two documents available at the point of entry into Uttar Pradesh.Government officials said that the website will be regularly updated with the list of high Covid positivity states in the coming weeks.In Ghaziabad, the district officials said that people arrive through various modes like metro trains, railway trains or at ISBTs and road.“So, we will have teams deployed at each deboarding points to check for such travellers. Likewise, we are also writing to different government departments, hotels and will even seek the help of residents welfare associations (RWAs) to provide us with information about such travellers. Hospitals will also be asked to furnish such information,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer of Ghaziabad, adding that the district too had 360 Nigrani Samitis.UP share its borders with Uttarakhand, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Delhi.Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of the Ghaziabad chapter of the Indian Medical Association, agreed with the state government’s measures.“The step will help prevent inflow of infection into the state and even other Covid variants which may be more severe. The use of proper enforcement and resources is must. If travellers see any laxity, the entire purpose of the system will be defeated. Further, there should be no relaxations for any VIPs or politicians or other such persons,” said Dr Agarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid-crisis-noida-ghaziabad-gear-up-to-restrict-entry-of-travellers-from-high-risk-states-101626889001173.html
22-07-2021||Noida||Mercury rises by 9°C, rains likely over weekend in Noida||Sudden rise of nine degrees Celsius (°C) in mercury, coupled with high humidity levels, made outdoors uncomfortable for the residents on Wednesday, as the rains eluded the city yet again.The India Meteorological Department (IMD), which earlier expected light rains on Wednesday followed by moderate to heavy showers towards the weekend, now expects only light rains between Friday (July 23) and Sunday (July 25).On Wednesday, IMD recorded maximum and minimum temperatures for Noida at 35.5°C and 23.6°C against 26.6°C and 25.6°C a day earlier.“Noida and adjoining areas may witness light rains on weekends. The maximum temperature is likely to hover around 35°C on Thursday. Humidity levels may remain high,” said an IMD official.So far, Noida has recorded very light to light rainfall since July 13, when IMD announced the arrival of monsoon in the National Capital Region. On Tuesday, the city recorded only 0.5mm of rainfall during the morning hours, while it saw 2.5mm of rain, the maximum this season, in the evening.The humidity levels have been oscillating between 64% and 100% in the city, the officials said.“The region is likely to go dry for the next two days as the monsoon trough lines have shifted towards the North. There are chances of only light rain between July 23 and 25. It will, however, be patchy and not like the region had seen over past few days. The mercury may also rise further,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) of Skymet, a private weather forecasting agency.At the Safdarjung monitoring station, considered average for NCR, the maximum and minimum temperatures on Wednesday were recorded at 34.7°C, the season’s average, and 22.4°C, five notches below the season’s average, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mercury-rises-by-9-c-rains-likely-over-weekend-in-noida-101626888881059.html
22-07-2021||Pune||Usage of banned plastic carry bags increases in Pune||The recent study by SWaCH and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) supported waste pickers cooperative reports increased use of plastics, including banned carry bags. The waste pickers cooperative daily collects and segregates waste within the civic limits. The report finds that the usage of plastic carry bags has increased in the city especially after relaxation of lockdown norms despite the state government’s guidelines on ban on plastics bags and other related products. These banned carry bags are being generously used by roadside food stalls and vegetables vendors. The Maharashtra government had in March 2018 issued a notification banning the manufacture, sale and use of single-use plastic bags. It also banned an array of plastic products, including cutlery, straws and containers. The ban imposes a penalty between ₹5,000 and ₹25,000 for those violating the rules. At present, PMC is taking action on carry bags with a thickness of less than 50 microns. According to the study, the city generates around 2,100 tonnes of garbage daily in which the plastic share is around 12 per cent. It touches 15 per cent during festivals. Waste from over 1,000 households, featuring a mix of low, middle and high-income households, was studied for the audit. The waste was first sorted into categories by material type – plastic, paper, metal, glass, sanitary waste, wet waste, etc. Plastic waste was further sorted by type into PET, HDPE, PVC, LDPE, PP, PS, O, thermocol, rubber, wires etc. Study highlighted “lack of political and administrative will (Centre, state and local bodies) to enforce plastic ban during economic slowdown. There is Increased concerns of hygiene leading to use of disposable plastic items – masks, gloves, plastic bags. Groceries being packed in 50 microns clear plastic bags. “Certain categories of plastic bags – non-woven PP bags have proliferated the market despite being banned especially at liquor stores.” Dr Ketki Ghatge, assistant medical officer of health, PMC solid waste management department said, “We are carrying out action on plastic material as per the state government directives. We impose, seize banned plastic materials and collect fine from shopkeepers, manufacturers for using and selling ban plastic materials. Nowadays, vegetables vendors and food stalls are using plastic carrybags with a thickness of less than 50 microns. Now, we have decided to intensify the action. The circular will be issue soon.” Plastic waste contains milk bags, oil bags, food bags, yoghurt containers, plastic glasses, cooking oil canisters laminate tubes (toothpaste, medicines), carry bags (all micron thickness) blister packing, bubble wraps, shampoo powder bottles, empty sachets, detergent bags, wrappers cassettes, CD covers, plastic flowers, buckets among other things. City’s plastic waste: Growing menace SWaCH-PMC’s report on daily waste collection and segregation shows an increase in use of plastic, including banned plastic carry bags. Dry waste: 25% of total waste Plastic waste: 25% of dry waste or 6% of total Non-recyclable plastic waste: 39% of plastic waste Recyclable plastic waste: 61% of plastic waste AUDIT FINDINGS Multi-layered plastics was the most common type of plastic, forming 44% of total plastic waste, followed by single layered LDPE (27%). 76% of all plastic waste was food packaging. Sanitary napkins and diapers (not part of audit) made mostly of plastic are 2.5% of all waste in the city (40–50 tonnes per day) – almost equal in weight to all the non-recycled plastic as of now not recycled. Current issues:Plastic waste liners used extensively (sold at traffic stops) Multilayered packaging (chips, sachets etc) increased consumption Increase in food delivery during pandemic lockdowns – hard plastic containers, and flexible plastic bags/pouches – containing sauces, curries, mayonnaise etc. which renders the plastic waste non-recyclable Increased concerns of hygiene leading to use of disposable plastic items – masks, gloves, plastic bags. Lack of enforcement Lack of political and administrative will (Centre, state and local bodies) to enforce plastic ban during economic slowdown Single/multi-use masks – surgical and N95s made out of plastic which are not recycled. Groceries being packed in 50 microns clear plastic bags Certain categories of plastic bags – non-woven PP bags have proliferated the markets, especially at liquor stores, despite being banned||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/usage-of-banned-plastic-carry-bags-increases-in-pune-101626877059836.html
22-07-2021||Pune||After Patole’s call on civic polls, Congress prepares to go solo in Pune||PUNE: Anticipating fewer seats in alliance with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Shiv Sena in municipal corporation elections, the Congress has started preparations to contest the civic elections solo with the support of local leaders. The party has started preparations following announcement by state unit chief Nana Patole to contest the polls alone. “If Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) contests the civic elections together, it is clear that NCP will offer few seats to the Congress Party. If the Congress contests less seats, it is clear that its elected members would be less,” said a senior party leader from Pune requesting anonymity. His remarks came two days after Prithviraj Chavan held a meeting with local leaders taking stock for the upcoming elections. The same leader said, “If we consider Pune Municipal Corporation, total seats are 161 and the Congress won second position at hardly 30 places. It means if there would be an alliance, the NCP and the Shiv Sena will offer hardly 40 seats to the party to contest. If there are a total 170 seats and the Congress would get hardly 40 seats, which means the party had no representation in most parts of the city. Currently the 164-member PMC has BJP (99), NCP (42), Congress (11), Shiv Sena (10) and MNS 2 seats. Recently, Congress state unit president Patole sought to contest the local self- government elections on its own, much to the unease of other two partners – NCP and Sena. Patole said, “We will contest municipal and Zilla Parishad elections separately, but will take a call at the local level.” Earlier this week, Patole met party leader Rahul Gandhi and he too supported the former’s stand. Congress leader Mohan Joshi said, “We have already started preparations in Pune city to contest alone. We have even appointed leaders at assembly constituency level. However, post elections, there may be a chance we strike an alliance. We would ensure that our stand would not help the Bharatiya Janata Party.” Former city unit president Abhay Chhajed said, “If the Congress would contest elections separately, it will help the party to increase its base. We can get candidates in each ward and will get party workers in that area which is missing now. But elections are far away. Usually, alliance decisions happen a month before the election, but if we start preparations from now, it would help to create a mass base.” Another Congress leader Arvind Shinde also supported the stand. He said, “The state unit president Nana Patole’s stand is welcomed by party workers. It would definitely help to increase the party base.” Another Congress leader Sanjay Balgude said, “If we go for alliance, it is clear that the Congress would get less seats to contest. There are some formulas for seat sharing and it is mainly on sitting and runner-up seats. Party president Nana Patole’s stand is right which will help the party to garner more base at the grassroots level. If we do alliance, it is clear that we would not have the representation in the alliance partners wards.``||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/after-patole-s-call-on-civic-polls-cong-prepares-to-go-solo-in-pune-101626874719644.html
22-07-2021||Pune||Thieves blow up ATM in Pune, steal ₹28 lakh||PUNE: A group of men blow up an ATM centre in Chakan using unidentified explosive and steal cash on Wednesday morning. According to the bank officials, the stolen amount is over ₹28 lakh. According to the police, the robbers are suspected to have tied the explosive to the machine and the cash amount stolen is yet to be ascertained. The private company that is assigned to the fill the ATM with cash said that the last deposit amounted to ₹28 lakh. “The ATM was of a private company. They are pulling data about the balance in the machine after the last transaction. The company has not installed CCTV inside the centre. We will identify the kind of explosive used as the blast caused the doors of the centre to fly open and crash. Notes of multiple denominations were found strewn at the centre,” said inspector (crime) Dashrath Waghmode of Mhalunge police outpost who visited the spot. A case is getting registered at Mhalunge police outpost under Chakan police station. “We have formed three teams of crime branch to crack this case. We are also in touch with the police forces where this modus was used,” said Sudhir Hiremath, deputy commissioner of police, Pimpri-Chinchwad police. “The owner of a nearby house first saw some people fiddling with the ATM and later heard an explosion. When he reached the spot, they threatened to shoot him, so he left. But he returned after 15-20 minutes and alerted the police. We have called experts from the forensic laboratory, anti-terrorism squad, Bomb detection and disposal squad (BDDS), and Central reserve police force (CRPF) were called, and swabs of material found on the site has been sent for testing to identify what material was used,” said senior inspector Arvind Pawar of Mhalunge police outpost. A case under Sections 457, 458, 380, 34, 188, 109, and 392 of Indian Penal Code, Sections 68 and 140 of Maharashtra Police Act, Section 3(25) of Arms ACt, and Sections 4, 5, and 6 of Explosive Substances Act was registered at Mhalunge police out post of Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/thieves-blow-up-atm-in-pune-steal-rs-25-lakh-101626873879528.html
22-07-2021||Pune||No unusual spike in cases from ‘Delta plus areas’ in the state||Pune: Amidst fears that the ‘Delta plus’ variant of the coronavirus could be more transmissible, the state health department has observed no spike in Covid-19 cases from the pockets where it was reported last month in the state. The cases of ‘Delta plus’ variants of the virus have been reported from Ratnagiri, Jalgaon, Mumbai, Palghar, Thane, and Sindhudurg. According to the state health officials, over the period of a month, the total tally of the reported cases of this variant has reached only to 23. “23 cases of ‘Delta plus’ have been identified so far in the state. Initially in June, 21 cases were identified and before 10 days 2 cases were reported from Mumbai. We are doing regular testing. A spike in ‘Delta plus’ cases has not been observed. The unusual spike in caseload is not being reported in the areas from which ‘Delta plus’ cases were identified,” said Dr Pradip Awate, state surveillance officer. The new variant mutated in the Delta or B.1.617.2 variant, first identified in India. The Maharashtra state administration has tied up the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) for the genome sequencing of Covid-19’s positive samples from each district every month. The highest number of ‘Delta plus’ cases at nine were reported from Ratnagiri district, where the weekly positivity rate (July 13-July 20) is 6.1% and higher than the state average of 4%. According to the state health officials, no fresh cases of ‘Delta plus’ have been recorded in the district. “We have collected more samples from the areas where ‘Delta plus’ was reported. But this variant has not been found in those samples. The unusual spike in caseload is not being reported in the areas from which ‘Delta plus’ cases were identified. Recently, two cases were reported from Mumbai, but as we have noticed no unusual spike have been recorded from there,” said Awate. Citing ‘Delta plus’ a variant of concern Maharashtra government had rolled back its Level 5 restrictions unlock policy and imposed Level 3 as a baseline for the curbs on June 25. On being asked about when the state may have further relaxations, state health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said that the curve of Covid cases has to go further down. “The objective behind the current Level 3 restrictions is to avoid crowding. Currently, the state has been reporting positive cases between 6,000-7,000. The recovery rate is almost double the number of infections. The curve in Maharashtra has been plateaued since last month, but it is neither going up nor going down. If the curve goes down further then we can surely ease the curbs. If we observe the trend of declining in the daily cases then relaxations could be in order. But it is not happening. So, these cautionary steps are taken,” Tope said in an interview with a Marathi news channel. Tope also asked the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) to issue the guidelines to states for the relaxation policy from the Covid induced curbs. “Entire country has been working according to the protocols set by ICMR and Maharashtra is not an exception to it. ICMR should give us protocols and suggestions about further relaxations based on its observations from the SERO survey. Central teams visited 10 districts. They were told to avoid crowding, more testing, tracking, and observance of the norms. Our actions are in conformity with the guidelines given by the Centre. So, I request ICMR to give us guidelines on this. We will take action accordingly,” said Tope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-unusual-spike-in-cases-from-delta-plus-areas-in-the-state-101626872800777.html
22-07-2021||Other||Maoists release 11 people from captivity in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma||Raipur: Eleven people who had gone missing from a village in Chhattisgarh’s insurgency-hit Sukma district a couple of days ago, were abducted by Maoists and released on Tuesday, police said on Wednesday. The villagers were allegedly warned against supporting police and developmental works by the rebels, they added. “After the intervention and pressure of the media and local tribal leaders, the Maoists released the villagers who had reached their village Kunded, on Tuesday night. All of them are safe,” inspector general of police (IGP) (Bastar range) Sunderaj P said.The IGP added that the statement of the 11 villagers will be recorded to ascertain the reason behind their abduction.According to Sunderaj P, seven persons had initially gone missing after attending a social gathering on July 18. A day later, four others, including a village head, had reportedly gone to hold talks with the rebels on the abduction but did not return. According to people familiar with the matter, the rebels suspected the seven villagers had appeared for a police recruitment test, and hence, may have taken them into captivity. Located in the southern tip of Chhattisgarh bordering Andhra Pradesh and Odisha, Sukma district is part of the 1,200 sq km belt in Chhattisgarh that is considered to be a stronghold of the Maoist movement. For years, the authorities have been trying to execute development projects in these areas but often face resistance from the Maoists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maoists-release-11-people-from-captivity-in-chhattisgarh-s-sukma-101626868780128.html
22-07-2021||Pune||Taste of Life: Pune’s first “native” restaurant fails to attract patrons, inspires future eateries||“Pune Bhojanagruha”, the first “native” restaurant in Maharashtra, opened its doors to its patrons in June 1881. The cultural and religious desire to insulate commercial dealings and food transactions had created several hurdles in the commercial prospering of the nineteenth-century cities governed by the Raj. The opening of “Pune Bhojanagruha” tried to solve the problem, principally faced by travelling merchants, pilgrims, and students, of obtaining food prepared outside the domestic hearth. As mentioned in this column last week, it is quite clear from the advertisements published in 1881-82 in the newspaper “Kesari” that “Pune Bhojanagruha” was situated in Tukaram Patwekari’s wada, opposite Dhamdhere wada in Budhwar chowk. The small lane where Dhamdhere wada was situated used to be (and still is) known as Dhamdhere bol. This lane near the Dagadusheth Ganpati temple is now known for Srikrishna theatre. Budhwar chowk was the most important commercial hub in the city when “Bhojanagruha” came into existence. Farasakhana police station is situated in the same chowk today. Because of its proximity to Shaniwarwada and Nanawada, most of the businesses were carried out from Budhwar chowk since the early nineteenth century. Raviwar Peth, the jewellery hub of Pune, was not situated very far away from the chowk. Kotwal Chawadi, the seat of Pune’s Kotwal, was nearby too. Most of the schools in Pune were in the same vicinity. These factors made Dhamdhere bol an ideal location for the “Bhojanagruha”. The proprietors of the restaurant would have hoped to attract the businessmen, travellers, students, and the elites of Pune to partake their meals at the eatery. But it did not function there for long. Seetaram Ramchandra Gaekwad, in his book “Pune Shaharache Warnan” (The description of Pune city), published in 1886, writes about Chowdhary wada which was situated in Guruwar peth near the “Panch Howd” Mission. The locality was known for its slightly more cosmopolitan population and market. According to Gaekwad, Chowdhary wada housed “Punyache Boarding” (Pune’s Boarding House) “initially”. It is interesting to note that Gaekwad does not use the word “Bhojanagruha” to describe the eating house. It was not unusual at that time for the educated writers to use English words in their vernacular, in this case, Marathi, articles. English words were specifically used to express Western ideas, concepts, and philosophies. Gaekwad uses the English word “Boarding”, clearly hinting that this was a “Western” institution. At the same time, he makes it quite clear that it was the only restaurant in Pune city at the time. Gaekwad, in his book, also fails to mention the original location of the “Bhojanagruha”. He makes his readers believe that the restaurant started its operations in the Bhajekar wada, which was not true. In the 1880s, Chowdhary wada was owned by the illustrious Bhajekar (Chitale) family. The three Bhajekar brothers – Narayan, Mahadev alias Bapusaheb and Ramchandra lived there with their families. Bapusaheb, lawyer and playwright, was Vishnushastri Chiplunkar’s friend and classmate from Deccan College. The fact that Bhajekars chose to accommodate “Bhojanagruha” in their wada points at the close association Chiplunkar had with the eating house. The shifting of “Bhojanagaruha” from the original location in Budhwar peth to Guruwar peth hints at a few possibilities. It is likely that the eating house did not attract many customers in the initial days and that the venture failed to gain a profit. The letter written by one “Mr. Shoshak” in “Kesari” demonstrated the inhibitions people had about the restaurant. The clientele the restaurant would have attracted in Budhwar peth would have mostly been conservative and apprehensive towards the eatery. Guruwar peth was more liberal and tolerant, and the proprietors might have expected them to be more welcoming towards the restaurant. Unfortunately, “Bhojanagruha” seems to have faced difficulties at the new location too, because it then shifted to another location, not completely suitable for a restaurant. It is unclear when “Pune Bhojanagaruha” shifted from Bhajewar wada, Guruwar Peth, to Pethe wada in the Tambat (coppersmith) lane in Kasba peth. Originally owned by the Pethe family who was related to the Peshwas, the majestic three-storied mansion, whose drawing room once had gilded walls, was jointly owned by Mr. Potfode, Mr. Nizampurkar, Mr. Karde, Mr. Dakhve, and Mr. Kadu in the 1880s. Gaekwad mentions in his book that the locality was not a peaceful one. Several coppersmiths had their workshops in the lane and the noise was unbearable. One of the workshops was located in the Pethe wada itself. It is obvious that this location was not ideal for the “Bhojanagruha”. One can assume that the business failed to take off in Guruwar peth too, and the proprietors had to shift to a cheaper, more affordable location. They might also have hoped to attract different patronage than from Budhwar and Guruwar peths. Though equally conservative, Kasba peth had a working-class population, which the “Bhojanagruha” might have hoped to attract. The shifting of the “Bhojanagruha” from the elite Budhwar peth, to a more cosmopolitan Guruwar peth, and then to Kasba peth tells us about the response, it received from Pune. The unwelcoming attitude on display resulted in the shutting down of “Bhojanagruha” sometime in 1884, three years after it began its operations. “Pune Bhojanagruha” was an important milestone in the journey of Pune from a town to a city. Irrespective of the response it generated, one has to acknowledge that it paved the path for more restaurants to run their businesses in Pune. And for that, we have to thank Narayan Ramchandra, the proprietor of “Pune Bhojanagruha”, Vishnushastri Chiplunkar, Bapusaheb Bhajekar and many others who tried their best to make this venture a success. More about them the next week. Chinmay Damle is a research scientist and food enthusiast. He writes here on Pune’s food culture. He can be contacted at chinmay.damle@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-pune-s-first-native-restaurant-fails-to-attract-patrons-inspires-future-eateries-101626868359218.html
22-07-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh approves auction of 17 coal blocks, triggers wildlife concerns||Raipur/New Delhi: The Chhattisgarh Cabinet has approved auctioning of 17 out of 18 coal blocks identified by the Centre in the state, triggering concerns on the impact of mining activities in wildlife-rich areas that are home to several elephants, sloth bears and leopards. Activists believe the approval was granted despite no increase in demand for coal.An official familiar with the matter said the nod for the auction was given at a Cabinet meeting on Tuesday. “...Barra coal block, which is in Raigarh district, has been exempted from the auction,” the official said, wishing not to be named.Agricultureminister and government spokesperson Ravindra Chaubey said Barra was exempted from the auction in view of the presence of a major human settlement in the area. Chaubey added that the decision to remove Barra coal block from the list was taken at the request of public representatives and ministers. “The activists have the right to express their views but, in this case, the Centre had asked for approval of the state government. The decision and jurisdiction are of the Union government and I believe the activists should pressurise the government in Delhi,” he said. As per official data, Chhattisgarh produces around 150 million tonnes of coal annually and has around 58,589 million tonnes of reserves. The 17 blocks, which are expected to generate around 8,000 million tonnes of coal, are located in Dharamjaigarh, Sarguja, Surajpur and Koriya forest divisions.According to MSTC Limited, the enterprise which is carrying out the auctions for the Centre, a large forest area is likely to be impacted in Chhattisgarh. In its website, the enterprise said the coal blocks involve between 15% to 40% of forest land. A tributary to the Atem, Mahan, Pajhar Nadi and Kelo rivers also flow through the area.Sudiep Shrivastava, an environmental lawyer, expressed concerns over the impact on the wildlife of the area. “...in some areas, even tigers are also found,” he said, adding that below 50% of the area around the blocks is forested but the landscape is crucial for wildlife.Alok Shukla, convener of Chhattisgarh Bachao Andolan, an NGO, said the state government should have opposed commercial mining as Chhattisgarh is already facing consequences in the form of environmental destruction and displacements. He added that the state government will not get any special revenue because of low rates. “The auction is not for the country’s coal requirements but for corporate profits as 44 of the 70 previously allocated coal blocks (between 2015-20) are yet to start operations. New power plants are also not being established and the demand for coal is also not increasing. That is why this auction is also an exercise to eliminate Coal India (government-owned coal mining and refining corporation),” he said.In 2020, Shrivastava said, 38 coal blocks were selected for auction but 17 of them did not receive a single bid. “The blocks which were auctioned fetched 9% to 66% of the rates which translate into roughly ₹130 per tonne to ₹900 per tonne...This is much lower than the rates fetched in the 2015 auction when blocks were sold for over ₹3,000 per tonne.” He cited Coal India’s vision document and added that no more auction or allotment is needed as there are enough mines.Shrivastava said fresh auctioning would not fetch enough revenue and the state would lose its precious mineral wealth at throwaway prices. “If we allow more and more mines to be auctioned and opened up... the coal is not likely to be in much demand and would result in loss of revenue to the state. The farmers would have already lost land by then.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cgarh-okays-auction-of-17-coal-blocks-raises-concerns-about-impact-on-wildlife-101626864399791.html
