24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sunset Boulevard: Stray thoughts on turning 70||Though birthdays and anniversaries are an annual reminder of the passage of time, yet sometimes the amount of time that has elapsed may take one by surprise.One may chance upon a grey strand of hair one relaxed morning or look into the mirror in disbelief like the stunned emperor Shah Jahan and find that all their hair has grayed overnight. The sight makes one realise that they are no longer that young. It has been wisely said that nothing is quieter than the sound of hair turning grey or dropping of sand particles in an hourglass.When I think back on my journey so far, on my 70th birthday, I can heave a sigh of satisfaction as life has treated me well and I have had my way most of the time. For me, time has always moved silently, almost stealthily.When my youth evaporated and the middle years started melting into old age, I hardly noticed, except for adding another year to my score on each birthday.There were certain stray incidents that stuck out, which made me realise, albeit with a hint of surprise, that I had crossed a specific age barrier.One evening, almost three decades ago, I was returning from my office in Shimla when I saw a jean-clad girl walking with quick steps slightly ahead of me. A perfect hourglass figure, her silky hair was undulating in the air in rhythm with her sprightly gait. Dying to catch a glimpse of her face, I quickened my pace. I walked past her and turned my head sideways to look at her. I was greeted by a cheerful smile, “Good evening, Uncle!” she said. She turned out to be the charming daughter of our next-door neighbor. Uncle? Had I heard her right? It was the first time that a young girl had addressed me as ‘uncle’. That evening I woke up to the fact that I was on the threshold of middle age.A few years before my retirement, I was casually chatting with a younger colleague, a probationary officer at our bank. Somehow the discussion segued to Indira Gandhi’s assassination in 1984. I was describing to him the precise moment the news of the brutal murder was broken to me at a remote branch in an obscure village of Himachal Pradesh. I was enjoying the calm, sunny landscape of the Sutlej Valley through my window, while attending to some official correspondence, half listening to the radio commentary on the Indo-Pak cricket match in progress at Lahore. Suddenly, the commentary was interrupted, the play being abandoned to broadcast the news of the Prime Minister’s death.After narrating the episode, I asked my colleague, in a conversational tone, where he was at that historical moment. The officer hesitated a bit before replying, “I am afraid, I had not heard of Mrs Gandhi at the time.”I could not believe it, “Why so?”“At that time, I must have been studying in nursery or in kindergarten cramming my nursery rhymes,” the officer said, with a pleasant laugh. Mildly shocked, I realised that a gap of more than 25 years separated me from my colleague and, what’s more, the autumn of my life was just round the corner.And, lastly, a couple of years ago, I went to New York to be with our daughter’s family for a while. She welcomed us at the door of her apartment holding her three-month-old baby and exclaimed, “Meet your grandpa, Kaya! But not before he washes his hands!” Grandpa? The realisation of entering the last phase of life came to me as a jolt. But I got over it a few moments later with that bundle of joy in my lap.(The writer is a Shimla-based freelance contributor)parmar.ranbir@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sunset-boulevard-stray-thoughts-on-turning-70-101627150578650.html
24-07-2021||Other||Delhi police rescue 16-year-old who was kidnapped, sexually assaulted, sold for marriage||New Delhi: The city police on Saturday said they rescued a 16-year-old girl from Bhind in Madhya Pradesh, nearly two months after she was kidnapped from Delhi allegedly by a 24-year-old man, who also reportedly sexually assaulted her and later sold her to another man for ₹50,000. Police said the suspect befriended the girl on a social networking mobile platform.The suspect, identified as Rajeev Garg, has been arrested while his tenant, Ram Mohan alias Gautam Sharma, to whom he allegedly sold the girl, is still absconding, police said.Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Monika Bhardwaj said that the girl’s parents filed a kidnapping complaint at a west Delhi police station on May 30, and said that she had left home a day before saying that she was going to her friend’s house. With help from the anti-human trafficking unit, police obtained and analysed the girl’s call records which revealed frequent telephonic conversations with a number traced to Madhya Pradesh’s Gwalior and Bhind. Police said the location of that particular phone was found in Delhi on the day the girl went missing.“Our team tracked the movement of the mobile number and caught its user, Rajeev Garg, from Bhind on July 22. He led the team to his house from where the girl was rescued... The team returned to Delhi with Garg and the girl,” said DCP Bhardwaj.In her statement, the girl said that she came in contact with Garg on the social networking app where the latter’s profile name was listed as Mahi Garg. She claimed she blocked Garg’s number when she came to know of his identity a few weeks later.“However, Garg contacted her through another number and emotionally manipulated her into unblocking his number and continue the friendship. He also convinced her to meet him at Madhuban Chowk in Delhi on May 29, from where he lured her to his hometown in Bhind,” the DCP said.According to police, Garg allegedly physically and sexually assaulted the girl in Bhind for some days and later reportedly sold her to his 30-year-old tenant, Ram Mohan alias Gautam Sharma, for ₹50,000.Police said Mohan, who wanted to marry the girl as his first wife had left him, absconded when the police raided the house.Investigators added that Garg earlier spent seven months in jail in a domestic violence case after his wife, who is now separated from him, filed a case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-rescue-16-year-old-who-was-kidnapped-sexually-assaulted-sold-for-marriage-101627150457567.html
24-07-2021||Other||Work delayed due to Covid, Partition museum opening pushed to Republic Day next year||New Delhi: The opening of the first Partition museum in Delhi, which was slated for Independence Day this year, has been pushed to Republic Day next year as the Covid-19 crisis halted on-site work between April and July, officials told HT.The Arts and Cultural Heritage Trust (TACHT), which has the experience of having set up a similar museum in Amritsar and is managing the Delhi project, resumed work on setting up the museum, at the Dara Shikoh Library Building in Kashmere Gate inside the Ambedkar University campus, earlier this month.“We started on-site work around two weeks ago. At present we have started the carpentry work to get the rooms ready for the museum installation along with working on curation and other areas. Due to Covid-19 crisis, even the restoration work in the building allotted for the museum had come to a halt due to lack of labourers and other factors and we were only handed the museum in the second week of July,” said Kishwar Desai, chair at TACHT.“If there is no third wave, we should have the Partition museum ready by early January, in time for Republic Day. It is challenging as we have to maintain all Covid protocols, including wearing masks and ensuring physical distancing. We are also trying to ensure that our workers are vaccinated on time,” she said.The museum is likely to have 10 galleries housing around 200 artifacts, including letters, certificates, clothes, utensils and photographs belonging to those who migrated to Delhi from across the border during the 1947 India-Pakistan partition.The site, which will also be developed as a cultural hub, will contain three museums related to the history of Delhi and the changes brought about by events and individuals. While the first one – Partition museum – is expected to be ready in January next year, a second museum on Mughal prince Dara Shikoh and a third on medieval and ancient antiquities from the Delhi state archaeology department will come up later.“Our curation is almost done. Acquiring a few artifacts got held up because people had to send it from different cities and the lockdown made it difficult. But we are now in the process of getting them as the Covid-19 situation looks better,” Desai said. The trust is also collaborating with Ambedkar University’s Centre for Community Knowledge which will provide some of the narratives and oral histories for the museum.From a century-old land deed scripted in Urdu, including information on a piece of land in Jhang, Pakistan, to a wedding card from 1947, TACHT has also collected various bare basics that people managed to bring with them, such as clothes, utensils, letters, documents, photographs and certificates, while hurriedly trying to cross the border during the Partition, which left two million people dead and displaced 10 to 20 million people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/work-delayed-due-to-covid-partition-museum-opening-pushed-to-republic-day-next-year-101627150456310.html
24-07-2021||Other||AAP claims north MCD planning to demolish shops in Gaffar market, construct new complex||New Delhi: Aam Aadmi Party chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj on Friday alleged that the BJP-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation is planning to demolish shops in the prominent Gaffar Market area to construct a new shopping complex, adding that the idea is to evict existing shopkeepers, who were given a lease of 99 years in 1976, and reconstruct it with a new builder who will sell these shops. “The MCD did not carry out maintenance for 40 years and has now served an eviction notice to empty the market within three days. If the shops were made using poor grade cement, is it the fault of the shopkeepers or the MCD which constructed it? The BJP-ruled MCD is conniving with the builder mafia and has similar plans for all such 39 markets in Delhi so that it can fill its pockets with crores of rupees before leaving the MCD next year,” said Bhardwaj, addressing a press conference.The Delhi BJP and officials from the north MCD did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aapclaims-north-mcd-planning-to-demolish-shops-in-gaffar-market-construct-new-complex-101627150397085.html
24-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi LG grants city top cop detention powers under NSA; Officials call move ‘routine’||Lieutenant Governor (LG) of Delhi has issued a notification, granting the newly appointed Delhi Police Commissioner Balaji Srivastava the powers of a detaining authority to detain anyone under the National Security Act. The notification that was issued on Thursday has authorised the police chief to excercise the powers for three months -- from July 19 till October 18 this year. “In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 3, read with clause (e) of Section 2 of the National Security Act, 1980, the Lt Governor of the National Capital Territory of Delhi is pleased to direct that during the period July 19, 2021 to October 18, 2021, the Delhi Police Commissioner may also exercise the powers of detaining authority under sub-section (2) of the section 3 of the aforesaid Act,” the notification read. Senior government as well as police officials said that this notification is a routine procedure that is followed whenever a new police chief of Delhi Police is appointed. Since the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) doesn’t provide the magisterial powers (powers of a detaining authority) to the Delhi Police Commissioner under the NSA, the L-G, who is the competent authority, issues a notification to grant that powers to the police chief, officials said. “The Delhi police sent the file and it was cleared from the home department and then the LG office in no time. It is a routine thing. This keeps getting renewed vide a notification once in every 3-6 months,” said a government official.Explaining the procedure followed while detaining anyone under the NSA, a senior police officer said that this Act is used under the circumstances, where a person with his actions may cause a public disorder thereby posing a threat to the national security. “Under the NSA, a person can be put under preventive arrest in jail for a maximum period of one year. There is no provision for registering a first information report (FIR) for making the preventive arrest,” the officer said. The officer further said that when any police team plans to book anyone under the NSA, the team collects information about the person and his antecedents of the last 10 years and them put up a formal request before the police commissioner. The police chief reviews the file and after proper verification he takes the decision on whether to book the person under the NSA or not. “Once the commissioner approves the prevention detention of the person, the matter is then sent to the review committe comprising of three High Court judges. The review committe has the powers to approve or disapprove the police chief’s preventive detention order. But that is done only when the committe is not convinced with the allegations or evidence collected against the person,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-lg-grants-city-top-detention-powers-under-nsa-officials-call-move-routine-101627150396323.html
24-07-2021||Delhi||Nearly 70k jabs given in Delhi as Covishield second doses push up city’s numbers||The vaccination drive in Delhi picked up pace slightly on Saturday with nearly 70,000 jabs being administered. The increase in the number of shots given, however, was driven by the second dose with more than twice the number of people getting their second shot as did the first, according to data on government’s CoWIN portal.There were just over 21,000 first doses administered as compared to over 48,400 second doses till 7pm on Saturday, the data shows. The city has been administering more second doses than first for the fourth day on Saturday.This is because those who received their first Covishield dose became eligible for their second one this week, the government stopped using Covishield doses for the first shot, and only 20% of the Covaxin stock is being used for the first shot.“This trend is likely to continue for this month and the first week of August after which we expect that more doses would become available to Delhi. As for Covaxin, we will be using a small proportion of the available doses for first dose because the supply is irregular and we do not want to be in a situation where we do not have enough vaccine for second dose,” said a senior official from West district.Other than Covaxin and Covishield, many private vaccination centres in Delhi have also been administering the Russian vaccine Sputnik V. In less than a month since the introduction of the vaccine in Delhi, just short of 30,000 doses have been administered, according to CoWIN data. The supply of Sputnik V is also likely to pick up with several Indian companies starting to manufacture it.So far, 7.28 million Delhi residents have been partially immunised, meaning one in three residents have received at least one jab of the vaccine. And, 2.3 million or 11.5% of city residents have been completely vaccinated.“A significant proportion of the population in Delhi has already been exposed to the infection; and we know that natural infection provides better and longer immunity. So actually we need to vaccinate a small proportion of people here. In contrast, in places like Kerala there is still a significant proportion of susceptible population left because they actually followed Covid appropriate behaviour. The infections there are likely to remain high for some time and people there need to be vaccinated quickly,” Dr Sanjay Rai, head of the department of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nearly-70k-jabs-given-in-delhi-as-covishield-second-doses-push-up-city-s-numbers-101627150336242.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai court denies bail to ISIS sympathiser||The sessions court on Friday refused to grant interim bail to Anees Ansari, arrested in October 2014 for allegedly plotting to blow up American School of Bombay located at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC). The court, however, expedited his trial.Ansari, who worked as associate geographic technician in a private company before he was arrested for being a sympathiser of ISIS ideology and plotting an attack in the city, had moved plea for interim bail earlier this year citing pandemic situation and delay in the trial.The prosecution objected to the plea, claiming the accused was part of the conspiracy to attack the school. The prosecution relied upon the conversation exchanged between the accused and one Omar Elhaji which, it said, was sufficient to show the intention of the accused to cause terror in the country and to attack on American schools and foreign nationals residing in Mumbai.The court, after hearing both the sides, observed, “Prima facie there is evidence that the applicant/accused was involved in anti-social activities while doing his job in a private company. No doubt the applicant/accused is well educated and an intelligent student, there is every possibility to indulge in similar activities and action which may cause obstruction to the prosecution case if he is released on bail.”The court further noted that the prosecution has so far examined 22 witnesses and only two to three witnesses are remaining to complete the trial. The court, after hearing the prosecution case, also expressed the apprehension that releasing the accused on bail might prejudice the trial.“Considering the conduct of the accused, if the accused release on bail, the possibility of tampering further evidence and remaining absent after expiry of the temporary bail cannot be ruled out,” the court observed while rejecting the plea. The court, however, has ordered to expedite the trial in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-denies-bail-to-isis-sympathiser-101627150096818.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||ACB arrests Parbhani DySP, constable in ₹2-cr bribery case||The anti-corruption bureau officials have arrested a Parbhani based sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) - a deputy superintendent of police rank officer, and his sub-ordinate for allegedly demanding ₹2 crore bribe from a businessman.An audio clip of the businessman’s conversation with his deceased friend’s wife had gone viral in Parbhani district and based on the viral clip the accused policemen had threatened to take legal action against the businessman and had demanded money for not taking the action.The ACB later seized ₹25 lakh in cash from the SDPO’s Dadar residence.The arrested policemen are identified as Rajendra Pal, 55, SDPO, Shelu division, Parbhani and Ganesh Chavan 37, police Naik, Shelu division. The complainant in the case is a businessman and his friend had died in a road accident on May 3. A case of causing death by negligence and rash and negligent driving was registered at the Selu police station in Parbhani district in connection with the accident, and one person was also arrested in the case. The complainant businessman wanted to console his friend’s wife and hence he had called her from one of his employee’s phones. “The telephonic conversation between them got recorded in the employee’s phone and later he sent it to his colleagues and the audio clip went viral in the entire district,” said an ACB officer.“Some content of the audio clip was little objectionable and based on this audio clip the accused, SDPO Pal, had contacted the complainant businessman and summoned him to his office on July 9.“Pal threatened the businessman of strict legal action based on the viral audio clip and demanded ₹2 crore for not registering a case against him,” said ACP Neelam Waval, ACB spokesperson. After bargaining by the complainant, the matter was settled at ₹1.5 crore. Since then Pal has been regularly calling the businessman and threatening him to pay or else face the case. But as the businessman did not want to pay, he approached ACB.The complainant didn’t trust local authorities, hence he came to Mumbai and submitted a complaint to DG, ACB in Mumbai on Thursday. ACB Mumbai unit was put on the job and after verification of the complaint the ACB Mumbai team went to Parbhani and late in the evening on Friday arrested Chavan while accepting ₹10 lakh as the first instalment of the bribe amount. Pal too was arrested on early Saturday morning, said ACP Waval.Following the arrests, Pal’s Dadar residence was searched and ₹25 lakh in cash was seized. He has other houses and searches are being conducted there as well, Waval added.Soon proceeding for amassing disproportionate assets would also be commenced against Pal, said another ACB officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/acb-arrests-parbhani-dysp-constable-in-2-cr-bribery-case-101627150096210.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||Didn’t know anything about my husband’s businesses: Shilpa Shetty||The property cell of Mumbai Police’s crime branch on Friday evening recorded the statement of actor Shilpa Shetty for around two hours at her Juhu residence. Police said the actor told them that she did not know anything about her husband Raj Kundra’s businesses, as she was most often busy with her own work. The police said the actor broke down while recording the statement.Shetty told property cell officers that she never interfered with Kundra’s businesses and added that it was only through news reports that she came to know about the allegations levelled against him. Police officers are, however, sceptical about her claims as the actor was once on the board of directors of one of the companies, Viaan Industries, owned by her husband. A police officer said they may record her statement again, if required. But prima facie, they have not found any involvement of the actor.Police said Shetty appeared upset and had an argument with Kundra when he was taken to Juhu for house-search on Friday evening. “She was upset after the argument and looked sad and even cried later when crime branch officers recorded her statement,” said an officer.Meanwhile, crime branch officers on Saturday found a hidden almirah at Kundra’s Juhu house.The police said the almirah was kept in a cavity covered by a wall and added that they have found several files in it and have started analsying them.“We are checking what files they are,” said a police officer.He added they are now in the process of appointing expert forensics and financial auditing firm to analyse and audit Kundra’s accounts. Police officers said Kundra has deleted a lot of material such as videos and other accounting details from his computers, after the case was registered in February 2021 and nine arrests were made.They are also investigating if the money received by Kundra through some foreign banks such as United Bank of Africa is money earned from betting or through his earnings or were earnings from Hotshots subscriptions.Property cell arrested Kundra in connection with a purported pornography racket busted by the police in February 2021. Ten others, including Kundra’s close associate Umesh Kamat and his IT support provider Ryan Thorpe, have been arrested in the case.Meanwhile, Enforcement Directorate (ED) sources said the anti-money laundering agency is likely to probe into the alleged money laundering aspects of the porn racket case in which Kundra is named as a prime accused. The agency would also check if Kundra or his associates were involved in any alleged violation of Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). But, the agency has not yet registered any case so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/didnt-know-anything-about-my-husband-s-businesses-shilpa-shetty-101627150036886.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||Five die in lift collapse at construction site in Mumbai||Five people working at a construction site in Lower Parel area died when the lift they had boarded in the under-construction building had a free fall. The police and fire brigade reached the spot and removed the six people trapped in the lift.NM Joshi Marg police said the incident took place around 5.45pm at a construction site of Lalitambika Builders at erstwhile Ambika Mills compound. “The building is owned by Lalitambika Builders and they had hired a contractor,” said Prataprao Bhosale, senior inspector, NM Joshi Marg police station.The workers have been identified as Avinash Das, 35; Laxman Mandal, 35; Bharat Mandal, 28; and Chinmay Mandal, 33 while the two others are yet to be identified.The building is a twenty-storey structure with two towers — one for the people who have been rehabilitated and the other is sale component building.“They were working near the car parking and were coming down in the lift used to take up construction material. The lift wire snapped and it crashed from the seventeenth floor. The fall was sudden and speedy, due to which five people died at the spot and one person, Laxman Mandal, is critical and has been admitted at KEM Hospital,” said Bhosale.Shiv Sena leader Sachin Ahir, who visited the spot along with minister and local MLA Aaditya Thackeray, said, “It’s a very unfortunate incident. Locals and other workers rushed the injured to the hospital. However, five of them had already breathed their last.”The police said the site supervisor has also died in the incident. “We are inquiring into the incident and will record the statements of all people and then register a case in the matter against those found responsible for negligence, if any,” said Bhosale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/five-die-in-lift-collapse-at-construction-site-in-mumbai-101627149977321.html
24-07-2021||Delhi||No Covid-19 deaths in Delhi for 2nd time in a week||The city reported no Covid-19 deaths for the second time in a week on Saturday. Delhi also added no Covid-19 deaths last Sunday (July 18), the first time that happened since March 2 this year, when cases ebbed after the third wave in November, and before the fourth wave spike between April and May.The Capital also added 66 more cases of Covid-19, at a positivity rate of 0.09%. The test positivity rate is a vital parameter to understand the scale of an outbreak in a region. Experts believe the spread of the infection to be under control when the positivity rate remains at 5% or less for over two weeks. The number in Delhi has been below this threshold for over two months now.So far, the infection has killed 25,041 people in the city and affected over 1.43 million people since the first case was reported on March 2 last year.“Most people in Delhi – over 80% -- have been exposed to Covid-19 so far and are well protected against a second infection. It is unlikely that the city will experience a severe wave again. Unless, the virus mutates to completely evade immune response,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-covid-19-deaths-in-delhi-for-2nd-time-in-a-week-101627149976194.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra scores a perfect 100% for ICSE, 99.94% for ISC||Results for Class 10 (ICSE) and Class 12 (ISC) were announced by the Council of Indian Secondary Certificate Examinations (CISCE) on Saturday afternoon. Students and schools had every reason to cheer with many scoring near-perfect scores and the overall success rate of ICSE students in Maharashtra standing at 100%.A large number of state schools witnessed an increase in the number of students scoring 90% and above. Authorities at Bombay Scottish School, Mahim, confirmed that 84.7% of their ICSE batch scored above 90% this year. “The students are very happy with the overall results. Even our Class 12 batch has done very well; 70% of the batch scored above 90%,” said Sunita George, principal.“Last year, around 100 students had scored over 90%. This year, 150 of the 290 students have managed this feat. We had focussed on internals throughout the year and that helped better the overall score,” said Alice Vaz, principal, Ryan International School, Kharghar. She added that students were also worried about the status of exams and ensured they performed well through the year, despite online lectures.As per information shared by CISCE, the all India success rate for ICSE stood at 99.98% this year while the same for Maharashtra schools is a perfect 100%. Similarly, the all India success rate for ISC stands at 99.76% and the same for Maharashtra is 99.94%. West region has a 99.9% success rate in ICSE this year.“Class 12 students have been in a fix for the past two years, because most students aiming at professional courses have already started preparing for the same for the past three four years, and with Covid-19 in place, all their plans are now in limbo. While the overall performance of Class 12 students is really good compared to previous few years, their fate still depends on their performance in the state and national-level entrance exams for higher education,” said the principal of a school in south Mumbai.This year, Class 10 and 12 board exams across several school education boards had to be scrapped due to rising Covid-19 cases. CISCE based their results on the average marks of papers/subjects scored by the candidates in various tests/examinations conducted by schools in current and previous academic year (2019-20 and 2020-21) as well as assessment marks (project and practical work for Class 10 and 12) to derive the final outcome.“This year was extremely difficult one for the entire country, and in spite of the severe crisis, our schools and students have gone out of their way to do well. The data submitted by schools was analysed by a team of reputed statisticians from some premier institutions around the country along with senior officials of CISCE,” said Gerry Arathoon, secretary, CISCE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-scores-a-perfect-100-for-icse-99-94-for-isc-101627149919009.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Students still worried about FYJC CET||A week after the Maharashtra state board announced results for the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) students boasting of an unprecedented 99.95% success, the announcement of ICSE results with a 100% success rate has brought the focus back on the upcoming optional common entrance test (CET) exam for first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions. Despite very good individual marks, Class 10 students are now worried about CET exam which is scheduled to take place on August 21.“Unlike previous years when our marks was only dependent on the final exam, this year the result considers our performance throughout the year and the previous academic year as well. Despite a year of anxieties, we are still facing an unsure future, which is very nerve wracking,” said Anshita Rajan, an ICSE student who scored 99.04%. This year, Class 10 board exams across several school education boards had to be scrapped due to rising Covid-19 cases. Results for the Class 10 batch was instead formulated based on students’ performance in Class 9 and 10 combined. According to the circular released by the state board earlier this week, an optional CET exam based solely on SSC syllabus and consisting of multiple choice questions (MCQs) for 100 marks will be conducted. This two-hour paper will be conducted in physical mode on August 21 from 11am to 1pm, and registrations for the same have been stalled due to technical glitches.“How can the state call this parity when the syllabus for the CET exam is based only on state board curriculum? ICSE syllabus for subjects like social sciences, maths and science is very different from what is taught in state board schools; so how are we supposed to compete with state board students when we haven’t studied the same curriculum?” asked Tanisha Rai, an ICSE student.Last month, a Class 10 ICSE student approached the Bombay high court seeking help in this matter. The student’s petition points out the ‘bias’ against students of other boards and the added stress for students therefore. The court this week asked the state board to consider conducting the CET with syllabus of ICSE and cbse boards as well, the board is yet to respond to this as yet.“After assuring us that admissions to junior college seats will be conducted in an unbiased way and from the manner in which the exam is being conducted, it seems the board wants to give a bigger advantage to state board students. We are hoping this unfair deal turns around with the court’s help,” said Saroj Sinha, another ICSE student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-students-still-worried-about-fyjc-cet-101627149916201.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column: Do not murder Le Corbusier’s legacy||After the Partition in 1947, Lahore, the former capital of the British province of Punjab, became a part of Pakistan and Chandigarh was conceived as its replacement. Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, who selected the site, which would become the urban city of Chandigarh in 1948, believed that the city should be a symbol of the nation’s faith in the future. Charles-Édouard Jeanneret, better known as Le Corbusier, who was the icon of European architectural modernism at the time, was invited to help remake India’s national ideal. Around 28,000 acres were acquired after displacing 58 villages and around 21,000 locals. Le Corbusier was commissioned to design Chandigarh in November 1950, and in October 1953 Chandigarh was formally opened by the Prime Minister. In April 1964, Le Corbusier made his last and 23rd trip to India. The Capital of Punjab (Development and Regulation) Act, 1952 and the Building Rules, 1952 were enacted in relation to the development and regulation of the new capital of Punjab. The first major test of these laws came when The Tribune, on April 30, 1960, reported that the defence minister was planning to purchase around 2,000 acres north of Sukhna Lake for around ₹29 lakh for building a military cantonment. Le Corbusier wrote to Nehru saying that he could not “permit this decision which would ruin the town planning principles of Chandigarh.” On November 4, 1960, The Prime Minister directed the then Punjab chief minister Partap Singh Kairon to not “overrule Corbusier” as “his opinion is of value.” In Chandigarh’s Le Corbusier: The Struggle For Modernity In Postcolonial India, Vikramaditya Prakash says that a 10 franc bill issued by the Swiss government had Le Corbusier’s portrait on it with superimposed layers of Le Corbusier’s elevation of the Secretariat building at Chandigarh on it. India’s national pride came to be shared by the Swiss as well Clearly, as Prakash put it, the Swiss were not commemorating the Indian building, “they were reclaiming what they perceived to be their own legitimate Swiss heritage.” Our national pride was thus shared by the Swiss as well. In the words of Norma Evenson, who authored the book Chandigarh, the basic idiom of Chandigarh was established at the beginning as the architecture of one or two-storey brick houses built in terrace formation. She says that to control the character of development, a system of zoning plans showing building lines, building zones, protected areas, trees and so on were to be a part of the legal conveyance of land as binding on the buyer as the building bylaws. A covered roof sheltered called a ‘barsati’ was the top floor. The two-storey height of government and private houses that could accommodate a single family was the norm in all the zoning plans made under the 1952 rules. Ravi Kalia Chandigarh -The Making Of An Indian City says that some of the problems listed in the regional plans were fast-depleting underground water resources, soil erosion and flooding along rivers in the vicinity, shortages in housing and office space, poor communications and road links and the deteriorating ecological balance of the region with rapid industrialisation. Do not change the marvellous landscape: Le Corbusier to Nehru He writes that these developments started long ago, but as long as Le Corbusier lived, he fought hard to preserve the character of the city that he had planned. Nearly 10 years after starting work on Chandigarh, he wrote to Pandit Nehru, saying “the construction of the Capitol and its lateral elements has brought to Chandigarh such a marvellous landscape, which no city in the world possesses. Let us not destroy it.” Today, the landscape of the city is being rapidly changed by the UT administration. It is encouraging builders and property brokers to build apartments and flats. The old residential houses are being demolished and reconstructed as apartments that will be sold for exorbitant prices to those who can afford them. The increased number of family units in one dwelling house will multiply by at least three. All amenities and public facilities will remain the same. The biggest victims will be drainage and sewerage. Water and electricity are already scarce. The depleting water table will sink further. The legacy of Le Corbusier will be dishonoured and the city will be ruined. Who will build another Chandigarh? If we cannot commemorate the memory of Le Corbusier by keeping this unique city intact, let us at least not allow builders and brokers to plunder it. The legacy was not meant to be murdered. The most befitting conclusion can be found in the writings of Norma Evenson: “In the final analysis, a city is not the creation of its planners: it is the creation of its keeping through time. A city planner is not God and cannot bring life into existence, and however much he might have wished it, Le Corbusier could not turn a provincial Indian capital into another Paris. The cities we love were not planned for this, but have come to be loved through the workings of time, circumstance and perhaps just the right combination of luck and human destiny. At present, Chandigarh, represents a generous investment of courage and hope, of talent and devoted effort, and it will continue to require such investments. If Chandigarh is ever to become a true city, however, it will be only when its people have given it a history, when it has become free of its planners to acquire a destiny of its own. Ultimately, the people of Chandigarh must achieve the city they deserve.” Both Le Corbusier and Pandit Nehru are no more. The legacy of the city and its proud place in Indian history lives on. If we have to live in it, it has to be as it was conceived. Let us not watch its slow erosion and destruction by builders and brokers who will reduce it to buildings of glass, steel, bricks and stone. anilmalhotra1960@gmail.com (The writer is a Chandigarh-based lawyer and author. Views expressed are personal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-do-not-murder-le-corbusier-s-legacy-101627149564706.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||Toll from floods, landslides in Maharashtra touches 112||At least 112 people have died and 99 others are still missing in Maharashtra, officials said on Saturday after days of heavy rain in the Konkan and Western Maharashtra region triggered flooding and landslides in several districts.Nearly 135,313 people were evacuated from vulnerable areas in nine districts that were hit by landslides and floods on Thursday and Friday, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said.“A total of 112 people have lost their lives due to heavy rains till Saturday morning (in Maharashtra). These include 52 in Raigad, 13 in Satara, four in Mumbai and nearby areas, one in Pune, 21 in Ratnagiri, seven in Kolhapur, 12 in Thane and two in Sindhudurg. 99 people are missing till Saturday morning,” the deputy CM said.Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar, however, put the death toll much higher. “138 deaths have been reported due to floods and other rain-related incidents,” he said, earlier in the day.The toll is likely to increase, with heavy rainfall stalling rescue operations in several areas. Till Saturday evening, a team of the police and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) alone, recovered at least 86 bodies47 in Raigad district’s Taliye village, 28 bodies in Satara district and 11 in Ratnagiri.According to official data, 890 villages in nine districts have been affected since Thursday.The state government “will see no such incidents happen in the future”, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said after a visit to Taliye village in one of the worst-hit Raigad district.“The state government will see no such incidents will happen in future and even if they happen, no human life will be lost in future. In order to achieve this, the state government will have to rehabilitate all the villages located at hillslopes and foothills. The residents of such villages will be resettled at safer places,” Thackeray said after reviewing the ground situation in Taliye.A portion of a hillock flattened most of the Taliye village late on Thursday, burying at least 32 houses. Till Saturday, the landslide claimed 49 lives. At least 50 people are still feared trapped under the debris.The chief minister said the state government will also prepare a water management scheme to reduce the instances of flooding. “We have started working on formulating a water management scheme to overcome the flood situation in the state. It will ensure management of excessive water collected in catchment areas of dams due to heavy rains which often result in floods following discharge from dams,” Thackeray said.Western Maharashtra’s Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli districts, which are among the worst affected by the flooding, also saw massive devastation due to flooding in 2019.Teams of the local administrations and the State Disaster Relief Force, along with NDRF, Coast Guard, Navy and Army, are undertaking rescue operations in the affected areas.The NDRF has enhanced the number of its teams from 26 to 34 for the operations, a spokesperson said Saturday.“In view of the severity of the situation, additional eight NDRF teams have been airlifted from Kolkata and Vadodara base which are being deployed in affected areas of Maharashtra,” the spokesperson said.The force is tracking the India Meteorological Department’s weather forecast and the Central Water Commission’s report with regard to Mumbai and coastal districts of the Konkan region in Maharashtra that are witnessing heavy rainfall since the last few days, the spokesperson said, after residents in several areas complained about the slow pace of the rescue work.Apart from the rescue operations, the administration is struggling to restore water and electricity supply and arrange food and medicines in affected areas.The government is planning to distribute ration kits, including rice, pulses and kerosene in the affected areas, the deputy CM told mediapersons.Pawar also announced a financial assistance of ₹5 lakh each to the kin of the victims, while the Central government has announced ₹2 lakh each.While flood water in many Konkan areas is receding, the discharge of water from dams led to further overflowing of some rivers and rise in flood water levels in many areas of Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara districts, officials said.IMD, meanwhile, has forecast a reduction in rainfall intensity over the next 24 hours. “Further reduction in rainfall intensity is very likely along the west coast, including Konkan, Goa and adjoining interior Maharashtra, during the next 24 hours,” the IMD said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/toll-from-floods-landslides-in-maharashtra-touches-112-101627149172443.html
24-07-2021||Delhi||Cinemas, spas, pools to open with restrictions in Delhi||Multiplexes, swimming pools, spas, auditoriums and entertainment parks will be allowed to open in the national capital from Monday, while the Delhi Metro and public buses will operate with 100% seating capacity, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said on Saturday, effectively relaxing most restrictions after a decline in Covid-19 cases following a deadly fourth wave of infections in the national capital.In an order issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev, DDMA also relaxed the cap on the number of guests at weddings and funerals. Previously, up to 50 people were allowed in weddings, while 20 were permitted in funerals. From Monday, 100 guests will be allowed for both gatherings.Under a lockdown that was imposed on April 20, when the city was well into its fourth wave of infections, a curfew was imposed except for specific activities (such as going to buy groceries and medicines, or for going to a hospital or airports/railway stations). The lockdown restrictions were gradually eased with the decline in infections.Cinema halls, multiplexes, auditoriums and assembly halls will be allowed to run with 50% seating capacity. Swimming pools and entertainment parks have also been allowed, while sports complexes can be opened for members, even as no spectators will be allowed. Religious places will continue to remain prohibited for visitors. Business-to-business exhibitions can also be held from Monday, but such events will be restricted to business visitors only, according to the order.Spas have been allowed to open with a set of guidelines. The order said that all employees, especially the masseuse, should either get both doses of a Covid-19 vaccine or should undergo RT-PCR tests every fortnight. It also said that clients will have to sign an undertaking of being Covid-19-negative. Personal protective equipment (PPE) apart from face shields and masks will have to be worn by the therapist/masseuse if the treatment is of more than 30 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cinemas-spas-pools-to-open-with-restrictions-in-delhi-101627148934999.html
24-07-2021||Other||Odisha gangster killed in police encounter while being shifted to one jail from another||A gangster serving a life sentence in two cases of murder and accused in several other criminal cases, including that of extortion, was killed in police firing while trying to flee on his way to jail on Saturday afternoon, officials said.Sheikh Hyder, 60, serving sentence in a murder case and accused in several other cases, was being shifted to a jail in Baripada town of Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district in a police van from Choudwar circle jail. At around 3.20 pm, he asked the cops to stop as he wanted to use the toilet.“After getting down from the police van at Simulia, he tried to snatch the gun from the sub-inspector and flee. To control the situation, the escort team opened fire on him. One bullet hit him in the stomach and another in the leg. He was then rushed to the district headquarters hospital in Balasore. He succumbed to his bullet injuries in Balasore district headquarters hospital,” said Bhubaneswar-Cuttack police commissioner Soumendra Priyadarshi.Additional district medical officer (ADMO), Balasore district, Mrutyunjay Mishra said Hyder had arrived at the casualty wing of Balasore district headquarter hospital in a critical and ‘gasping condition’. “He died within four to five minutes upon arrival. The post-mortem will make it clear how many bullet injuries did he receive,” he said. The post mortem is likely to be conducted on Sunday.In April this year, Hyder, serving a life sentence in a case of murder, escaped from a government medical college cum hospital in Odisha after drugging the policeman in charge of his security. He was arrested 5 days later from Sangareddy district of Telangana.Accusing the police of staging a fake encounter, Hyder’s wife Haseena said usually during a police encounter a criminal gets bullet injuries in the legs and not on the head or the abdomen.“Police took my husband out of the jail and killed him mid-way claiming that he made escape attempts. The jailor and others were involved in the killing. In Odisha, cops always fire at the knee, not at the heart or the head,” she alleged.Demanding justice for her husband, Haseena said she was not aware of the shifting of her husband from Choudwar jail to Baripada jail. “For 16 years my husband was lodged in jail and every time I cooperated with the police. Even when he escaped from the jail custody in April this year, I fully cooperated with the cops,” she said.Former Odisha DGP Sanjeev Marik demanded a probe into the encounter and questioned the manner in which the criminal was shot. “Was he handcuffed and chained in the waist while being taken to Baripada jail from the Chowudwar jail?” he asked.Hyder was a renowned name in Odisha’s underworld in the late 90s due to his ability to execute crimes. In the 1980s, he started out as a rickshaw puller in Kendrapara town and later worked as a truck driver. He soon got involved in petty thefts and formed a gang with two other criminals Syed Usman Ali alias Tito and Suleiman.In 2005, he became a known name in the underworld after killing Sk Chuna, brother of his friend-turned-foe Suleiman. He was arrested from Nagpur for the murder and was awarded life imprisonment in 2011. However, he got out on parole and with the help of Tito, he got Suleiman, the most educated among the three, shot dead on a road in 2012. Hyder and Tito, however, soon fell out and bayed for each other’s blood.Hyder was again arrested and was later sentenced to life in 2015 over the kidnapping and murder of mines trader Rashmi Ranjan Mahapatra. Though he was in jail, police officials said he was known to plan and execute crimes from inside the jail....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-gangster-killed-in-police-encounter-while-being-shifted-to-one-jail-from-another-101627148657850.html
24-07-2021||Delhi||Automated system to record traffic violations||From next week, traffic violators on the 50km stretch of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) in Uttar Pradesh will not go scot-free as an automated system of capturing them is likely to go online, according to officials aware of the development.The National Highways Authority of India and the Ghaziabad traffic police have begun integrating their systems by which high speed cameras and automatic number plate readers on the expressway will capture instances of traffic violations and will automatically issue challans against the offenders.The system has been installed on both carriageways of the 19.8km phase-2 of the expressway linking UP Gate and Dasna, and the 32km phase-4 linking Dasna and Meerut. The system will capture speeding vehicles, those driving on the wrong side as well as vehicles not allowed on the highway, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/automated-system-to-record-traffic-violations-101627148293511.html
24-07-2021||Gurugram||MCG officials booked in embezzlement case get new roles in civic body||An executive engineer and an assistant engineer of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), booked by the police on Friday for allegedly forging documents to embezzle funds, were given new roles amid an administrative reshuffle on Saturday, a senior official of the civic body said.“The transfers of both the executive and assistant engineers were done as they had been deputed at their respective locations for nearly two to three years. All such officials who have been posted at one location for a long time have been transferred across the MCG to bring greater efficiency in the day to day workings, and approach matters with a fresh perspective,” said Ahuja. On Saturday afternoon, MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja issued an order transferring various officials of the engineering wing for “smooth functioning” of the MCG.As per the order, a copy of which is with Hindustan Times, the executive engineer was given charge of MCG wards 29, 26, 25 and 27, and areas falling under the newly extended municipal area, between Sector 58 and Sector 70A. The assistant engineer, meanwhile, was given charge of electrical works in MCG’s Zone 1 and Zone 3.The two engineers, along with another executive engineer, junior engineer and three contractors, are alleged to have forged the signatures of councillors and issued fake work-satisfactory certificates in November last year.The Haryana Urban Local Bodies (ULB) and state home minister, Anil Vij, during a surprise visit to MCG’s Sector 34 office on Thursday, took cognisance of the issue and recommended registering an FIR against the four MCG officials and three contractors.On Friday, based on a complaint from MCG chief engineer TL Sharma, an FIR was registered against the four MCG officials and three contractors for criminal conspiracy, breach of trust by public servant, forgery, forgery of valuable security, forgery for purpose of cheating, using forged document and attempting to commit offences, under sections 120B, 409, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 511 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sadar police station.“Based on the directions of the Haryana government, an FIR was registered against the violators. Until the Haryana government gives any further order stating that the officials have to be suspended or terminated, they will continue to fulfil their duties in the MCG,” the senior MCG official cited above said, requesting anonymity.The MCG’s engineering wing is divided into eight zones. The four MCG officials were deputed in MCG’s zones 4 and 7 at the time of the alleged misappropriation of funds.Once a localised project is completed, the MCG’s engineering wing needs a work-satisfactory certificate from the local ward councillor, based on which project payments are made to the contractor concerned for completing the job.In November last year, at least 12 fake certificates came to light, which bore forged signatures of at least 10 councillors, based on which payments were made by the four MCG officials to the three contractors for projects such as road and drain repairs, and laying new sewerage lines.The projects in question were either not started or at a nascent stage but payments were made in excess of the work done, which violates the MCG’s norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-officials-booked-in-embezzlement-case-get-new-roles-in-civic-body-101627148417483.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra likely to breach 200,000 mark in this month; Covid tally reaches 194,218||Maharashtra reached close to 200,000 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 days. The state on Saturday recorded 6,269 fresh infections pushing the count to 6,258,079. The tally of active cases reduced to 93,479 as 7,332 recoveries were reported in the last 24 hours. The state saw 224 casualties. To date, the state has reported 194,218 cases and by Sunday it may breach the 200,000 mark of cases this month. The daily cases in the state have slightly reduced as it has started reporting between 6,000 to 8,000 cases from this week. On Thursday, 6,753 cases and 167 casualties were reported. Last month, it clocked a total of 316,283 cases.Experts are of the view, the state administration should not let down the guard until there is a significant drop in daily cases, as the drop in daily cases is very slow in the second wave.Between June 14 and July 18, the state was reporting 8,000 to 10,000 cases a day, except a few days when less than 8,000 cases were reported.“We are incredibly slow in terms of decline in daily cases this time. Covid cases are reducing and it is an encouraging thing but we are still not near normal. We will have to keep up with our vigil until the cases come down significantly. Maharashtra has beaten up the period for the decline in cases compared to other states. Where cases have significantly reduced in other states, the process is still going on in the state,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state task force and director, critical care, Fortis Hospital, Mulund.This is despite the state government imposing stricter norms by reducing the five-level relaxation plan to three after cases of Delta-plus variants were found last month. The first two levels having maximum relaxations were removed till further order, according to a notification issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte on June 25. But daily cases are reducing at a very slow pace.On Saturday, Mumbai clocked 410 cases and reported a total 733,754 cases to date. It also recorded nine fatalities taking the toll of 15,827.In the last 24 hours, the state tested 198,088 samples and had a positivity rate of 3.16%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 13.42%, according to the data issued by the state health department.Maharashtra reached close to 200,000 cases in the last 24 days.It has also vaccinated 338,348 doses on Saturday, according to the data available on Co-WIN portal. In the last over six months, 41,199,192 doses have been administered in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-likely-to-breach-200-000-mark-in-this-month-covid-tally-reaches-194218-101627148235968.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 16-year-old raises ₹2 lakhs to vaccinate transgender community||Sia Sehgal, a 16-year-old student from Hill Springs International School, Tardeo, has become the first teenage donor recorded with Maharashtra District AIDS Control Society (MDACS) to procure and donate Covishield vials for the mass immunisation programme for members of the transgender community. On Saturday, 120 members were administered their first jab at the free vaccination drive, for which, the teenager raised ₹2 lakhs. Sehgal took up the initiative on getting to know that many members of the community are shying away from vaccination due to lack of awareness and stigmatisation. “Since I wanted to help the community, I contacted the heads of the transgender community and sensitised them about the need for vaccination through Zoom video calls. When they agreed to get vaccinated, I contacted different organisations like InHarmony, Triveni Samaj Vikas Kendra and I-TECH who helped me raise the fund for procuring the vials and organising the camp,” said Sehgal who raised ₹2 lakhs within the last two weeks and bought the vaccines from HCG-ICS Khubchandani Cancer Centre. On Saturday, I-TECH along with MDACS organised a vaccination camp for transgenders at Triveni Samaj, Malwani, Malad. “She is the first teenage donor who helped to vaccinate transgenders. We organised the camp to facilitate the vaccination. It is quite inspiring how she raised the money and helped in the free vaccination,” said Santosh Suryavanshi, technical specialist from I-TECH India that works in association with MDACS. Sehgal plans to organise another vaccination camp for the beneficiaries for their second dose. “Many transgenders claim that they face stigma which discourages them from getting vaccinated. Considering they are a vulnerable group of the population, it is our responsibility to ensure that they are fully vaccinated,” she said.In fact, on Saturday, many transgenders were sceptical about the efficiency of the vaccination. Sia had to counsel and explain the benefits of being inoculated.“Taking one step at a time, I am hoping to encourage many more members of the transgender community to come forward and safeguard themselves. I feel fortunate to be heard and helped to make this drive a success,” she added.Sharing her experience, Varshabhai Dhokalia, a transgender from Khar, said when she went to BKC jumbo centre in June to take her first dose, she faced discomfort due to continuous stigmatisation from fellow beneficiaries.“We are always being mocked. While I was standing in the queue for the shot, people were staring and laughing at me. Someone even passed a comment that the vaccination was only for males and females,” said Dhokalia. “This discourages us from going to these centres for vaccination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-16-year-old-raises-2-lakhs-to-vaccinate-transgender-community-101627148175963.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||MMRDA, Cidco to hand over 519ha of mangroves to Maharashtra govt||Just two days before World Mangroves Day on July 26, the state forest department’s mangrove cell announced the imminent handover of 519 hectares of mangrove land by the City Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) for declaration as ‘reserve forest’ under the Indian Forest Act, 1927, pursuant to long-pending directions of the Bombay high court (HC). HC in September 2018, responding to public interest litigation (PIL) by the Bombay Environment Action Group, had ordered that mangrove lands under various government bodies be transferred to the forest department for safekeeping.An independent state-level committee comprising the additional chief secretary, revenue, principal secretary, environment department, and forest secretary (which is mandated by the HC to oversee the Konkan divisional commissioner’s compliance with its orders) met on July 13 this month in the presence of secretaries (urban development departments I and II) and representatives of Cidco and MMRDA. The Konkan divisional commissioner is also the head of a separate mangrove committee comprising independent members. “Cidco has agreed to hand over 219 hectares of mangroves in Panvel and Kamothe, Raigad district, through the collector’s office. The transfer will happen soon. The MMRDA confirmed that it has 300 acres that need to come under protection, mostly in Mumbai suburban district. The specifics of the transfer are being discussed,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF), mangrove cell, speaking at a webinar organised by NGO NatConnect Foundation. A Cidco official said their transfer is likely to happen in the next week itself.According to a fresh PIL filed by NGO Vanashakti earlier this year after public authorities failed to comply with the HC order, there were about 1,500 hectares of mangroves that had to be transferred to the state government. The Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC), which also comes under the charge of state environment minister Aadtiya Thackeray, was the first to comply with the HC’s directions in April this year by handing over 466.72 acres of mangroves Manori and Gorai creeks. This area has been brought under the ambit of Section 20 of the IFS (1927) after all private claims over the land were resolved by a settlement officer. Earlier in June, another 1,036 hectares of mangroves were transferred to the state government in Thane taluka and Mira-Bhayander in Thane district after being notified as a reserve forest in January 2021. APCCF Tiwari confirmed that there are yet another 100 acres in Thane whose “handover is under process”.The only public authority, to which the HC’s instructions apply and which does not come under the state’s administrative control, is the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT), which has to technically hand over 916 hectares of mangroves at the time of the BEAG PIL’s first interim order in 2005. “JNPT has not yet made any commitment on how many mangroves they will be handing over and when” Tiwari confirmed. Instead of transferring the same 916 hectares land to the mangrove cell, JNPT in a recent affidavit denied any non-compliance with the HC’s instructions and said that the Maharashtra Remote Application Centre (MRSAC) for a fresh demarcation of its mangrove area, which would be transferred after the assessment. BN Kumar, founder, NGO NatConnect, said, “While it is a positive step, Cidco and MMRDA have conducted their assessment of mangroves which has been accepted by the state. Once demarcated, the identified mangroves will simply be handed over. There should be a separate independent assessment to make sure there are no discrepancies in what the authorities are claiming.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mmrda-cidco-to-hand-over-519ha-of-mangroves-to-maharashtra-govt-101627148115957.html
24-07-2021||Delhi||Partition museum opening pushed to 2022 R-Day as Covid halts work||The inauguration of the first Partition museum in Delhi, which was slated for Independence Day this year, has been pushed to Republic Day next year as the Covid-19 crisis halted on-site work between April and July, said officials.The Arts and Cultural Heritage Trust (TACHT), which set up a similar museum in Amritsar in 2017 and is managing the Delhi project, resumed work on setting up the museum earlier this month at the Dara Shikoh Library Building in Kashmere Gate, inside the Ambedkar University campus.“We started on-site work around two weeks ago. At present, we have started the carpentry work to get the rooms ready for the museum installation along with working on curation and other areas. Due to the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, even the restoration work in the building allotted for the museum came to a halt due to a shortage of labourers and other factors. We were only handed the museum in the second week of July,” said Kishwar Desai, chair at TACHT.“If there is no third wave, we should have the Partition museum ready by early January, in time for Republic Day. It is challenging as we have to maintain all Covid-appropriate protocols, including wearing masks and ensuring physical distancing. We are also trying to ensure that our workers are vaccinated on time,” she said.The museum is likely to have 10 galleries that house around 200 artefacts, including letters, certificates, clothes, utensils and photographs that belong to those who migrated to Delhi from across the border during the 1947 India-Pakistan partition.The site will also be developed as a cultural hub, with three museums related to the history of Delhi and the changes brought about by big events and key individuals.The first one — the Partition museum — is expected to be ready in January next year. A second museum on Mughal prince Dara Shikoh, and a third on medieval and ancient antiquities from the Delhi state archaeology department, will come up later.“Our curation work is almost done. Acquiring a few artifacts got held up because people had to send it from different cities and the lockdown made it difficult. But we are now in the process of getting them as the Covid-19 situation looks better,” Desai said.The trust is also collaborating with Ambedkar University’s Centre for Community Knowledge which will provide some of the narratives and oral histories for the museum.From a century-old land deed scripted in Urdu, including information on a piece of land in Jhang, Pakistan, to a wedding card from 1947, TACHT has also collected various basics that people managed to bring with them, such as clothes, utensils, letters, documents, photographs and certificates, while hurriedly trying to cross the border during the Partition, which left two million people dead and displaced another 10 to 20 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/partition-museum-opening-pushed-to-2022-r-day-as-covid-halts-work-101627147987609.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Restoration work on, train services may resume from Monday||After the torrential rains hit Maharashtra on Thursday, causing severe damage to railway lines operating towards the city, the train services will now resume by Monday.Restoration work is in the advanced stages on railway lines near Khopoli railway station in the Raigad district. The local train services between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Khopoli are expected to resume on Sunday.The zonal railway authorities are also working to restore complete railway lines in the Bhor ghat between Ambernath and Kasara railway sections.Restoration work is expected to be completed by Monday.“Work is going on in advance stages to restore railway lines near Khopoli and on the Bhor ghat and near Kasara railway station. We aim to complete the work by Monday.” said a senior Central Railway official.Nine outstation trains were cancelled and four trains were diverted by the Central Railway due to overflowing of Panchganga river and crossing the danger mark between the Kolhapur and Miraj railway sections and restoration work on the ghat section of the Central Railway on Saturday.Owing to the rainfall on Thursday, disruptions in rail traffic were found on 21 locations of the Central Railways due to waterlogging on railway tracks, washing out of tracks, damage on the overhead equipment (OHE), boulders falling and rivers flowing over danger levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-restoration-work-on-train-services-may-resume-from-monday-101627148055947.html
24-07-2021||Other||TDRF team carries out rescue work at Taliye village||A team of 13 personnel from the Thane Disaster Response Force (TDRF), an emergency response organisation formed on the lines of the National Disaster Rescue Force (NDRF), has been sent to the landslide-affected Taliye village in Mahad. By Saturday evening, the TDRF team had pulled out a total of eight dead bodies from underneath the debris. The deceased included three minors, including a seven month old baby boy. At least 42 people have died so far and 40 others are missing after a portion of a hillock came crashing down and buried 32 houses in the village. The NDRF has sent several teams to Taliye and search and rescue operations are currently under way.The TDRF is a squad of 33 personnel working under the purview of the Thane Municipal Corporation to respond to emergencies in the Thane district and nearby areas. TMC officials said that the team of 13 personnel, including 12 rescue workers and a driver left in a minibus along with Thane Guardian Minister, Eknath Shinde, and Mayor Naresh Mhaske on Friday afternoon.“The TDRF team reached Mahad at around 11pm on Friday and began their work early on Saturday morning. They have pulled out three dead bodies from under the rubble so far” Santosh Kadam, head of the TMC’s Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC), said.Kadam added that the decision to send only 13 personnel was taken because some manpower was needed on standby in Thane in case of any emergencies as Thane, too, has been lashed by incessant rain for the last few days.Meanwhile, the TDRF team has several challenges to contend with. “There is no network at the site of the disaster, and hence, communication with the team is not continuous. Every once in a while, one of them has to come out of the village to find a network so that they can send updates to us. Besides, the sun has come out after several days of rain, which means the mud will start hardening even as the team is working,” Kadam said.He added that the team will stay in Mahad for as long as it is deemed necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tdrf-team-carries-out-rescue-work-at-taliye-village-101627147996648.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||Mhada to construct houses for victims of Taliye village||State housing minister Jitendra Awhad on Saturday announced that Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) will construct prefabricated houses for the victims of Taliye village and rehabilitate them. A landslide on Taliye village of Raigad district wiped out 35 homes killing over 38 people, with many trapped under. The minister said that Mhada will survey for a preferable location to built the new homes. Awhad, in a tweet, said, “Announcing that Mhada, a part of housing ministry, will take up complete responsibility for rebuilding & resettlement of Taliye village in Mahad taluka of Raigad district. Honourable CM Uddhav Thackeray & Honourable Sharad Pawar have tasked me to do this.” He also posted models of the proposed homes to be built.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mhada-to-construct-houses-for-victims-of-taliye-village-101627147996003.html
24-07-2021||Delhi||LG gives Delhi top cop NSA detention powers||Lieutenant Governor (LG) Anil Baijal has issued a notification granting the newly appointed Delhi Police commissioner Balaji Srivastava powers to make detentions under the National Security Act (NSA), a move that senior officials said was routine and periodic. The notification, issued on Thursday, authorises the police chief to exercise the powers from July 19 till October 18 this year.“The Delhi Police commissioner may also exercise the powers of detaining authority under sub-section (2) of the section 3 of the aforesaid Act,” said the notification.Senior state officials and police officers said the notification is part of routine procedure followed whenever a new police chief is appointed in the Capital. Since the Code of Criminal Procedure doesn’t provide magisterial powers (of a detaining authority) to the police commissioner under the NSA, the LG, who is the competent authority, issues a notification to grant those powers to the police chief, said officials.Shrivastava took the reins after his predecessor SN Shrivastava retired on June 30 this year.“The Delhi Police sent the file, which was cleared by the state home department and then the LG’s office in no time. It is a routine matter. This keeps getting renewed through a notification every three to six months,” said a state government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lg-gives-delhi-top-cop-nsa-detention-powers-101627147844125.html
24-07-2021||Jaipur||Cong-ruled Rajasthan Cabinet expansion likely next week: Report||The Congress-ruled Rajasthan is likely to see Cabinet expansion and political appointments next week, party sources said on Saturday.The sources said AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal and All India Congress Committee general secretary in charge for Rajasthan are arriving here on Saturday night to hold a discussion with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot over Cabinet reshuffle, appointment of district heads of the party organisation and other political appointments."Both the leaders are arriving in Jaipur tonight by road," they said.Venugopal is also a Rajya Sabha MP from Rajasthan.The meeting of both the leaders with Gehlot is likely to be held at the chief minister's residence late at night.After Punjab, the party high command has shifted its focus to Rajasthan, where demands for Cabinet expansion and political appointments gained momentum after reports of resentment in the camp led by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who along with 18 MLAs had rebelled against the leadership of Gehlot last year. A couple of days ago, Pilot had indicated that the Congress would take suitable steps soon to address issues raised by him.He had said that he is in touch with the party high command over the issues raised by him and hoped that the required steps would be taken soon.Pilot was sacked as the deputy chief minister and Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief in July last year after he rebelled against the leadership of Gehlot after one-month-long political crisis, the party high command announced to form a three-member committee to look into the issues raised by him.Last month, MLAs from Pilot camp said that the party should fulfil the promises made to Pilot last month, following which the demand for Cabinet expansion and political appointments gained momentum.At present, there are 21 members in the council of ministers, including chief minister, and nine slots are vacant.Rajasthan can have a maximum of 30 ministers. PTI SDA KJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/congruled-rajasthan-cabinet-expansion-likely-next-week-report-101627146019280.html
24-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi records zero Covid-19 deaths, second time within 1 week||Delhi on Saturday recorded zero deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19), second time since the onset of the second wave. The Capital reported 66 fresh cases while the positivity rate stood at 0.09% according to data released by the Delhi government. Delhi conducted 76,308 tests in the last 24 hours.Delhi recorded zero deaths on July 18. The city recorded 51 cases on that day. Before the second wave, the city reported zero deaths on March 2. With 66 fresh cases, Delhi has recorded over 1.43 million cases. The death toll in the city stood at 25,041. The case fatality rate stood at 1.74%. Delhi currently has 587 active cases.Delhi has vaccinated 36,184 people in the last 24 hours. At least 15,730 people received their first dose while 20, 454 people received their second dose. At least 9.58 million people have been vaccinated so far out of which 7.25 million people have received their first dose and 2.33 million people have received both doses.Owing to the reduction in the number of new cases, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority issued orders allowing cinemas, theatres and multiplexes to reopen with 50% capacity starting from Monday. It has also allowed Delhi metro to operate at 100% capacity. DTC and cluster buses can also operate with 100% capacity. Weddings and funerals can now have 100 people and restaurants are allowed upto 50% seating capacity from 8 am to 10 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-zero-covid-19-deaths-second-time-within-1-week-101627144447486.html
24-07-2021||Pune||60-year-old duped of ₹11 lakh by person posing as stock broker||PUNE: A 60-year-old man was duped of ₹11 lakh by callers who claimed to be stockbrokers in Pune. The 60-year-old is a resident of Quarter Gate area of Nana Peth in Pune. He received a text message about a trading company called Excellencia Options Online Trading Company and later WhatsApp conversations from one of the alleged executives. Through multiple transactions, he paid ₹11,24,434 in the name of stock investment, according to his complaint. The man was led to believe that his investment has yielded ₹35 lakh in returns and the company sent text messages mentioning the same to him. Three times, the company paid him ₹1,12,620. However, it stopped after some time. The man then lodged a police complaint, A case under Sections 406 (Criminal breach of trust), 419 (personation), 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(C) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Samarth police station. Inspector (crime) Ulhas Kadam of Samarth police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/60yearold-duped-of-rs-11-lakh-by-person-posing-as-stock-broker-101627144575629.html
24-07-2021||Patna||73% develop antibodies against Covid-19, Bihar inches closer to herd immunity||Bihar could be close to a herd immunity threshold against Covid-19 as 73% of the population has reported a prevalence of antibodies against the virus either from past infection or through vaccination, officials said. Herd immunity means enough people have gained immunity against a disease to block most transmission. “A seropositivity of 73% is a good sign for Bihar. This means that only 27% people are now susceptible to contracting the virus of which some may become serious during the anticipated third wave of the pandemic,” said vice-president of the Indian Association of Public Health, Dr CM Singh, also professor and head, community and family medicine at AIIMS-Patna, and its medical superintendent. “A seropositivity of over 70%-80% helps to develop herd immunity. However, since the virus is mutating very fast, there is a possibility of people getting re-infected and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour has to be followed. In case of re-infection, the symptoms will be mild in the 73% population, who have already developed antibody either by contracting the virus earlier or through vaccination,” added Dr Singh. Buxar reported the highest seropositivity of 83.8%, followed by Madhubani 77.1%, Arwal 73.7%, Begusarai 72.7%, Muzaffarpur 65.3% and Purnia 65% in Bihar’s six districts sampled among 70 across 21 states in India by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) during the fourth serological survey between June 14 and July 6. Bihar reported higher seropositivity as compared to the national average of 67.6%. As many as 335 of the 400 general population sampled in 10 clusters of Buxar were found to have been infected from coronavirus at some stage. Buxar shot into the limelight when 82 corpses, floating in river Ganga, were fished out in May, during the peak of the second wave of the pandemic. The National Human Rights Commission had taken cognizance of it and issued notice to the Centre and the governments of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, seeking an action-taken report. On May 17, the Patna high court (HC) flagged inconsistency in death figures related to Buxar mentioned in separate affidavits filed by the state’s chief secretary and the Patna divisional commissioner. This forced the state government to undertake a verification of deaths which culminated in the state reporting a 73% spike in Covid-19 deaths as its death count went up by 3,951 post-verifications. The state’s cumulative Covid-19 toll jumped to 9,375 on June 8, as against 5,424 reported a day earlier. The state’s Covid-19 death toll was 9,635 on Friday.Similarly, 327 of the 424 samples tested positive in Madhubani; 303 of the 411 samples were positive in Arwal, 303 of the 417 tested in Begusarai were positive; 264 of the 404 samples tested positive in Muzaffarpur while 265 of the 408 samples tested positive in Purnia. Muzaffarpur reported 0% seroprevalence during the first serological survey in May last year. Buxar then reported 1.25%, followed by 1% each in Arwal and Madhubani, Purnia 0.75% and Begusarai 0.25%. Arwal reported the highest seroprevalence of 26.20% during the third survey in December. Buxar was next with 26.07%, followed by Madhubani 24.5%, Muzaffarpur 21.70%, Purnia 21.01% and Begusarai 15.01%. The state’s cumulative seropositivity was 0.7% during the first survey undertaken between May 17 and 20 last year. This meant that only 17 out of the 2,400 people surveyed developed antibodies (immunity) against SARS-CoV-2, said an epidemiologist. The seropositivity rate in Bihar increased to 7% during the second survey between August 21 and 26 and went up to 22.41% against the national average of 24% during the third survey between December 20 and 25. ICMR director-general and secretary to the government of India, Professor Balram Bhargava, shared the findings of the fourth serological survey with Bihar’s additional chief secretary, health, Pratyaya Amrit on Friday. Around 3,000 blood samples were collected from the six districts and sent to the National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai. The survey, conducted in the state between June 20 and 25, was to ascertain the prevalence of antibodies, called seroprevalence or seropositivity, against SARS-CoV-2. State health officials, including those in the State Health Society, which looks after the integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP) under the National Health Mission, chose not to respond to phone calls or text messages. Officials at the ICMR’s Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS), Patna, were also mum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/73-develop-antibodies-against-covid-19-bihar-inches-closer-to-herd-immunity-101627143977697.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana extends Covid-19 lockdown till August 2; night curfew to continue||The Haryana government announced on Saturday that a statewide lockdown, which was imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), is being extended by one more week, till August 2, according to news agency ANI. The State Disaster Management Authority (HSDMA), which issued the notification announcing the extension of the lockdown, also announced modifications to relaxations announced in earlier orders. It added that some previous relaxations, too, will continue to be in force.Haryana government issues order to extend lockdown till August 2, with some relaxations in the state pic.twitter.com/MHQIGsZmCKPreviously, the lockdown was extended till July 26. The latest extension will come into effect at 5am on Monday, and will conclude at 5am on August 2. Also, the duration of the night curfew will continue to be from 11pm to 5am on all days of the week, carrying forward from the previous order. Here are modifications announced to relaxations from previous orders:(1.) Restaurants in malls to open from 10am to 11pm, while standalone restaurants to open from 8am to 11pm. Timings not applicable to restaurants in hotels. 50% seating capacity to be followed along with all other Covid-19 norms. Home delivery from restaurants, hotels and food joints allowed till 11pm.(2.) All entrance examinations to be conducted in accordance with the "Revised SOP issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, GOI, dated 10.09.2020, regarding preventive measures to contain the spread of Covid-19," along with guidelines issued by the Centre/state governments/departments from time to time.Some earlier relaxations which will continue:(1.) All shops to open from 9am to 8pm while malls to open from 10am to 8pm.(2.) Bars (in hotels and malls) to open from 10am to 11pm at 50% seating capacity.(3.) Gyms to function between 6am to 9pm at 50% capacity while club houses/bars/restaurants in golf courses to open from 10am to 11pm with 50% seating capacity.(4.) A maximum of 100 people allowed in gatherings like weddings and funeral/last rites, while 200 people allowed to gather under open space.(5.) Spas to function from 6am to 8pm at 50% capacity while swimming pools to open only for athletes competing in or practicing for a competitive event.(6.) Standalone cinema halls, as well as those in malls, to open at half of their seating capacity.(7.) Religious places to open with 50 people allowed at one time in accordance with social distancing norms.(8.) Corporate offices permitted to open with full attendance, while all production units, establishments and industries also allowed to function.The lockdown was first declared on May 3 and was to end on May 10. However, since then, it has witnessed several extensions on a weekly basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-august-2-night-curfew-to-continue-101627136883530.html
24-07-2021||Pune||Pune civic chief seeks nod for fund allocation for shifting of utility lines||PUNE: Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar has asked permission to transfer Rs7.48 crore for shifting drainage lines between Navale bridge and Katraj chowk. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is carrying out road widening work and increasing one lane at both sides of the stretch that will ease traffic coming from Ambegaon and other areas. Though considered a bypass, the road has seen a rise in vehicular count over the years. Though union minister Nitin Gadkari approved funds for the plan, PMC has been requested to bear the cost of line shifting. With in-principle approval from the civic body, the municipal commissioner officially placed the proposal before the standing committee and requested to transfer money from the budgetary allocation for merged villages. The standing committee will make a decision on it in the next week. The work of shifting lines on this stretch is already in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-civic-chief-seeks-nod-for-fund-allocation-for-shifting-of-utility-lines-101627143675461.html
24-07-2021||Pune||Plan to relocate people living in hilly areas in view of landslides: Thackeray||Taliye (Raigad district): Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said that in view of the incidents of landslide, the state government would come up with a plan to permanently relocate people living in hilly areas and rehabilitate them at safe places. According to Thackeray, who visited the landslide-affected Taliye village in Raigad district, said a comprehensive plan is being worked out to people living in risky terrain to safe places. He said that a policy would be formulated for management of water as parts of the state, especially the western Maharashtra region, witnesses floods during monsoon due to rise in river water levels. “Instructions have been given to officials to prepare a detailed rehabilitation plan for such vulnerable populations across the state in view of such incidents of landslide which have now become frequent phenomenon,” Thackeray said, while addressing mediapersons on Saturday. Thackeray said flooding is witnessed in western Maharashtra during monsoon due to rise in water level of rivers. Hence, a policy would be formulated for management of water in this region. He said his government will expedite the process of rehabilitation and compensation of the flood-affected people. Ratnagiri and Raigad districts bore the maximum brunt of the rain fury and the resulting floods. On being asked about assistance from the central government, he said, “We are getting all the help from the Centre. The army, the navy and the air force are helping the state government in carrying out the rescue operations,” he said. The CM along with his cabinet colleagues Eknath Shinde, Anil Parab, Aditi Tatkare and chief secretary Sitaram Kunte visited Taliye and inspected landslide hit area. When asked about the delay in relief, the chief minister said that all rescuers have reached the locations and started the work. “However, there may be a few places where they reached late or other equipment could not reach because of difficulties due to rain and difficult terrain,” he said. Several relatives of the missing persons complained to the CM about delay in rescue and relief operations. Thackeray said, “We are with you in this time of grief and will take care of everything”. The CM announced ₹5 lakh compensation each for the kin of those who lost their lives in the landslides caused by torrential rainfall. The state will also incur the costs of treatment for those injured, he added. A day before the CM’s visit, PM Narendra Modi had a telephonic discussion with CM Thackeray and tweeted, “Anguished by the loss of lives due to a landslide in Raigad, Maharashtra. My condolences to the bereaved families. I wish the injured a speedy recovery. The situation in Maharashtra due to heavy rains is being closely monitored and assistance is being provided to the affected,” it added. Till the time of filing this report, 44 victims have been dug out of the wet marsh in the village and around 80 persons were still missing according to information shared by the district administration. The chief minister assured all assistance to the victims and relatives of those who lost their lives during floods. “You will be taken care of. Don’t worry,” he told the villagers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/plan-to-relocate-people-living-in-hilly-areas-in-view-of-landslides-thackeray-101627142895444.html
24-07-2021||Pune||Milk supply to Mumbai and Pune hit as Kolhapur, Sangli affected by floods||Pune: Heavy rains for the past three days have resulted in most rivers crossing danger mark levels in Maharashtra’s Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara, affecting milk collection by dairies. The Gokul cooperatives has announced it will not be able to supply milk to Mumbai and Pune on Saturday while smaller dairies have also stopped milk collection from farmers. Vishawas Patil, chairman, Kolhapur Zilla Sahakari Dudh Utpadak Sangh Limited, which owns Gokul, said they have decided not to supply to Mumbai, which is the largest market for the brand. “The [milk] collection has largely been affected on Thursday and Friday due to downpour in western Maharashtra and Konkan. Against the daily collection of 1.3 million litres, we could collect about 250,000 litres on Friday. It dropped by 76,000 on Thursday,” he said and added that “many highways heading to Mumbai are shut as heavy rainfall continued on Friday as well.” Patil said milk supply to Mumbai market will resume as soon as possible. In the past 24 hours ending Saturday morning, Kolhapur received 181mm of rainfall while Satara recorded 172mm. “Both of these places broke the all-time record of highest 24hrs rain in July. Pune, too, with 80mm rainfall, has received the highest 24hrs rainfall after 2014,” said Vineet Kumar, researcher at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Pune. An official from the Kolhapur district disaster management cell said the Panchganga river’s water level is currently at 55 feet at Rajaram weir. A total of 114 bunds have gone under water, he added. The district administration said on Thursday as many as 47 villages in Kolhapur were cut off after roads were submerged due to heavy rains and 965 families were shifted to safer places. Two persons, including a woman, swept away at different places in the district during the downpour. In Sangli, as many as 36,000 people were evacuated after Krishna river touched the danger mark of 45-foot at Irwin bridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/milk-supply-to-mumbai-and-pune-hit-as-kolhapur-sangli-affected-by-floods-101627142415375.html
24-07-2021||Other||JMM, Cong say BJP out to pull down govt||RANCHIThe ruling JMM-Congress combine in Jharkhand on Saturday accused the BJP of trying to destabilise the Hemant Soren-led government after three persons were arrested by Ranchi police allegedly with illegal cash. According to the Ranchi police, they filed an FIR with Kotwali police station on complaint of Congress legislator Anup Singh under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and section 171 (B) of Representation of People’s Act and under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The three arrested were identified as Abhishek Dubey, Amit Singh and Niwaran Mahto. “The three have confessed they were involved in trying to pull down the government and that they were in touch with political leaders. Police are trying to establish identity of all involved in the case,” Ranchi police said in a statement.Sources said police have recovered ₹2 lakh in cash from the accused.JMM principal general secretary and spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharya said the incident was related to continued efforts by the BJP to destabilise the Hemant Soren government. “The pattern is similar to what BJP tried to do in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan,” he told reporters.Jharkhand Congress working president Rajesh Thakur said, “Jharkhand BJP leaders have repeatedly made statements that they would change the government in the state. However, the Jharkhand police have done a good job in exposing them.” BJP said it was a fabricated case and demanded a CBI inquiry. “Their own MLAs are rebelling against the government. The case has been cooked up to give them a message. We demand a CBI probe in the incident,” said Jharkhand BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jmm-cong-say-bjp-out-to-pull-down-govt-101627142115378.html
24-07-2021||Pune||Govt to address demand of villagers in landslide-prone areas of Pune district for relocation: Pawar||Pune: As the rescue operation is still being carried out in Raigad and Satara districts after the deadly landslide incidents, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that some villagers of Pune district living in landslide-prone areas are demanding relocation. According to the district records, there are 23 villages in Pune district which come under landslide-prone areas. Pawar said such villages can be relocated just like the rehabilitation is done after the construction of dams. Pawar claimed that the Taliye village in Raigad district where almost 40 houses were buried under the soil on Thursday evening, was not in the landslide-prone area. Pawar said the locals in landslide prone areas were warned in advance and some were shifted to safe place. “Nine districts are heavily suffering from heavy rainfall. They are Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli, Raigad, Thane, Mumbai, Pune, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg. I would like to tell the people that Taliye in Raigad district was not in an area which was prone to landslides. People who were living in landslide prone areas were alerted by the Raigad district administration and some were shifted to the safe locations.” “District officials have informed me that some villages are demanding to be relocated. Earlier, when they were asked about this, locals were unwilling and gave reasons that their farms are nearby. But now they are thinking about safety as the incidents of landslides are coming into light. Such villages can be rehabilitated on new lands just like the procedure is done after the construction of dams. The state government is ready for that,” Pawar said at a press meet in Pune on Saturday. After heavy rains on July 22 and July 23, 420 villages in Pune districts have been affected. The incidents of landslides on roads were recorded in villages in hilly parts in Bhor, Maval and Mulshi tehsils. Pawar said the villages in risk can be rehabilitated like Malin was reset after the tragic landslide incident a few years ago. “In Raigad district, around a thousand people have been relocated,” said Pawar. State administration informed that by Saturday morning almost 90,000 people from the worst-affected 9 districts had been relocated. Most numbers are from Kolhapur and Sangli districts. According to Pawar, the flood situation in Kolhapur and Sangli remained a concern as the Panchganga and Krishna rivers were flowing above the warning levels. Kolhapur partially submerged, floodwater flows 5-ft above Mumbai-Bengaluru highway The state administration has evacuated 90,000 people from the worst-affected nine districts and relocated them to safety. Most numbers are from Kolhapur and Sangli districts. According to Ajit Pawar, the flood situation in Kolhapur and Sangli remained a concern as the Panchganga and Krishna rivers were flowing above the warning levels. “Warning level in Sangli is at 45, but the water level is at 49. In Kolhapur, the warning level is at 43, but the water level is at 53. Water is being discharged from Koyna dam. We have requested the Karnataka government to release water from the Almatti dam, so the swollen rivers could return to normal. They are doing it. 40,882 people in Kolhapur district and 42,573 from Sangli district have been shifted to safe places,” said Pawar. Pawar assured that the government would give financial aid in the flood-hit areas after the punchnama is completed. Pawar said the flood situation in Kolhapur and Sangli remain a matter of concern as the rivers in these districts have crossed danger mark and water from the dams in Krishna banks has to be released because of the excessive rains in the free catchment areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/govt-to-address-demand-of-villagers-in-landslide-prone-areas-of-pune-district-for-relocation-pawar-101627142055305.html
24-07-2021||Pune||Bad weather hit rescue operations in Maha||Taliye (Raigad): The hope of finding survivors in Maharashtra’s Taliye, and Satara’s Mirgaon, Dhokawale and Ambheghar is fading away as heavy rainfall continued to stall rescue operations for the third consecutive day. Till Saturday evening, a joint team of residents, the police and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) recovered at least 71 bodies — 47 in Taliye, 13 in Satara and 11 in Ratnagiri, while around 56 people still missing. Satara district collector Shekhar Singh said heavy rain and high flow of water gushing through nearby hills have hampered rescue operations. In Taliye, a local resident said loose mud, bad weather and difficult terrain have prevented NDRF’s efforts to resuming digging for search and rescue. At Taliye, Sandhya Malusare, who lost her mother, father, and six other relatives, said she survived since she lives in a neighbouring village. “This is the biggest tragedy of my life and I have lost many of my family members... the administration is very slow in carrying out the rescue and search operations.” Mahendra Pol, a local resident, said people do not have the wherewithal to carry out evacuation, search and rescue operations. “Fortunately, my family members were saved...but others were unlucky. Yesterday (Friday) and the day before (Thursday), there was a slow rescue process while today (Saturday) it has not even started properly.” The locals said they have been left to fend for themselves. “Even police are helpless, and many villagers are missing. The government is not sensitive. Police are not visiting the spot. The rescue operation has been delayed. Whatever bodies have been recovered was due to the efforts of locals,” said a resident. The NDRF said they were facing issues related to access and logistics. “...three teams of 25 persons are carrying out search operations. ...the area is waterlogged and very remote. Approach and access to the village are tough and difficult. It is a mud hillock and since we are working, there is a risk of the mudslide. So, we are working very carefully to avoid another tragedy,” said NDRF commandant Anupam Shrivastava. Collector Nidhi Choudhari said the additional collector, three tehsildars and NDRF is carrying out operations at the spot. “It involves a tough terrain as it (the village) is surrounded by valleys from both sides. The road to the village was washed away. It is nature’s fury and unimaginable for us. There were access issues yesterday (Friday) and we had to clear the landslide debris to reach the village. The challenge is that we have to trace the bodies.” Choudhari said the district has nine extremely landslide-prone and 80 mild landslide villages. “This village (Taliye) is not among them. We have conducted the geological survey of the district and the village does figure on the landslide-prone village. We conduct studies to find out the vulnerable villages and plan accordingly to make life safe for the villagers as part of our disaster management preparedness.” The opposition parties have also criticised the government over the slow rescue operation. Bharatiya Janata Party leader Pravin Darekar said around 40-50 persons are still missing, and the administration has failed to respond to the situation. “Heavy rainfall, waterlogging, and disrupted connectivity are hampering the operations in the village. The tragedy must be viewed seriously by the state and the administration must ensure timely relief and evacuation of the victims.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bad-weather-hit-rescue-operations-in-maha-101627140795168.html
24-07-2021||Other||₹27 lakh looted from Tarn Taran village ATM||Tarn Taran Unidentified miscreants broke open an automated teller machine (ATM) of State Bank of India with a gas cutter in Kasel village and looted ₹27 lakh. Police said the incident took place about 2am, when the guard, Sahib Singh, had gone to his home after shutting down the ATM room; he discovered the loot on Saturday morning and informed the police.He has been taken in for questioning, as the police said it suspected the role of an insider. His call details are being ‘examined’. The robbers had dismantled the closed circuit television (CCTV) camera before the loot, police added, saying that investigation was on to identify the number and identity of the robbers. “According to the SBI bank branch manager, Sarpreet Singh, the machine had over ₹27 lakh. We have asked him to provide detailed record of this. We are hopeful of arresting the culprits soon,” said deputy superintendent of police (DSP-City) Sucha Singh Bal, who had visited the spot along with other officials. A team of forensic experts also visited the spot.A case under Sections 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment), 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against unidentified persons at Sara-E-Amanat-Khan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rs-27-lakh-looted-from-tarn-taran-village-atm-101627140742948.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||JEE-Main aspirants from 7 Maharashtra districts hit by heavy rain, landslides to get another chance to appear for test||Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Saturday announced that students of Maharashtra who will not be able to appear for JEE Mains exam on July 25 and July 27 because of the heavy rains and landslides will get another opportunity. He asked students from Kolhapur, Palghar, Ratnagiri, Raigad, Sindhudurg, Sangli and Satara to not panic and assured them that the National Testing Agency will announce new dates for the exam.“In light of the heavy rains and landslides in Maharashtra, to assist the Maharashtra student community, I have advised the @DG_NTA to grant another opportunity to all candidates who may not be able to reach the test centre for JEE (Main)-2021 Session 3,” Pradhan said in a tweet.“Students from Kolhapur, Palghar, Ratnagiri, Raigad, Sindhudurg, Sangli, & Satara, who are unable to reach their test centres on 25 and 27 July 2021 for JEE (Main)-2021 Session 3 need not panic. They will be given another opportunity, and the dates will be announced soon by the NTA,” he added.More than 100 people have died due to the incessant rains in Maharashtra over the last three days. The Maharashtra government has evacuated close to 100,000 people from the affected areas. Satara and Raigad are among the worst-hit districts in Maharashtra where landslides and floods have caused over a hundred deaths. Several residents from these districts are still missing as incessant rains continue to affect rescue operations. Mirgaon, Dhokawale and Ambeghar in Satara district also reported heavy losses of lives and missing residents. Taliye reported 138 deaths in the last 48 hours due to the landslides. At least 11 persons have lost their lives after a landslide struck at Posare village in the Ratnagiri district.The Maharashtra government and the Centre have announced ex gratia for the next of kin of those who died in the landslide in Taliye village. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also visited the village on Saturday and assured residents that the state government will provide them with all possible help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/jeemain-aspirants-from-maharashtra-districts-hit-by-landslides-can-reappear-101627140262269.html
24-07-2021||Other||Tomar should apologise for feigning ignorance on farm stir deaths: SAD||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday condemned the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government by feigning ignorance of the fact that more than 550 farmers had been ‘martyred’ in peaceful protest against the three agricultural laws. “The Centre is refusing to recognise the human tragedy unfolding on the borders of Delhi,” said the party, also demanding an apology from Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on the issue. Expressing shock at Tomar’s statement that the Centre did not have any record of the farmers who had died in the ongoing Kisan Andolan on the borders of Delhi, former union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal said, “This anti-farmer attitude of the NDA government is responsible for the plight of farmers.” She added that farmers had not only been stonewalled for eight months, but even their dead were not being recognised. “The SAD condemns this anti-human attitude and requests the agriculture minister to apologise to the farmers for this statement and assure the country that the ‘annadaata’ will not be humiliated in this manner again in Parliament,” Harsimrat added. She added that the NDA government was functioning in a dictatorial manner in Parliament and had not even cared to conduct any study to ascertain the apprehensions in the minds of farmers about the three farm laws. “Tomar’s assertion that no study has been conducted on this issue proves that this government is committed to fulfilling its pact with the corporations and will not even take any feedback from farmers on the three farm laws. This is against the very essence of democracy,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tomar-should-apologise-for-feigning-ignorance-on-farm-stir-deaths-sad-101627139960554.html
24-07-2021||Patna||Bihar transport dept launches 50 CNG buses, 350 ambulances||Chief minister Nitish Kumar flagged off 50 CNG (compressed natural gas) buses and 350 ambulances from Samvad Bhavan in Patna on Saturday.Speaking during the occasion, Kumar said, “Ambulance services would help critical patients living in remote areas to reach hospitals in urban areas on time, besides helping road accident victims to get timely medical treatment. Under Mukhyamantri Gram Parivahan Yojna (MMGPY), 350 ambulances have been handed over to the beneficiaries while 800 ambulances will be purchased by October.”Under MMGPY, two people belonging to backward classes from each block are given a subsidy, which amounts to 50% of the cost of the vehicle or a maximum of ₹2 lakh on the purchase of an ambulance.Kumar also believed that CNG buses would help in minimising pollution in the state capital.Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said that initially, 20 diesel-driven buses were converted into CNG.He said, “Newly launched buses are the state’s first CNG buses. Last year, 20 diesel-driven buses were retrofitted with CNG kits for conversion. We aim to convert all government-run diesel-driven buses to CNG by March 2022.”A senior transport official, said, “The CNG buses are equipped with modern facilities like GPS, CCTV, panic button, mobile charging points and route display boards. Altogether 10 buses would ply on the Gandhi Maidan-Danapur Bus Stand route, 14 on Gandhi Maidan-Danapur Railway Station, 17 on Gandhi Maidan-Bihta. Bus fare would vary from ₹5 to 45 depending upon distance.”About ambulances at subsidy, Agarwal said, “We received around 3500 applications for purchasing ambulances under MMGPY. Of the total applications, 954 applicants were selected by the subdivision committee. In the first phase, 350 ambulances have been handed over today. We aim to provide subsidy on 1,086 ambulances under the scheme by December.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-transport-dept-launches-50-cng-buses-350-ambulances-101627139655039.html
24-07-2021||Patna||Two boys missing from Khagaria juvenile home||Two inmates of the observation home for juveniles at Khagaria have been missing since Friday, the second such incident at the shelter that began functioning in May this year, officials said on Saturday. Pradeep Kumar, child welfare officer, Khagaria, said the matter has been reported to the police. The Khagaria observation home is a government care institution run by the social welfare department for the boys in conflict with law and has 51 inmates. It was launched in May this year to accommodate juveniles of two districts of Khagaria and Begusarai. In June, five inmates from the facility had managed to escape. Two of them were brought back to the observation home while three are still missing, Kumar said. “Those in charge of Khagaria observation home have been asked to send a report on steps required to improve security arrangements there. We have been informed that the boys escaped through the window, which has iron bars. These are being replaced,” Rajkumar, director, social welfare department, said, adding that the height of boundary wall is also being raised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/two-boys-missing-from-khagaria-juvenile-home-101627139595048.html
24-07-2021||Other||Implementing high command’s 18-point agenda key task, says Sidhu||Rupnagar A day after taking charge as the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president, Navjot Singh Sidhu said on Saturday that the implementation of the party high command’s 18-point agenda is his key responsibility. The Congress high command has prepared this agenda, after listening to grievances of MLAs, with the chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh tasked with implementing it. Some of the key issues that appear on the document are justice in desecration cases, power tariff, drugs and bureaucratic red tape. “We have no option other than this to move forward. Punjab’s future depends on it,” said Sidhu, referring to the agenda, at a public meeting in Chamkaur Sahib, the constituency of Punjab cabinet minister Charanjit Singh Channi. He was given a rousing welcome in the town. “Every MLA, MP and worker is a guardian of this 18-point agenda and it has to be implemented,” Sidhu added, flanked by Punjab Congress Committee working president Kuljit Singh Nagra and Channi. “Every Punjabi wants justice in the beadbi (desecration) case of the Guru Granth Sahib,” Sidhu said, also referring to the drug menace in the state, adding that all Punjabis wanted the big fish to be named and caught.On the high power tariff, he said, “Why did we enter into a power purchase contract at ₹18 a unit, when it is available at ₹2 per unit. This, at a time, when we know that every year, solar power rates are declining by 20%. Why is Punjab paying between ₹7 and ₹18 per unit. Why should power not be bought from the national grid? We need answers.”He added that he was with the farmers, and wanted them to win their long-drawn battle against the Centre’s three farm laws. “I will contribute in whatever way the farm unions ask me to, and will ensure their success. Their struggle is sacred,” Sidhu added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/implementing-high-command-s-18-point-agenda-key-task-says-sidhu-101627139536897.html
24-07-2021||Pune||Vaccinated for Covid a month ago, Taliye’s hope of recovery buried in landslide||Taliye (Raigad): A small hamlet in Sahyadris, Maharashtra’s Taliye, was looking at life with hope after most villagers were vaccinated against Covid-19 last month but little did they know that another calamity in the form of a landslide following heavy rains will flatten their homes and crush the dreams of a recovery under the slush deposited in the village. According to local administration, there are around 42 houses in the village and most were buried under the soil after a portion of the nearby hillock gave away on Thursday evening. The locals, with the help from a team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the police have so far pulled out 42 bodies with around same number of people still missing. A nine-month-old and another 11-month-old infant are among those missing. Theirs mothers, according to Sunetra Pawase, a nurse working at a local preliminary health centre, were found dead during the search and rescue operation. “The entire village was vaccinated last month. We have done two deliveries in this village. Two infants are still missing. I have seen all the small children from the village. There was a small girl in this village who used to come with me while I would visit the village. Yesterday, I found her dead, lying on her stomach which is very painful,” said Pawase. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray visited Taliye village on Saturday afternoon when he assured locals of all possible help. “Sir, we thought we would get all help on second day, but nothing came forward. It’s the third day and search and rescue operation hasn’t picked up pace,” said a youngster, whose sister was missing. The chief minister assured of speedy rescue efforts. Dr Abhijit Chavan and his wife Dr Bhagyashree were the first to reach the spot to provide relief to victims on Friday. Bhagyashree, who works in the PHC, said she was treating two pregnant women who had recently delivered babies “The deliveries took place at our hospital and their young ones are missing,” she said. The Chavan couple has been closely connected with the village and the entire village used to visit their clinic for medical check-up. The medicos are known for conducting successful deliveries of patients from the village. “We have found bodies post which we conducted spot post-mortem. Still many bodies are there and we pray to God that at least one person should be traced alive. It became difficult to identify the bodies. The scene at the spot was horrendous as corpses were found dismembered as hands and legs were strewn apart due to the impact of the gushing rainwater. We did on the spot autopsy and handed over the bodies to their relatives. The bodies were totally decomposed and it is very difficult to get the bodies intact,” Dr Chavan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vaccinated-for-covid-a-month-ago-taliye-s-hope-of-recovery-buried-in-landslide-101627139475607.html
24-07-2021||Patna||73% develop antibody against Covid as Bihar inches closer to herd immunity||Bihar could be close to a herd immunity threshold — when enough people will gain immunity to SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes coronavirus, to block most transmission — as 73% population has reported prevalence of antibodies against the virus either from past infection or through vaccination. Buxar reported the highest seropositivity of 83.8%, followed by Madhubani 77.1%, Arwal 73.7%, Begusarai 72.7%, Muzaffarpur 65.3% and Purnia 65% in Bihar’s six districts sampled among 70 across 21 states in India by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) during the fourth serological survey between June 14 and July 6. Bihar reported higher seropositivity as compared to the national average of 67.6%. As many as 335 of the 400 general population sampled in 10 clusters of Buxar were found positive to coronavirus at some stage. Buxar had shot into the limelight when 82 corpses, floating in the Ganga, were fished out in May, during the peak of the second wave of the pandemic. The National Human Rights Commission had taken cognizance of it and issued notice to the Centre and the governments of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, seeking an action-taken report. The Patna high court (HC) had earlier on May 17 flagged inconsistency in death figures related to Buxar. The HC had expressed its displeasure over inconsistency in figures of death in Buxar, mentioned in separate affidavits filed by the state’s chief secretary and the Patna divisional commissioner. This forced the state government to undertake a verification of deaths, which culminated in the state reporting a 73% spike in Covid-19 deaths, as its death count went up by 3,951 post-verification. The state’s cumulative Covid-19 toll jumped to 9,375 on June 8, as against 5,424 reported a day earlier. The state’s Covid-19 death toll was 9,635 on Friday. Similarly, 327 of the 424 samples tested positive in Madhubani; in Arwal 303 of the 411 were positive, 303 of the 417 tested in Begusarai were positive; 264 of the 404 samples tested positive in Muzaffarpur while 265 of the 408 samples tested positive in Purnia. Muzaffarpur reported 0% seroprevalence during the first serological survey in May last year. Buxar then reported 1.25%, followed by 1% each in Arwal and Madhubani, Purnia 0.75% and Begusarai 0.25%. Arwal reported the highest seroprevalence of 26.20% during the third survey in December. Buxar was next with 26.07%, followed by Madhubani 24.5%, Muzaffarpur 21.70%, Purnia 21.01% and Begusarai 15.01%. The state’s cumulative seropositivity was 0.7% during the first survey undertaken between May 17 and 20 last year. This meant that only 17 out of the 2,400 people surveyed developed antibodies (immunity) against SARS-CoV-2, said an epidemiologist. The seropositivity rate in Bihar increased to 7% during the second survey between August 21 and 26 and went up to 22.41% against the national average of 24% during the third survey between December 20 and 25. ICMR director-general and secretary to the government of India, Prof Balram Bhargava, shared the findings of the fourth serological survey with Bihar’s additional chief secretary, health, Pratyaya Amrit on Friday. Around 3,000 blood samples were collected from the six districts and sent to the National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai. The survey, conducted in the state between June 20 and 25, was to ascertain the prevalence of antibodies, called seroprevalence or seropositivity, against SARS-CoV-2. “A seropositivity of 73% is a good sign for Bihar. This means that only 27% people are now susceptible to contracting the virus of which some may become serious during the anticipated third wave of the pandemic,” said vice-president of the Indian Association of Public Health, Dr CM Singh, also professor and head, community and family medicine at AIIMS-Patna, and its medical superintendent. “A seropositivity of over 70%-80% helps to develop herd immunity. However, since the virus is mutating very fast, there is the possibility of people getting re-infected and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour has to be followed. In case of re-infection, the symptoms will be mild in the 73% population, who have already developed antibody either by contracting the virus earlier or through vaccination,” added Dr Singh. State health officials, including those in the State Health Society, which looks after the integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP) under the National Health Mission, chose not to respond to this reporter’s phone calls or text messages. Officials at the ICMR’s Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS), Patna, were also mum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/73-develop-antibody-against-covid-as-bihar-inches-closer-to-herd-immunity-101627139475015.html
24-07-2021||Other||Developmental work may give BJP an edge in west UP, say observers||The Delhi-Meerut Expressway is finally ready, awaiting its inauguration. The expressway has decreased travel time between Delhi and Meerut, Uttar Pradesh, which was 3 hours and more while travelling via NH58, to merely 45 minutes. Work on rapid rail is also going on and hopefully, the first phase would be operational by 2023. It would convert into a metro after entering Meerut. The Delhi-Meerut Expressway and rapid rail would also reduce travelling time from Moradabad, Sambhal, Amroha and other districts to Delhi. Commuters from Saharanpur and Muzaffarnagar will also reach Delhi in much less time.Observers say these and other projects in the western UP region may top the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s development agenda on which it intends to fight the forthcoming assembly elections in the state.The party had announced that the forthcoming elections in UP would be fought on issues of nationalism and development and projects being carried out in the Meerut region would certainly be on top to woo voters in the western UP region, people familiar with the matter said.BJP MP from Meerut, Rajendra Agarwal, said that the party had done a lot of developmental work in the area and the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, rapid rail and Metro were flagship projects which would benefit not only Meerut but almost the entire region.He said that the party would certainly convey the benefits of these developmental activities to people and claimed, “People extended their support to the BJP and we hope they would continue the same after assessing its work.”Agarwal said that the speedy and easy connectivity of west UP districts with the national capital would help in strengthening business and opening new avenues of growth and development in the region.Opposition leaders, however, are ready to downplay the claims of the BJP. Samajwadi Party district president in Meerut, Rajpal Singh, accused the BJP of projecting previous governments’ projects as their own to mislead people. He said that the Delhi-Meerut Expressway and rapid rail projects were originally Congress’ projects while the Metro Rail project was floated by the Samajwadi Party.He said the BJP promised airport and ring road to Meerut which were still a distant dream and there were many other projects which were promised but didn’t come into existence.“They are champions in misleading people and would continue doing it in forthcoming elections but we will expose their lies,” said Singh.A trader, Amit Sharma, who owns an automobile showroom and has other businesses, said that despite many controversies in BJP’s governance, these development projects would give the party an edge over others because traders and people were demanding speedy connectivity to Delhi for years.On opposition parties’ allegations that most of the projects were conceptualized and planned during the previous government, Sharma said, “The credit goes to those who deliver”. He, however, said that the ongoing farmers’ movement may dent the BJP in western UP. Meerut, Saharanpur and Moradabad divisions of western UP have 71 assembly and 14 Lok Sabha seats. During the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, the party won all 14 seats but could not win 6 seats in the Moradabad region in the 2019 elections. In the 2017 assembly elections, the BJP won 51 out of 71 constituencies in 14 districts of Meerut, Saharanpur and Moradabad divisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/developmental-work-may-give-bjp-an-edge-in-west-up-say-observers-101627139356288.html
24-07-2021||Patna||Female cop killed as mob runs riot in Jehanabad||A female constable died in Jehanabad on Saturday after being run over by a vehicle here while trying to control a rampaging mob which, while protesting against a custodial death, indulged in heavy stone-pelting and fired gunshots in the air, leaving several policemen injured.The busy Jehanabad-Arwal highway remained blocked for hours, said subdivisional police officer (SDPO), Jehanabad, Ashok Kumar Pandey.“The mob was furious over the death of one Govind Manjhi, who was arrested some time back for selling liquor. He had been remanded to judicial custody and lodged at a jail in the adjoining Aurangabad district,” he said.Sale and consumption of liquor is banned in Bihar where the Nitish Kumar government had brought in a stringent prohibition law six years ago.“Manjhi died at the jail on Friday. As the news reached here, residents of his village squatted on the highway blaming the death on physical torture. When a police party tried to pacify them, they turned violent,” said Pandey.The SDPO said the constable, Kanti Devi, 54, was hit by a vehicle as she was trying to control the mob and succumbed to injuries while being rushed to a hospital.“The agitators indulged in heavy stone-pelting and fired a few shots from unlicensed firearms. Several police personnel have received grievous injuries. We have arrested five people in this connection. A heavy deployment of police is in place to keep the situation under control,” Pandey said. The family has been demanding ₹25 lakh compensation and a government job for the next of kin of the deceased.According to another police officer, circle inspector (Jehanabad) Bhavesh Mandal, the angry mob caught hold of Kanti Devi and started beating her with lathis and sticks. As she ran for cover, she came under the wheel of a vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/female-cop-killed-as-mob-runs-riot-in-jehanabad-101627139355005.html
24-07-2021||Other||Farmers, locals remove political hoardings in Sangrur village||Sangrur Members of farm unions, who claim they that were aided by local residents, removed hoardings of political parties, including the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Rogla village near Dirba in the district on Saturday.  Leaders of farmer outfits claimed that the removal of hoardings symbolised voters’ anger against successive governments, who felt cheated as regime after regime failed to bring development and employment. Dirba block chief of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan), Darshan Singh Shadihari, said farmers had been agitating against the three agriculture laws for the past eight months, but the Centre remained indifferent. “I came to know that the hoardings of the AAP and Congress were removed. If farmers are not allowed to enter Delhi, people will not allow leaders of political parties to come into villages. Our main opposition will be against the BJP, as its leaders passed anti-farmer laws in Parliament. The SAD and Congress leaders have not fulfilled their promises,” added Shadihari.Randhir Singh, a youth leader, said even after Navjot Singh Sidhu’s coronation as th Punjab Congress chief, there will be no change in the life of common man. “The Akali got votes in the name of Panth. We have to ask tough questions to political leaders, who enter our villages for votes,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-locals-remove-political-hoardings-in-sangrur-village-101627139055686.html
24-07-2021||Other||Over 85% healthcare workers in 3 Odisha districts developed Covid-19 antibodies||Over 85 per cent of healthcare workers in three Odisha districts have developed Covid-19 antibodies, a serosurvey report conducted by Bhubaneswar’s Regional Medical Research Centre revealed.Director of state health services, Bijay Mohapatra, said the serosurvey was conducted among 1,230 community and 311 health workers in Ganjam, Rayagada and Koraput districts by the Regional Medical Research Centre of ICMR with logistical support from the Odisha government. The serosurvey was conducted between June 16 and 20.While Covid-19 antibodies were found in 85.53 per cent of healthcare workers, the overall sero prevalence in those districts is 65.12 per cent. Ganjam topped the chart with 70.9 per cent sero prevalence, Rayagada and Koraput came at second and third place with 63 per cent and 61.3 per cent, respectively.Mohapatra said the serosurvey report was satisfactory compared to the national average of 67.6 per cent. “People developed antibodies due to direct exposure to Covid-19 in both the first and second waves and after getting vaccinated against the virus. Senior citizens and healthcare workers have mostly developed antibodies as they were vaccinated in the first phase,” he said.He said 50-60 per cent of the children surveyed were found to have developed antibodies. They are likely to have got the infection from their parents or other family members.RMRC director Sanghamitra Pati said the antibodies are likely to continue for at least 16 weeks.Like the rest of the country, Odisha was hit hard by the second wave of Covid-19 with the state reporting 12,852 cases on May 22. Since then, the cases are declining but the number of daily deaths has gone up. On Saturday, Odisha reported 69 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-85-healthcare-workers-in-3-odisha-districts-developed-covid-19-antibodies-101627137015750.html
24-07-2021||Delhi||Batla House encounter: Convict Ariz Khan challenges death penalty in Delhi high court||Ariz Khan, who earlier this year, was convicted by a trial court over the killing of inspector Mohan Chand Sharma during the 2008 Batla House encounter, has challenged his conviction in the Delhi high court, as well as the death sentence handed to him for Sharma's killing.Also Read | Ariz Khan given death in Batla encounter caseKhan's plea challenging the trial court's verdict, which found his offence to be under the "rarest of rare" category, thus warranting the maximum sentence of capital punishment, was filed in the high court through advocates MS Khan and Qausar Khan.Also Read | Batla House: Ariz Khan held guilty of killing inspectorInspector Sharma, belonging to the Special Cell of the Delhi Police, was killed in action on September 19, 2008, in south Delhi's Jamia Nagar during the encounter, which took place six days after serial blasts ripped through the national capital killing at least 30 people and leaving more than 100 injured. Acting on a tip-off, the police team, which included Sharma, had raided a flat in the Batla House locality.Also Read | Batla House encounter: A timeline of the 2008 caseKhan, 35, who fled after the encounter, was pronounced as a proclaimed offender (PO) in 2009, and was arrested on February 14, 2018. He was convicted by the trial court on March 8 this year and sentenced to death on March 15. Additionally, the court imposed a fine of ₹11 lakh on Khan, directing him to "immediately" release ₹10 lakh for the deceased officer's family. Calling his offence "despicable," the court observed that the convict "has forfeited his right to live." It also called him an "enemy of the state."Shahzad Ahmed, another convict in this case, was arrested on January 1, 2010. In July 2013, Ahmed was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment and appealed against the verdict in the high court. The appeal, however, is still pending in the court.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/batla-house-case-convict-ariz-khan-challenges-death-penalty-in-delhi-high-court-101627132167405.html
24-07-2021||Other||Soldier dies in mine blast along LoC in J-K’s Poonch||A soldier died along the Line of Control (LoC) in Krishna Ghati (KG) sector in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district on Friday after accidentally stepping over a mine during a patrol, said a security officer. During monsoon, anti-personnel mines drift away from their place and pose a threat to soldiers on the LoC.The deceased soldier has been identified as Sepoy Kamal Dev Vaidya, a native of Hamirpur in Himachal Pradesh.“On the night of Friday, Sepoy Kamal Dev Vaidya was on operational duty in Krishna Ghati Sector. While moving during the duty, Sepoy Kamal Dev Vaidya was critically injured in an accidental mine blast. He was immediately evacuated to the nearest medical facility but later succumbed to his injuries,” said a defence spokesman.Sepoy Kamal Dev Vaidya, aged 27 years, belonged to village Ghumarwin in Hamirpur district of Himachal Pradesh. He is survived by his mother Vanita Devi.“Sepoy Kamal Dev Vaidya was a brave, highly motivated and sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for the supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” said the spokesman.Meanwhile, a Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) marked dummy aeroplane balloon was also recovered near the LoC in the KG sector on Friday. However, nothing incriminating was found from it. It was the seventh such aeroplane shaped balloon found in J&K, Punjab and Rajasthan since March this year.On March 30, a similar balloon with the letters PIA written on it was found in Mendhar in Poonch. Similar balloons were found in the Hiranagar area of Kathua on March 9 and in Gharsana, Rajasthan on March 11. On March 16, it was recovered in the Bhalwal area of Jammu and ten days later on March 26, another similar balloon was found at Dera Baba Nanak, Batala in Punjab. Three days later on March 29, it was again recovered in the Kanachak area of Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/soldier-dies-in-mine-blast-along-loc-in-j-k-s-poonch-101627134016279.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||‘Maharashtra to bring plan to relocate people living in hilly areas in view of landslides’: CM||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said in view of the incidents of landslide, the state government would come up with a plan to permanently relocate people living in hilly areas and rehabilitate them to safer places. According to Thackeray, who visited landslide-affected Taliye village in Raigad district, a comprehensive plan is being worked out for people living in risky terrain to safer places. He also said that a policy would be formulated for the management of water as parts of the state, especially the western Maharashtra region, witnessing floods during the monsoon due to the rise in river water levels. “Instructions have been given to concerned officials to prepare a detailed rehabilitation plan for such vulnerable populations across the state in view of such incidents of landslides which have now become a frequent phenomenon,” Thackeray said while addressing media on Saturday. Thackeray further said, flooding is witnessed in western Maharashtra during the monsoon due to the rise in the water level of rivers. Hence, a policy would be formulated for the management of water in this region. He said his government will expedite the process of rehabilitation and compensation of the flood-affected people. Ratnagiri and Raigad districts bore the maximum brunt of the rain fury and the resulting floods. On being asked about assistance from the central government, he said, “We are getting all the help from the centre. The Army, the Navy and the Airforce are helping the state government in carrying out the rescue operations,” he said. The CM, along with his cabinet colleagues Eknath Shinde, Anil Parab, Aditi Tatkare and chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, visited Taliye and inspected the landslide-hit area. As many as 42 bodies were recovered while over 40 are still missing. When asked about the delay in relief, the chief minister said that all rescuers have reached the locations and started the work. “However, there may be few places where they reached late or other equipment could not reach because of difficulties due to rain and difficult terrain,” he said. Several relatives of the missing persons complained to the CM about the delay in rescue and relief operations. Thackeray assured them saying, “We are with you in this time of grief and will take care of everything”. The CM also announced ₹5 lakh compensation each for the kin of those who lost their lives in the landslides caused by torrential rainfall. The state will also incur the costs of treatment for those injured, he added. As many as 40 homes in Talai village were buried under a hillock which came crashing down on the locals on Thursday afternoon due to incessant rains. A day before the CM’s visit, PM Narendra Modi held a telephonic discussion with CM Thackeray and tweeted, “Anguished by the loss of lives due to a landslide in Raigad, Maharashtra. My condolences to the bereaved families. I wish the injured a speedy recovery. The situation in Maharashtra due to heavy rains is being closely monitored and assistance is being provided to the affected,” it added. Till the time of filing this report, 44 victims had been dug out of the wet marsh in the village and around 80 persons were still missing according to information shared by the district administration. The chief minister assured all assistance to the victims and relatives of those who lost their lives during floods. “You will be taken care of. Don’t worry,” he told the villagers||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-bring-plan-to-relocate-people-living-in-hilly-areas-in-view-of-landslides-cm-101627132696294.html
24-07-2021||Lucknow||Light to moderate rainfall in parts of Uttar Pradesh||Light to moderate rainfall and thundershowers occurred at a few places in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday, with heavy downpour at isolated places in the eastern part of the state.Thunderstorms accompanied with lightning were witnessed in some parts, the meteorological department office said in a bulletin.It said rainfall was recorded in Banda, Sonbhadra, Mirzapur, Badaun, Mahoba, Unnao and Etah.The highest temperature in the state was recorded in Allahabad (37.4 degrees Celsius) and the lowest in Etawah (21.6 degrees celsius), the Met said.It said rainfall and thundershowers are very likely at a few places in the state on Sunday with heavy downpour at isolated places in the western part.The weather office also warned of thunderstorm accompanied with lightning at isolated places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/light-to-moderate-rainfall-in-parts-of-uttar-pradesh-101627129424281.html
24-07-2021||Patna||Nitish Kumar reiterates demand for caste-based census||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday reiterated his demand for a caste-based census, saying it will help in better decisions for the people’s development and welfare. “We will request the Centre that a caste-based census should be done at least once,” said Kumar. “I have been saying for a long time that once caste-based census must be done, as it will give a clear idea about the population of different castes. It will help in planning for them. An attempt was made in 2010 but it was not done properly. It was completed in 2013 but never published.”Kumar said they have shared their thoughts about a caste-based census in the House in February 2019 and 2020. He said it will help expand the benefits of government schemes and make it easier to work for development.In 2019, the Bihar assembly passed two resolutions favouring a caste-wise census in 2021 and for continuing with the old 200-point roster system, which treats the university as the unit, for job quotas while opposing the 13-point system that treats the department as the unit. In 2020, ahead of the state elections, the assembly passed resolutions against the National Register of Citizens and for the caste-based census in 2021. The Centre has said, as a matter of policy, there will be no enumeration as per caste other than that for Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) for the census. It has cited the provisions of the Constitution and reservation of seats for SCs and STs in Lok Sabha and in the assemblies as per their proportion in the population. Kumar’s emphasis for a caste-based census is based on the proposal of the Justice Rohini Commission for the sub-categorisation of reservation for Other Backward Class (OBCs). The commission was set up in 2017 and has recommended splitting 27% reservation for the OBCs into different categories for equitable distribution of benefits among different sub-castes to ensure that the benefits reached the really deprived sections. After several extensions, the panel submitted its report in February 2021 dividing 2,633 OBC castes on the Central list into four sub-categories for splitting the 27% quota into 2, 6, 9, and 10%. India’s last caste census was conducted 90 years ago in 1931. Opposition leader Tejashwi Yadav questioned Kumar what the ruling Janata Dal (United) or JD (U) will do if the Centre does not consider the caste census. “JD (U) has a stake in the Centre now with a cabinet minister. Why did JD (U) still have to persuade the Bharatiya Janata Party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-kumar-reiterates-demand-for-caste-based-census-101627125076049.html
24-07-2021||Pune||Startup mantra: Giving AI a cutting-edge impact||EDGENeural.ai is a deep-tech startup ushering in a new AI paradigm by building an AI-based platform that can, the company claims, automatically craft robust, scalable and efficient deep neural networks for EDGE devices. It brings AI in the hands of every developer to make the adoption of AI faster, smarter, and secure. The startup is currently backed by the NVIDIA Inception Program, T-Hub, StartupIndia, Microsoft for Startups, and Nasscom DeepTech Club 2.0In the beginningDhairya Badiyani and Sarvesh Devi, both from Satara district, studied engineering in Pune. After completing undergrad, both went to the US for further studies, and a few years later returned to form their own startups. However, they did not know each other until they joined an independent startup – Badiyani as its cofounder and Devi as the chief technical officer (CTO). While that startup got acquired in August 2019, the duo started a joint venture, and founded EdgeNeural.ai in December 2019.Badiyani has been fascinated by Artificial Intelligence (AI) since 2009, after he was introduced to the field by his project guide from MIT Pune. Devi was working as a software developer until the 2008 recession and then moved to Silicon Valley for exposure. Deploying AI on EDGE devices Computing, deploying AI models (algorithms) on resource-constrained EDGE devices is a challenge for all companies. Deploying AI models on an EDGE device means understanding complexities of hardware so that the algorithm runs efficiently. Explaining the challenges faced by companies, Badiyani says, “Expertise on hardware and software is needed while developing any AI-based product or solution. This is the most difficult combination any company would want to work on. There are companies which are only into hardware, or only into software. The idea of EDGENeural was born out of the desire to face these challenges by combining hardware and software with expertise in AI. We want to simplify coupling hardware and software, specifically for building AI applications.”Pandemic challengesSays Devi, “In January 2020 we started facilitating AI on EDGE. Then Covid hit and the entire world was shut down. We realised, bringing something futuristic in to pandemic times was going to be difficult. During Covid, touchless technology came into picture and we assumed that the timing was right. We got associated with some institutes that wanted facial recognition technology that could be deployed across any platform – mobile, computers, cloud infrastructure or a standalone EDGE device. We created an attendance tracking application using facial recognition. Within a month we were able to sign hundred users for our facial recognition-based attendance tracking. “Within three months the customer base went up to 500. We were able to quickly able to build prototype, start testing and deployment. Our facial recognition algorithm worked with or without mask, with 95 per cent accuracy. We did something that helped us survive that phase, but our heart was in building a platform enabling companies to build AI for EDGE devices, and make that journey easy.”Badiyani said, “We focussed on the EDGENeural platform idea. We did a lot of market research. We were able to generate a good amount of data points confirming that deploying AI on EDGE devices is really a big concern in the ecosystem. It was a trigger for us that we need to pivot; facial recognition can go on if needed, but this is the future and we have to solve this problem so that adoption increases.”On the EDGE of a cloud Cloud is a centralised architecture where the entire data sits there and the data processing also happens there. It is dependent on internet connectivity and the response time is longer. One can’t rely on cloud infrastructure for time-critical applications. Decision- making capacity on the device itself is the next step. Badiyani claims, “Every industry will adapt to EDGE where time is critical, device is remote and there is poor or no internet connectivity. EDGE brings in advantages of local processing, data security and faster response time. We do not have to rely on internet connection. Only the critical data which needs to be post-processed can be sent, but the rest of the decision making can happen on the device.”EDGENeural platformSays Badiyani, “EDGENeural platform is a developer tool. Our customer would typically be a solution provider or solution builder or a system integrator. We will provide our platform and they will be able to build AI models for the EDGE infrastructure.”Devi adds, “A typical timeline to build an EDGE AI product prototype takes anywhere between three and six months. It takes another six months for a ready product or a solution. With this huge timeline, the process becomes very complex. With our platform, we can reach prototype stage in a month and production stage in the same quarter.”“We want to make EDGENeural globally available so that enterprises or developers or AI engineers can utilise our platform and build efficient AI models on smaller EDGE computing devices. The platform is under development. All three modules – training, optimisation and deployment – are ready with us. We are stitching them together so that it becomes a developer tool. Any developer can train and optimise the model, specifically to what hardware they want to build towards and deploy,” explained Dhairya.There are other complimentary features on the platform like version-based controls for AI models. “AI is a continuous improvement and development lifecycle. Every time a new set of data comes in, training comes into picture, deployment comes into picture,” he added. Says Devi, “We can reduce time-to-market for a product on an EDGE AI solution by two to five times. Also, considering various parameters, we can enhance the performance of AI models by up to seven times. Accuracy of model is not compromised, while improving performance. We can also reduce the cost by 75 per cent – the cost reduction is in terms of bringing experts who can build EDGE AI solutions and the recurring cloud infrastructure cost.”Badiyani says, “We have recently signed up our first paying customer. We have closed the deal and development is happening now. Three customers are in line. We are doing Proof of Concept (POC) with a bunch of other companies. All these are India-based companies. In the first quarter we are focussing on India as a market, and then in the next or third quarter our goal is to bring on US clients and grow globally.”Funding Raising funds was very interesting journey, says Badiyani. “We want to build a global company, a developer company which will require good team. The company was bootstrapped until March 2021. The product was in alpha version at that time. We showed our capabilities to investors. Being very futuristic, initially we got some resistance. We took it as a good feedback, we evaluated, fine-tuned what we are trying to build. Even the business model that we had proposed initially evolved. It took us sive months to close our first investor in February 2021 - High Net Worth Individuals (HNI) based in the US, with a technology background. This is the first investment –that we received.”“Followed by that, we were in conversation with our existing lead investor Anicut. Primarily, they wanted to move forward. Being a technology driven company, it was not just about money, but also about what more value investors can add to the company. Our lead investor like Venkat Raju is a seasoned entrepreneur especially in the AI domain. We thought he could help us accelerate growth. The market for EDGE AI is not just limited to India. US, Europe, and APAC markets are also worth exploring. Within a span of a month-and-a- half, we were able to bring in investors for the amount we wanted to raise. This seed round was the first institutional fund we accessed,” Badiyani adds.The amount raised by EDGENeural during the seed round is undisclosed. Says Badiyani , “The startup was initially bootstrapped and we had invested $40,000 which gave us a runway of about a year. Devi and I were not taking any salary. After funding, our goal is to bring in more team members and people from varied backgrounds in AI, Edge computing, and hardware. Considering all this, we have now a runway of around 15 to 16 months.”Future plans“Being a tech company, creating IP and strategic partnerships is going to be play very crucial role in terms of growth of EDGENeural. Currently we are a six-member team and we also have two interns. Now our plan is to grow the team and heavily invest in building the technology. Our first beta product release is expected to happen by December 2021. We want to support more and more hardware on the platform for maximum usability. This will be our journey for the next six months,” says Devi. EDGENeural revenue model Explaining the revenue model, Badiyani says, “At present, Python is most preferred language for building AI algorithms and solutions. There are around 8.2 million python developers around globe. It is estimated that 35 per cent of these will be working on AI algorithms in the near future. Our goal/target is to cater to five per cent of those, which would give us a market of 150k to 200k python developers.”“Our platform is a tool that will be subscription based. It will be per user, per month or an annual subscription model. We are estimating that in the coming few years, if are able to bring on 150k to 200k python developers onto our platform, we can reach up to $5.6 million monthly recurring revenue,” Badiyani claims.“We will have two versions. The community version will be free for users for research or trial basis. The enterprise version pricing would start from $849 per month. Pricing will vary on features selected,” he adds. Investors’ speak“As investors, we see a lot of value in the technology created at EDGENeural.ai, which in turn will unlock new opportunities for many businesses across different industries. What impressed us most was a strong and unique business model – one that is easily scalable in India and beyond.”-Ashvin Chadha, co-founder, Anicut Angel Fund“Edge Computing has a massive market opportunity, but its adoption has been stymied by developers forced to make significant compromises with tools and technologies built in a different era and/or repurposed from cloud (hub) centric architectures. EDGENeural’s platform should help accelerate and fully realise the potential of Edge computing. We are looking forward to being a part of EDGENeural for the long term and accelerating growth as well as building a global company.”-Venkat Raju, entrepreneur and investor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-giving-ai-a-cutting-edge-impact-101627124654737.html
24-07-2021||Pune||At 646 mm, Jor village records higher rainfall than Mahabaleshwar||Jor village, located at least eight kilometres from Mahabaleshwar recorded 646 mm rainfall in 24 hours ending Friday morning, according to Mahavedh, a public-private partnership (PPP) project which measures rain at Jor. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) does not have an observatory at Jor village to measure rainfall. The rainfall was higher than that in Mahabaleshwar, a famous hill station in Satara district, which recorded 594.04 mm rainfall during the last 24 hours, creating a new record. In 48 hours, the hill station recorded a whopping 1,074.4 mm rainfall, according to IMD. “This is the highest 24 hours rain ever recorded in Mahabaleshwar’s history. In the last 48 hours Mahabaleshwar reported a whopping 1,074.4 mm rainfall, which is also very high,” said Vineet Kumar, a researcher at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Pune. Heavy rains in the Mahabaleshwar-Panchgani belt of western ghat has mostly contributed to the flood situation in neighbouring Ratnagiri and Raigad districts as rivers such as Vashisthi and Savitri originate in the same area. Similarly, heavy rain in the Koyna dam catchment area near Mahabaleshwar has increased water levels of the Koyna and Krishna rivers, inundating many areas in Sangli and Kolhapur. According to IMD officials, active offshore troughs and strong westerly surges were the main factors that led to intense rainfall in the hill stations. The hill station, every year, receives extremely heavy rain. Wherein the average July rainfall is 3,182 mm. July and August are the wettest months in Mahabaleshwar during the monsoon season with a total average of 5,530 mm rainfall. Annually, the hill station records an average of 5,710 mm of rain.The hill station is located at 1,439 m above mean sea level in the Western Ghat which makes it ideal for high-intensity rainfall. The strong westerly winds and the shear zone running through Maharashtra make Mahabaleshwar most favourable for very heavy spells along the hilly terrains. Meanwhile, Kolhapur district recorded 147 mm rain which is the highest rainfall recorded in 24 hours in July during the last ten years, IMD stated. The IMD stated that very intense clouds were observed over parts of Raigad district and adjoining areas of Roha, Bhira, Matheran Shrivardhan, Thane district, Kalyan, Ratnagiri district, Dapoli, Harnai, Chiplun, Satara and Pune Ghat areas.Latest radar observations from Goa radar indicates moderate to intense clouds over areas including Kolhapur, Satara, Pune, parts of south Konkan too including Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/at-646-mm-jor-village-records-higher-rainfall-than-mahabaleshwar-101627124474955.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||Floods force suspension of traffic along Mumbai-Bengaluru highway||Authorities were forced to suspend traffic along the Mumbai-Bengaluru national highway on Saturday after a stretch of the road was flooded in the Kolhapur district.Officials said up to five feet of water inundated the stretch after the Panchaganga river swelled and water was also discharged from Radhanagari Dam because of heavy rain. Kolhapur police superintendent Shailesh Balkawade said, “As a part of precaution, the road has been closed for vehicular traffic.”Police have also closed the main Kolhapur-Sangli route while the Kolhapur-Ratnagiri stretch is also under the water with traffic suspended there too.An official from the Kolhapur District Disaster Management Cell said the water level of the Panchganga river continues to be above the danger mark.“The water level of the Panchaganga river at the Rajaram weir is now 54 feet, which is well above the danger mark of 43 feet,” he said. He added 114 embankments have gone under the water.Officials on Thursday said 47 villages in Kolhapur were cut off after roads leading to them were submerged in water due to heavy rains. As many as 965 families were shifted to safer places. Two people were also swept away at separate places in the district....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/floods-force-suspension-of-traffic-along-mumbai-bengaluru-highway-101627123276199.html
24-07-2021||Kolkata||CBI summons Binay Mishra's parents over cow smuggling case||The CBI summoned the parents of Binay Mishra, a businessman allegedly involved in a cattle smuggling racket in West Bengal and considered close to the ruling Trinamool Congress, in its probe in the case, an official of the agency said on Saturday.Mishra's parents have been asked to reach the CBI's Nizam Palace office here on Wednesday, he said.Mishra, wanted by the Central Bureau of Investigation for his alleged involvement in the cattle scam, has been evading the agency net, despite a look-out circular and a warrant issued against him. The anti-corruption branch of the central agency had conducted several raids on the residential premises and offices of Mishra. His brother Bikash Mishra was arrested by another central agency Enforcement Directorate from Delhi on March 16.The ED is investigating the money laundering aspect of the case. The CBI had also interrogated his brother in connection with its probe into the racket. In November last year, the CBI had arrested Enamul Haque, the alleged kingpin of the cattle smuggling racket running along the India-Bangladesh border in the state. It is alleged that cattle smugglers were bribing BSF and Customs officials to keep their illegal business running.The CBI had also apprehended a former commandant of the 36 BSF Battalion for his alleged involvement in the case. The agency had on February 8 filed a charge sheet against Haque and the BSF official in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cbi-summons-binay-mishra-s-parents-over-cow-smuggling-case-101627119374357.html
24-07-2021||Kolkata||TMC nominates former Prasar Bharati CEO Jawhar Sircar to Rajya Sabha||West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) has nominated Jawhar Sircar, the former CEO of public broadcasting agency Prasar Bharati, for the Rajya Sabha seat that Dinesh Trivedi vacated in February. The bye-election to the seat is due to be held on August 9. Trivedi joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the March-April assembly elections in West Bengal.“We are delighted to nominate Mr. @jawharsircar in the Upper House of the Parliament. Mr. Sircar spent nearly 42 years in public service & was also the former CEO of Prasar Bharati. His invaluable contribution to public service shall help us serve our country even better!” the TMC tweeted on Saturday. Sircar, who has emerged as a vocal critic of the BJP-led government at the Centre, insisted he is not a politician. “I am a strong critic of the way the present government is functioning. I entered service during the (state of) Emergency (1975) and I know what a draconian regime is. I left during another emergency (2016) and I know how terribly wrong things are... It is my endeavour to expose this. I see this as an opportunity,” Sircar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-nominates-former-prasar-bharati-ceo-jawhar-sircar-to-rajya-sabha-101627120334633.html
24-07-2021||Bhopal||Covid-19: Schools in Madhya Pradesh to reopen for classes 11 and 12 on July 26||Schools in Madhya Pradesh will reopen for students of classes 11 and 12 starting July 26, news agency PTI reported on Saturday, adding that the state government has issued standard operating protocol (SOP) in this regard. Madhya Pradesh has thus become the latest state where classes will resume in a physical capacity.Also Read | Reopening schools after 2nd wave of Covid: List of states that announced datesAccording to the SOP, on-campus classes for students of classes 11 will be held on Tuesdays and Fridays, while students of classes 12 will go to school on Mondays and Thursdays. Schools for classes 9 and 10 students, meanwhile, will reopen from August 5, as per the SOP. Sessions for these two standards will be held on Saturdays and Wednesdays, respectively.Additionally, in all cases, a maximum of 50% attendance will be allowed. Also, in addition to on-campus classes, virtual sessions will continue, the SOP says. The guidelines further prohibit gathering such as morning assemblies, as well as swimming lessons, to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The Madhya Pradesh government, too, has directed schools to take a slew of measures to ensure students' safety, including by conducting Covid-19 tests on students and teachers. Chief Secretary Iqbal Singh Bains has directed district magistrates, chief medical officers and health officers to vaccinate, from July 26 to July 31, teachers and non-teaching staff of schools that are under the Department of School Education and Higher Education. For this, a vaccination camp will be organised from 9am to 5pm on various dates. Further, it is to be ensured that teachers and employees of all non-government colleges and schools, too, receive both doses of anti-Covid jabs.The reopening of schools in Madhya Pradesh comes at a time when the state has seen a decline in its daily fresh infections. On July 23, 11 more people tested positive while there was no new death due to the viral disease, according to the state health department. This has taken the cumulative Covid-19 infection tally to 791,732, including 781,048 recoveries, 10,512 deaths and 172 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/covid19-madhya-pradesh-announces-reopening-of-schools-govt-issues-sop-101627117031213.html
24-07-2021||Patna||PM Modi says Darbhanga airport is becoming imp contributor to Bihar’s progress||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the Darbhanga airport was becoming an important contributor to Bihar’s progress, acknowledging the good response it has received ever since starting operations last year under Central government’s UDAN scheme, aimed to boost regional air connectivity. The PM’s observation came in response to a Tweet by a man who thanked the PM for giving Darbhanga civil aviation facility. “Happy to know! We are working towards boosting connectivity and comfort as far as the aviation sector is concerned. As for Darbhanga airport, it is becoming an important contributor to Bihar’s progress”, wrote PM Modi.It was in response to a Tweet by one Mukund Jha who wrote: “For the first time I am boarding a flight with My Father. Thank you @narendramodi ji for giving the airport to Darbhanga.” Jha also posted photos with his father before boarding the plane and after getting seated inside,Jha’s bio on the micro blogging site indicated he was president of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha in south Kolkata.“BJP in 2014 promised to give us [an] airport and they kept that promise and built one airport,” he said in another post on the matter.His post drew over 5,300 likes within a few hours and his followers tally increased by a couple of hundreds.Meanwhile, one of threads praised the PM saying, “The vision of NaMo govt in improving connectivity and giving us airports such as Darbhanga and Pakyong in Sikkim and 4 upcoming airports in Ladakh, international airport in northeast is absolutely laudable (sic). Hope every major town of India has airport and rail connectivity.”A couple of others put out Tweets demanding civil aviation facilities at other major cities in Bihar such as Purnia and Bhagalpur. Flight operation at Darbhanga airport was launched on November 8 last year. As of now, SpiceJet and IndiGo are connecting the city with Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Kolkata besides Hyderabad.According to the Airport Authorities of India, on Friday, Darbhanga airport witnessed movement of 18 flights and 2,155 passengers. Acquisition of 78 acres of land for the construction of a permanent terminal building and installation of navigational facility is pending with the state government. The civil enclave at Darbhanga is running from an interim terminal building set up in 2.3 acre of land provided by the Indian Air Force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pm-modi-says-darbhanga-airport-is-becoming-imp-contributor-to-bihar-s-progress-101627119374194.html
24-07-2021||Pune||Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar hints at relaxations in Pune||Maharashtra’s deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar hinted on Saturday that Pune was likely to get some relaxations from Covid containment measures beginning Monday as per a decision taken in the weekly Covid review meeting. He added that a final decision will be taken after a ministerial meeting on Monday post consultations with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. “In the Covid review meeting there was [a] consensus to give some relaxations from Monday such as increase [the] timing of shops’ [operation hours] till 7 pm. I will conduct a meeting on Monday in Mantralaya. I will talk to the CM as well. A positive decision will be taken for shops and restrictions on weekends,” said Pawar. Pawar said there was merit in considering the demand for relaxations such as letting shops open for longer since these norms were being flouted in any case.The Pune division on Friday reported 2,371 fresh Covid-19 cases and 36 deaths. Pawar said that the test positivity rate within Pune Municipal Corporation limits has dropped to 3.9% in this week but it rose marginally from 4.9% to 5% in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits, while the rural positivity rate dropped from 7% to 5.4%. The positivity rate indicates the prevalence of the coronavirus among the samples tested for the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-deputy-cm-ajit-pawar-hints-at-relaxations-in-pune-101627116613858.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||Shilpa Shetty says Raj Kundra innocent, wasn't involved in producing porn||Shilpa Shetty has claimed she has nothing to do with HotShots and was not aware of the exact content on the mobile application of her husband Raj Kundra, who has been arrested in connection with a pornography case earlier this week, news agency ANI reported on Saturday.The Bollywood actor was questioned by the Mumbai Police’s crime branch on Friday in connection with the alleged porn racket involving her husband Raj Kundra.ANI reported citing people familiar with the matter that Shilpa Shetty has said her husband is innocent and that erotica is different from pornography. Her husband Raj Kundra wasn't involved in producing porn content, she has said.Shilpa Shetty said that Pradeep Bakshi, the London-based wanted accused and Raj Kundra's brother-in-law, whwas involved with the app and its functioning, the officials told ANI.A local court on Friday extended the police custody of Raj Kundra and Ryan Thorpe till Tuesday. Raj Kundra has now moved the Bombay High Court challenging his arrest in the case and said in his plea that material which the police claim to be pornographic do not “depict direct explicit sexual acts and sexual intercourse but shows material in the form of short movies which are lascivious or appeal to the prurient interest of persons at best”.Also read | Raj Kundra waves at paparazzi, greets them with folded hands outside Byculla JailRaj Kundra and 10 other people have been arrested by the Mumbai Police earlier this week for their alleged involvement in the creation of porn films and publishing them through apps. Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale said Kundra "appears to be the key conspirator" in the case. The case was registered with the Mumbai Police's crime branch Mumbai in February.Also read | When Raj Kundra gave tips on how to sustain successful businessesThe investigation into the purported pornography racket has revealed Raj Kundra and his associates bought more than 100 porn videos over the past one-and-a-half years and uploaded them on their app, Hotshots. The app, the probe revealed, has around 2 million subscribers.The police have also found that data has been deleted from the server and other electronic equipment seized by them from Kundra’s Viaan company’s office on Tuesday. Police officers said they are now taking the help of forensic experts to retrieve the deleted data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shilpa-shetty-says-raj-kundra-innocent-wasn-t-involved-in-producing-porn-101627107726574.html
24-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police gets detaining power under NSA after order from Lieutenant Governor||Delhi Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Saturday granted power to the police commissioner to apprehend anyone under National Security Act (NSA). A notification will issue in this regard which be in place till October 18, 2021."In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 3, read with clause (e) of Section 2 of the National Security Act, 1980, the Lt Governor pleased to direct that during the period July 19 to October 18, the Delhi Police Commissioner may also exercise the powers of detaining authority under sub-section (2) of the section 3 of the aforesaid Act," the notification stated.The NSA allows preventive detention of an individual for months if the authorities feel that the individual is a threat to the national security, and law and order.The Lieutenant Governor's order comes ahead of Independence Day and at a time farmers protesting against the Centre's three agriculture laws have been holding 'Kisan Sansad' at central Delhi's Jantar Mantar.The Delhi Police, meanwhile, said that it is a routine order and is issued regularly.The area around Parliament in heart of Delhi are heavily barricaded and additional security personnel deployed in the wake of the 'Kisan Sansad'. Parts of national capital are under triple-layered security cover due to Independence Day on August 15.The personnel from Delhi Police, Rapid Action Force (RAF) and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) were seen armed with anti-riot gear in the area.On Thursday, a group of 200 farmers protesting the Centre’s three agri-marketing laws started a ‘Kisan Sansad’ at Jantar Mantar, close to Parliament where the monsoon session is underway.Earlier this month, Delhi Police Commissioner Balaji Srivastava had issued order, prohibiting the flying of aerial objects like drones, paragliders, and hot air balloons, ahead of Independence Day celebrations.The order shall remain in force in the national capital for a period of 32 days from July 16 till August 16 for security reasons, officials had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-gets-detaining-power-under-nsa-after-order-from-lieutenant-governor-101627105323568.html
24-07-2021||Other||Mizoram extends total lockdown in Aizawl Municipal Corporation till July 31||The Mizoram government on Friday extended the total lockdown in Aizawl Municipal Corporation (AMC) and imposed certain Covid-19 restrictions in other parts of the state till July 31 to curb surging infections, officials said.The ongoing shutdown was scheduled to be lifted on Saturday.The state government, in an official release, said the present Covid-19 positive detection rate is "extremely high" despite stringent measures taken to arrest rising cases."It is felt necessary to continue with the current restriction for prevention of the further spread of coronavirus, and to facilitate the ongoing mass testing conducted by the health and family welfare department," it said.Lockdown or other restrictions may be imposed in other places in the state by deputy commissioners depending on the pandemic situation, the release said.Essential services like water and electricity supply, healthcare, vaccination and LPG distribution will function normally.All shops will be closed in the AMC area except those dealing with essential commodities, it said.There is, however, no restriction on travel and transportation of goods outside the AMC area.Meanwhile, Mizoram on Friday reported 847 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike since the pandemic struck in March last year, a health department official said.The state's tally stands at 30,492, of which 7,559 are active cases.As many as 22,802 people have recovered from the infection, including 185 since Friday.A total of 131 people have succumbed to the virus so far, he said.According to State Immunisation Officer Lalzawmi, over 6.16 lakh people have been inoculated in the state thus far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mizoram-extends-total-lockdown-in-aizawl-municipal-corporation-till-july-31-101627092557580.html
24-07-2021||Other||7 killed in fire, explosion caused by leaking LPG cylinder in Gujarat||Seven persons have succumbed to the burn injuries after leakage of gas from an LPG cylinder triggered fire and explosion inside a room on the outskirts of Gujarat's Ahmedabad city, police have said.The incident took place on Tuesday night (July 20), but the victims - labourers and their family members - died over the last couple of days during treatment, said S S Gameti, sub-inspector of Aslali police station in Ahmedabad rural on Friday. Besides men, the deceased included children and women, he added. "Some labourers working in a factory and their family members were sleeping in a small room when gas from their LPG cylinder started leaking on the night of July 20. When their neighbour knocked on their door to alert them, a labourer got up and switched on the light, which caused an explosion due to concentration of gas," Gameti said. "Ten persons were sleeping there at that time and all of them received severe burn injuries as fire engulfed the room.While three persons died during their treatment on Thursday, four others succumbed to the injuries at a hospital on Friday, he said. Three persons are undergoing treatment, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/7-killed-in-fire-explosion-caused-by-leaking-lpg-cylinder-in-gujarat-101627099344300.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra landslide: Rescue operation hampered by rain||The search and rescue operation at Taliye in Maharashtra’s Raigad district, where a landslide buried an entire village with over 40 houses, was again hampered by heavy rain on Saturday.At least 36 bodies have been recovered while over 40 villagers were still missing since Thursday.The death toll from landslides in Raigad, Ratnagiri and Satara went up to 57 till Friday evening while 80 people were still missing. In Kevanale in Raigad, 11 bodies were recovered from a landslide scene. Seven people were killed in multiple landslides in Satara district and 30 more were missing. In Ratnagiri’s Posare, three persons were killed after a portion of hillock collapsed while 14 persons were still reported missing. In a statement, the Chief Minister’s Office said landslides were reported at 10 places. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has announced financial assistance for the landslide-hit people. In Taliye, rescuers pulled out bodies from the debris manually as heavy rain and difficult terrain prevented earth moving machinery from moving to the spot. State relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said the villagers were alerted and moved to safer locations in anticipation of heavy rains. He added the India Meteorological Department had issued a red alert. “We had relocated villagers of Taliye a few days back to safer location considering the risky terrain. However, the locals moved back to the same place before the landslide.”Raigad collector Nidhi Choudhari said around 32 houses were buried under the landslide and around 10 persons survived with minor injuries. “Based on the information from locals and survivors, we can say almost 30-35 people are still feared trapped. We have pressed more rescuers into service.”While the landslide struck on Thursday evening, rescue operations started only by Friday morning due to visibility issues. Satara district Collector Shekhar Singh said, “We have recovered six bodies so far while 30 persons are still missing. The search operation is underway on war-footing though heavy rains in many parts are creating hurdles.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-landslide-rescue-operation-hampered-by-rain-101627101913389.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||Shilpa Shetty questioned, Raj Kundra's police custody extended: 10 points||Actor Shilpa Shetty was questioned by the Mumbai Police’s crime branch on Friday in connection with the alleged porn racket involving her husband Raj Kundra. A local court in Mumbai extended Kundra's police custody till July 27. Kundra was arrested on July 19 by the police under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act.Raj Kundra was arrested by the Mumbai Police on Monday night for allegedly creating pornographic films and publishing them through mobile applications. The Mumbai Police have said they have arrested a total of 11 people, including Kundra, so far for their alleged involvement in the crime. Kundra has moved the Bombay High Court challenging magisterial remand order. Here's what we know so far:1. A crime branch team took Raj Kundra to his Juhu residence on Friday where they recorded Shilpa Shetty’s statement. During the search, police seized a laptop from the house.2. Police said the actor was the former director of Viaan Industries, from the premises of which the racket was being handled by Umesh Kamat, a close associate of Kundra. Kamat has also been arrested.3. A court in Mumbai extended the police custody of businessman Raj Kundra and his associate, Ryan Thorpe, till July 27 in the case.4. The police, while seeking further custody, claimed in the court that Kundra had plans to sell 119 adult films for $1.2 million to a person. Separately, an investigation officer said that the police also wanted to probe the alleged transfer of funds from a sports betting firm based in South Africa into Kundra's bank account.5. The police told the court they found during their probe that Kundra set up Armsprime Media Pvt Ltd, which through London-based Kenrin Pvt Ltd bought the Hot Shots app to upload "objectionable videos" on social media. Kundra's phone contained WhatsApp chats regarding Kenrin and its financial transactions.Also read | Raj Kundra paid police ₹25 lakh to evade arrest: Report6. The police wanted to probe if this deal went through and the videos were transferred. They added that searches at the accused's office led to the seizure of 51 obscene videos.7. An employee who handled accounts of Hot Shots told investigators that between August 2019 and November 2020 it earned a net profit of GBP 4,000 to 10,000 per month, police said.8. Since Thorpe allegedly directed the company's employees to remove all data related to the Hot Shots app after a case was registered in February this year, sections of IPC related to "destruction of evidence" have been added to the case, the police said.Also read | Mumbai Police recover 70 porn videos made on Raj Kundra's order: Reports9. The police said in their application in the court that they also wanted to record the statements of the women who were allegedly lured and forced into acting in porn films.10. Kundra later moved the Bombay High Court, seeking quashing of the lower court's order remanding him in police custody. He claimed that the alleged porn videos in question did not contain any sexually explicit scenes. The petition is yet to be heard.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shilpa-shetty-questioned-raj-kundra-s-police-custody-extended-10-points-101627098787261.html
24-07-2021||Dehradun||‘Ties of brotherhood?’: Judge pans cops in custody death case, orders CBI probe||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand high court has ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to take over the probe into the death of a Haldwani jail prisoner in March this year after his wife alleged he died after being beaten by four prison guards.The high court also told the state government to consider transferring Nainital senior superintendent of police Preeti Priyadarshini and initiating departmental action against her for not filing a first information report (FIR) on the wife’s complaint. The court said the FIR was filed on May 26, more than 45 days after the custodial death on March 6 on the orders of the district’s chief judicial magistrate.“The written words in the judgments of the courts and the provisions of right to life, as enshrined in the Indian Constitution, will remain dead letter, if action against erring police officers are not taken by the administration,” justice Ravindra Maithani said in his 16-page verdict that also asked the administratiion to transfer the circle officer of Haldwani and the four prison guards accused in this case.Incidentally, it was on the complaint of the wife accusing him of aggravated sexual assault of a child in the first place that the man was arrested under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act on March 4 and sent to Haldwani sub-jail. On March 6, he was brought dead to the hospital. The official account was that he fell but the autopsy recorded his 10 injuries in some detail.His wife, however, filed her first complaint after a prisoner, Rahul Shrivastav, phoned her after his release on March 13 and told her that four prison guards, Devendra Prasad Yadav, head guard, Kriti Nainwal, Devendra Rawat, Harish Rawat, brutally thrashed her husband that led to his death. The verdict detailed how the woman approached different authorities to seek investigation into her husband’s murder but was stonewalled by the police. It also recorded how the police at one point cited a magisterial inquiry into the custody death as one reason though there was no bar on registering the FIR.The Haldwani circle officer did inquire into the death on the SSP’s orders but the court spotted many gaps.“Is it ‘ties of brotherhood’ that the matter was not promptly lodged? Is it ‘ties of brotherhood’ that instead of lodging FIR, SSP Nainital ordered for inquiry by CO Haldwani? Is it ‘ties of brotherhood’ that CO Haldwani concluded after enquiry that the statement of eyewitness Rahul Srivastava does not find corroboration? Is it ‘ties of brotherhood’ that CO Haldwani, while recording its conclusion, did not even examine the doctor who conducted the post mortem and noted the injury?” justice Maithani asked, referring to a 1995 Supreme Court ruling that spoke of police personnel preferring to “even pervert the truth to save their colleagues”.The high court also ordered that the four guards at Haldwani sub-jail be immediately transferred to some place outside the district “to ensure fair investigation otherwise within those four walls of Sub-Jail Haldwani perhaps nobody would dare to speak the truth and only witness would be those stone walls which unfortunately cannot”.“The instant case is not an ordinary case. Allegations are of custodial death. It is against Guards of Sub-Jail, Haldwani. Deceased entered Sub-Jail, Haldwani hale and hearty with no wounds on his body. But, when he was taken out from Sub-Jail, Haldwani on March 6, 2021 and taken to Base Hospital, Haldwani, he was declared brought dead…according to the petitioner, she approached everyone in order to lodge the FIR …the SSP, declined to lodge the FIR…”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/ties-of-brotherhood-judge-pans-cops-in-custody-death-case-orders-cbi-probe-101627093092759.html
24-07-2021||Other||In major reshuffle, Andhra govt transfers 16 IAS officers across state||The Andhra Pradesh government, in a major reshuffle, issued orders on Friday to transfer 16 IAS officers with immediate effect.Andhra Pradesh Chief Secretary Adityanath Das had issued a government order in this regard.According to the order, D Muralidhar Reddy, IAS (2006), Collector and District Magistrate, East Godavari District was transferred and posted as Vice Chairman and Managing Director, Andhra Pradesh Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (APMSIDC)Vijay Rama Raju V, IAS (2012), Vice Chairman and Managing Director, Andhra Pradesh Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (APMSIDC) was posted as Collector and District Magistrate, YSR Kadapa district.Chevvuri Hari Kiran, IAS (2009), Collector and District Magistrate, YSR Kadapa district was transferred and posted as Collector and District Magistrate, East Godavari district.Vadarevu Vinay Chand, IAS, (2008), Collector and District Magistrate, Visakhapatnam district was transferred and posted as Chief Executive Officer, Dr YSR Aarogyasri Health Care Trust.Dr Mallikarjuna A, IAS, (2012), Chief Executive Officer, Dr YSR Aarogyasri Health Care Trust was posted as Collector and District Magistrate, Visakhapatnam district.Dr M Hari Jawaharlal, IAS (2005), Collector and District Magistrate, Vizianagaram was transferred and posted as Commissioner, Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R and R).A Surya Kumari, IAS (2008), Vice Chairman and Managing Director, Andhra Pradesh State Civil Supplies Corporation is posted as Collector and District Magistrate, Vizianagaram district.G Veerapandian, IAS ( 2009 ), Collector and District Magistrate, Kurnool district is transferred and posted as VC and MD, A.P. State Civil Supplies Corporation.P Koteswara Rao, IAS (2009), Metropolitan Commissioner, VMRDA is posted as Collector and District Magistrate, Kurnool district.K VenkataRamanareddy, IAS (2013), Joint Collector (RB and R), West Godavari District was transferred and posted as Metropolitan Commissioner, Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA).Sumit Kumar, IAS (2014), Joint Collector (RB and R), Srikakulam district was transferred and posted as Joint Collector (RB and R), West Godavari district.P Arjun Rao, IAS (2013), Special Commissioner, Endowments was transferred and posted as Director, Handlooms and Textiles.Dr G Vani Mohan, IAS (1996), Principal Secretary to Government (Endowments) was placed in a full additional charge of the post of Commissioner, Endowments.Swapnil Dinakar Pundkar, IAS (2016), Commissioner, Kakinada Municipal Corporation is posted as Joint Collector (RB and R), Chittoor.M Prabhakar Reddy, IAS ( 2013 ), who is waiting for posting is posted as VC and MD, Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-major-reshuffle-andhra-govt-transfers-16-ias-officers-across-state-101627090658292.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||Heavy rain to continue over Maharashtra, milk supply to Mumbai affected today||A day after at least 61 people were killed in Maharashtra due to heavy rains, widespread showers accompanied by strong winds have been predicted for the region by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for Saturday.Widespread rainfall has been forecast by IMD for Maharashtra, Marathwada, Vidharba and also for the Konkan coast and Goa for Saturday. Heavy rains will be driven by strong winds of speed 50-60kmph gusting to 70kmph, which have been forecast as very likely over the southwest and westcentral Arabian sea and along and off the Gujarat, Maharashtra and Goa coasts, IMD said on Friday.As Maharashtra continues to grapple with the heaviest downpour it has seen in the last 40 years, the meteorological department raised red alerts for several regions in the state, indicating that heavy rainfall will continue for the next few days. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra government has roped in the Indian Army to assist the local administration in flood-affected areas.The fairly widespread rainfall over the region with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are very likely to continue over the west coast for the next two to three days with a reduction thereafter, the IMD predicted on Friday. However, isolated extremely heavy falls are also very likely over Konkan, Goa and the adjoining ghat areas of central Maharashtra during July 23 and July 24 with reduction thereafter, the IMD said.Also read: Over 60 killed as west India hit by heavy rainParts of Maharashtra like Satara have already been issued a red alert in the view of extremely heavy rainfall for the next 24 hours. The intense rainfall is expected to pound the hilly ghat areas of western Maharashtra.Extremely heavy rainfall was likely to occur at isolated places in the ghat sections of the Satara district, the IMD said. Issuing an orange alert for Pune and Kolhapur, the IMD said "heavy to very heavy rainfall" is likely in isolated places in the ghat areas of the two districts.National and state highways like Pune-Bengaluru, Goa-Mumbai and Kolhapur-Ratnagiri are shut for the past two days, as many roads and villages have submerged in floodwaters. On Friday, the Western Railway cancelled at least six trains for Saturday in the areas affected by the heavy rainfall and landslides.The severe rainfall and flooding in the region have disrupted the collection and distribution of milk and the brand Gokul, owned by Kolhapur Zilla Sahakari Dudh Utpadak Sangh (KZSDUS), said there will be no supply of its milk pouches to Mumbai as Maharashtrian districts like Kolhapur, Sangli remained affected due to flooding."The milk collection was largely affected on Thursday and Friday due to downpour in western Maharashtra and Konkan. Against the daily collection of 13 lakh litres, we could collect about 2.5 lakh litres on Friday," KZSDUS chairperson Vishwas Patil told PTI.Also read: Heavy rain floods Karnataka; red alert in 7 districts, ICG swings into actionPatil said flooding in parts of the state has not only affected the collection of the milk, but even its transportation has come to the halt due to the closure of state and national highways, Kolhapur Zilla Sahakari Dudh Utpadak Sangh said in a statement. "Many highways heading to Mumbai are shut as the heavy rainfall continued on Friday as well. As a result of this, we will not be able to supply milk pouches to our Mumbai consumers on Saturday."The supply to the Mumbai market, Patil said, will resume as soon as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/heavy-rain-to-continue-over-maharashtra-milk-supply-to-mumbai-affected-today-101627087369532.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||Use mobile phones for office work only if necessary: Maha govt tells employees||As the Pegasus spyware issue is being hotly debated in the country, the Maharashtra government on Friday asked its employees to keep the use of mobile phones to a minimum during office hours, saying that landline phones are more preferable. An order issued by the General Administration department (GAD) said mobile phones should be used only if necessary for official work. Indiscriminate use of mobile phones in office maligns the government's image, the order said, without any reference to the spyware row. Text messages should be used more if mobile phones are to be used at all and conversation through these devices should be as little as possible, it added. The use of social media through mobile devices during office hours should be limited, the government said. Personal calls on mobile phones should be answered by stepping out of office, the `code of conduct' further said. The order also said that conversations on mobile phone should be "polite" and carried on "in low voice", keeping in mind people in the vicinity. But calls from elected representatives and senior officials must be answered without delay. Mobile phones should be on silent mode during official meetings or inside the chambers of senior officials. Similarly, Internet browsing, checking messages and use of ear phones should be avoided on such occasions, the government advised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/use-mobile-phones-for-office-work-only-if-necessary-maha-govt-tells-employees-101627087833697.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sales at Chandigarh nurseries finally pick up||With monsoons finally making a comeback and Covid cases dropping significantly, nurseries in the city which were reeling under losses are finally reporting an increase in sales.Ranbeer Sood, manager of Durga Nursery at IT Park Road, Manimajra, said business had been hit as rains stopped in the region after mid-June. Now, they are expecting a resurgence. “People buy different varieties of plants during this season, especially ones with medicinal qualities like aloe vera. Mostly senior citizens, largely women, prefer to buy them. Other than families, many companies also buy saplings in bulk as part of social development plans,” said Sood.Rajinder Vashisht, owner of Dashmesh Nursery in Manimajra, said, “We used to earn about ₹10 lakh per month before the pandemic outbreak. However, sales have now dropped by 80% and we average around ₹2 lakh per month.” The UT forest department is also conducting various drives to supply saplings to residents as a part of annual Van Mahotsav celebrations.With lockdown restrictions being eased, Chandigarh residents have also started going back to nurseries. Sakshi Arora, a resident of Sector 19, said, “I have been buying plants for a long time, especially on special occasions such as birthdays of my family members. I buy saplings from Durga nursery and prefer snake or rubber plants, which absorb pollutants and act as defence against airborne allergies.”Many people also grow their own vegetables in their kitchen yards, for which they purchase saplings. Hira Lal Narang, 60, a resident of Sector 18, said, “I have always been health-conscious. I prefer kitchen gardening and grow vegetables like eggplant, green beans and spinach in my backyard as most vegetables that we buy from markets are sprayed with pesticides”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sales-at-chandigarh-nurseries-finally-pick-up-101627075870550.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh pvt schools on the fence about reopening, to meet admn||Even as government schools have resumed physical classes, while simultaneously continuing online classes for students staying home, private schools are finding a similar arrangement impractical.“We were not consulted before the decision to reopen schools on July 19 was announced. Now the fact that we have to take online classes along with offline classes doesn’t sit right with us. Teachers cannot be expected to teach throughout the day. We will approach the UT administration asking them to allow only online or offline classes for private schools,” said HS Mamik, president of the Independent Schools’ Association, Chandigarh.Mamik, who is also the chairman of Vivek High School in Sector 38, said the school was currently closed for summer vacations and a decision regarding reopening will be taken in August. “Meanwhile we have sent feedback forms to parents and will take a call depending on how many agree to send their wards to school,” he added.Assistant director of St Xavier’s Senior Secondary School, Sector 44, Naresh Handa said, “Due to optional attendance, a sense of complacency is sure to come up in students, who won’t want to come in for physical classes. Later, it will be taxing for teachers to clear their doubts again. The administration should issue clear instructions and seek inputs of parents directly before taking a final call.”Live classes a solutionSt Kabir Public School in Sector 26 is one private school that reopened for physical along with government schools on Monday. Currently physical classes are underway for Classes 11 and 12, while those for Classes 9 and 10 will begin on July 26. Administrator Gurpreet Bakshi said, “We have started hybrid classrooms that involve teachers teaching in the class and students at home participating virtually. This saves our teachers’ effort and is working well.”Attendance increasing in govt schoolsFour days into the first week of classes resuming at government schools, students’ attendance has improved from 10% to 15%, officials said. Class 9 has the highest attendance of around 20%, followed by Class 10 with 15% and Class 12 with 10%. Classes for Class 11 haven’t started yet. “We hope that the numbers will increase significantly by next week. Our primary concerns are following the Covid protocols while making sure that academics don’t suffer,” said Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director, school education, UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-pvt-schools-on-the-fence-about-reopening-to-meet-admn-101627073652406.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University allows re-evaluation of online exam papers||For candidates who appeared in online examinations held between January and March this year, Panjab University (PU) has allowed the provision of re-evaluation.The candidates whose results have been declared may apply for re-evaluation from July 27 to August 10 (within 15 days). While the undergraduate (UG) students can apply on https://ugexam.puexam.in/Reevaluation/Login.aspx, the postgraduate (PG) students can apply on https://pgexam.puexam.in/Reevaluation/Login.aspx.The university said that the offline form(s), along with requisite fee receipt, should reach the office of the assistant registrar (re-evaluation) by 5pm on August 8, failing which the form will not be considered.For those candidates whose results have yet to be declared, re-evaluation can be applied for within 15 days from the date of declaration of the results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-allows-re-evaluation-of-online-exam-papers-101627073482713.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||GMADA land pooling scheme: Decade on, 200 landowners yet to get showrooms in Mohali’s IT City||Even though the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) had acquired land for the IT City housing scheme at Aerocity in December 2011, around 200 landowners of seven villages, who had applied for the land pooling scheme, are still awaiting possession of showrooms.Through the land pooling scheme, owners were to be provided residential or commercial plots instead of monetary compensation in lieu of their land. The size of the showroom is 100 square yards. GMADA already gave possession to owners of residential plots in IT City in 2019.A landowner from Bakarpur village, Gurminder Singh, said, “They [GMADA] acquired land around a decade ago and they have not given us the possession of the showroom under land pooling scheme despite repeated requests.”Another landowner, Sajjan Singh of Chajumajra village, said, “In April this year, they were to hold a draw of lots, which was deferred due to Covid-19. We request the concerned authorities to expedite the process.”When contacted, a senior official of GMADA said, “Though the draw of lots to be held on April 27 this year was deferred, we will be holding another one soon.”The IT City is spread over 1,722 acres in Sectors 66B, 82A, Sectors 83A and 101A adjoining the Airport Road. The first housing scheme in IT City was launched in February 2014, wherein 325 residential plots were allotted at a rate of ₹23,500 per sq yd. The second scheme was launched in July 2016, wherein 750 plots were allotted at ₹20,000 per sq yd. The last scheme was launched in April 2018.Aerotropolis project: Farmers to get letters of Intent in first week of AugustAfter the Hindustan Times, on July 17, raised the issue of farmers of 11 villages up in arms against GMADA over the non-issuance of letters of intent, even after acquisition of 1,600 acre of land three years ago for the Aerotropolis project, GMADA has said the letters will be issued to them in the first week of August.A senior GMADA official said, “We are giving the final touches and will be handing over the letters of intent in the first week of August.”Aerotropolis is the seventh independent township being developed by GMADA on over 5,400 acres on both sides of the Zirakpur-Banur road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gmada-land-pooling-scheme-decade-on-200-landowners-yet-to-get-showrooms-in-mohali-s-it-city-101627073230756.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||No vaccine wastage in Chandigarh as 5,671 extra doses extracted from vials||The UT health department has effectively used the Covid-19 vaccines and has avoided wastage by extracting 5,671 extra doses from the vials, the central government said in a letter on Friday.As per the data shared by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, many states and union territories, including Chandigarh, managed to extract extra doses from the vials that are typically used for 10 jabs.The vaccine manufactures add a little excess of the medicine in the vial considering losses. If cautiously administered, an additional one dose can be extracted from every vial, which can be used as the 11th dose.Between May 1 and July 13, the Chandigarh health department had administered additional 5,671 doses by effective usage, whereas the Punjab health department had wasted 13,613 doses, the data shows.The union ministry further said that between May 1 and July 13, a total of 2.49 lakh doses had been wasted in India while 41.12 lakh extra doses had been extracted beyond the labeled quantity. “Regular review meetings are being held with states and UTs to review all aspects of vaccination drive including vaccine wastage,” the letter reads.Average weekly inoculations go up in UTAs the set deadline for vaccinating the eligible population with at least the first dose draws near, the weekly Covid vaccination average has improved in the city.In the last week ending on July 22, 9,227 people were inoculated with both the doses daily. This is the highest weekly vaccination average since the beginning of the drive in January this year.In June, on an average 6,200-6,500 doses were administered to people per day, on most of the days.According to the latest electoral list, around 7.1 lakh people are eligible to be jabbed in Chandigarh. The UT health department aims to vaccinate the entire eligible population, with at least the first dose, till August 15. As of Friday, 80% of the eligible population had taken the first dose; 23% have been fully vaccinated.Dr Amandeep Kang, UT director, health services, said, “Since the 18 to 44 age group became eligible for the vaccination in May, the numbers have improved in Chandigarh. Also, the UT health department is making unique efforts in reaching out to people. Daily, 15 mobile vaccination vans are visiting different areas. We have converted two air-conditioned buses into vaccination buses, to facilitate people at their doorsteps.”Dr Kang further said that evening vaccination camps at the UT’s four government hospitals and camps in public places including Sukhna Lake, were also receiving a good response and over 500 people were getting vaccinated there daily.The UT health department expects to meet the vaccination target till the set deadline, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-vaccine-wastage-in-chandigarh-as-5-671-extra-doses-extracted-from-vials-101627073171284.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Hop-on hop-off service resumes on Kalka-Shimla railway section||The Northern Railways has re-introduced the leisure-oriented hop-on hop-off service on the 118-year-old scenic Kalka-Shimla narrow gauge section that will enable the tourists to view all places on a single ticket.Officials said that the service had been restarted in view of the tourist season, where the passenger has to submit copies of required documents while buying the tickets. Tourists will be able to hop on and hop off of any train on the section.Ashutosh Gangal, general manager of the Northern Railways, in a statement said that the ticket could be bought from any station on the section and the passengers could board any coach of any train subject to availability of seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hopon-hop-off-service-resumes-on-kalka-shimla-railway-section-101627073110458.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Two lose battle to Covid in Mohali, Panchkula after zero deaths for 11 days||After no Covid-related deaths for 11 straight days, the tricity recorded two fatalities on Friday.A 78-year-old man died in Mohali after a gap of 11 days and a 42-year-old woman from Kharag Mangoli in Panchkula, where no casualties were recorded for the past 18 days.Chandigarh continued to report zero deaths for the 18th consecutive day.Through July, 11 people have succumbed to the virus in the tricity, including eight in Mohali, two in Panchkula and one in Chandigarh. However, the number is far lower than 151 deaths in the first 23 days of June.For the fifth time this month, tricity’s daily Covid-19 cases remained in single digits, as seven people were found infected. Among them five cases were from Mohali, and one each from Chandigarh and Panchkula. So far in July, 374 people have tested positive in the tricity, highest in Mohali at 175, followed by 150 in the UT and 49 in Panchkula. In the same period in June, the tricity tally was 3,579.On Friday, the active cases came down to 78 from Thursday’s 88. A total of 36 patients are still recuperating in Mohali, 33 in Chandigarh and nine in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-lose-battle-to-covid-in-mohali-panchkula-after-zero-deaths-for-11-days-101627072751298.html
24-07-2021||Delhi||Junked panel would have re-examined all O2 deaths in city: Jain||ll oxygen shortage deaths in the Capital, including those at Jaipur Golden hospital, which a previous Delhi government committee had ruled were down to other reasons, would have been examined by a six-member committee set up by the Delhi government in end-May to distribute ₹5 lakh compensation among family members, said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday.“The committee had to submit their report within a day, so it should be considered a preliminary report. For final findings, the new committee would have looked at these cases. The Delhi government set up a committee on May 27 that could award up to ₹5 lakh compensation for deaths due to oxygen shortage. But, the LG disbanded the committee on May 21,” said Jain on Friday.The first committee being referred to is a four-member committee constituted by Delhi government in end-April on the orders of the Delhi high court that examined the deaths of 21 patients at Jaipur Golden hospital in the intervening night of April 23 and 24. The committee said that the deaths were due to “respiratory failure” and not because of a shortage of oxygen.This comes days after the Union health ministry in Parliament said that no state reported any fatality due to oxygen shortage, as Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia accusing the Centre of “lying”.“If I say there were deaths due to oxygen shortage, you would ask me how many, who were these people, which hospital were they admitted to. We would have been able to provide all this data if the committee had been formed,” said Jain.The Delhi unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party, at the time, justified the move, since a similar committee was constituted weeks ahead of the city administration’s order, on the direction of the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/junked-panel-would-have-re-examined-all-o2-deaths-in-city-jain-101627071953106.html
24-07-2021||Kolkata||Formalising the reality, says TMC on naming Banerjee parliamentary party’s chair||KOLKATA: Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee on Friday was unanimously chosen as the chairperson of the party’s parliamentary party.The West Bengal chief minister is not a member of Parliament.The resolution to make Banerjee the chairperson was proposed by TMC MP Sudip Banerjee, floor leader of the party in the Lok Sabha and TMC MP Derek O’Brien, leader of the party in the Rajya Sabha at a parliamentary party meeting of the TMC in New Delhi on Thursday.“The resolution was unanimously adopted and signed by all the TMC MPs. Some of the MPs, who were out of station, would sign it on Monday. She was the chairperson of the TMC. She has also been unanimously chosen as the chairperson of the TMC parliamentary party with effect from Thursday,” O’Brien said at a press conference in New Delhi.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was quick to take a swipe at the TMC.“It is an obvious decision. TMC is a one-woman party and that is Mamata Banerjee,” state BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said. Friday’s announcement comes a month after TMC’s national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, who is seen as the in-charge of the party’s expansion plans, announced that the TMC would expand footprint in other states ahead of the 2024 national polls to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, leader of the opposition in the Lok Sabha said: “Usually the leader of a party’s parliamentary party is a MP. But any party can do anything, It is their decision.” O’Brien, however, said: “Mamata Banerjee is a seven-time MP. She has the experience, insight, vision and the feel to guide the parliamentary party. She has been doing this and we were taking her guidance. She was just a call away. We are only formalising the reality.”The TMC chief will camp in Delhi next week. While she already has an appointment from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Banerjee is also expected to meet a host of other political leaders.Even though Mamata Banerjee was defeated by Adhikari by a margin of 1956 votes, she took oath as the chief minister for the third time. She now has to get elected from an assembly seat within six months in a by-election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/formalising-the-reality-says-tmc-on-naming-banerjee-parliamentary-party-s-chair-101627071670156.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Rampant illegal sand mining: Panchkula mining officer suspended||Acting on complaints of illegal sand mining, Haryana sports and youth affairs minister Sandeep Singh on Friday suspended district mining officer Om Dutt Sharma.Also taking note of overloading of vehicles used for sand mining, the minister issued transfer orders for Amarinder Singh, district transport officer-cum-secretary, Regional Transport Authority (RTA), Panchkula. The orders came after both the officials failed to present action-taken before the district public relations and grievance committee at its second monthly meeting on Friday. In the last meeting, rampant illegal mining from Dangri river in Badona Kalan village was highlighted, following which the minister had sought a detailed report. Haryana assembly speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta had also directed the district transport officer to ensure that overloading of vehicles used in mining areas be checked regularly. DC told to find solution to fly menace On Friday, Gupta directed deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh to hold a meeting with the Poultry Farm Owners’ Association and find a solution to the menace of flies in Raipur Rani and Barwala block. He also ordered formation of a supervisory committee that will visit the affected areas and ensure compliance of measures taken to solve the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rampant-illegal-sand-mining-panchkula-mining-officer-suspended-101627071370137.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||At Navjot Sidhu’s installation in Chandigarh, Covid norms, Section 144 restrictions go for a toss||As Navjot Singh Sidhu took the reins of Punjab Congress at the party’s office in Chandigarh, on Friday, the brimming crowd completely disregarded Covid safety norms and Section 144 restrictions imposed in the city.Thousands, including Congress ministers, MLAs, leaders, workers and supporters, descended on the Congress Bhawan in Sector 15, while giving masks and social distancing the go-by.ALSO READ: 3 Congress workers, on way to Navjot Sidhu event, killed in bus accidentThe Chandigarh Police personnel deployed to maintain law and order at the venue watched the violations as mute spectators, but a case was registered later in the day. Lodged under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51B of the Disaster Management Act, the FIR did not name anyone.“So far the case is against unidentified persons. We are scanning the footage to identify the violators,” said superintendent of police (SP, City), Ketan Bansal. Just four days ago, on July 19, the UT administration had banned gathering of more than five persons for processions, protests or rallies in the city, other than at the Sector-25 rally ground, in the wake of the attack on the city mayor and a senior BJP leader.The number of people at other social gatherings is capped at 200 as part of Covid restrictions. Who is to be blamed? Punjab cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who oversaw preparations for the event, claimed it was held after taking permission from the UT administration and all senior police officers were also present. However, SDM (Central) Harjit Singh Sandhu maintained that no approval was sought from the SDM office.Hitting out at the Congress, Chandigarh BJP president Arun Sood questioned, “Will the Congress take the responsibility if the third wave hits the city? They should be ashamed of themselves for endangering the lives of city residents when the second wave has just subsided. A symbolic takeover would have sufficed.”Chander Mukhi Sharma, a senior AAP leader, said, “The Disaster Management Act and Section 144 prohibitory orders were grossly violated. It seems the administration has imposed these restrictions only to curtail local protests under the pressure of the BJP.”ALSO READ: Cold war ends as CM Amarinder Singh and Navjot Sidhu meet, sip tea togetherResidents, too, took to social media, slamming the administration and police for allowing the blatant violations. “Shame on Chandigarh administrator. Now with which face he can impose restrictions on common people?” a city resident, Balvinder R, tweeted.Traffic snarlsAs the event wrapped up, traffic came to a halt near the Congress Bhawan for nearly an hour. Police had stopped vehicles from reaching the building, so attendees haphazardly parked their vehicles anywhere they found space, including on cycle tracks. However, Chandigarh Police took no action for wrong parking. Protesting teachers climb to office terraceEight Punjab school teachers, protesting for several days for regularisation of services, climbed to the terrace of the Congress Bhawan as soon as the function ended. They were later detained by cops present and handed over to the Punjab Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-navjot-sidhu-s-installation-in-chandigarh-covid-norms-section-144-restrictions-go-for-a-toss-101627070829654.html
24-07-2021||Delhi||Will decide on reopening Delhi schools based on other states’ experience: CM||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the government will review the reopening of schools in other states and chalk out a strategy soon based on their experience, even as he stressed on the importance of vaccinating children.“Ideally, we will not open schools until everyone is vaccinated. However, seeing that other states are reopening schools, we will review how it goes for them and accordingly plan out. We have been receiving a lot of messages from parents regarding the safety of the children and want to assure that the safety of the children will be our priority,” said Kejriwal on the side lines of an event at Timarpur MLA Dilip Pandey’s office on Friday evening.States, including Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Gujarat and Haryana, have announced the reopening of schools in parts, with curbs in place.On July 15, Kejriwal said that schools will not reopen in the Capital at the moment given the current trends of Covid-19 that point towards a third wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-decide-on-reopening-delhi-schools-based-on-other-states-experience-cm-101627070724979.html
24-07-2021||Other||Chandigarh’s glorious past presents a tense future||Corbusier wasn’t against high-rise development Le Corbusier was always in favour of high-rise apartments as is evident from his ideas on Radiant City and his proposal for Redevelopment of Paris. He always envisioned a sector with a single high-rise mix-use tower for the population, and kept rest of the land vacant for agricultural and recreational use. When he actually got the chance to implement his ideas in Chandigarh, in the 1950s, our country didn’t have enough funds to invest in vertical infrastructure. In order to execute his urban ideas, Corbusier had proposed that Phase I, which consisted largely of low-rise low density government housing, be demolished and new high rise, high density development be carried out. But that was never done. Though some of the southern sectors have got such buildings, most of it poorly executed. Kamal Passi, ChandigarhNorthern sectors already bursting at the seams with PGsAt present, there is no bar on renting out houses to any number of tenants or converting it into a paying guest accommodation, subject to certain conditions. In most one kanal houses of the northern sectors, at least seven to eight rooms have been rented out to different individuals on single or double-sharing basis. So there are more than 15 tenants in such houses. It is far better to have just three families as owners than having so many tenants, especially in terms of burden on the infrastructure. Vinod Chadha, ChandigarhPreserve Chandigarh’s original character Chandigarh is a great experiment of modern urban planning and architecture which had a significant impact on development of cities and towns in the states of Punjab and Haryana. Chandigarh administration should never of allow the rise of apartments over bungalows/independent dwelling units and must protect Le Corbusier’s Chandigarh, a world renowned City Beautiful. Instead, the administration should embark on preserving the city’s original character and at the same time, improve the city infrastructure and beauty through modern technology and urban renewable mechanism. As far as the growing population’s housing needs are concerned, the massive development in SAS Nagar (Mohali) & Panchkula will help resolve it. HS Bhogal, MohaliDo away with north-south divide Considering the affordable housing needs of people, the Apartment Act should be allowed in Chandigarh. Besides, it will help families legally divide the property and sell / mortgage / reconstruct etc without the consent of all stakeholders. If apartments can come up in the southern sectors, which are now seeing a high population density and added burden on infrastructure, the why can’t it be allowed in Northern sectors. How can a city have two set of rules, presumably one for the rich and the other for the poor. Maj RS Virk, ChandigarhDon’t kill city’s soulChandigarh is a special city and is known all over the world for its architectural character and quality of life for its residents. It cannot be compared with Delhi or any other city in India and it enjoys a special status of being the first fully planned and best livable city. Allowing flats in place of bungalows will indirectly kill the soul of the city as it is already bursting at its seams. The increase in FAR in marla category houses, and increased FAR in commercial buildings in various stages has already done more than enough in increasing population density of the city. Only people with vested interests, such as builders and developers, want to change the character of the city.Ashwani Sabharwal, ChandigarhCity will lose its heritageCity Beautiful’s layout plan by Le Corbusier is one of the best architectural and design works in India. But if the UT administration allows any construction of apartments over bungalows, Chandigarh will lose its heritage. Sandeep Rawat, ChandigarhDevelop townships around cityDevelopment should be proportional. There is already a shortage of parking space, water scarcity, and electric cuts. If subdivision of residential plots or floor-wise ownership is allowed, these problems will only accentuate. Instead of overloading the city, towns around Chandigarh should be developed.Renu Saigal, via emailAllow apartments, but with ridersApartments may be allowed in Northern Sectors to meet the growing population’s housing needs, subject some conditions. The plot area should be at least four kanal, only 40% coverage may be allowed for construction, basement and ground floor should be allowed for parking only, only four-storeys should be allowed.Subhash Chander Swami, via emailMove with the timesLe Corbusier’s Chandigarh was planned keeping in mind the population at that time. But now the population has increased manifold. In addition, now it is surrounded by satellite towns of Mohali and Panchkula. Hence, the need of hour is to allow the rise of apartments.Subhash Chugh, via emailCan’t allow independent housing in rapidly growing cityThe population of the city has been risen from 10.5 lakh in 2011 to nearly 12 lakh in the last decade. In a rapidly growing city, the administration cannot build so many independent houses. The conventional approach is to displace poor residents and destroy their homes to make way for new development. But this has an adverse effect on the already living population. Thus apartments in northern sectors must be allowed.SK Khosla, ChandigarhDon’t be averse to changeBlind adherence to any practice or provision howsoever good, must not hinder any endeavour to make it better and in tune with evolving needs and aspirations. Things do not change; we change and changing for the better sustains life. Rise of multi-storeyed apartments over a bungalow in northern sectors of Le Corbusier’s Chandigarh, will be to the detrimental to neighbours in bungalows nearby. Nonetheless, apartment complexes should be allowed where ample open space is available. Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaCan’t absorb more people hereOn one hand, we talk about the traffic problems, installing air purifiers, looking for solutions to minimise pollution in the city, both noise and traffic, trash management, and on the other hand we talk about absorbing more population into Chandigarh. I believe it is not justified since this will disrupt the beauty of the city. The city has already been pushed to the lowest level as far as beauty is concerned. How can we disgrace it more.Anju Mohan, PanchkulaLe Corbusier’s legacy needs to be protectedWith the ever-burgeoning population hitting the roof, problems of residents have multiplied too. The administration shall have to take a clear stand so as to protect and preserve the rich legacy of Le Corbusier as the misplaced plan is set to spoil the heritage of the city. The administration needs to maintain a status quo if it wants Chandigarh to enjoy the ‘City Beautiful’ tag. Ramesh Dhiman, Chandigarh Solve existing problemsBefore making way for new population, Chandigarh need to find a solution for the existing problems such as parking hassles. The problem is not of population but that of mismanagement. So the government should make necessary arrangements to tackle the crisis.Avinash Goyal, Chandigarh Don’t make city a concrete jungleAny city has to evolve over time while also keeping its culture and ethos intact. Chandigarh is one such city which needs preservation of its heritage so that future generations can count on its beauty in years to come. The UT administration should avoid making the City Beautiful a concrete jungle. The design and layout of apartments designed by Le Corbusier should be retained as they add aesthetic value to the city. High-rise apartments in the city should not be allowed as they would steal the beauty of Chandigarh. In order to meet the demand of the growing population we have to satellite townships with modern transport facilities. Much more is there to solve the problem than spoiling an excellent piece of urban design , that is Chandigarh.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, via emailCity infrastructure need a complete over overhaulA city’s needs change over time and evolving to fulfill it is termed development. In our City Beautiful, the rising population needs more space for houses. To meet these needs, the authorities must allow the construction of apartment buildings in the place of bungalows while retaining our marvellous heritage. For this, some of the city’s old sectors should be designated as heritage sectors where such construction should not be allowed. Construction of apartment buildings over the debris of bungalows should be approved in the other sectors. This should be considered an opportunity to have a complete overhaul of the city’s infrastructure.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhWith times, requirements have also changedUT administration should allow the rise of apartments over bungalows in Le Corbusier’s, Chandigarh to meet the growing population’s housing needs. First of all, everyone cannot afford a bungalow and apartments are a more convenient option. Apartments score highly over bungalows as they are easier to sell because of relatively lower ticket sizes and the convenience of ownership. Both apartments and bungalows offer their unique living quotients and one must choose based on their taste, investment philosophy and financing options. Population change leads to a changing demand for housing. With the continuous increase in population there should be several housing options. Ishita Nara, via emailAllow apartments, but preserve green beltYes, high-rise apartments must be allowed to meet the needs of the continuously growing population, though the green belt of Chandigarh and pollution norms should not be compromised. Parking issues can be resolved by planning parking spaces in newly emerging high rise apartments. Karan Gaba, PanchkulaRetain character, ethos of cityCities evolve with times but Chandigarh, being unique, must retain its character and ethos as envisaged by its founders. There won’t be any limit to need-based changes and commercial exploitation that would lead to city losing its character and unique architectural spaces. Division of a residential plot to carve out apartments or flats is a clear cut violation that should not be allowed. However the demand for more residential units could be accommodated by allowing multistory construction in sectors bordering Mohali and Panchkula where we already have a landscape with high-rise apartments.DS Banati, MohaliDevelop the peripheryWe need to keep growing. Keeping in mind the beauty of Chandigarh one thing that comes to our mind is the uniqueness of its architecture. The basic plan of Chandigarh should not be disturbed. If the city has to expand and absorb in the growing needs of the population then periphery should be developed.Garv Bhupesh, PanchkulaPlanned upgrade of cityBeing India’s first planned city, the union territory is one of the cleanest in the country and is famous for its quality of architecture and urban planning. To keep up with the growing population and requirements of the city, the civic authorities designed the master plan of Chandigarh that will help them to regulate development and building activity. As per projections, Chandigarh will have a population of around 14.5 lakh by 2021 and over 20 lakh by 2030, which will further strain infrastructure — roads, power, water, sanitation, education, transport and housing. So, there is need to upgrade the city’s infrastructure. Khushboo Singla, ChandigarhGreen apartmentsChandigarh’s heritage and legacy needs to be preserved in line with Le Corbusier’s plan, but certain areas now need change according to the modern requirements, be it parking needs or high rise apartments. With the population growing rapidly in Chandigarh, the development of high rise apartments should be approved. Rather models of modern cities like Singapore can be studied for the same by developing high-rise apartments in a green way, which will help in maintaining the city’s character as well.Supneet Moyer, Chandigarh Preserve legacy with a touch of modernisationChandigarh is a modern, beautiful and famous city in the World. Presently the city does not have sufficient housing for its population. Necessity is the mother of invention. So multi-storey apartments should be allowed but care must be taken to ensure the city’s original character is protected rigorously. It is true that change is never easy but always possible as per requirement. Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliDon’t ruin the beauty of the City Beautiful.A large population is the reason behind the ideology of the apartment system in Chandigarh. Chandigarh has been known for its beauty, layout, and architecture. Nehru’s dream can’t be shattered in a single go. Government is doing work on its toes to bring a decrease in the population. If it happens, the population would no longer be a problem. Even if the above fact is ignored, a decision to enforce the apartment system will rob the city of its beauty and charm. Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhLaunch economical, environment-friendly housing schemesWith a surge in population due to migration, housing demand in the city is rising. Housing schemes launched by CHB in the past were too costly and beyond the reach of a common man. Too much interference by bureaucrats, councillors and ministers put all the projects in limbo on pretext of preserving the beauty of the city. Much land is available with the Chandigarh administration, which needs to launch economical, environment friendly, disaster resistant housing schemes. Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliApartments a more practical choice Chandigarh city beautiful was designed and planned on geometric pattern by famous French architect Le Carbusier. All roads run parallel and perpendicular to each other. With the increase in population of the city, need was felt to go in far apartment (flat system), because bungalows take a lot of space, upkeep and regular maintenance problems. Multi-storey apartments occupy less space, and are easy to maintain. Further, as we now have nuclear families, apartments are a more practical choice.Col TBS Bedi (Retd), MohaliReader of the weekAdapt to the changing timesThe UT administration should allow the rise of apartments in Chandigarh to meet the growing population’s housing needs. Since the concept of joint families is slowly fading away, apartments will serve the needs of nuclear families. An added benefit is that the maintenance of apartments is comparatively easier and thus a more practical option for those who lead fast-paced lives. These days, people are also going for luxury apartments, which come with in-built facilities such as swimming pools, jacuzzi etc, and have supermarkets, playgrounds, and medical facilities within the township. Household issues such as electricity, water, and gas are easy to sort since the societies mostly use joint connections. Aarushi Mishra, ChandigarhExpert takeSkylineApartments can be allowed but not at the cost of city’s skyline. Development has to take place but the architectural heritage should also be safeguarded. SD Sharma, senior architect, Chandigarh heritage conservation committee’s sub-group chairman Vertical expansionAmid shooting property rates, rampant population growth and space constrains, the need of the hour is to facilitate the Master Plan- 2031 for calculated vertical expansion. This would help solve the problem of housing in terms of space, suitability and budget. Salil Dev Singh Bali, lawyer (associated with this case in HC) Study the demandWhile we need additional housing, preserving the city’s heritage is equally important. Currently, we don’t have any studies on the actual housing demand in the city. Academic institutions can undertake such studies and come up with design solutions to cater to higher density housing needs.Dr Sangeeta Bagga, principal Chandigarh College of Architecture Phase out single-storeysThe rise of apartments in Chandigarh is the need of the hour and the city can be expanded now. Also, single-storey government accommodations should be phased out and new multi-storeyed buildings should come up in its place. Gurpreet Singh, former chief town planner, Punjab Limited infrastructure‘Apartmentalisation’ of a planned city like Chandigarh will ruin the city, which was originally planned only for five lakh people, as the infrastructure can’t bear the extra population.ML Sarin, senior advocate||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chandigarhs-glorious-past-presenting-a-tense-future-101627070470440.html
24-07-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Fond memories of the village||Many of us in this city can trace our roots to a village. Praveen Lal is no different. The shoeshine man lives with his wife and four kids in west Delhi’s Dwarka, “but my true home is my village.”In his late 20s, Mr Lal left his ancestral land more than a decade ago “but I’m still connected to it and go back every year to do my share of work in the family’s farm fields.”His parents and siblings live in Biawar, a rural hamlet near Ajmer, in Rajasthan. This morning Mr Lal is sitting on the dusty floor of Connaught Place, softly calling out to passersby to get their shoes polished. No one is stopping.“We have a pond in our village, where I learnt swimming as a child... it continues to be full of water, clean water, and even today men in the village go there for a dubki (dip) — you instantly feel fresh.”Though there is always the option for a quick bath under the handpump that almost each household has, he confirms.Mr Lal’s village is ringed by low hills and “the area has all sorts of trees, but I don’t remember having fruit trees from which we could have had guavas or ber for free.”Sometimes, here in Delhi, Mr Lal closes his eyes and thinks of Biawar. “The first image I always see is of our mandir.” The white marble Ramdevji Maharaj temple stands at the top of a hill to reach which “you have to climb more than 500 steps.” On stepping inside, Mr Lal immediately sits down on the temple floor to recover his depleted energy. “It’s a meethi thakaan (sweet exhaustion)... resting in the mandir is more peaceful than sleeping on your own bed.”Mr Lal and his family visit the village every year during holi. Now, swinging his head on both sides of the colonial-era colonnade, he mutters that “it’s difficult to imagine that a place like my village is in the same world in which Delhi is… they both have nothing in common.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-fond-memories-of-the-village-101627070267796.html
24-07-2021||Delhi||₹1 crore aid for kin of cops, civil staff, Air Force officers who died on duty||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said his Cabinet has approved ₹1 crore financial aid to the families of two Delhi Police officers, a civil defence volunteer and three Air Force officers who were residents of the city and died while on duty.The two police officials – one of them a constable and the other an ACP rank officer – and the civil defence volunteer died in three separate road accident cases reported between 2016 and 2020. They were all deployed in pickets and hit by speeding vehicles.Of the three Air Force officers, two of them died in the same aircraft wreckage incident in Arunachal Pradesh in 2019, and the third officer died in a MiG-21 aircraft crash in the Kangra Hills in Himachal Pradesh in 2018, the chief minister’s office said in a press statement.“The Kejriwal government will give a ‘Samman Rashi’ of ₹1 crore each to the family of six bravehearts of Delhi who lost their lives in the line of duty. The decision was taken in the meeting of the Delhi cabinet regarding the grant of the ex-gratia to the families,” the statement said.“The families of the brave men who will be given the ex-gratia include two officers who were posted with the Delhi Police, three with the Indian Air Force, while one jawan was posted in Civil Defense,” it added.Kejriwal said, “The people of Delhi who lost their lives in the line of duty cannot be compensated, but the family will get some help from the amount given by the government to honour their sacrifice. The Delhi government stands with the families of all paramilitary, army, police and civil defence residents residing in Delhi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rs-1-crore-aid-for-kin-of-cops-civil-staff-air-force-officers-who-died-on-duty-101627070028930.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sidelights: Sidhu’s installation as PPCC chief||VIPs’ struggle for entry Senior Congress leaders, including outgoing president Sunil Jakhar, cabinet ministers Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, former minister Rana Gurjeet Singh and a number of MLAs, were badly stuck among the crowd of party workers at the gate of the Congress Bhawan. They had to persuade cops on duty to clear way. Some MLAs even argued with the police personnel. Rawat’s ‘balancing’ act All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Congress’ Punjab affairs Harish Rawat referred 79-year-old Capt Amarinder Singh as “buddha sher” with the heart of a king and termed Sidhu as a dynamic leader. Covid protocols go for a toss Among the hundreds of party workers and leaders at the Congress Bhawan, only a few wore masks. Maintaining social distancing was near impossible. The chief minister was seen wearing a mask which he lowered during his speech. Taking the higher seats! As the crowd jostled with each other for seats and many from the back couldn’t see the leaders on the dais, some Congress workers climbed the trees at the Congress Bhawan courtyard for a better and uninterrupted view. Sidhu ‘the scarecrow’ “I will act as a 6-foot-4-inch scarecrow for the anti-Punjab elements,” said Sidhu while addressing the party workers, inviting cheers from the crowd. Much to their amusement, he also sang a parody, “Chat te tota behan nahi dena, Badal, Majithia rehen nahi dena”, leading to another round of cheering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidelights-sidhu-s-installation-as-ppccchief-101627069571982.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Amid cheers from the crowd, Sherry at his fiery best||Navjot Singh Sidhu reinvigorated the party cadres with his speech on Friday as they responded warmly to his words on the day he took over as the president of the Punjab Congress. Executing a bat stroke in the air with a flourish before heading to the rostrum, Sidhu told the packed house that the Congress was united and his aim was to work towards giving power back to the people, inviting a loud applause from the crowd, comprising mainly party workers gathered from across the state. “All Congress workers in Punjab have become the party’s state unit chief today. There is no difference between a leader and a worker,” Sidhu said. Dharam Singh, a Congress worker who had come all the way from Moga said Sidhu connects strongly with the party workers and hopefully “they (workers) will get their due under his leadership”. However, Sidhu, who broke the ice with the chief minister earlier in the morning over tea, touched the feet of former chief minister Rajinder Kaur Bhattal and former PPCC chief Lal Singh on the stage, but not Amarinder. In his speech, Sidhu was very clear about his well-wishers, saying, “Jede mera virodh karde hai, ho mainu behtar bnange. Jede mere honsla-afzayi karde hai…Bhaji Sukh (Sukhbinder Sarkaria), Randhawa Saab (Sukhjinder Randhawa), Bibi Ji (Rajinder Kaur Bhattal), Rawat Ji...ae saare… kidda kidda naam levan (while pointing his hand towards the stage)… mera suraksha kwachh ne”. Addressing the gathering, Amarinder praised Sidhu’s family and recalled how Sidhu’s father, late Bhagwant Singh, had asked him (Amarinder) to enter politics. Earlier, Jakhar in his speech took potshots at the Amarinder government and even went on to say that bureaucracy ruined the Congress-led state government in Punjab. “I feel Akalian nu red carpet maar gya (referring to inauguration of Golden Plaza at Golden Temple during the previous SAD-BJP regime). Red-tapism killed our government. Bureaucracy ruined us,” said Jakhar. He said a message should go out from the government against the red-tapism in next six months. “The party’s route for national revival goes via Punjab-2022. In Punjab, party’s road to regain power goes via Bargari. We need to deliver justice in sacrilege cases at any cost,” said Jakhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-cheers-from-the-crowd-sherry-at-his-fiery-best-101627069210078.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Capt, Sidhu break ice over tea before installation ceremony||Putting up a united show after months of acrimony, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu bonded over high tea at Punjab Bhawan in Chandigarh on Friday morning before the cricketer-turned-politician took charge as state Congress president. Capt Amarinder Singh had invited all Punjab Congress MLAs, MPs and former PPCC chiefs for tea at Punjab Bhawan at 10am, an hour before the time fixed for Sidhu’s installation as the new Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief. The CM’s invite came on Thursday afternoon soon after Sidhu reached out to Capt Amarinder Singh through two of the four working presidents, Kuljit Singh Nagra and Sangat Singh Gilzian. All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat kept a close eye as Capt Amarinder and Sidhu sat side-by-side. Sidhu had reached Punjab Bhawan but left the complex a couple of minutes before Amarinder arrived. Senior leaders from Amarinder group said Sidhu kept Amarinder waiting at the table for nearly 10 minutes and showed up only after Rawat rang him up. However, Sidhu camp claimed he had gone to perform ‘ardas’. “Such a pleasure seeing you here, Sir! I was already here. But had left only a few minutes before to perform ardas,” Sidhu told the chief minister as he reached the main table where Rawat and Amarinder, along with other senior leaders, were waiting for him. Sidhu’s usual flamboyance was muted as he greeted the chief minister with folded hands longer than usual. He tried to sit across the table but was persuaded by some ministers and Rawat to sit beside the chief minister. Former PPCC chiefs HS Hanspal, Partap Singh Bajwa, Lal Singh, MPs Manish Tewari, Jasbir Singh Dimpa, Santokh Chadudhary, Mohd Sadiq and Preneet Kaur were present. Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu didn’t turn up. Ministers loyal to Captain, including OP Soni and Vijay Inder Singla, shared the table with the CM and Sidhu, while those belonging to the ‘Majha-Express group’ — Tript Bajwa, Sukhjinder Randhawa and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria — sat elsewhere. Sidhu, in his trademark maroon Pathani suit with a coordinated scarf, was occasionally seen exchanging peasantries with Amarinder. At times, Rawat involved both the leaders in conversation. The two were together for more than half-an-hour before they left for the Punjab Congress Bhawan in Sector 15, Chandigarh, for Sidhu’s installation ceremony, in separate vehicles. A senior Congress functionary, who was present at the high-tea, requesting anonymity, said, “Both the leaders sat together as a formality; they were not comfortable at all. Let’s see what happens next.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-sidhu-break-ice-over-tea-before-installation-ceremony-101627069031214.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Govt says no record of farmers’ deaths: Tomar||The government has no record of farmers who have died during the agitation at Delhi’s borders against three new farm laws since 2020, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar informed Parliament on Friday. Tomar also said the government has not undertaken any study to ascertain the apprehensions in the minds of farmers about the three farm laws. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi’s borders since eight months in protest against the three laws. Out of them, a small group of 200 farmers are now staging a protest at Jantar Mantar in central Delhi after getting special permission. Asked if the government was aware of the total number of farmers who have died during farm protest since 2020, Tomar said: “The Government of India has no such record.” However, the central government during discussions with farmers’ unions had appealed to them that children and elders, especially women, should be allowed to go home in view of the cold prevailing at that time and the Covid-19 situation, he said in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha. Further, in a separate reply, Tomar said: “No study has been undertaken to ascertain the reasons for apprehensions created in the mind of farmers on account of these farm laws.” However, the Centre has proactively undertaken efforts to reach out the farmers to remove their apprehensions, he added. Asserting that the government is serious and sensitive towards farmers’ issues, the minister said the Centre has been engaged in active discussions with the farmers’ unions. So far, 11 rounds of negotiations have been held between the government and agitating farmers’ unions to resolve the issues, he added. In all the rounds of discussions, the government has stressed that instead of insisting on repealing the laws, the farmer unions should discuss about their concerns on specific clauses so that their issues can be resolved, he added. “During various rounds of discussions, the government continuously requested the farmers unions to discuss the provisions of the farm laws, so that if there is an objection to any provision, the advancement can be made towards resolution of those. But the farmers’ unions insisted only on the repeal of the farm laws,” he said. The last round of talks between the government and unions was held on January 22. Talks have not resumed following widespread violence during a tractor rally by protesting farmers on January 26. The Supreme Court has put on hold the implementation of the three laws till further orders and set up a committee to find solutions. The committee has already submitted its report. ‘43 held, 5 cases registered so far during farm protest’ Delhi Police have arrested 43 persons and registered five cases so far during the ongoing farmer agitation against the Centre’s farm laws, Tomar informed Parliament on Friday.Tomar, in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha, said the action against the mischievous persons falls under the purview of Delhi Police.As informed by Delhi Police, 43 persons have been arrested during the farmers’ agitation so far and five cases registered, he said.The investigation is pending in four cases, while trial is pending in one case, he added.On losses incurred by the government due to the protest, Tomar said the agitation led to the inconvenience to the public because of road blockage and other agitation activities.Also, deployment of police personnel for law and order arrangements led to government expenditure, he said. “But loss cannot be quantified...,” he noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-says-no-record-of-farmers-deaths-tomar-101627068971109.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu’s political innings||February 2004 Enters politics by joining Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and wins parliamentary election from Amritsar in April, defeating Congress stalwart RL Bhatia. January 2007 Gets re-elected as an MP from Amritsar in the bypoll necessitated by his resignation after conviction in a road rage case.  May 2009 Wins Amritsar Lok Sabha seat again. April 2014 BJP denies him ticket to make way for senior leader Arun Jaitley who loses to Capt Amarinder Singh. Sidhu calls himself Jaitley’s protégé, but doesn’t turn up for his poll campaigning. April 2016 BJP nominates him to Rajya Sabha.  July 2016 Quits Rajya Sabha membership. September 2016 Forms a political front Awaaz-e-Punjab. January 2017 Joins Congress party ahead of the state polls in Punjab. Successfully contests from Amritsar East assembly constituency to become the local bodies and tourism minister in the Amarinder Singh cabinet August 2018 Attends Imran Khan’s oath-taking ceremony as Pakistan PM; courts controversy by hugging Pakistan army chief Qamar Javed Bajwa. July 2019 Resigns from Punjab cabinet after he was divested of the portfolios in a cabinet reshuffle. He was made power minister which he refused to accept.  April 2021 Re-emerges on the political scene and starts criticising the state government for unkept promises. July 2021 Takes charge as Punjab Congress president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-sidhu-s-political-innings-101627068794848.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||Rain in Maharashtra: 90 killed, 70 missing||With heavy rain wreaking havoc in the state, at least 90 people have died, 70 are missing and over 1,000 families were rescued amid floods and landslides in Konkan and western Maharashtra on Friday. Eleven cases of landslides were reported in the state on Thursday and Friday. Taliye, Sakhar Sutarwadi and Kevnale in Raigad, Posare in Ratnagiri, Ranjangaon in Sindhudurg and Ambeghar, Mirgaon, Humbarli and Dhokavale in Satara saw landslides. Of the dead, 60 are from Raigad (49 in Taliye, 5 Sakhar Sutarwadi and 6 Kevnale), 3 in Posare and 2 in Parshuram Ghat in Ratnagiri, 8 in Satara, one in Ranjangaon in Sindhudurg. More than 16 people have died in rain-related incidents. Moreover, eight Covid-19 patients in Khed, Ratnagiri died owing to disruption of oxygen supply due to flooding. Four people were killed in a house collapse in Govandi. Of the 70 missing, 30 are from Raigad, 26 from Satara and 14 from Ratnagiri. More than 85,000 people in districts in Konkan and western Maharashtra have been shifted to safer places. A total of 42,573 in Sangli, 40,882 in Kolhapur, 734 in Satara, 263 in Pune, over 1,000 in Raigad and 1,500 in Ratnagiri have been shifted to either shelters or to their relatives’ places. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to carry out an aerial survey of the flood-affected Chiplun and Khed on Saturday. Rescue work continued in Chiplun, Mahad and other parts of Konkan that saw several areas submerged in floodwater. Floods and poor connectivity affected the work. While Ratnagiri administration was struggling to deal with flooding in areas like Chiplun and Mahad as well as incidents of landslide, there were allegations that the toll increased due to the delay in beginning the rescue work. The death toll in Taliye landslide reportedly increased as the district administration failed to reach to the village more than 18 hours after the incident happened around 5 pm on Thursday. The rescue team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) reached the spot on Friday afternoon. “We reached before any government official took note of the horrific incident. Had the rescue operation started in time, more lives could have been saved,” said leader of opposition in legislative council Pravin Darekar. Padmashri Bainade, resident deputy collector, Raigad, however, said the rescue operation started early morning. “The area was submerged in 15-ft high water. We had deployed eight teams on Thursday night, but there were difficulties in reaching the spot. The teams waded through 4-ft water in morning and began the operation. The NDRF team which started from Pune yesterday afternoon was stuck midway because of a landslide and roads being washed away. The rescue operation will go on at night too, with the help of generators and floodlights.” Makarand Deshmukh, deputy collector, Konkan Division, said the rescue operation of people trapped in the debris and stranded in floodwater was on in full swing in Raigad, Ratnagiri and other parts of Konkan. “We will begin the punchanamas to assess the losses,” he said. NDRF team reached Mirgaon using boats and rescued 221 from the flooded areas. Minister of state for home Shambhuraj Desai said 15 people in Ambeghar and 12 in Mirgaon are feared trapped. “In Kondavale, a few families have been trapped under the debris. The rescue teams of the NDRF faced difficulties in reaching the spot because of the flooding on Friday morning,” he said. More than 1,250 people were rescued in Chiplun in the past two days from more than 12-ft high water on Thursday. “Discharge of water from Koyana dam in Satara, high tide and heavy rainfall led to flooding on Thursday. Chiplun registered rain of more than 600 mm in 24hours until Friday morning. The water in almost all parts of Chiplun has receded, barring a few places below sea level. Rescue teams of Coast Guards, NDRF, Army, Indian Air Force and local NGOs were involved in operations,” said an official from district collectorate. Many people in the Chiplun market were stranded on the roofs and terraces of their homes for more than 15 hours. Of the 18 companies of rescue personnel, with 45 personnel each, 14 have been deployed in nine districts, including Ratnagiri (4), Sindhudurg, Satara, Sangli, Palghar (1 each), Raigad, Kolhapur, Thane (2 each). Two companies each of the SDRF have been deployed in Nagpur and Raigad. Rescue teams of Navy, Army, Coast Guard have also been deployed in Chiplun and Khed, the tehsils in Ratnagiri that has witnessed flooding. Two helicopters of Indian Airforce participated in the rescue operations in Chiplun, where hundreds of people were stuck on the roofs and terraces of their homes since Thursday morning. The state has requested for more number of teams of the central agencies, including NDRF, Navy and Army for the rescue operation. Thackeray spoke with union home minister Amit Shah requesting him for assistance in rescue operation. Thackeray reviewed the situation from the control room at Mantralaya on Friday morning. “Heavy rainfall is expected to continue for the next two to three days in parts of the state as predicted by the IMD. District administrations have been directed to take all steps to ensure safety of the people,” he said. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar spoke with defence minister Rajnath Singh and requested him for the assistance from Army, Navy and Air Force. “The defence forces have already been roped in the rescue operations, but the DCM has requested for more help in the wake of the prediction of heavy rainfall over next two days. The union minister has assured him with additional deployment for the districts which have reported downpour and landslides. To coordinate with the central government for the deployment of the central forces, Aseem Gupta, principal secretary of relief and rehabilitation department has been appointed as the nodal officer,” said a statement issued by the office of DCM. Pawar has also directed guardian ministers of respective districts to stay put in the districts and oversee the relief and rehabilitation operations. The flooding led to washing away of the bridges and roads in many districts. The state administration was forced to shut many state and national highways for vehicular traffic. Pune-Bengaluru,Mumbai-Goa, Ratnagiri-Kolhapur highways have been shut for traffic. Many travellers to neighbrouring Karnataka, Goa have been stranded on their way. The milk supply to cities like Mumbai is expected to be affected on Saturday as collection of milk was badly hit in the flood-affected areas. “Against the daily collection of 1.3 million litres, we could collect only 250,000 litres of milk on Friday. Besides, transportation was not possible as many highways are shut. We have decided to discontinue the supply to Mumbai on Saturday,” said Vishwas Patil, chairman of Gokul milk. Many villages in Raigad, Ratnagiri and Kolhapur were in the dark because of the disconnection of electricity owing to damage to the infrastructure. The discharge of the water from the Koyana dam in Satara was increased to more than 53,000 cusecs on Friday. The district administration has shifted villagers in the surrounding areas of Krishna, Werana rivers to safer places. The Karnataka government increase the discharge of water from Almatti river to over 300,000 cusecs on Friday. The district administration has however warned people to be alert for the next 48 hours. “The water level of Panchganga has crossed its danger level and district may see similar flooding witnessed in 2019,” said Satej Patil, guardian minister of Kolhapur. Thackeray announced an ex gratia of ₹5 lakh each to the next of kin of the deceased in landslides in various parts of the state. Thackeray has also announced the government will bear the cost of treatment of people injured in the landslides. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced an ex gratia of ₹2 lakh each to the next of kin of the deceased in landslide from Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund. “Anguished by the loss of lives due to a landslide in Raigad, Maharashtra. My condolences to the bereaved families. I wish the injured a speedy recovery. The situation in Maharashtra due to heavy rains is being closely monitored and assistance is being provided to the affected,” Modi said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rain-in-maharashtra-90-killed-70-missing-101627068789318.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 8 Covid patients die as O2 supply stops due to power cut||Eight Covid-19 patients in a private hospital in flood-affected Khed tehsil of Ratnagiri district died due to disruption of oxygen supply owing to flooding and disconnection of electricity. The local administration of Ratnagiri district has begun an inquiry into it. Two of them were reportedly on ventilator support, while the remaining six were on oxygen supply. “The hospital had been submerged in water since Thursday. The water level increased after 7am on Friday. It resulted in disconnection of electricity. After we got the call last night, the rescue team was deployed for evacuation of patients, but they could not reach the spot because of waterlogging. Relatives of one of the patients claimed their patient was not positive for Covid-19,” said Dr Sanghmitra Phule, district civil surgeon. Datta Bhadakwad, resident deputy collector, said, “There was no shortage of oxygen, but it could not be supplied due to power outage. The administration even tried to supply oxygen temporarily, but failed because of the downpour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-8-covid-patients-die-as-o2-supply-stops-due-to-power-cut-101627068670473.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||Construction of Navi Mumbai Airport expected to begin from August: Adani||Construction work on the much-awaited ₹16,000-odd crore Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIAL), which is now under the management of Adani group, is expected to commence next month. According to the new developer, the airport is also likely to start functioning from 2024. “Adani Airport Holdings Ltd (AAH) will begin the construction of Navi Mumbai International Airport next month and the new airport will be commissioned in 2024,” Adani Group recently stated in its press release on taking over the management of both Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) and NMIAL.At present, land acquisition is completed, said public relation officer, CIDCO, adding they have received 99.6% project affected people shifted out of their own. CIDCO is the implementation agency for the new airport.The announcement assumes significance in view of the fact that in December 2020, the previous promoter of NMIAL had written to CIDCO stating the region does not need a second airport till 2024 due to Covid-19 impact on the aviation sector that had in turn impacted travel demand.Kapil Kaul, chief executive officer of Centre of Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA), said, “It may be feasible for the Navi Mumbai airport to be completed by FY 2025 if the project is aggressively pursued. However, given that recovery of traffic to pre-Covid level especially in international sector, will be till FY 2024, revisiting project timelines may be beneficial to all parties concerned, including the state government,” Kaul added.In October 2017, then GVK Group-led MIAL said it had received the Letter of Award (LOA) from CIDCO to construct and develop the new international airport in Navi Mumbai, whose foundation stone was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in February 2018. The second airport in the Mumbai region was expected to open in December 2019 and the deadline was pushed to 2021. The passenger terminal building is being developed to initially have a capacity to handle 10 MPA (Million Passengers per Annum) and would be enhanced to 20 MPA.The airport will be located in Uran and will be the second airport in Mumbai Metropolitan region after the existing Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in the Vile Parle suburb of Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/construction-of-navi-mumbai-airport-expected-to-begin-from-august-adani-101627068550814.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||4 dera men file bail pleas in derogatory posters case||Four followers of the Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda on Friday filed applications in a court seeking bail in a case related to desecration incident wherein derogatory posters were pasted near gurdwaras of Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala villages in Faridkot district on the intervening night of September 24 and 25, 2015. The court of judicial magistrate Tarjani issued a notice to the state and adjourned the matter to July 27. On July 20, The SIT led by inspector general of police (IGP), border range, Surinder Pal Singh Parmar filed a chargesheet against four dera followers --- Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola, Shakti Singh and Baljit Singh. Meanwhile, two other dera followers, Nishan Singh and Pardeep Kumar, who were arrested for 2015 Bargari sacrilege, on Friday filed applications in the court additional district and session judge seeking bail. The court has adjourned the matter to July 30. On June 21, the court of judicial magistrate had dismissed their bail plea in the 2015 Bargari sacrilege case. However, On July 20, the judicial magistrate had granted bail to other four accused dera followers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-dera-men-file-bail-pleas-in-derogatory-posters-case-101627068550263.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||3 Cong workers killed, nine injured in Moga road mishap||Three Congress workers headed for Chandigarh to attend the installation ceremony of Navjot Singh Sidhu as party’s Punjab unit chief were killed nine were injured when the minibus they were travelling in collided head-on with a state roadways bus at Lohara Chowk on the Jalandhar-Barnala road in Moga on Friday morning. Police identified the deceased as minibus driver Gurdev Singh (40) of Ghuddu Wala village, and Virsa Singh (70) and Sukhdev Singh alias Vicky (40) of Malsian village of Ferozepur district. Police said the accident took place around 7.30am when Gurdev reportedly tried to overtake a truck, ramming the vehicle into the roadways bus. The injured were rushed to the Moga civil hospital. Senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Sukhpreet Brar said: “Three people have died so far. The condition of some of the injured is critical.” The victims were supporters of Congress MLA Kulbir Singh Zira and they boarded the minibus at Zira, 15km from Moga, to take the journey to Chandigarh for the installation ceremony of Sidhu. Kot Isse Khan SHO inspector Jaswant Singh said, “We have registered a case against the minibus driver, who also died in the accident.” Condoling the deaths, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh tweeted: “Saddened to learn of the bus accident in Moga district in which three Congress workers have died and many are injured. Have directed the Moga DC to immediately provide full medical treatment to the injured and to send a report to the government.” Besides, the CM, in another tweet, also directed Moga administration to immediately provide ex-gratia of ₹5 lakh to the families of the deceased and ₹50,000 to those with grave injuries. He also announced free treatment of all who sustained minor injuries. Meanwhile, actor Sonu Sood and his sister Malvika Sood Sachar visited the injured in the hospital. “ ₹50,000 will be given to the families of those who lost their lives, while critically injured will get ₹25,000. Also, new mobile phones will be given to those who lost them in the accident,” said Malvika.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-cong-workers-killed-nine-injured-in-moga-road-mishap-101627068490050.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||HC dismisses plea of MLA Bains in rape case||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday dismissed a plea from Punjab MLA and Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief Simarjit Singh Bains, booked for allegedly raping a woman. Bains had approached high court on July 12 seeking quashing of the July 6 order of a Ludhiana court in which registration of FIR against him was ordered on the complaint of a woman. Bains had pleaded that the trial court passed the order without proper application of mind and contrary to settled tenets of criminal jurisprudence. Dismissing his plea, the high court bench of justice Manjari Nehru Kaul said it did not find any infirmity in the order of trial court. “The mere registration of an FIR cannot be construed as an act, which might prejudice the petitioner (Bains) in any manner. The court is only required to examine the existence of a cognisable offence and direct registration of the FIR in case the necessary ingredients with respect to the cognizable offences are made out,” the bench observed. The FIR was registered on the allegations of a 45-year-old woman in Ludhiana. The woman had initially lodged a complaint against Bains eight months ago. The woman alleged that she had come into contact with the MLA in a property dispute case but she was trapped. The case was finally registered at the Division 6 police station on July 12 on court’s order. The high court said that trial court neither acted without jurisdiction nor can its decision be termed as an abuse of the process of law. “..the power under Section 156(3) CrPC is a statutory power conferred upon the magistrate giving rise to a statutory remedy in favour of a person aggrieved. It would rather be an act of abdication of his powers by a magistrate in case he does not take an appropriate decision and fails to exercise his jurisdiction in the event of an aggrieved person approaching him,” the court recorded. The bench also said that the allegations by the complainant woman cannot be disbelieved outrightly at this juncture and and the investigating agency cannot be stalled/stopped from conducting investigation into the allegations which prima facie reflect commission of a cognizable offence.“A perusal of the allegations ... sufficiently persuades this court that the ACJM, Ludhiana, had enough material before it to order registration of an FIR,” the bench said adding that a magistrate certainly had the jurisdiction to act under 156 (3) CrPC and the pendency of a petition before high court on same controversy will not take away that jurisdiction vested in him. At the time of trial court order a plea seeking registration of FIR was pending in HC also. To the argument raised by Bains that magistrate ought not to have expressed his opinion on the allegations leveled in the complaint, the court said that though it was not necessary for the trial court, to record reasons in “extenso” but the order revealed that the judicial officer had recorded only enough reasons to show that there was application of mind. “Hence, the above argument of the learned counsel for the petitioner is somewhat misplaced as there is no prohibition on recording reasons by a magistrate,” the court said. SAD demands Bains’ arrestLudhiana: Following the high court order, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) demanded immediate arrest Bains. Terming the HC verdict as the victory of human rights, SAD leader Harish Rai Dhandha said police officials tried to save Bains.Senior SAD leader and former minister Maheshinder Singh Grewal said: “While the state machinery was denying justice a victim, it was the court of law that came to her rescue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-dismisses-plea-of-mla-bains-in-rape-case-101627068369842.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||J&K’s daily Covid caseload drops to 63||Jammu and Kashmir on Friday recorded one Covid-related death while daily caseload dropped to 63, lowest since March 2.There were 30 cases in Kashmir along with a single fatality, while the Jammu division saw 33 infections.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 166 with active positive cases dropping below 1,500 to settle at 1,409.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,14,620 prompting the recovery rate to climb to 98.19 %. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,20,403 and the death toll stands at 4,374.The officials said that 35,420 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT – lowest number of daily tests in over two months.87 test positive in HimachalHimachal Pradesh recorded 87 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday taking the state’s tally to 2,04,887 while the death toll mounted to 3,495 after two patients died of the infection. Of the new cases, 21 were reported in Mandi, 19 in Shimla, 15 each in Chamba and Kangra, seven in Kullu, three each in Solan and Una, two in Bilaspur and one each in Hamirpur and Sirmaur. Recoveries reached 2,00,481 after 127 people recuperated while active cases have come down to 893. Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 46,226 cases followed by Mandi (27,675), Shimla (25,663), Solan (22,375), Sirmaur (15,359), Hamirpur (14,505), Una (13,404), Bilaspur (12,853), Chamba (11,850), Kullu (9,041), Kinnaur (3,291) and Lahaul-Spiti (2,745).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jks-daily-covid-caseload-drops-to-63-101627068254181.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Pegasus snoopgate: Congress protests outside Himachal Raj Bhawan||The Congress’ Himachal Pradesh unit staged a protest outside the Raj Bhawan in Shimla on Friday and sought resignation of Union home minister Amit Shah and a judicial inquiry into the matter of ‘illegal surveillance’ of individuals, journalists and politicians through spyware Pegasus. State Congress chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore, along with party workers and legislators, participated in the protest. Rathore said phones of about 300 people, including political leaders and scribes were hacked into. “It’s a big scandal. Snooping on leaders is the murder of democracy,” he added. He also demanded that the central government should get an inquiry done by a Supreme Court judge. Meanwhile, the BJP rebuffed the allegations. “The Congress has no work left, but to make unnecessary hue and cry,” said party’s chief spokesperson Randhir Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pegasus-snoopgate-congress-protests-outside-himachal-raj-bhawan-101627068253160.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Kullu youth’s body retrieved from Chandratal lake||Body of a Kullu man was retrieved from Chandratal lake in Himachal’s Lahaul and Spiti district on Friday, a day after he had drowned. He has been identified as Rahul Thakur, a resident of Kullu’s Jagatsukh area. He had gone to Chandratal along with his three friends on July 22. The group had reportedly ignored the warning signs and ventured down the lake. His body could not be traced by locals and the police. The local administration had to call divers from Mandi to take his body out, which was buried 200ft under the water at the shallow end of the lake, officials said. Kaza subdivisional officer Mahendra Singh Pratap said the body has been retrieved by the divers. After autopsy, the body was handed over to Rahul’s family. The local administration has urged the tourists and visitors not to venture into the water. Bathing in the lake is already prohibited due to religious beliefs, the SDO said. Spiti valley is a cherished tourist destination but people should not unnecessarily risk their lives, he added. 2 youths die after falling into gorge in AnantnagTwo persons died and one was injured after falling from a cliff into a gorge during a picnic in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Thursday night, police officials said on Friday.They identified the deceased as Mohammad Imran Khan, 26, of Verinag in Anantnag district and Taqib Ahmad Wani,18, of Banihal in Ramban district. Another 18-year-old youth, Muzamil Ahmad Sheikh, also a resident of Banihal, was injured in the incident.An official from Dooru police station said they were friends, who had gone on a picnic. They had taken a mountainous trekking route through Hallan which connects Verinag and Banihal. He said the trio lost their way due to darkness.“There is a mountainous track which connects Verinag with Banihal. Sometimes people travel on foot through this route between the two places,” he said.The cop said the families of the youths approached the authorities when they didn’t return and searches were conducted. “The bodies of Khan and Wani were found at 4am at the foot of the gorge while Sheikh was also found injured,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kullu-youth-s-body-retrieved-from-chandratal-lake-101627068249973.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 69 Covid cases, four more deaths||Punjab on Friday reported four more Covid-19 fatalities, which took the death toll to 16,256, while 69 fresh infections pushed the total case count to 5,98,658, according to a medical bulletin.Fresh deaths were reported from Amritsar, Fatehgarh Sahib, Jalandhar and Mohali.The number of active cases in the state stands at 768, it said.Jalandhar reported 16 infections, followed by six in Bathinda and five in Faridkot, according to the bulletin.With 105 recoveries, the number of cured persons has reached 5,81,634 in the state, it stated.A total of 1,18,38,018 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-69-covid-cases-four-more-deaths-101627068191052.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Bargari sacrilege: Court issues arrest warrants against 3 dera national committee members||The court of judicial magistrate, Faridkot, on Friday issued non-bailable arrest warrants against three absconding members of Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda’s national committee, who were named accused in two Bargari sacrilege cases by the Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT). Seeking arrest warrants of three Haryana residents — Sandeep Bareta, Pardeep Kler and Harsh Dhuri — the SIT claimed that sacrilege was committed on their direction. They have already been declared proclaimed offenders (PO) in three other sacrilege cases as police have failed to nab them since 2018 when they were first named in cases connected to sacrilege incidents in Moga and Bathinda districts in 2015. Judicial magistrate Tarjani adjourned the hearing of the case to July 30. If the police failed to nab them, the court will initiate a proceeding to declare them POs in two cases wherein torn pages of a “bir” (copy of Guru Granth Sahib) were found scattered in Bargari and three derogatory posters were put up near gurdwaras at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala villages. The SIT said two derogatory posters were pasted near the Bargari gurdwara on the intervening night of September 24 and 25, 2015, by the accused dera followers on their directions. “Later, on their directions, pages of the “bir”, which was stolen from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala on June 1, 2015, were scattered at Bargari on October 12, 2015,” said SIT. Dera committee members missing link in case The three absconding members of the dera’s national committee are the missing link in three sacrilege incidents that sparked off state-wide protests in 2015. The teams probing the cases claim that the instructions to execute sacrilege at Bargari (Faridkot), Malke (Moga) and Gurusar (Bathinda) were given by Bareta, Kler and Dhuri to the district dera committee members. In July 2020, The SIT had named Breta, Kler and Dhuri as accused in a case relating to the theft of a “bir” from a gurdwara on June 1, 2015. On October 12, 2015, torn pages of the “bir” were found scattered in front of a gurdwara at Bargari village. Torn pages of Guru Granth Sahib were also found at Malke village in Moga district in November 2015 and Gurusar (Bhagta) village in Bathinda district in October 2015. “The trio had met Mohinder Pal Bittu, who was killed in Nabha jail in 2019, and instructed him to steal the bir. Similarly, in Moga sacrilege case, they gave instructions to dera state committee members Pirthi Singh and Jatindervir, alias Jimmy, after which sacrilege was done by a dera follower at Malke and Gurusar villages,” said an SIT official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bargari-sacrilege-court-issues-arrest-warrants-against-3-dera-national-committee-members-101627068130018.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu-Capt spat was drama to save Cong’s sinking ship: SAD||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday said the Congress had acted as per a script to divert attention from its failures and befool Punjabis and asked newly appointed state Congress president Navjot Sidhu to give timelines for fulfilling the promises made to the people instead of resorting to empty bluster. Addressing a press conference, former minister and senior SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema spat between Sidhu and chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh was a drama staged to save the party’s sinking ship by diverting people’s attention from the state government’s failures, said the SAD. He also condemned outgoing state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar for stating that the road to re-election of the Congress in Punjab ran through Bargari and Behbal Kalan, the places associated with the cases of sacrilege. The SAD said there could not be stronger proof of the party’s contention that the Congress had played politics on this issue in conjunction with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in 2017 and was going on the same dangerous road again on the eve of the 2022 assembly election. “It is now becoming increasingly clear that the quarrel between Sidhu and the chief minister was stage-managed to divert the attention of the people. An effort is being made to save the party’s sinking ship by effecting a change in the state Congress unit and a two month long drama was also played out with this in mind,” Cheema said. “It is clear now that the actual fight in the Punjab Congress was over distribution of the spoils of power. Now that a promise has been taken by the high command that the proceeds of corruption will be distributed equally, the warring parties have buried the hatchet and are claiming this as a victory,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhucapt-spat-was-drama-to-save-cong-s-sinking-ship-sad-101627068009755.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Take everyone along: Rawat to Sidhu||Congress general secretary Harish Rawat on Friday asked new Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu to take everyone along to pave the way for the party’s victory in the assembly polls early next year.Speaking at the Sidhu’s installation ceremony at the party headquarters in Chandigarh, Rawat also told chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh that the responsibility of ensuring that the Congress returns to power in the state lies on his shoulders.Sidhu was appointed the Punjab Congress chief, notwithstanding the strong opposition from Amarinder Singh, who had earlier refused to meet the Amritsar MLA, citing his “derogatory” tweets against him.Addressing party workers and leaders, Rawat said the tradition of the Congress is to take everyone along and stand with everyone. The party high command has given you the responsibility of taking everyone along, he told Sidhu.“When I am talking of taking everyone along, I mean taking common workers along,” he added.“We have to make the Congress victorious in Punjab and Uttarakhand and pave the way for the formation of the party-led government at the Centre in 2024 under the leadership of Rahul Gandhi,” said Rawat.Pointing towards Amarinder, who was sitting next to Sidhu, Rawat said he was in awe of his magnanimity. “You are one such person whom we always look up to for inspiration. The way you fought for farmers’ rights and poor sections and the way you have taken steps for the welfare of various sections needs to be lauded,” he said.“One thing I know is that a lion remains a lion, he never grows old. At heart, a lion remains a king,” Rawat said, stressing that he and Congress workers know that the CM will take everyone along and ensure the party’s victory.About Sidhu, Rawat said he has the quality of mesmerising all and he is dedicated to Punjab as well as the party.Congress MLA Pargat Singh said: “People have high expectations from us. Sidhu is my friend but at the same time, we have to deliver. I have always done politics of issues.” Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira described Sidhu as a “charismatic and popular leader” and said people had high expectations from him.“At the same time, Amarinderji is an experienced, farsighted and a visionary leader. We are happy that both leaders are on the same page and a positive message has gone out not only to Congress cadre but people of Punjab,” said Khaira.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/take-everyone-along-rawat-to-sidhu-101627067829863.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Kept as bonded labourers, 5 of family rescued in Amritsar||Kept as bonded labourers at a dairy farm situated on the outskirt of Amritsar for several years, five members of a family were rescued by the Bachpan Bachao Andolan, an organisation campaigning for the rights of children.The organisation, founded by in 1980 by Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi, received information from its partner organisation that five members of a family were kept as bonded labourers at a dairy farm in Amritsar.“The organisation filed a complaint with the National Human Rights Commission, which ordered the district magistrate to take action. He instructed the sub-divisional magistrate to carry out a rescue operation,” said Manish Sharma, spokesperson of the NGO.He said the NGO along with the SDM raided the premises and rescued a man, his wife and three children aged six, four, and two. They were subject to torture for years, he said. Tehsildar Manjit Singh said the matter was under investigation and an FIR is also yet to be registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kept-as-bonded-labourers-5-of-family-rescued-in-amritsar-101627067769693.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||11 LPU students representing India in Tokyo Olympics||Eleven students from the Lovely Professional University (LPU), Phagwara, are part of the Indian contingent representing the country in Tokyo Olympics.In a release, LPU claimed this is the highest number of students to get selected to any Indian Olympic contingent from a private university. Star wrestler Bajrang Punia, who is pursuing MA in public administration at the university, para-athlete Nishad Kumar (BA), javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra (BA) and sprinter Amoj Jacob (BPEd) are part of the Indian contingent, according to the press release. Seven players, including captain Manpreet Singh, Rupinderpal Singh, Harmanpreet Singh, Shamsher Singh, Varun Kumar, all students of MBA, Dilpreet Singh and Mandeep Singh, pursuing graduation, of the Indian men’s hockey team are LPU students. Chancellor, LPU Ashok Mittal said: “We feel proud that near 10% of the Indian Olympic participants LPU students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/11-lpu-students-representing-india-in-tokyo-olympics-101627067590159.html
24-07-2021||Lucknow||No Delta Plus case in UP at present, says Yogi Adityanath||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said Uttar Pradesh at present did not have any Delta Plus variant or any other new variant of the coronavirus, which was considered a factor behind the possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.[Earlier, at least two cases of the Delta Plus variant were found among the samples from eastern Uttar Pradesh sent for gene sequencing to the New Delhi-based Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in May. The reports of these samples were received in July. While one patient, a 23-year-old medical student from Gorakhpur, had recovered in home isolation, the other, a 66-year-old man from Deoria, had died in May].“In the recent past, the state got a total of 211 samples genome sequenced at Lucknow’s KGMU (King George’s Medical University) and Varanasi’s BHU (Banaras Hindu University). Not, a single sample of these tested positive for Delta Plus or any other new variant of coronavirus. So, the state at present is safe from the Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus which is being considered a major factor for the possible third wave. This intense study indicates that the state’s policy of trace, test, treat, and vaccinate has been effective,” the chief minister said at a Covid-19 review meeting in the state capital on Friday..The chief minister also said 214 oxygen plants had become active in the state out of the 549 new units being installed in Uttar Pradesh because of the joint efforts of the state and the central governments.He also said there were no active Covid-19 cases (Covid patients under treatment) in Aligarh, Balrampur, Basti, Etah, Hathras, Mahoba and Shravasti districts. Besides, 39 districts had active cases in single digits, he said.A total of 2.38 lakh Covid tests were done in the past 24 hours and 61 people tested positive while 86 patients recovered during the same period, he said.The daily positivity rate was 0.02% and the recovery rate 98.6%, he added. A total of 7.59 lakh (759,000) Covid vaccine doses were administered across UP in the past 24 hours, taking the state’s tally to 4.28 crore (42.8 million) doses since January 16 when inoculation began across the country, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-delta-plus-case-in-up-at-present-says-yogi-adityanath-101627067289770.html
24-07-2021||Other||Mumbai house crash kills four, injures 7||Four members of a family died in a house collapse at Govandi on Friday around 4am. Seven people, including persons from the neighbouring home, have also been injured in the incident due to the collapse.Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials suspect that an additional floor built on the structure could have led to the collapse. In June, the civic body had served a notice to the family for structural violations. The victims have been identified as Neha Parvez Shaikh, 35; her sister Farin, 22; mother Shamshad, 45, and grandfather Mokar, 80. The Shaikhs owned a furniture shop on the ground floor of the structure, while they had moved into one of the floors above around less than a year ago, locals said.Wasim Mustafa, 25, who owns a shop 50 metres away from the crash site, said, “The family had recently done some repair work and added an additional floor. The house was a ground-plus-one structure, but they converted it into a ground-plus-two structure with a terrace. It was a structure that was constructed with the support of iron rods and not by the traditional method of having a proper foundation under the ground.”According to locals, there were over a dozen of relatives at the family’s house to celebrate Eid on Wednesday and Thursday. However, at the time of the incident, only six of the family were present inside the house.BMC officials said Shaikh and Mokar were declared dead on arrival at the civic-run Rajawadi Hospital, while Shamshad was brought in a critical condition and died a few hours later. Farin’s body was recovered from debris a few hours after the crash. She was rushed to the hospital, but the doctors had declared her dead. On collapsing, the house damaged the structure of two nearby houses and one on the opposite side, thereby injuring four occupants in them. Shahid Qureshi, 53, a neighbour of the Shaikh family, said, “They [the Shaikhs] had overloaded the house with a huge water tank on the terrace and constructed a room over there. They had also called a few guests for Eid celebrations, which may have added the load on the house. All our belongings have been destroyed as the BMC demolished our house due to safety reasons. But we are alive.”“When the collapse took place around 4am, there was a loud noise and smoke everywhere. We thought there was a blast, and we could not see anything. My brother and I went to the collapse site and started pulling out people from the debris. We have an ambulance in our area but couldn’t save four members from the Shaikh family as they were badly injured,” said Samir Sayyed, 38, another local.According to assistant civic commissioner Mahendra Ubale, the house was constructed around 10 years ago. “We have sent notices to owners of 300 structures in the area, including this house, before monsoon. The owner had done some violations recently. We’ll take action against the contractor who helped the owner commit structural violations and also verify if any action can be taken against the family members who are alive because the owner of the house has died.”Part of Antop Hill building fallsA portion of a ground-plus-five storey building in Antop Hill collapsed at 9.55pm on Friday. No injuries were reported in the incident. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) disaster management department, the building is located at Punjabi camp near Hari Manzil. BMC said the building was partially vacated and the part on the east side of the structure had collapsed. The fire brigade, ward staff and local police have been mobilised for aid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-house-crash-kills-four-injures-7-101627067049173.html
24-07-2021||Other||As rain begins to subside, IMD predicts drier days ahead for Mumbai||The city received a total of 19.4mm rainfall in the 24 hours ending 8.30am on Friday – with markedly calmer weather than the preceding four days – followed by just 1.8mm of rain in the eight hours ending 5.30pm. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has placed Mumbai under a yellow category storm warning for Saturday and Sunday for the first time in at least a week, indicating only moderate spells of rain with chances of heavy rain in isolated locations. For July 26 and 27, the city has been placed under a green category weather alert, indicating light to moderate rain.With the city’s rainfall for this season now standing at 2,022.6mm, Mumbai has recorded 91% of the seasonal long-period average (up to September-end), which stands at 2,205mm. In July, Mumbai has recorded 1,061.2mm of rainfall, as against the monthly normal of 827mm. This is now the fourth successive year in which rainfall in July has crossed the 1,000mm-mark. Last July, the city recorded 1,502mm of rainfall – marking its wettest July ever, while in 2019, it received 1,464.8mm rain. In 2018, the July total was recorded at 1,138.8mm, but in 2017, the city recorded just 869.7mm of rain. As per IMD’s seven-day forecast (based on data from its monitoring station in Santacruz), the maximum temperature over the next week will hover between 29 and 30 degrees Celsius, while the minimum temperature is likely to be between 25 and 26 degrees Celsius. On Thursday, the daytime maximum was recorded at 28.4 degrees Celsius, while the morning minimum stood at 25.8 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-rain-begins-to-subside-imd-predicts-drier-days-ahead-101627066869178.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||Raj Kundra was to sell 119 porn films for USD1.2 million: Mumbai Police||Actor Shilpa Shetty’s husband Raj Kundra was about to sell 119 pornographic videos to a person for USD 1.2 million and created new mobile application named Bollyfame in January this year after his previous app, Hotshots, was dropped from app stores, the Mumbai Police has claimed on Friday while seeking further custody of Kundra. A metropolitan magistrate court accordingly extended police custody of Kundra and IT support provider Ryan Thorpe till July 27.Kundra and Thorpe were produced before a magistrate court on Friday afternoon, as their custody remand had ended. The property cell of Mumbai Police’s crime branch sought further custody, claiming that they have found WhatsApp messages in which Kundra discussed selling his stock of 119 porn films to a person for USD 1.2 million.Claiming that the two accused had destroyed evidence, the police have added section 201 of the Indian Penal Code for destruction of evidence against them.The prosecution said after Kundra’s arrest, police had seized his mobile phone wherein they found several chats with Pradeep Bakshi, owner of Kenrin Pvt Ltd. Police found a list of 119 movies which were to be sold to a person for 1.2 million US dollars. During one of his conversations with a man, Kundra had said he was a partner in Kenrin Pvt Ltd.Police further claimed that Kundra received huge sums in his YES Bank account from Mercury International, an entity engaged in online sports betting and casino gaming. The money came from the betting company’s account held with the United Bank of Africa, but police are yet to ascertain if these transfers were Hotshots earnings or money won by Kundra in betting and/or casino gaming.During analysis, the agency came across a WhatsApp group on which Kundra and Thorpe discussed deleting all information related to content of Hotshots, its email, portal, etc. It is suspected that the data was related to the app and was destroyed by Bakshi on July 21, soon after Kundra and Thorpe’s arrest.Police recorded statements of several staff members who worked with Kundra. They claimed that in February after the Mumbai Police registered a case in the matter, Thorpe had told them to remove all data related to Hotshots.The Mumbai Police further claimed that Thorpe created the new app, Bollyfame, in January this year, on the instruction of Kundra.The prosecution also said that they are also investigating Kundra’s accounts. The police found huge inflow of money in the accounts of accused from international accounts in dollars and pounds which are being analysed. The agency claimed much of the money is from a bank account of African company named Mercury International. Police suspect the money earned through Hotshots was laundered through this African company or he was involved in online batting racket.Police is now in the process of identifying and contacting the women seen in the videos.Cops record Shilpa Shetty’s statementMumbai Police’s crime branch on Friday recorded statement of actor Shilpa Shetty in connection with the alleged porn racket involving her husband Raj Kundra. A crime branch team on Friday took Kundra to his Juhu residence where they recorded Shetty’s statement, said a senior crime branch officer. During the search police seized a laptop from the house. Police said the actor was the former director of Viaan Industries, from the premises of which the racket was being handled by arrested accused Umesh Kamat, a close associate of Kundra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raj-kundra-was-to-sell-119-porn-films-for-usd1-2-million-mumbai-police-101627066809672.html
24-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra plans relaxations for districts with weekly Covid positivity rate below 0.1%||Maharashtra health department is preparing a plan to provide relaxations in districts where the weekly Covid-19 positivity rate is under 0.1%. State health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas is preparing the plan which will be presented to the chief minister and state Covid-19 task force for approval, health minister Rajesh Tope said on Friday. The government, meanwhile, is expected to take a decision on opening suburban train services for a few more categories in the next few days.The state added 6,753 fresh infections on Friday, taking the tally to 6,251,810. Active cases stood at 94,769. The state also reported 167 fatalities in the past 24 hours, pushing toll to 131,205. Mumbai reported 373 new cases and eight fatalities. Active cases in the city stood at 10,068.According to health department officials, 25 districts in the state, including Mumbai, Thane and Pune have a weekly positivity rate under 0.1%, while the remaining 10 districts including Kolhapur, Sangli, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Satara, Raigad, Solapur, Palghar, Beed, and Ahmednagar have a weekly positivity rate between 0.15% and 0.85%.“We have been getting a lot of requests for lifting relaxations; the chief minister also gets it. Additional chief secretary (health) has been tasked with preparing a plan on relaxation. Wherever negligible cases are being added daily, we will look at what relaxations can be given in transport and shop timings. Some districts have been reporting zero cases or in single digits and their positivity rate is low. The health department is preparing a plan on relaxation to see what relaxations can be given for areas where the positivity rate is around 0.1%. It will be presented to the CM and the Covid task force soon,” Tope said on Friday. Mumbai’s weekly positivity rate stood at 0.05%, while that of Thane city was 0.05% and Pune city 0.1%. On Friday, a chunk of fresh cases came from Pune, Solapur, Satara, Kolhapur, Sangli, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Ahmednagar, and Raigad districts. A health department official said the dynamic plan on relaxation would look at extending operational hours of shops and establishments, allowing dine-in at restaurants at half the seating capacity, reopening of malls and shopping complexes, etc. However, the final decision will be taken by CM Uddhav Thackeray.The health minister also said the state government needs some guidelines from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on relaxations as they have carried out sero survey. “ICMR has been guiding the state since the pandemic, and we have been following all their guidelines. Now that they have done sero survey which shows over 66% population has developed antibodies, they should provide some guidelines to all states based on their data on what kind of relaxations can be given, based on age-group, etc.,” Tope said.Another health department official said the number of cases in the state has stabilised for some days now. “The curve has stabilised; it is neither going up nor declining. Many districts in Vidarbha and Marathwada, from where the second wave started in the state in February, are now showing negligible cases. The viral activity is concentrated in a few districts, but these are high population density areas, business hubs, so there is more mobility. This is also a time to be on guard so that it does not go up. With higher number of vaccinations, we can prevent the impending wave from being strong,” he said.Meanwhile, Maharashtra administered 426,024 vaccine doses on Friday till 8pm, taking the total count to 40,850,822. So far, 9,693,886 beneficiaries have been fully vaccinated in the state, as per data on CoWIN portal. Tope added that he plans to meet newly appointed Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya over increasing the vaccine stock allotment to 1 million per day for Maharashtra. He said he has spoken to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis to accompany him to make the plea in person in New Delhi soon.“Currently we are able to carry out 3 to 3.5 lakh vaccinations daily because we only get that much doses [from the Centre]. We want to take it to 1 million a day, as we have the capacity. We have requested the Centre, and I will go and meet Mandaviya ji along with Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis to help the state get 1 million doses a day,” Tope said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-plans-relaxations-for-districts-with-weekly-covid-positivity-rate-below-01-101627066809118.html
24-07-2021||Other||BMC: 99 deaths in 4 yrs due to structure collapses in Mumbai||A total of 99 people have died and 376 people have been injured in 1,810 incidents of building and house collapses as well as partial building and house collapses across Mumbai between 2018 and 2021, according to data from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) disaster management department. This year alone, 21 people have died and 54 have been injured in 228 incidents of structure collapses.Authorities and experts have attributed the large number of structure collapses in Mumbai – especially during monsoon – to aged and dilapidated structures; unauthorised construction due to which it becomes impossible for authorities to verify if all construction standard operating procedures (SOPs) have been followed; delay in redevelopment of old buildings; or neglect toward their dilapidated condition due to lack of resources or nature of tenancy across the city.“In Mumbai’s case, multiple factors play a role in such disasters. For example, all three incidents this monsoon wherein residential structures collapsed resulting in casualties were unauthorised constructions. None of them collapsed because they were very old and dilapidated. However, Mumbai does have very old structures that face multiple issues while opting for redevelopment,” a senior civic official said. On June 10, a ground-plus-three storey structure collapsed in Malvani, killing 12. According to civic officials, three floors of the building were illegal, as permission was only given for a ground-level structure.“In case of unauthorised structures, the material used is not good. As they are not legal, SOPs are not followed. Many buildings are made to withstand one or two floors. Later, the residents add more floors above these structures, and it leads to mishaps,” the official quoted above added.At the beginning of monsoon, BMC released a list of 407 dilapidated structures across the city, of which 322 are private residential buildings. City-based senior architect Vilas Nagalkar said, “In most cases where a portion of a building, such as the gallery or staircase, collapses, it is because the structure is very old. Residential RCC (reinforced cement concrete) buildings have the approximate life span of 60 years. Many buildings in Mumbai have outlived their life span. If they are regularly attended to, it is okay. However, in tenanted buildings, no one invests in maintenance and strengthening. For rainfall experienced in Mumbai, water proofing needs to be done on the structure every 10 years, which hardly happens.”According to Nagalkar, in too many cases, original structures are built to withstand a ground-plus-one or two-storey load, but residents expand the structure later. The original frame is unable to bear the load from the additional floors. “In cases where construction is unauthorised, there remain no methods for checks and balances to ensure construction that procedures are aptly followed,” said Nagalkar. Hussain Indorewala, assistant professor with Kamla Raheja Architecture Institute, said, “With Mumbai’s buildings, it is not a linear problem with a simple solution. We need to study area-wise numbers of building collapses, and then determine if illegalities or unauthorised alterations to structures or the age of the building contributed to a collapse.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bmc-99-deaths-in-4-yrs-due-to-structure-collapses-in-mumbai-101627066749111.html
24-07-2021||Other||Karnal farmers protest, allege crop loss due to waterlogging||Alleging crop loss due to waterlogging, hundreds of farmers from villages in Karnal district on Friday held a protest and demanded compensation for the damaged crop.Protesting under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni), the farmers reached near the mini-secretariat and alleged that thousands of acres of standing paddy crop and vegetables were damaged due to heavy rain reported in parts of the district in the past one week.The sloganeering farmers demanded a special ‘girdawari’ from the government to assess the loss to crop.They handed over a memorandum addressed to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to the Karnal tehsildar, demanding ₹20,000 compensation per acre and the arrangements to pump out excess water from their fields.BKU Karnal district president Jagdeep Singh Aulakh said the rains had damaged paddy and vegetable crops in around 3,000 acre but the government did not take any note of it. He demanded the government to conduct a special ‘girdawari’ without further delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnal-farmers-protest-allege-crop-loss-due-to-waterlogging-101627066631063.html
24-07-2021||Other||Caterer feeds 500 flood-hit residents in Kalyan||Thursday’s flood in Kalyan not only left people homeless, but hundreds of people were also devoid of food. A 39-year-old caterer who runs his business at Ashok Nagar, Waldhuni, in Kalyan turned out to be a saviour for such people. As all the roads to Ashok Nagar area were blocked, the civic authorities could not provide food to the residents. Officials from the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) then reached out to a caterer, Pradeep Jawale, who instantly provided food to around 500 residents of the slum area for free, on Thursday afternoon. He also provided food to others who had approached him throughout the day. “Whatever I could do, I did from my side thinking that people are hungry, and they should get food in these tough times. As my shop is located on the upper side of the slum, it was not flooded. I also reached out to some shops for groceries and cooked food with the help of my five co-workers,” said Jawale, who has been running the catering business from 12 years. “Initially our team tried to send food to the residents but there was no way to reach the area. I then remembered that there’s a caterer in the area and checked with him if he can prepare food for those affected. He agreed and immediately started preparing food and served them to the residents,” said Vasant Bhongade, ward officer, KDMC. “My children and I have taken shelter in a community hall in the area. Jawale managed to send me food on time. I could feed my children due to him,” said Takdil Nisa, 35, a resident of the area, whose house has been affected due to the flooding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/caterer-feeds-500-flood-hit-residents-in-kalyan-101627066570200.html
24-07-2021||Other||‘Will move from status quo to solution of borders disputes’: Assam, Meghalaya CMs||The chief ministers of Assam and Meghalaya said on Friday that both states will work together with a pragmatic approach to sort out the border disputes. Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Meghalaya counterpart Conrad Sangma held talks in Shillong on Friday evening ahead of Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to Meghalaya on Saturday. According to a statement issued by Sarma’s office, during the discussion, Meghalaya claimed 12 disputed places between both states as theirs. On the other hand, Assam justified with documents that those places belonged to them. “After a detailed discussion, both the governments decided to adopt a pragmatic approach and move from status quo to solution. It was agreed to discuss all 12 places one by one and review claims,” the statement said. If possible, both CMs will visit all 12 places. Further, Sarma invited Sangma for the second round of discussion in Guwahati on August 6. The Assam-Meghalaya border dispute is over 4 decades old and there is contention between both states at 12 points along the 733-km boundary they share. Several rounds of talks have failed to solve the issue. The last round of talks on the border dispute between both states was held in April 2017“It was a very fruitful discussion. We came to a common understanding, and we are firm and committed to resolving the border dispute. In view of contradictory claims, there would be more discussion and review so that a lasting solution could be reached,” Sarma said after the meeting. “The border disputes between both states is a long pending issue. It would take some more time as well as consultation for an amicable and accepted solution to both the states,” Sangma said. Chief secretaries and other senior officials of both the governments were also present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-move-from-status-quo-to-solution-of-borders-disputes-assam-meghalaya-cms-101627066509729.html
24-07-2021||Other||1.6K Mumbai-bound train passengers rescued at Kasara||Around 1,600 passengers of Pawan Express that operates between Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) and Jayanagar in Bihar were rescued after three hours of operation by the Central Railway (CR) on Thursday. As torrential rain hit Maharashtra on Thursday, causing floods in different parts of the state, the train connectivity of the city with the rest of India was also disrupted.Heavy rain led to landslide, mud and boulder falls across CR, particularly in the Bhor and Thul ghats between Ambernath and Lonavala and Titwala-Igatpuri railway sections. Pawan Express that was enroute Mumbai got stuck between a landslide at one end and track washout on the other end near the Kasara Ghat section, late on Wednesday night amid heavy, continuous rainfall. “We sent an engine to pull the express out of the ghat section and bring it to a nearby station. However, when the engine reached the spot, we noticed that the tracks had been washed out due to heavy rainfall,” said a senior CR official.A team of 50 CR officials were sent to the site, where they worked on track restoration by ballasting and laying of rail sleepers. After three hours, the team managed to restore the tracks.“The location presented a lot of challenges. There was no road approach, and it was raining heavily continuously, and there was low visibility as it was night. Breach restoration was done by mobilising all the resources, manpower and machines to make the track fit,” added the official.The train was safely moved to Igatpuri railway station at 6.00am on Thursday. CR located disruptions at 21 spots on Thursday due to waterlogging on railway tracks, washing out of tracks, boulders falling and rivers flowing over danger levels. The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) operated 133 buses between Igatpuri, Kasara and Kalyan to ferry passengers back to Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/16k-mumbai-bound-train-passengers-rescued-at-kasara-101627066389135.html
24-07-2021||Other||Barnala synthetic drugs case: HC dismisses bail pleas of five||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday dismissed the bail pleas of five accused, including the alleged kingpin of synthetic drugs case, Krishan Kumar Arora, that the Barnala police has busted in February last year. Barnala police had registered the First Information Report (FIR) in the case under Sections 22, 25, 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act , 1985 on February 25, 2020. Initially, one Mohan Lal was apprehended on February 26, 2020 from whom the recovery of intoxicating tablets was effected. His interrogation led to a chain of arrests, including that of petitioners, and huge recoveries. The petitioners were arrested on different dates in March and September 2020.Those whose bail has been dismissed are Hardeep Kumar, alias, Babbu; Rajinder Kumar, alias Raju; Rupesh Kumar; Tayab Qureshi, and Krishan Kumar Arora, the alleged kingpin. Police have claimed that most of the recovered drugs have been manufactured by a company, in which Arora was playing an active role. They had argued that petitioners have been arraigned as accused on the basis of disclosure statements, which are inadmissible in evidence and most of the petitioners are chemists and possess valid licences. The police had told court that drug money and huge quantity of contraband, which fell within the ambit of commercial quantity, have been recovered from the petitioners. According to the affidavit filed by the state, in addition to drug money of ₹1.7 crore and five vehicles, around 46 lakh prohibited tablets, capsules and injections were recovered from the 17 accused arrested in the case. None of the accused possessed any special permission or licence, the police had told the court, adding that all the accused formed part of a gang and were working hand in glove with each other, while trafficking in commercial quantity of drugs. Taking note of the submissions, the high court bench of justice Suvir Sehgal dismissed the bail pleas holding that petitioners are not entitled to the concession of bail during the pendency of the trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/barnala-synthetic-drugs-case-hc-dismisses-bail-pleas-of-five-101627066269635.html
24-07-2021||Other||Minor among three held for stalking, harassment in Panipat||Three youths, including a minor, have been arrested for allegedly stalking and attempting to molest a 15-year-old minor girl in Panipat.The accused also attacked a shopkeeper who objected to the incident and tried to stop the accused when they were molesting the victim on the street. The accused threatened him of dire consequences.Police said accused Tushar (19), Nishant (18) and a minor boy are friends and live in Panipat.In her complaint, the victim alleged that one of the accused, who is a 16-year-old, was stalking the girl from the past couple of days. On Wednesday, when the victim had gone to the market in Salarganj Gate, Panipat, the accused trio chased her.They blocked her way and tried to molest her. Shopkeeper Sandeep intervened and tried to stop them but the accused attacked him with sticks and fled the spot, she alleged.Sunil Kumar, in-charge of Panipat City police station, said on complaint of the girl, they have registered a case under Section 12 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and Sections 354A, 354D, 506 and 34 of the IPC against the accused. The three accused have been taken into custody.The accused were produced in court and two of them were sent to judicial custody while the minor was sent to juvenile detention centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minor-among-three-held-for-stalking-harassment-in-panipat-101627066029523.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to enter into negotiations with farmers for buying land||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday gave a go-ahead to start negotiations with the farmers for landholdings to be purchased for government projects through e-Bhoomi portal. The negotiations will have financial implications of ₹15 crore, an official spokesperson said.The decision to negotiate was taken by Khattar during a meeting of the high-powered land purchase committee (HPLPC) for setting up four projects of irrigation, public works (B&R), medical education, and research departments in Jind, Rohtak, Karnal and Panipat districts.Farmers who have consented to give their lands for proposed government projects also attended the meeting.Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said a total of nine agendas pertaining to purchase of landholdings in eight districts - Jind, Rohtak, Karnal, Gurugram, Panipat, Faridabad, Sirsa and Kaithal for irrigation, public works (B&R), medical education and research and public health engineering were discussed in the meeting.“As of now, the state government has approved four agendas that included construction of a new sub-minor at Barsola village, construction of ROB service road at Lakhan Majra in Rohtak, construction of approach road from NH-44 to proposed university of health sciences in Karnal at Kutail village and construction of drain for disposing of STP water for Karnal town,” the Dushyant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-enter-into-negotiations-with-farmers-for-buying-land-101627065849525.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar launches portal for Haryana villagers to raise grievances||People living in Haryana villages will now be able to virtually lodge complaints and give suggestions to the state government after chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar launched an online portal ‘Gram Darshan’ on Friday.Khattar said the portal -gramdarshan.haryana.gov.in - has been developed to ensure direct and active participation of villagers in development works. He said the portal will help people register their demands, suggestions and complaints from anywhere.Flanked by deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala during the launch of the portal, Khattar said on the basis of the suggestions given by the villagers, a blueprint for future development plans will be prepared.He directed the officers of all departments to fix priorities of five works of their department so that complaints and suggestions lodged by villagers can be redressed on priority basis.COMPLAINTS TO BE LINKED TO CM WINDOWStating that the priority of the government is to redress grievances of people, Khattar said the complaints registered on ‘Gram Darshan’ portal will be linked with ‘CM Window’ to cut chances of repetition of complaints. The portal will also be linked with ‘Jan Sahayak’ app.An individual will be able to file a complaint or suggestion only related to the village of his permanent residence recorded in the ‘Parivar Pehchan Patra’.The suggestions and demands will be directly visible to sarpanches, panchayat samiti members, zila parishad members, MLAs and MPs.After the suggestion or complaint is registered on the portal, updated information about the action taken will be given to the person from time-to-time through text messages.The applicant has to sum up the suggestion or complaint in at least 50 characters. The individual who has been issued ‘Parivar Pehchan Patra’ will be able to file a complaint on the portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-launches-portal-for-haryana-villagers-to-raise-grievances-101627065730267.html
24-07-2021||Other||Panchkula industrial plot scam: ED court separates proceedings against son of ex-RTS commissioner||A special court in Panchkula on Friday ordered separation of proceedings against Dagar Katyal, an accused in illegal allotment of industrial plots in 2013 during former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s tenure.The court ordered the same as Katyal, son of a former commissioner of the Right to Service Commission, Haryana Sunil Katyal, failed to appear before it despite multiple notices.It ordered that notices seeking his presence be pasted outside the residence in Panchkula, where he had last resided. Katyal, who is residing in the US, the court said, is intentionally and deliberately avoiding the process of law and is absconding.The order to separate the proceedings was passed in “larger interest of justice” as his absence is delaying proceedings against others. Now trial against others will resume. There are over a dozen accused in the case, including the former CM.The case involves allotment of 14 industrial plots worth ₹30.34 crore to Hooda’s acquaintances in 2013. The ED had initiated the investigation in 2015 after an FIR was lodged by the Haryana vigilance bureau.The FIR was subsequently transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in 2016, which registered the case under Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 201 (disappearance of evidence), 204 (destruction of record to prevent its production as evidence), 409 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (to use a forged record or document as genuine) of the Indian Penal Code and under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The ED has filed its chargesheet in the case in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panchkula-industrial-plot-scam-ed-court-separates-proceedings-against-son-of-ex-rts-commissioner-101627065609614.html
24-07-2021||Lucknow||Explore ways to teach students in small groups amid pandemic: Yogi to primary schoolteachers||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said government primary school teachers should explore the possibilities of forming small groups of students and start teaching them in villages at a time when nobody knows when schools in the state will reopen especially in view of the probable third Covid wave.He also said online classes had their own challenges especially for those poor students who do not have devices like smartphones or laptops, leave alone internet connectivity.The onus was now on the newly appointed teachers to provide quality education to them, the chief minister added. Yogi said, “We cannot allow teaching and learning to get hampered due to prolonged closure of schools because of pandemic. People will never forgive us if we are not able to impart education to students in this trying situation. Ultimately, it’s the taxpayers’ money that is being used. Teachers have to find out ways and means to impart quality education.”The chief minister expressed these views while distributing appointment letters to 6,696 assistant teachers at an event held at Lok Bhavan in Lucknow.This observation by the chief minister is in contrast to the demand made by all private school associations for reopening of schools. A meeting of all the private school associations of Uttar Pradesh was held on Lucknow on Friday to address various problems related to private schools like closure of schools for almost 500 days, various discrepancies of the RTE (Right to Education) Act and the proposal of bringing private schools under RTI (Right to Information) Act.Kulbhushan Sharma, president, National Independent Schools Alliance (NISA), said that UP was a pioneer in dealing with Covid-19, but while states like Bihar, Punjab and Haryana opened their schools, it was ironic that Uttar Pradesh schools were still closed.Anil Agarwal, president, Unaided Schools Association, said discussions can solve the most complex of problems.“We want to convince the authorities about our problems and issues in a peaceful, democratic manner,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/explore-ways-to-teach-students-in-small-groups-amid-pandemic-yogi-to-primary-schoolteachers-101627064830716.html
24-07-2021||Other||Businessman, partner murdered in Delhi over ₹20 lakh debt||A 36-year-old businessman and his business partner were murdered and their bodies dumped in two separate locations 10 km away -- Wazirpur Industrial Area and Wazirabad -- allegedly by a factory owner and two of his employees over a ₹20 lakh debt.The three suspects -- factory owner Sandeep Jain (36) and his employees Sunil (27) and Sanjay (28) -- were arrested on Friday morning, hours after the crime, and police also recovered the sickle used to attack the victims.After the murders, the accused allegedly stuffed the victims, identified as Surender Gupta (36) and Amit Goel (35), into separate sacks. Gupta’s body was hidden below a commercial elevator shaft installed in Jain’s four-storey factory building, while Goel’s body was driven in the former’s SUV to near Jagatpur flyover in Wazirabad, nearly 10 km away, where the car was abandoned.Police said the trio then boarded an auto-rickshaw and returned to their respective homes, from where they were caught in the morning.According to police, Gupta ran a chemical factory in Shahabad Dairy and his friend Goel helped him in his business. They lived with their families in Rohini Sector-3.“During the interrogation, Jain revealed that he owed ₹20 lakh to Gupta but was unable to pay it because of the losses he suffered due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Jain alleged that Gupta had been threatening him,” said deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani.A senior police officer said that Goel’s body was found in the Fortuner SUV by Constable Ajay who was patrolling the streets in north Delhi’s Wazirabad around Thursday midnight.“The constable alerted the Wazirabad police station and a police team, along with forensic experts, arrived there. They opened the sack and found the body of a man with his throat slit and other stab wounds,” said the officer, who did not want to be named.A subsequent trace of the vehicle’s registration plates led police to Gupta’s house where his family informed investigators of his disappearance.During further inquiry, the officer said, it was learnt that in their last conversation with family members around 8.30pm on Thursday, Gupta and Goel had said that they were going to Jain’s factory to demand the payment of ₹20 lakh. Subsequently, Jain was called to the Wazirabad police station.“When we questioned Jain, he told us that Gupta and Goel had come to his factory but they left around 9 pm. But we inspected his office and found some blood spots. When confronted again, he broke down and confessed to killing Gupta and Goel, along with two of his employees. Jain showed us the elevator shaft from where we recovered the sack containing Gupta’s body. His two employees were also arrested and the sickle used in the murders was recovered,” the officer added.During the interrogation, the police said, Jain revealed that Gupta and Goel first arrived at his factory around 7 pm to demand the money. Gupta reportedly threatened him and the duo left after Jain sought an hour’s time. They returned again around 8.30pm and demanded the money but Jain and his two employees allegedly attacked and killed them, police said.“The three first brought down Goel’s body using the elevator and placed it on car’s rear seat. Since, the vehicle did not have space to accommodate both bodies, the trio left Gupta’s body below the elevator shaft and drove away. They abandoned the vehicle near Jagatpuri flyover, boarded an auto and returned to their home. They had thought of disposing of Gupta’s body on Friday night, if their crime was not detected by then,” the officer added.Gupta’s brother, Ashwani Goel, said Jain is their distant relative. “Jain had purchased a consignment from my brother and owed around ₹20 lakh. My brother had gone to demand the money when Jain and his employees killed him and Goel,” said Ashwani.Gupta is survived by his wife and three children while Goel has left behind his wife and parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/businessman-partner-murdered-in-delhi-over-20-lakh-debt-101627064709500.html
24-07-2021||Delhi||EWS admissions the latest flashpoint between Delhi govt, private schools||An association of private schools in the Capital said they will not follow the state education department’s orders on granting admission to all students from economically weaker sections (EWS) in entry-level classes irrespective of entries under the general category, arguing that the order violates the Right to Education (RTE) Act and a 2013 Delhi high court order in a similar case. Government officials, however, denied any violation.Till last year, private schools admitted one EWS student from the government’s list for every three admissions under the general category in entry-level classes (nursery, KG, and class 1), as part of the 25% reservation guaranteed to EWS/disadvantaged group (DG) students in entry-level classes under the RTE Act.On July 9, the Delhi directorate of education (DoE) said that private schools will have to admit all allotted EWS children irrespective of general category entries. It added that institutes which want an exemption from this rule because of fewer general admissions will need to seek the directorate’s permission after making efforts to fill all general seats.SK Bhattacharya, president of the Action Committee of Unaided Recognised Private Schools (ACURPS), told HT that the DoE order violated RTE norms.“The Right to Education Act reserves 25% seats for EWS/DG children. If a school declares 140 seats and is able to admit only 100 students under the general category, the EWS admissions should be on the basis of those 100 seats where actual admissions have taken place and not on the basis of declared seats.”In a notice sent to Yogesh Pal Singh, deputy director of education (private school branch) on Friday, Bhattacharya quoted a 2013 Delhi HC judgment on a similar matter and wrote, “[the court noted] if the school attempts to admit as many students as the infrastructure available with it permits but is able to admit fewer students from the General category, it will be required to admit one-third of the number of General category students from amongst EWS category students.”In a case filed by Sovereign Public School in the Delhi High Court in 2013, the petitioner school stated that since it was able to fill only 51 out of 140 general seats, the school should be allowed to admit 17 EWS students instead of 38 seats cited by the education department. The court had allowed the school to do as it had “made attempts” to fill the general category seats.The 2013 high court order added, “If the petitioner-school made attempts to admit 105 students from the general category but was able to admit only 51 students, it cannot be compelled to admit more than 17 students belonging to Economically Weaker Sections of the society.”The notice sent by the private school association, a copy of which is with HT, also declared that all private unaided schools make “sufficiently reasonable efforts, depending upon their financial position and other means of infrastructure at their disposal” to fill the general category seats declared by them as asked by the court.“In the facts and circumstances narrated above, you are hereby put to notice that since the schools and the DoE are bound by the judgment of Delhi high court, which does not require any permission to be taken from the DoE, for making proportionate admissions in general and EWS category, the school shall be following the law as declared by the Hon’ble high court only. Your circular being in violation of the law and therefore, being null and void and non est is not binding,” Bhattacharya wrote in the letter.Despite repeated messages and calls, Singh did not respond for comment.However, a senior official of the education department, requesting anonymity, said the department did not violate any court order or the RTE Act.“The department has allowed schools to file for an exemption if they don’t have necessary general category admissions. This is necessary because we have to ensure schools are making genuine efforts to fill their general seats as cited in the order. Our order also stated that exemptions can be made if schools make the necessary efforts to fill general category seats,” the official stated.Acting on complaints of several EWS parents, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on June 30 directed all private schools in the Capital to ensure admissions to all EWS students allotted seats in private schools regardless of general category admissions. However, due to the drop in general category admissions during the, several schools said they were finding it tough to accommodate all students.Rajbir Kaur, principal of DAV Public School in Sector 7 Rohini, said that they were allotted 40 EWS students by the department this year as per their usual 140 seats. But so far, the school has only managed to admit 40 students under the general category due to multiple reasons including mushrooming of private schools in the vicinity, migration of families, and financial constraints due to the pandemic.“Schools have been hit hard during the pandemic. If we admit more EWS students who need to be provided with free books and uniforms without sufficient general category admissions, the burden of generating resources will fall on the fee structure of general category parents who have also been demanding concessions during the Covid-19 crisis,” she said.Experts said that this would mean that the struggle for EWS students would continue in the coming days. Ekramul Haque, who runs NGO Mission Taleem, said, “Despite the government orders, EWS students are still not being admitted in private schools which still cite the same 3:1 formula. Schools are using the government’s exemption order to play around the existing norms and deprive the children of their rights.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ews-admissions-the-latest-flashpoint-between-delhi-govt-private-schools-101627064708962.html
24-07-2021||Other||Transport dept nod to float tenders for 400 e-buses||The Delhi transport department has approved the process to float of tenders for 400 electric buses that are likely to be inducted into the city’s cluster bus network by the end of this year, according to a senior government official.“The tender will be floated next week. Delhi so far has 300 e-buses in the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) fleet,” the senior official, who asked not to be named, said on Friday.The Delhi government plans to have 1,000 operational e-buses in the city by mid-2022, which is part of a larger plan of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government to add 4,000 buses to the city’s fleet by the end next year. Delhi currently has around 7,000 buses, including the DTC and cluster bus networks, in its public bus fleet. The plan includes standard floor and low floor buses -- some of them air conditioned.“With the proposed 400 new e-buses, Delhi is also likely to become the city with the largest fleet of e-buses. Currently, Pune has 600 e-buses in its fleet,” the official cited above said.Last week, the Delhi cabinet also approved initiating the bidding process for 160 low-floor air-conditioned buses. In January, the Cabinet approved funds for 1,000 low-floor buses but the tender and bidding processes were delayed because of the Covid-19 pandemic, said the senior official.The plan to procure e-buses is in alignment with the government’s electric vehicle (EV) policy -- notified last August as part of a long-term action plan against pollution -- which aims to ensure at least 25% of all registered vehicles in Delhi by 2023 are electric. The central government notified a similar scheme in 2019 -- Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric Vehicles in India [FAME] Phase-II -- which aims to generate demand for electric and hybrid vehicles.The buses are supposed to comply with BS-VI emission standards, and will be equipped with GPS, CCTV cameras and panic buttons to enhance the security of women commuters. The government has set up a control room in Kashmere Gate for the real-time tracking of its fleet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/transport-dept-nod-to-float-tenders-for-400-ebuses-101627064648955.html
24-07-2021||Delhi||DDMA orders closure of Tilak Nagar market till Tuesday||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has directed that the market in west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar be temporarily closed from Friday till at least next Tuesday for alleged violation of Covid-19 regulations.It has also ordered the revenue department to survey the market area and check for encroachment by permanent shop owners as well as unauthorised street vendors, said an order issued by the DDMA on Thursday night, a copy of which HT has seen.The DDMA, in its order, cited inputs from enforcement teams and senior revenue department officers, who visited the market and observed that Covid-19 norms were violated on at least four occasions on July 7, 10, 17 and 22.“Amid possibility for third wave of Covid-19 pandemic and considering gross violation of health protocols under Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in the market.... I do hereby order closure / shutting of Tilak Nagar market, comprising of Mall Road, Main Market, Mangal Bazar Road, Old Market and Fruit Market area with effect from July 23 to July 27,” said the order signed by the concerned sub-divisional magistrate.In the last three weeks, at least 20 markets in the city have faced similar crackdowns. They include large parts of Sadar Bazar, Laxmi Nagar market, Lajpat Nagar Central Market, Gaffar Market in Karol Bagh and several local markets in areas such as Madangir, Rohini and Nangloi.A lockdown was imposed in Delhi on April 19 in view of the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases, which overburdened the city’s health care system. As cases started declining, the DDMA relaxed the lockdown norms in a phased manner from May 31. Markets were allowed to open from mid-June but subjected to strict Covid-19 regulations such as mask compliance, observing social distancing, etc.Kapil Gandhi, president of New Market welfare association, Tilak Nagar, said: “There are encroachment issues in the market. We need better coordination from the authorities instead of such a crackdown.”“In the last few weeks, several markets have faced temporary suspension. It is unfair to put the entire burden of observing Covid-19 regulations on market welfare bodies. Local agencies and authorities too have responsibilities in this regard. We will meet the chief secretary soon to discuss the issue,” said Brijesh Goyal, president of Chamber of Trade and Industry -- a collective of market and trader welfare bodies based in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ddma-orders-closure-of-tilak-nagar-market-till-tuesday-101627064589577.html
24-07-2021||Other||Vasant Enclave residents complain of waterlogging||Residents of south Delhi’s Vasant Enclave have complained of flooding in their area every time it rains, even a little, and asked civic authorities, especially the Delhi Jal Board (DJB), to fix the drainage issue.A video shared by the local resident welfare association (RWA) shows a manhole in the middle of the lane overflowing and the sewage water inundating the houses on the ground floor.“The problem has been there for years and aggravates during monsoon. When we approach the DJB, they do send their suction machines to pump out the water. The process takes times. Sometimes, when it rains incessantly, even the staff take time to enter the area. It is a serious concern that needs a long-term solution,” said Rajeev Nayan, president of Vasant Enclave Welfare Association.Residents blame the lack of a robust sewerage system in the adjoining Basant Gaon, an urban village, for the problem.O P Nagpal (75), who has been living in Vasant Enclave since 1982, said back then, the colony used to be one of the most sought-after neighbourhoods, but over the years, the living conditions have taken a turn for the worse.“The adjoining village is at an elevation and does not have a proper stormwater drainage system. Around five to seven years ago, the residents of the village somehow connected their sewer line with that of Vasant Enclave. When it rains, all the rainwater with the muck flows into the sewer line causing the manholes to overflow,” said Nagpal.“The population of the village grew over the years with more apartments and flats coming up in the area. As their sewerage system was not being able to take the sewage load, it was connected to the Vasant Enclave drain and hence the issue,” said Nagpal.Around two years ago, a separate sewer line for the village was planned and a few pipes had also been laid. However, the villagers opposed it and the work had to be stopped midway, he said.The RWA has sent a string of letters to the DJB requesting them to delink the sewer line from that of the village.In reference to a letter from the Vasant Enclave RWA, a senior DJB official said both Vasant Enclave and Basant Gaon are adjacent to each other and that the village is at a higher elevation. “There is no storm water drain in Basant Gaon, which is connected to Vasant Enclave’s sewerage system. During monsoon, rainwater running downstream accumulates in the low-lying areas of Vasant Enclave. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation has been requested to lay storm water drains to sort out the problem,” said the official adding that the DJB is going to replace the sewer line after monsoon.Manish Aggarwal, a BJP councillor from Vasant Vihar, said the drainage issue is a long-standing problem. “It is not possible to construct storm water drains along the sewer lines as the lanes in the village are too narrow. We have requested the DJB only to find a solution,” said Aggarwal.However, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA from the area Pramila Tokas said two and a half years ago, she had got the work orders for laying a separate sewer line for the village and work had even started at the site. “Almost 25% work was done when a group of residents opposed the work and did not let it take off. It has been stuck since then. We have been planning to revive the project soon after monsoon,” said Tokas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vasant-enclave-residents-complain-of-waterlogging-101627064588970.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder by his side, Sidhu takes charge as Punjab Cong president||Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday took over as president of the Punjab Congress in the presence of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh who said they will work together for the welfare of Punjab as the party sought to present a united front after months of infighting and ahead of the run-up to the assembly elections early next year.A day after he appeared to soften his stance towards Sidhu by deciding to attend the taking-over ceremony of the new Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee team, Singh struck all the right notes in his address to party workers, saying “It is your responsibility to support the party president.”After the Congress elevated Sidhu as the head of the party’s state unit, overruling the chief minister’s objections, yet maintaining that it would fight the 2022 elections under Singh’s leadership, a reconciliation was always on the cards -- although Singh’s aides said that this could happen only if Sidhu apologised for some of his very public statements against the chief minister. It wasn’t immediately clear whether an apology had been proffered.It also remains to be seen if the rapprochement survives a Congress victory in 2022, given that Sidhu has never disguised his ambitions. Still, it was all good cheer and bonhomie on Friday.Ahead of the ceremony, the two bonded over breakfast at Punjab Bhawan in Chandigarh.Tensions between Singh, 79, and Sidhu, 57, who quit the state cabinet in 2019, have simmered since that year but flared up in May after the government suffered a legal setback in a 2015 case of police firing on a crowd protesting the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib, the Sikh holy book. That was under the Shiromani Akali Dal government headed by the Badals, and Singh was accused by some in the Congress as being soft on them.Sidhu quickly rallied support as leaders opposed to Singh coalesced around him and raised other issues as well -- the failure of the government to keep its 2017 election promises, and the dependence of Singh on some powerful bureaucrats. The Congress’ central leadership set up a three-member committee. The panel met around 150 functionaries – it also met Singh twice -- and submitted its report to party chief Sonia Gandhi on June 10. It rapidly became clear that Sidhu had the support of both Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, both of who, it is believed, see him as the future of the party in the state.Sidhu was a BJP lawmaker who quit and almost joined the Aam Aadmi Party before signing up with the Congress in 2017.After taking charge at the state Congress headquarters, he said there was no difference between an ordinary worker of the party and its state unit chief. “Every Congress worker in Punjab has become the chief of the party’s state unit from today,” the Amritsar East MLA said.The cricketer-turned-politician said he would back the farmers protesting against the three farm laws. “I want to tell Punjab farmers that the biggest mission of my presidency is that the power of the government helps them and improves their lives. We shall make a difference, we have to make a difference. I want to tell farmers that their agitation is pious.”“Those oppositions, who speculated a rift in our party, look at us today, we are together and united,” he added.Sidhu also raised the Sacrilege issue, saying “CM Saab we have to resolve the (sacrilege) issue, then, we will be called true Sikhs… As President I resolve to take all these cases to a conclusion,” he announced to cheers from the partymen who were present in large numbers.In his address, Singh went down memory lane and recalled his old Patiala ties with Sidhu, saying: “I was commissioned in the army, the year Sidhu was born. When my mother asked me to enter politics, his (Sidhu’s) father helped me. I used to go to his house when he was about six years old.”“We will move together in politics. We have to think of Punjab’s welfare. When Sonia Gandhi told me that the party wants to make Sidhu as state unit chief, even then I had told the media that whatever decision Soniaji will take, will be acceptable to us.” the CM said.The chief minister took the opportunity to highlight his government’s achievements. “The state emerged number one in the fight against Covid and was rated first in primary education besides making the biggest contribution to the country’s food bowl,” he said.In his address, outgoing state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar referred to some of the issues and said: “We were hit by red tapism in our government. Our workers suffered due to that, but we still have time. We can course correct it even now.”Looking at All India Congress Committee general secretary and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat, Jakhar said: “Rawat ji please tell Sonia ji that the revival of the Congress goes through Punjab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-by-his-side-sidhu-takes-charge-as-punjab-cong-president-101627063809529.html
24-07-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh chief minister distributes appointment letters to 6,696 assistant teachers||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday distributed appointment letters to 6,696 assistant teachers recruited in the government schools against vacant posts of 69,000 assistant teachers, thereby completing their much-awaited recruitment process. “The appointment of new teachers will help in imparting quality education to students,” he said at the event held at Lok Bhavan in Lucknow. While congratulating the newly appointed assistant teachers, Yogi said the government and basic education department had completed the recruitment process with sincerity and fairness.Sending across a note of warning to all those who tend to vitiate the transparent recruitment process, the chief minister said the government had already vacated jails for all such unscrupulous elements.Targeting the previous governments in the state, the CM said, “The performance of basic schools of Uttar Pradesh is very high on the national standards of grading but some people do not like it. Before 2017, the buildings were in a dilapidated condition and if there were buildings, those were without teachers.”“Furthermore, if there were teachers, students were missing. The students did not have uniforms and children used to go to school barefoot. The whole department was just engaged in transfers and postings. Now when the process is transparent and the condition of government schools has improved to a large extent due to ‘Operation Kayakalp’, they are not liking it. The Opposition can’t digest the fact that the children of the poor are going to schools and getting quality education,” he added.“I am happy to inform you that our government has completed 52 months of its tenure. During this period, our government has given government jobs to more than 4.5 lakh youths in Uttar Pradesh. And no one can raise any questions on a single job. The recruitment process has been done in a transparent manner, with sincerity and complete integrity,” the CM said.Speaking on the occasion, deputy CM Dinesh Sharma said the standard of government schools had been raised by the incumbent government. “Studying in a government school is no more ‘sarcasm’. Rather, the schools now have good buildings, good arrangements, cheap books for which the credit goes to the Yogi government. There has been a vast change in the education system,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-cm-distributes-appointment-letters-to-6-696-assistant-teachers-101627063330698.html
24-07-2021||Lucknow||BSP plays Ram temple card at Brahmin conference in Ayodhya, targets BJP||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Friday played the Ram temple card to woo voters for the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. The elections are due early next year. Launching the statewide Brahmin conference in Ayodhya on Friday, BSP national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra said the saffron brigade had been raising funds for the construction of the Ram temple for the last 20 years. After the Supreme Court verdict of November 9, 2019, the foundation stone of the temple was laid in August last year. “Again, a countrywide donation drive was launched by various outfits run by the ruling BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party). A year has passed, but there is no sign of the construction of the Ram temple,” he alleged. When the BSP formed a majority government in Uttar Pradesh in 2007, it constructed grand Dalit memorials within one-a-and-a-half years at various spots in the state, he said. After it forms the government in 2022, the BSP will force the organisations that have raised large funds for the Ram temple to expedite the construction works, he added. “The BSP government will ensure the outfits complete the construction of the Ram temple soon,” he said. Mishra alleged that the BJP was doing politics over the Ram temple. He said the BJP government came to power at the Centre in 2014 and in Uttar Pradesh in 2017, but Ram Lalla (child Ram) remained in a makeshift temple. While the process for the construction of the Ram temple started after the Supreme Court verdict, the deity remained in a makeshift temple, he said. [On March 25 last year, the deity Ram Lalla was relocated after 27 years from the makeshift temple to a pre-fabricated one within the Ram Janmabhoomi premises. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had attended the ceremony that took place on the first day of the nine-day Navratri festival]. The BJP made political gains from the Ram temple issue but was seeking donations for the construction of the shrine whereas the government spent large funds on the construction of statues in Gujarat, Mishra said. “The BJP has sidelined the local mahants, sadhus and priests (in Ayodhya) who have been associated with the Ram temple movement. The BJP should give details of the funds collected for the Ram temple, make public the details of the design and the architecture of the temple,” he said. He alleged that there was no transparency in the construction works. “The BJP has been exposed over the construction of the Ram temple,” Mishra said. He alleged that the BJP had deliberately slowed down the construction of the Ram temple to serve its political interests. Calling for people of all communities to support the BSP in the 2022 assembly elections, he said the BSP government will pave the way for the construction of a grand Ram temple soon. “The BJP should know that people of all castes and communities have faith in Ram Lalla,” he said. Mishra said the BSP will organise Brahmin conferences at “holy places” including Mathura, Vrindavan, Varanasi, Chitrakoot and Shravasti till October 15. The party will organise a massive Brahmin conference in Lucknow, he added. Mishra called upon the Brahmin community to support the BSP in the coming assembly election. The BSP formed a majority government in 2007 with the support of Brahmins and the BSP government, in turn, gave important positions to Brahmins in the government and the party organisation, he said. Brahmins who constitute 13% of the state’s population and Dalits who make up 23% of the population will ensure the formation of a majority BSP government again, he said. Alleging that Brahmins had been sidelined under the BJP government, Mishra alleged that “atrocities” on the community had increased. He recounted incidents of attacks on Brahmins in various districts of the state. He termed Khushi Dubey, wife of Amar Dubey, as a symbol of the BJP government’s alleged atrocities on the Brahmin community. Amar Dubey, an associate of Bikru ambush case prime accused Vikas Dubey, was killed in a police encounter in July last year. Eight policemen were killed in an ambush during a raid on Vikas Dubey’s house at Bikru village in Kanpur on July 2-3 night last year. A few days later, Vikas Dubey was also killed in a police encounter. Mishra said the BSP did not support attacks on policemen, but it would oppose the incarceration of a Brahmin woman for no fault of hers. “Khushi is forced to stay in a two-room shelter home with 48 girls,” he said. Khushi Dubey is lodged in a Barabanki shelter home since July 8 last year. Her family members alleged that she was not involved in the attack on the police personnel, yet the state government had put her behind bars. The BJP’s Brahmin leaders were forced by the state government to give statements against Khushi and other Brahmin victims, Mishra alleged. “The time has come for the Brahmins to mull over their dignity, security and progress. They should support the BSP for a share in power,” he said. Reacting to the BSP’s allegations, Bhartiya Janata Party state unit spokesperson Sameer Singh said, “The Bahujan Samaj Party has been promoting the politics of caste in Uttar Pradesh. The party has nothing to do with the dignity of the Hindu community or the development of Hindu holy places. The Ram temple is a symbol of faith and pride of the Hindu community. The BJP government is committed to the construction of grand temple and the construction of the temple is continuing in full swing. Chief minister Yogi Adityanth has launched several projects for the development of Ayodhya and other Hindu religious spots in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bsp-plays-ram-temple-card-at-brahmin-conference-in-ayodhya-101627062129392.html
24-07-2021||Other||State has capacity to vax 1 million a day, but not enough doses available: Tope||On Friday morning, state health minister Rajesh Tope inaugurated the National Cold Chain Resource Centre (NCCRC) in Pune.The centre will provide training to experts and officials involved in cold chain management. The centre comes at a time when Covid-19 vaccine inoculation is being undertaken on a war footing across the country. At the inauguration, Tope said that the centre will help reduce wastage and contamination of the vaccines, not only Covid-19, but also those used in routine immunisation. Tope said, “We have the capacity to inoculate 1.5 million people daily and a minimum of one million at least, on a daily basis, however, we get only three- to three-and-a-half lakh doses on a daily basis. We are expecting to get more doses soon. However, without enough vaccine doses we cannot vaccinate more people.” Tope added, “With such a centre in place, Pune has once again proved that it is steering the fight against Covid-19. The facility will help avoid health-related accidents like the Nashik oxygen leak which have to be avoided as it deals with life and death.” The National Cold Chain Research Centre (NCCRC), was established in 1982, but functioned in Pune as division centre and was later, in 2013, declared an autonomous institute under the state government by the Maharashtra public health department. In 2016, it was declared a national centre by the state government, following additional works. The 10-storied building is located near Naidu hospital on the Raja Bahadur mill road and has residential and research facilities. The centre will be involved in creating sessions to train cold-chain officials and experts not just from different states, but also from other Asian countries. The centre will also provide training with regards to equipment used in paediatric units like neonatal ICUs and will also draft manuals, SOPs and other educational content.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-has-capacity-to-vax-1-million-a-day-but-not-enough-doses-available-tope-101627047607413.html
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Kangana seeks memorial for Himachal’s apple pioneer Stokes||Actor Kangana Ranaut has urged the Himachal Pradesh government to build a memorial dedicated to Samuel Evan Stokes, later known as Satyanand Stokes, the American missionary who pioneered apple-growing in the state. Today, Himachal Pradesh’s fruit economy is pegged at ₹6,000 crore. But it all started with Stokes introducing viable apple cultivation at Barubagh in Kotgarh in 1916. The Delicious variety of apples are now grown in parts of Kullu, Shimla, Mandi, Sirmaur, Kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti and Chamba districts. Also read: Future of country depends on what ideas students have, says Himachal governor“Stokes was not an Indian, but he fought for the country’s freedom and faced sedition charges from the British government. He was from a wealthy American Quaker family, he learnt Sanskrit, became a Hindu, set up a school and introduced apples to Himachal Pradesh,” Kangana, who is from the state, posted on her Instagram account. “Most Himachali farmers now earn from apple orchards but not many know about Stokes. I request chief minister Jai Ram Thakur to name one major landmark after Shri Samuel Stokes. We do this favour on ourselves as he followed Hinduism all his life and pitra puja (gratitude for ancestors) is of supreme importance in our culture and we must pay our respects to this being whose actions, hard work and foresight are giving employment to lakhs of people till today.” From leprosy mission to growing apples Stokes had arrived in Shimla in 1904 to join a leprosy mission. In 1905, when an earthquake ravaged Kangra and killed more than 20,000 people, he walked from village to village, helping the affected. In 1912, he visited Kotgarh and settled down there, marrying a local Christian girl, Agnes. Later, he entered Arya Samaj and changed his name to Satyanand. Inspired by Mahatma Gandhi, he joined the Congress and fought for India’s independence. Stokes wasn’t the first to introduce apple to the state, but it was his contribution that went a long way in transforming the apple economy. Captain RC Scot of the British army was the first to bring the fruit to the Kullu valley in 1870, but his variety was not viable economically. Stokes’ red, delicious variety was from Louisiana in the US. He made his apple orchard in 1919 on his Thanedhar estate and taught the techniques to locals. Apple transforming HP’s economy Apple is the most important fruit crop of Himachal Pradesh, which constitutes about 49% of the total area under fruit crops and about 79% of the total fruit production. The area under apple has increased from 400 hectares in 1950-61 and 1,12,634 hectares in 2017-18. The area under temperate fruits other than apple has increased from 900 hectares in 1960-61 to 28,369 hectares in 2017-18. The apple economy alone is pegged at ₹2,900 crore. As many as 450 cultivars (plants propagated through stem cuttings, not via seeds) of apple collected from all over the world, a majority from the United States, Italy, China and New Zealand are grown in seven districts of the state, namely Shimla, Kullu, Sirmaur, Chamba, Mandi, Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kangana-seeks-memorial-for-himachal-s-apple-pioneer-stokes-101627039330464.html
