25-07-2021||Noida||2 arrested for killing dairy farm worker in G Noida||Noida Two persons were arrested on Sunday for killing a dairy farm worker in Sector Beta 2 in Greater Noida one year ago. The suspects — identified as Ravi, 25, a resident of Sultanpur and Keshav, 30, a resident of Bulandshahr — had killed the victim, 24-year-old Milan Haldar, a resident of West Bengal on August 23, 2020. Ravi and Haldar both worked at a dairy farm in Greater Noida.Rameshwar Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Beta 2 police station, said that the dairy farm owner, Pappu, had filed a complaint at the police station on August 23, 2020. Pappu, in his complaint, said that Ravi had thrashed Haldar a day earlier, over some issues. When Pappu reached the dairy farm on August 23, he found that both Haldar and Ravi were missing. On launching a search, he discovered Haldar’s body near the farm.A case was registered against Ravi under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 302 (murder) at the Beta 2 police station.During investigation, it was revealed that Ravi was angry at Haldar because he used to meet his wife, Kumar said. “Ravi and his friend Keshav killed Haldar, and they escaped. They had been absconding since the crime.” On Sunday, a police team arrested the two suspects from Greater Noida and produced them before a court. They were later sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/2-arrested-for-killing-dairy-farm-worker-in-g-noida-101627237770798.html
25-07-2021||Delhi||Robbers take 17-year-old hostage in her Jahangirpuri house||Two men held a 17-year-old girl hostage at knifepoint while robbing her house in northwest Delhi’s Jahangirpuri on Friday afternoon, the police said. The suspects ransacked the house in front of her and decamped with cash and jewellery worth around ₹13 lakh. The suspects were captured on CCTV, and the police said they are on the lookout for the suspect.“We have registered a case of robbery and are investigating the matter. A team has got some clues about the suspects, and they will be caught soon,” said Usha Rangnani, deputy commissioner of police (northwest).Police said that the robbery took place on Friday afternoon, when the girl was alone at her home and her family members were out. Investigators said that the two men knocked on the door, and as the girl opened to ask the men who they were looking for, they pushed her inside, pointed a knife at her and threatened to kill her if she raised an alarm. They cornered the girl and then ransacked the house.“They fled with around ₹2.5 lakh cash and some gold and silver jewellery. It appears that the suspects knew that cash and jewellery was kept in the house,” said a police officer who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/robbers-take-17-year-old-hostage-in-her-jahangirpuri-house-101627237768171.html
25-07-2021||Noida||Gang selling stolen cars busted, 17 vehicles seized||Noida The Noida police on Sunday nabbed three members of a gang for selling stolen vehicles, and also recovered 17 vehicles, including luxury cars, from their possession.The suspects — identified as Amit, Ajmer and Sandeep — all natives of Haryana, are members of the infamous ‘Ketu’ gang. According to police, they are all national-level athletes and wrestlers. Following a tip, a team of Sector 58 police and the anti-theft unit nabbed the suspects from the National Institute of Biologicals (NIB) crossing in Sector 62 around 3.45pm.The Sector 58 police had been trying to trace the stolen vehicles after they busted a vehicle lifting gang from Moradabad in December 2020.“Amit, the gang leader, has good connections in the vehicle lifting market. He had gone to jail on several occasions from various states, also from Uttar Pradesh’s Noida... Sandeep is connected with the surveyors of insurance firms..,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police (zone 1).“The gang has been active since 2009... We have inputs that they have been exporting vehicles to Myanmar, Bhutan, and other places. Police teams are working on these leads. We have identified at least seven to eight more persons associated with the gang,” Verma added.Several cellphones, 15 key fobs, fake RC sets and tool kits were recovered from their possession. They were produced before a magistrate and sent to jail on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gang-selling-stolen-cars-busted-17-vehicles-seized-101627237709304.html
25-07-2021||Other||Delhi: Police bust fraud call centre offering jobs in airlines||New Delhi: Police on Sunday said they have busted a fraud call centre and arrested its two owners for allegedly duping hundreds of job aspirants from different states by promising them employment in a private airline. Ten people who were working as tele-callers in the call centre were “bound down” that means they have been booked in the case and directed to remain available for investigation, whenever required.Deputy commissioner of police (east) Priyanka Kashyap said that some days ago, the district’s cyber cell received a complaint from IndiGo airline that some people were running a racket in the name of providing jobs in the airline at various airports in India. The cheats were also issuing fake appointment letters on the company’s behalf. Accordingly, a case was registered and investigation was taken up.The cyber cell team investigation showed that the job racket was being run through a call centre operating from a rented building in Ghazipur village. A raid was conducted and 12 people were caught.“We arrested the two owners, Surjeet Yadav and Sundaram Gupta, while the 10 tele-callers, including eight women, were bound down. Six computers, 16 cellphones, one laptop and other electronic devices used for running the call centre were seized along with ₹26,000 cash,” said DCP Kashyap.During the interrogation, the DCP said, the arrested men said that they mostly cheated job aspirants from south India, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The tele-callers were hired on a monthly payment of ₹6,000 to ₹9,000. The mastermind posted advertisements on job portals, inviting applications from job seekers interested in working in IndiGo. “After obtaining details of the candidates, the racketeers used to take their online interviews. Thereafter, they tricked the candidates into paying the processing fee, which is between ₹1,500 and ₹30,000, in their bank accounts. Further, they issued fake appointment letters. The candidates found themselves cheated when they visited the airline office and learnt that the appointments were fake,” said an investigator.DCP Kashyap said the arrested frauds have cheated hundreds of job aspirants to the tune of over ₹10 lakh in the past couple of months.In a statement, IndiGo said it has been regularly alerting people against such fraud practices. “IndiGo has been continuously working towards creating awareness through advisories and regular informercials around such fake job offers by criminals. Our strong belief in handling the issue with a combination of police action as well as awareness has resulted in apprehension of these miscreants today,” said the statement issued by Raj Raghavan, senior vice president: human resources||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-bust-fraud-call-centre-offering-jobs-in-airlines-101627237647546.html
25-07-2021||Noida||Man working at IGI airport held with 518 grams marijuana in Greater Noida||A 25-year-old man was arrested with 518 grams of marijuana from the Kulesra area of Greater Noida on Sunday. The man worked as an operator in the goods scanning section at the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi, police said.The suspect was identified as Ashish Tomar, a resident of Meerut. Bhuvnesh Kumar Sharma, SHO of Ecotech 3 police station, said a police team was conducting a routine checking in Kulesra when they stopped a Maruti Baleno. “The police checked the vehicle and found 518 grams marijuana inside the car,” he said.Tomar was presently living in Chitaranjan Park in Delhi. During interrogation, he revealed that he had got the contraband from a person in Himachal Pradesh. “He used to source the drugs from Kasol in Himachal Pradesh and then sold them to people in Delhi-NCR. We are investigating his crime records,” the SHO said.A case was registered against him under Section 8 and 20 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-working-at-igi-airport-held-with-518-grams-marijuana-in-greater-noida-101627237648185.html
25-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra set to relax some restrictions this week||Taking into account Maharashtra’s daily Covid-19 caseload hovering between 6,000 and 7,000 for the past three weeks, the state government is set to relax some restrictions this week. Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 6,843 new cases. The state has been facing pressure from various quarters to relax rules, considering the damages to businesses due to the restrictions. Even districts that were hit badly by the second wave have started witnessing a drop in the daily caseload and the positivity rate. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to the state on Covid-19 management, said, “The government can give some relaxations as cases have stabilised. However, at the same time, strict monitoring should be followed daily for various aspects like daily cases, positivity rates, bed occupancy as well as liquid-oxygen consumption,” said Dr Salunkhe. He said the timings of the shops can be extended from the closing time of 4pm along with an emphasis on vaccination of those working in these establishments. However, Salunkhe said local trains need to be opened in a staggered manner and preference given to those fully vaccinated. “There should be strict enforcement on Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” he added. The Indian Hotels and Restaurant Association (AHAR), an association of restaurant owners, has petitioned the government to extend the timings. “The government needs to allow us to operate till at least 11pm as the cases have come down drastically. We are ready to operate at 50% capacity and also follow all guidelines. The rules need to be relaxed as we are unable to sustain at all in this restrictive timings,” said Shetty. On Sunday, Mumbai had a share of 364 new cases and 10 deaths with its toll reaching 15,837. The total deaths in Maharashtra since the outbreak last year has reached 131,552.. There were 202,536 tests done on Sunday, while the number of recoveries clocked 5,212. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 94,985 while the total number of deaths right from the Covid-19 outbreak has now reached 131,552. There are currently 94,985 active patients across th e state, of which Pune tops with 15,803 patients, followed by Kolhapur with 12,138 active patients. The death toll has now reached 131,552, with Pune leading with 18,383 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 15,837 citizens||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-set-to-relax-some-restrictions-this-week-101627237588717.html
25-07-2021||Noida||Greater Noida medical institute to offer PG courses from upcoming academic session||Noida After getting 14 postgraduate seats for Diplomate of National Board (DNB) courses from the National Board of Examination (NBE) in 2020, the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Gautam Budh Nagar’s Kasna is all set to begin Doctor of Medicine (MD) and Master of Surgery (MS) postgraduate courses in its campus from the upcoming academic session of 2022-23.It will be among one of the few medical colleges in the country which will get a permission to run MD and MS courses even before completing a mandatory five years for getting a recognition from the National Medical Commission (NMC), earlier known as the Medical Council of India (MCI), said officials on Sunday.GIMS director Dr Rakesh Gupta said that since the institute has started the MBBS course for 100 students after due approval from the NMC in 2019, to further improve patient care, the GIMS has initiated the process to get recognition in order to start MD and MS courses in different streams. “After increasing the bed capacity to 470, which is mandatory to get the permission to start postgraduate courses, GIMS has no hurdle in applying for MD and MS seats. Our infrastructure, patient load, number of faculties and laboratories also fulfil criteria which are needed by the NMC to grant the seats,” he said.Gupta also said that the GIMS will apply for MD/MS seats in all the streams, including medicine, surgery, orthopaedics, gynaecology and anesthesia. “According to our infrastructure and bench strength, we are expected to get at least 100 MD/MS seats. The NMC will invite applications from medical colleges by the end of August this year. They are supposed to sanction the MD/MS seats by the end of December this year. After getting the NMC permission, the Uttar Pradesh government will issue a sanction letter to us and then we will be able to take admission for these postgraduate courses through the National Eligibility Entrance Test (Postgraduate) or NEET (PG) for the academic session 2022-23,” he added.NMC sources also confirmed that due to the second wave of Covid-19 across India, the invitation of applications from medical colleges has been delayed. “We will soon release a notification in this regard and the final approval of PG seats will be done by December 2021. Once a medical college gets nod to start MD/MS courses, its DNB seats are deemed null and void after the beginning of MD/MS courses,” said a NMC board director, requesting anonymity.He also said one has to qualify MBBS or an equivalent programme with 50% or above aggregate percentage along with clearing the NEET (PG) test to get admission in MD/MS courses. “The course is covered in six semesters, comprising rotational training. Any medical college in Uttar Pradesh pays each of these students. The pay scale for a junior resident doctor (fixed by the state government) is ₹78,500 per month,” he said.GIMS is an autonomous tertiary care teaching hospital in Gautam Budh Nagar. The hospital is fully functional and approximately 1,500 patients visit the GIMS and over 200 patients are being admitted there daily, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-medical-institute-to-offer-pg-courses-from-upcoming-academic-session-101627237589295.html
25-07-2021||Noida||Humid day in Noida, rain likely on Monday||High humidity and clear sky made outdoors uncomfortable for residents in Noida, with rains keeping away on Sunday. The weather analysts said that the city may witness light to moderate rains on Monday that will bring down the mercury.On Sunday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded maximum and minimum temperatures for Noida at 36°C and 28°C against 36°C and 28.5°C a day earlier.According to the IMD, the daytime temperature may hover around 33°C on Monday. “There is a possibility of moderate rains on Monday. The maximum and minimum temperatures may hover around 33°C and 28°C,” said an official at IMD.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) of Skymet, said, “The low pressure monsoon trough that had been oscillating is likely to pass over the western region of UP, Haryana and Delhi, leading to high possibility of light to moderate rains on Monday. The intensity of rainfall will spike from Tuesday onwards bringing the mercury down. There is a high possibility of rains till July 28.”The monsoon trough line is a low pressure moisture laden line that expands from northern plain to eastwards towards Bay of Bengal. Meanwhile, at the Safdarjung monitoring station, considered average for the National Capital Region, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 37.3°C, three notches above the season’s average and 27.7°C, the season’s average, respectively. The humidity level oscillated between 89% and 58%, the IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/humid-day-in-noida-rain-likely-on-monday-101627237588170.html
25-07-2021||Other||32-yr-old Mumbai graphic artist wins ‘Oscar of the comics world’||Mumbai-based graphic artist Anand Radhakrishnan, 32, has won a prestigious Will Eisner Comic Industry Award, popularly considered the Oscars of the comics world.The Eisner Awards are given out annually and the award won by Radhakrishnan -- Best Painter/Multimedia Artist (interior art) -- recognises the creator of a graphic novel’s art and images. Radhakrishnan shares the award with UK-based colourist John Pearson. They won for their work on UK-based author Ram V’s 145-page graphic novel Blue In Green, published in October 2020 by Image Comics.The mixed-media images, created using pencil, ink and acrylic paint, are hauntingly realistic portrayals of a young musician’s self-doubt and struggles in pursuit of creative success. “Blue In Green is about existential dread, an artist’s insecurity. The story is slow-paced and subdued and the images complement the narrative,” Radhakrishnan told HT. “They are very realistic in terms of the proportions and anatomy and the images are a little hazy as well.”Winning an Eisner is great validation, he adds. “I work from home and very few people get to see what I do. But when Eisner acknowledges you, you realise that people are looking at your work. It’s made me feel that what I do has meaning.”He’s hoping the recognition will draw attention to the graphic novel in general too. “I strongly believe that if there is a consolidated effort to push graphic novels, they have the potential to become as big in India as Manga is in Japan,” Radhakrishnan says.The Mahim resident is currently working on another graphic novel, Radio Apocalypse, also with Ram V. It is the tale of a radio station and crew that have survived the apocalypse. The book is set for release in October.The Eisner Awards were founded in 1988 by American comics editor Dave Olbrich, in response to the discontinuation of the popular Kirby Awards for comics in 1987. The Eisners are named in honour of the pioneering writer and artist Will Eisner. The awards are announced each year at the San Diego Comic-Con.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/32yrold-mumbai-graphic-artist-wins-oscar-of-the-comics-world-101627237533928.html
25-07-2021||Other||3-year-old boy’s body found buried, witchcraft suspected||Agra Police dug out a three-year old boy’s body in the forest area of Jodhpura village within Pinahat police station limits on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, after receiving information that the child was killed during occult practices.. “Police reached the spot on receiving information from villagers and dug the area. Subsequently, the body of a three-year-old boy was found buried,” informed Ashok Venkat, superintendent of police (SP), Agra East (Rural). “The body will be kept for three days so that it may be identified. Thereafter, it will be sent for post mortem examination to know the exact cause of death,” he said. “Villagers have alleged some occult practices behind the killing but presently it does not seem to be the reason. It seems that the body of the child was buried after his untimely death, as is the practice for minor children. Police will investigate the matter to find exact reasons,” he added. The villagers of Jodhapur village alleged that they had seen four people, including a woman, coming in an auto-rickshaw and performing occult practices on the spot where a knife, spade and other items for witchcraft were found. They had asked police to dig the spot where the body was later found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3yearold-boy-s-body-found-buried-witchcraft-suspected-101627237528120.html
25-07-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Residents complain of contaminated drinking water||Residents of Ace Aspire, a housing society in Greater Noida West, have complained of contaminated drinking water supplied by the Greater Noida authority. They also said that several children have suffered diarrhoea in the society in the past three days. Around 800 families are living in the society that uses water supplied by the authority.“At least 30 children are suffering from diarrhoea. We suspect that it is happening due to contaminated water. We have asked the authority to address the issue as soon as possible,” Varun Sharma, a resident of the society, said on Sunday. The Greater Noida authority still uses groundwater for supplying water to the different societies.“The authority had assured the Ganga water supply in 2018, but it is still supplying the groundwater that is salty and not fit for drinking. We hope that the authority will soon address this issue and start supplying Ganga water to us,” said Gurudas, president of apartment owners association of Ace Aspire. “We have informed all residents about water contamination. We are trying to address the issue with the help of the authority,” said Gurudas, who uses single name.Officials of the Greater Noida authority said that they have conducted an inspection and taken samples of water from the society.“The water sample does not seem to have any pollutant in it. We have sent the sample for testing to a lab. Once the report comes in, we will take appropriate action. However, we supply clean drinking water to all societies,” said AK Arora, general manager of the authority. Meanwhile, a team from the Gautam Budh Nagar health department organised a camp at the society on Sunday.“Residents demanded for a camp after the water contamination issue in the society. We have checked some patients and also provided them with medicines. We are yet to reach a conclusion if water caused this or not,” said Dr Sunil Dohre, additional chief medical officer of GB Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-residents-complain-of-contaminated-drinking-water-101627237469545.html
25-07-2021||Lucknow||Yogi announces names of nine new medical colleges||While inspecting the under-construction autonomous government medical college in Siddharthnagar district on Sunday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed the officers concerned to complete it and ensure all facilities there within two weeks. Yogi also instructed the district magistrate, Siddharthnagar, to constitute a committee to review progress of the construction work. “The committee will review the progress daily and will submit a report to the state government,” he said.Addressing a press conference, the CM said the state government started eight new government medical colleges last year. Nine new government medical colleges will become operational this year. After the approval of National Medical Council, prime minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the nine medical colleges, including Siddharthnagar medical college, he said.Yogi said Siddharthnagar medical college has been named Madhav Prasad Tripathi Medical College while Deoria Medical College has been named Deoraha Baba Medical College. Likewise, Jaunpur Medical College will be known as Umanath Singh Medical College, Ghazipur Medical College as Maharishi Vishwamitra Medical College, Pratapgarh Medical College as Sonelal Patel Medical College and Mirzapur Medical College has been named Maa Vindhyavasini Medical College. Admission to the nine medical colleges, including Hardoi and Etah, will start from this year, he said.The CM further said the state government had already named Basti Medical College after Maharishi Vashisht, Ayodhya Medical College after Rajarshi Dashrath and Bahraich Medical College after King Suheldev.The health infrastructure in the state had been developed at a rapid pace with the assistance if the central government. The state government had been able to reduce the spread of encephalitis to the minimum level, he said. The decline in the Covid cases clearly showed that the state government’s fight against the pandemic moving in a right direction, Yogi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-announces-names-of-nine-new-medical-colleges-101627237468191.html
25-07-2021||Noida||2 drown in pit: Residents accuse Noida authority of negligence||Noida As two out of four men who had entered a reservoir (sump well) in Sector 6 to fetch a cricket ball died after allegedly inhaling “poisonous gases” inside it, the Noida authority on Sunday faced flak from the residents for not treating the sewer properly. The sump well was constructed to store rainwater in the low-lying area to tackle waterlogging.Four men — the deceased, Sandeep (22) and Vishal Srivastava (27), and the injured, Rakesh and Mohammad Ansari — had entered the sump well, police said. “All sump wells in the city are meant to carry rainwater and should be kept clean. No water should remain stored in it, except for the rainy season i.e. three months a year. How can there be sewer in sump wells or drains? This means, sewage is not treated properly before dumping it into water channels — violating the National Green Tribunal (NGT) orders. A probe should be initiated in the matter and action should be taken against the violators,” said Amit Gupta, member of Progressive Community Foundation (PCF), a social group of the residents.In an order issued on February 25, 2020, the NGT had directed the Noida authority “not to discharge untreated sewage into drains as it pollutes rivers too”. All the drains in Noida are either emptied into the Yamuna or the Hindon.“Dumping untreated sewage into drains means you are defeating the ‘Clean Ganga’ mission as the Yamuna merges with the Ganga. The Noida authority should work seriously to make sure that not even a drop of untreated sewage goes into city drains,” said Vikrant Tongad, an environmentalist from Noida.The Noida authority, which has the onus of treating sewer in the city, meanwhile, said that the victims did not pay heed to warnings of a supervisor who was present at the sump well site. “Our guard had tried to stop the men from entering the boundary wall of the pit, but they entered there forcefully. The guard called the police and tried to save the victims...,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer (CEO), Noida authority.On the poor condition of the sump well, Maheshwari said, “We will look into the matter, and conduct a probe if required. Action will be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/2-drown-in-pit-residents-accuse-noida-authority-of-negligence-101627237407586.html
25-07-2021||Lucknow||‘Prolonged online classes affecting children’s health’||A numbers of students from class 4 to 12 studying in various schools of the state capital experienced various health problems due to prolonged online classes during the pandemic, reveals a survey. These health issues included eyesight problems, backache, headache, fatigue and insomnia. Other than irritability, obesity and strain, 22.7 per cent respondents also reported insomnia, said the survey. The survey was conducted by Lucknow-based Spring Dale College (SDC) chain of schools between July 14 to 23. It involved 4,454 respondents including students, teachers and parents. Parents and teachers observed behavioural changes in children, like negative attitude, bunking online classes, misusing the gadgets meant for educational purposes and aggression. Students felt loss of confidence and low motivation which otherwise was possible in regular school days, the survey indicated.“Uncertainty of board exams and its impact on careers of the youth was an important concern which came to fore during the survey,” said Rita Khanna, the director of Spring Dale institutions.“Looking at the situation optimistically, teachers and students became tech savvy and comfortable taking classes and studies went unhampered in spite of the lockdown. Participants reported of learning new skills in their leisure. Family bonding enhanced and altruism increased,” she added.Major takeaways of the surveyHealth is a priority as life is precious and so are the values and relationships. Challenges being a part of it. Even in a state of dilemma moving ahead and learning is a continuous process.School observes founder’s death annivThe school observed the death anniversary of SDC founder BS Sood as ‘Awareness Day’ on Sunday. This year, a discussion on “The Impact of Online Teaching during the Pandemic on Learning and Well-being” marked the occasion, said school director Rita Khanna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prolonged-online-classes-affecting-children-s-health-101627237347544.html
25-07-2021||Other||Purvanchal Expressway to open soon for vehicularmovement: UPEIDA CEO||Lucknow: Chief executive officer of UP Expressways Industrial Authority (UPEIDA) Awanish Awasthi said on Sunday that 95 per cent of work of Purvanchal Expressway was complete and soon its main carriageway would be open for vehicular movement. Awasthi carried out on the spot inspection of the expressway and instructed officials to complete pending work at the earliest. “Around 95 per cent work of Purvanchal Expressway has been completed. Soon, the main carriageway will be opened for vehicular movement,” said Awasthi. During inspection, the UPEIDA CEO instructed officials to complete all river over ridges at the earliest. According to UPEIDA officials, the expressway could be made available to public by the end of next month. The 340.824 km Purvanchal Expressway starts from Chandsarai village on Lucknow-Sultanpur Road (NH-731) and ends at Hyderia village in Ghazipur district (NH-19), about 18-km from UP-Bihar border. The six-lane expressway is expandable up to eight lanes. The expressway covers nine districts, including Lucknow, Barabanki, Amethi, Sultanpur, Ayodhya, Ambedkar Nagar, Azamgarh, Mau and Ghazipur. The expressway would also connect important cities like Varanasi, Ayodhya, Gorakhpur and Allahabad through link roads. In addition to this, the expressway will also have a three-km long runway at Kudebhar in Sultanpur district. This runway has been proposed for landing and take-off of fighter jets of Indian Air Force during an emergency situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/purvanchal-expressway-to-open-soon-for-vehicularmovement-upeida-ceo-101627237288021.html
25-07-2021||Other||Developmental work may give BJP the edge in west UP||The Delhi- Meerut Expressway is finally ready, awaiting its inauguration. The expressway has decreased travel time between Delhi and Meerut, (which was 3 hours and more while travelling through NH58) to merely 45 minutes. Work on rapid rail is also going on and hopefully the first phase would be operational by 2023. It would convert into metro after entering into Meerut. The Delhi- Meerut Expressway and rapid rail would also reduce travelling time from Moradabad, Sambhal, Amroha and other districts to Delhi. Commuters from Saharanpur and Muzaffarnagar will also reach Delhi in much less time. Observers say these and other projects in western UP region may top the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s development agenda on which it intends to fight the forthcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. To note, the party had announced that the forthcoming elections in UP would be fought on issues of nationalism and development and projects being carried out in Meerut region would certainly be on top to woo voters in western UP region, feel people. BJP MP from Meerut Rajendra Agarwal said that the party had done a lot of developmental work in the area and the Delhi- Meerut Expressway, rapid rail and Metro were flagship projects which would benefit not only Meerut but almost the entire region. He said that the party would certainly convey the benefits of these developmental activities to people and claimed, “People had extended their support to the BJP and we hope they would continue it after assessing its work.” Agarwal said that speedy and easy connectivity of west UP districts with the national capital would help in strengthening business and opening new avenues of growth and development in the region. Opposition leaders, however, are ready to down play the claims of the BJP. Samajwadi Party’s district president in Meerut Rajpal Singh accused the BJP of projecting previous governments’ projects as their own to mislead people. He said that the Delhi-Meerut Expressway and rapid rail projects were originally of the Congress and Metro Rail was of Samajwadi Party. He said the BJP promised airport and ring road to Meerut which were still a distant dream and there were many other projects which were promised but didn’t come into existence.“They are champions in misleading people and would continue doing it in forthcoming elections but we will expose their lies,” said Singh. A trader Amit Sharma, who owns an automobile showroom and has other businesses, said that in spite of many controversies in BJP governance, these development projects would give the party an edge over others because traders and people were demanding speedy connectivity with Delhi for years. On opposition parties’ allegations that most of the projects were conceptualized and planned during previous government, Sharma said, “The credit goes to those who deliver”. He, however, said that the ongoing farmers; movement may dent the BJP in western UP. Meerut, Saharanpur and Moradabad divisions of western UP have 71 assembly and 14 Lok Sabha seats. During the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, the party had won all 14 seats but it could not win 6 seats of Moradabad region in the 2019 elections. In 2017 assembly elections, the BJP won 51 out of 71 constituencies in 14 districts of Meerut, Saharanpur and Moradabad divisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/developmental-work-may-give-bjp-the-edge-in-west-up-101627237170707.html
25-07-2021||Noida||Noida: Two drown in pit while retrieving cricket ball||Two men allegedly drowned, and their friend was injured after they entered a sump well, a pit to trap rainwater, to fetch a cricket ball in Sector 6 on Sunday morning. An e-rickshaw driver who tried to help the three men also fell into the 20-foot deep pit after losing consciousness due to “toxic fumes” coming from the sump well. The sump well is part of a sewage treatment plant (STP) of the Noida authority. The incident took place around 6.30am. Authorities did not immediately clear if the sump well had rainwater or sewage. While police said they suspect that the victims drowned in the sump well, Noida authority officials said they will launch a probe into the matter as the sump well is supposed to collect rainwater.An operator at the plant said that he warned the youngsters who had gone there to play cricket against entering the pit, but they did not pay heed to him. He also said that the sump well, which is surrounded by a grille, had about six feet water at the time of the incident.“Some men often gather at the nearby ground to play cricket in the morning. Around 6.30am today, their ball fell into the sump well. Three of them came here to retrieve the ball. I asked them not to go near the pit but one of them didn’t listen. He lost consciousness after looking for the ball standing on the edge and fell inside. The two others who rushed to help him also fell inside. I then started shouting for help,” said Balram Singh, the operator. According to police, an e-rickshaw driver who was passing through the area rushed in to help the operator, but he also fell into the pit after losing consciousness. Soon, locals gathered at the spot and one of them informed police about the incident, police officials said. “After getting information, we called the fire services department and sent a police team to the spot. Our personnel, along with the fire department’s team, wearing oxygen mask and other necessary equipment, pulled the four men out of the sump well,” said Munish Chauhan, station house officer, Sector 20 police station. The operation lasted for over 30 minutes, Chauhan said.The four victims were rushed to the district hospital in Sector 30 where two of them were declared brought dead, police said. The deceased were identified as Sandeep, 22, and Vishal Kumar Srivastava, 27, residents of Harola village. They worked at a local factory, police said. The injured, Rakesh and Mohammad Ansari, were referred to a health centre in Delhi where they are undergoing treatment, the officials said, adding that they are now out of danger. The police said that the bodies were sent for an autopsy and the reports are awaited. So far, no complaint has been filed in the case, they said. Meanwhile, the Noida authority said the victims did not pay heed to warnings of the operator who was present at the sump well. “Our operator tried to stop the men from entering the pit, but they refused to do so. Then he called the police and tried to save the victims,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer (CEO), Noida authority.When asked about the “toxic fumes” coming out of the sump well and the fact that the victims reportedly fell unconscious, Maheshwari said, “We will look into the matter, and conduct a probe if required. Action will be taken accordingly.”Locals at the spot said that the victims entered the premises of the sewage plant after crossing over its boundary wall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-two-drown-in-pit-while-retrieving-cricket-ball-101627237047532.html
25-07-2021||Other||First time since inception, Goa mining could see new players||On Tuesday, when Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant returned from an official trip to Delhi, he came with one message - “We have already taken a decision to form a mining corporation,” he told reporters. The chief minister said that the corporation would once again begin mining in full strength - both the mining corporation and auction of mining leases. “The government is serious about the auction of leases and the restart of mining through a corporation and I have asked the director of mines to work on it on priority,” he said. Earlier in the day, the Supreme Court pronounced its decision rejecting the Goa government’s review plea to relook its 2018 order cancelling Goa’s leases. It was the state’s last-ditch attempt to restore the status quo ante and resume mining in Goa as if there hadn’t been any cancellation. That move was bound to fail.Sawant’s announcement was more out of necessity than any conscious choice.When on February 7, 2018, the Supreme Court of India dropped a bombshell declaring that 88 mining leases renewed by the Goa government across 2014-15 were in effect defunct and cancelled the purported renewals, the Goa government’s first reaction was to attempt a “legislative cure” to the mining imbroglio, that, in simple terms, meant undoing the Supreme Court’s judgement through an Act of Parliament to ensure that the leases were given an extended period of validity. But with no support from the central government - despite promises to the contrary given by local BJP leaders - the lobbying for a bill in Parliament to undo the SC order failed, leaving the state with no option to look at its remaining two options - a state-run corporation or auctions. “Through the corporation, we hope to once again begin mining in full strength (through) both the mining corporation and auction of mining leases,” chief minister Sawant said.Tuesday’s announcement by the chief minister marks a watershed moment for the Goa mining industry. If followed through, it will mark the first time since the beginning of the century-old industry that leases are being allotted afresh and with it the possibility of new players entering the field that has up to now been largely been controlled by dozen-odd family-run mining companies who were beneficiaries of Portuguese granted leases. It’s no surprise then that such a move is being opposed by Goa’s mining operators who, under the banner of the Goa Mineral Ore Exporters Association (GMOEA), continue to hold out hope that their demands for an extension of the leases be acceded to - hope that now lies on a bunch of petitions before the Supreme Court challenging a decision of the Goa government to deny them a 50 year period of validity dating back to 1987. “The main petitions and SLPs (special leave petitions) filed by Vedanta and Geetabala Parulekar (another leaseholder) are listed to be heard, which are on the basis of leases being valid till 2037. We remain optimistic that we will place the legal positions before the Supreme Court and mining will eventually restart,” the GMOEA said in a statement.“Furthermore, as has already been placed before the Supreme Court by the state and central government, auctions are not possible in those areas, where the challenge to the Abolition Act (The Goa Daman and Diu Mining Concessions Abolition Act, 1987) is still pending,” the statement read.Being the predominant industry in Goa, the mining industry has had a disproportionate clout over Goa’s political affairs and is alleged to have built and destroyed several political careers and governments over the decades. It is no surprise then, that the Goa government has, over the last few years, sought to protect the industry’s interests and ensure that the status quo is not disturbed. In a policy document brought out in 2015 after the Supreme Court first allowed resumption of mining after the 2012 ban, the then Goa government did its best to avoid auctions - something that could bring in players from outside the state into Goa’s mining industry. “While there cannot be any gainsaying that the mode of the auction could have brought in possibly and probably a greater revenue share for the state of Goa on account of the competitive bidding and the consequent match-bids, it has also certain risks involved in it, namely it would have involved inviting unknown business interest, often referred to as mining mafia,” the Goa government’s 2015 Grant of Mining Lease Policy stated while justifying the government’s decision not to opt for auctions back then.It was the leases renewed under this policy of 2015 that were struck down by the Supreme Court bringing mining to a halt once again and taking the state back to square one. According to the Goa Foundation, whose petition resulted in the cancellation of Goa’s mining leases, the Goa government’s decision has come six years too late. If instead of renewing the leases, the state had to opt for auctions back in 2014 itself the industry would have restarted faster. “The (minerals in the) state should be reserved for public sector mining through a PSU as that is the only way to ensure zero loss in the present legal framework. Proposals being made... for the issue of an ordinance are intended to return the mining leases into the hands of the private lease-holders. The move will not survive judicial scrutiny or review. It will also further delay the restart of mining activity in the state,” the Goa Foundation had recommended back in 2018.The Goa Foundation has been advocating that the quickest way to resume mining in the interest of the dependents, that also respects the notion of intergenerational equity in which publicly owned assets, if they are to be extracted, the proceeds be stored in a sovereign fund the interest of which is used for the benefit of the state, would be to resume mining through a corporation. But the Goa government wasn’t enthused. Until now that is. But not everyone agrees that allowing the immediate resumption of mining, either through a corporation or through auctions, is the best way forward. “Our generation has already mined the share of 100 generations and more. We cannot rob our kids anymore. And leave them the costs and destruction. Let there be no mining for 20 years, our kids will then decide. If you cannot agree, then let mining be owned and run by all-inclusive, equitable village cooperatives, where children, elders, farmers and women will decide how much to mine, if at all,” Abhijit Prabhudesai, an environmental activist, said. One possible hurdle to resuming mining in Goa is a plea challenging the Central Government’s Act converting Goa’s mining concessions granted by the Portuguese into leases under the Mines and Minerals Development Act is currently also pending before the Supreme Court. “Pending adjudication of the legal issues involved there will always remain an inherent legal uncertainty on the title rights of the mines if granted as per the directions passed by this Court as the original title of rights is still under litigation,” the Mines Ministry said in an appeal before the Supreme Court.For now, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant brushed aside those concerns. “Whatever decision we take for now will be subject to the outcome of that petition. We will go ahead with the corporation,” he said. The mining industry was a major revenue and employment generator for the state and at its peak contributed close to 15% of the state’s GDP. The state used to export 54 million tons per annum before the ban came into effect in 2012 as a result of the Shah Commission report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/first-time-since-inception-goa-mining-could-see-new-players-101627236750226.html
25-07-2021||Mumbai||Toll in Maharashtra floods rises to 149||The death toll in the flood-ravaged districts of Konkan and western Maharashtra on Sunday rose to 153, amid receding water levels of major rivers and dams. Sixty-four people are still missing, official data revealed, while nearly thousand more people were evacuated from Sangli late on Saturday, taking the number of evacuated to around 230,000.The torrential downpour over Thursday and Friday triggered the worst floods and landslides in decades in Raigad, Ratnagiri, Palghar, Thane, Sindhudurg, Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara districts. In Sangli, 196,957 people have been evacuated, while in Kolhapur, 145,930 people have been taken to safe places and temporary shelters. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and armed forces teams deployed in rescue operations in the eight districts recovered few more bodies from the debris at landslide sites on Sunday, while search operations at a few sites were called off by evening. Eight more bodies were recovered from the landslide site at Taliye in Raigad on Sunday, taking its toll to 64, while the toll in Satara rose to 41 from three landslide sites. A few bodies in Taliye were recovered from as far as 2km on Sunday.Kolhapur had reported six landslides on Friday, while Raigad had three landslides in Taliye, Sakhar Sutarwadi and Kevlane. The death toll of the landslide in Ambeghar, Satara, touched 14, while the Mirgaon landslide claimed 8 lives. Nine people in Satara are still missing. The NDRF called off the rescue operation on Sunday evening. In Ratnagir, a total of 35 people died and 14 are still missing, mostly from landslide sites. “The rescue operations at most of the landslide sites are expected to be called off by Monday as the chances of the recovery of missing people from the sites are very small. The bodies are likely to have washed away with the force of the water and may have travelled far off,” said an official from district collectorate in Raigad. The water level in many rivers in Konkan and Western Maharashtra has started receding since Saturday, though many of them are still at the warning level. Krishna, Warana rivers in western Maharashtra, Savitri, Kundalika in Konkan are flowing either at the warning level or below it. Most of these rivers were above the danger level on Friday. Panchagana is still above its danger level of 43ft as it is flowing at 51 at Rajaram band in Kolhapur. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray visited flood-affected Chiplun on Sunday and assured affected people of relief in the next few days. Thackeray also announced to set up a separate disaster response system on the lines of NDRF in every district. “The assessment of the losses will be completed in the next four days, but before that, all basic facilities to the flood-affected people will be extended immediately. The natural calamities are occurring frequently in some parts of the state, and hence we have decided to have a dedicated system for every district. The flooding in Chiplun and Raigad has been unprecedented as people did not get a chance to save their belongings because it happened all of a sudden,” he said. “We will require central assistance for long-term mitigation measures. The central government has provided assistance by deploying rescue teams from defence forces,” he later said. Thackeray said the state’s economy was already “sluggish” because of the pandemic.After the state government’s request for additional teams of NDRF and armed forces, the 33 teams (with 45 personnel in each team) are engaged in rescue operations, while eight teams are on standby in Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur. Eight teams in Kolhapur, six in Ratnagiri, four in Satara and two in Sangli have been deployed in rescue operations. Ten teams of the armed forces (Army, Navy, Air Force and Coast Guards) have been deployed in operation. As the Karnataka government started discharging more than 3,50,000 cusecs water on Sunday, the level of the water in Krishna, Panchganga, Warana rivers in Kolhapur and Sangli has stabilised in the last 24 hours. Panchganga river’s water level as Rajaram band in Kolhapur was highest at 51 feet at 4pm on Sunday, down from the 54.05ft on Friday at 5pm. Discharge from Koyana dam in Satara, too has been brought down to 30,864 cusecs at 4pm on Sunday, which had gone up to more than 50,000 cusecs on Friday. Satej Patil, minister of state for home and guardian minister of Kolhapur Satej Patil said, “The water level in major rivers has stabilised and the water on roads has started receding. However, the water level is still above their warning level and will take a few days to the situation to normalise.” Major state and national highways were still shut owing to the water logging and in few cases roads and bridges are having washed away. Kolhapur-Pune, Mumbai-Goa, Kolhapur-Ratnagiri were shut till Sunday evening in patches in Ratnagiri, Kolhapur and Sindhudurg. In Kolhapur, which was badly affected due to downpour on Thursday and Friday, 17 of 25 state highways are still shut and total 366 villages have been affected. Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis and union MSME minister Narayan Rane visited Taliye village where more than 30 people are still missing and 42 people were declared deadafter a landslide on Thursday evening. “I have spoken to prime minister Narendra Modi. He has assured me all kind help from the central government. I will submit a report to the PM after the visit. The rehabilitation of the people affected in the landslide will be done at the site they want to. Rescue teams of NDRF and arm forces have been deployed in affected district, we will try to keep a few teams stationed in Raigad or Ratnagiri keeping the constant risk of downpour every monsoon in mind,” Rane said. Till Sunday, the NDRF, which is conducting rescue operations in Taliye in Raigad, Porase and Pedhe in Ratnagiri, and Mirgaon, Ambeghar and Dhokawale in Satara district, has retrieved 90 bodies, SN Pradhan, NDRF director general, tweeted on Sunday. A total of 875 villages have been hit by the floods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/toll-in-maharashtra-floods-rises-to-149-101627236747467.html
25-07-2021||Pune||Rains: 2,000 vehicles stranded as Mumbai-Bengaluru highway remains shut for 3rd day||The Mumbai-Bengaluru highway continued to be shut for vehicular traffic for the third day on Sunday as its stretch near Shiroli village in rain-battered Kolhapur district of Maharashtra remained submerged, a police official said. As a result, around 2,000 Karnataka-bound vehicles, including trucks, are stranded on the national highway, the district police said. The highway has been shut for traffic since Friday after part of it got submerged due to rising water level as a result of incessant rains in the district. "The stretch near Shiroli continued to be closed for the vehicular movement near Shiroli village as the bridge near there remained inundated," Kolhapur Superintendent of Police (SP) Shailesh Balkawde said. He added that if the water level of the Panchganga river in Kolhapur goes down further, there could be chances of water receding at the stretch. The stretch of this highway in Belgaum district of Karnataka is also under water, he said.Arrangement to provide food, water and other necessary things to the stranded people is being done with the help of the social organisations, Balkawade said. Meanwhile, officials said that the water level of the Panchganga river at Rajaram weir came down to 50.7 feet, although it is still above the danger mark of 43 feet. The district administration said that four automatic gates of upstream Radhanagari dam were opened and water was being released at 6,900 cusec rate on Sunday night. So far, over 1.45 lakh people, who were stranded in the flood-hit areas of Kolhapur, have been shifted to safer places, it said. The Indian Army has stepped up its relief and rescue operations in Sangli, Kohlapur, and Ratnagiri districts. The flood-relief columns in coordination with the civil administration evacuated over 80 stranded locals from the flood-affected areas of Bastwad in Kolhapur, a defence release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rains-2-000-vehicles-stranded-as-mumbai-bengaluru-highway-remains-shut-for-3rd-day-101627235077100.html
25-07-2021||Other||Lohegaon airport in Pune most profitable airport in the country for 2020-21||PUNE The Lohegaon airport in Pune has the most profitable airport in the country financial year 2020-21, as per the government records.The Lohegaon airport generated a profit of ₹16.09 crore in 2020-21. The airport in Pune has managed to stay in the top five profitable airports for the last three years. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, all the 138 airports across the country, which are fully or partially operated by Airport Authority of India (AAI), collectively registered a loss of ₹2,882.74 crore. In 2019-20, the collective losses were at ₹80.18 crore.After Pune airport, Juhu airport in Mumbai in the second most-profitable with an profit of ₹15.94 crore. In third position is Srinagar airport with ₹10.47 crore in profit. Patna airport stood fourth in the rankings, followed by Kanpur’s Chakeri airport in fifth position. Flight operations reduced down drastically this year due to the lockdown and strict Covid restrictions. Mumbai airports collectively had the highest losses at ₹384 crore in the financial year. Due to the impact of pandemic, travelling reduced, due to which flight operations reduced in the country.Whereas at the Lohegaon airport, which is an Indian Air Force-operated airport, with AAI monitoring the civil air operations in slots given by the Air Force. As of now the airport is not operating at full capacity as the works on the runway and at terminal are on. Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh said, “We are happy to be amongst the top five, and first in the profitable airport rankings of the country. While our losses have reduced in the financial year, we are working hard to achieve our targets and to give better service to our passengers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lohegaon-airport-in-pune-most-profitable-airport-in-the-country-for-202021-101627236088793.html
25-07-2021||Other||Environment body recommends wet scrubbers to control air pollution at Vaikunth crematorium||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)-appointed Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) - National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) has recommended installing wet scrubber to control air pollution at the city’s Vaikunth crematorium.Padma Rao, senior principal scientist, air pollution control division, Neeri, and her team visited Vaikunth crematorium last Thursday. Vaikunth crematorium is located in a residential area of Pune city and after local residents and a non-governmental organisation (NGO) filed a public interest litigation (PIL) with the Bombay High Court on the issue of pollution at the crematorium, PMC tasked Neeri to come up with a plan to control the air pollution.Shrinivas Kandul, additional city engineer, electrical department, PMC, said, “Senior scientist Padma Rao visited Vaikunth crematorium and made a suggestion of installing a wet scrubber to control the air pollution. Corporation has already installed a scrubber. After the recommendation of Rao, we will put in another wet scrubber. Officials have also suggested putting in a pollution monitoring system.”Neeria is to inspect and assess the air pollution control system at the Vaikunth crematorium and then submit a report within six months.Types of scrubbers Air scrubbers are useful for improving the quality of indoor air. It is a technology that cleans out contaminants in the air, serving as an air purifier.There are two major methods used in air scrubbers; dry and wet scrubbing – which both work in different ways.Wet scrubbing works by sucking air through a damp pad or filter to trap free-floating contaminants and particulate matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/environment-body-recommends-wet-scrubbers-to-control-air-pollution-at-vaikunth-crematorium-101627236087459.html
25-07-2021||Other||Wagholi residents take to the streets to protest state of pothole-ridden road||PUNE The residents of Wagholi, on Saturday, came out on to the roads to complain of the apathy allegedly being shown by the authorities as regards the state of the Wagholi-Lohegaon road. Holding placards, which read: “Who do these roads belong to?”, and shouting slogans like, “where do we go” and “who listens to our pleas?”, 25 residents stood by the side of the road in the rain.The road in question has large craters and potholes and gets water logged after a heavy spell of rain.“The area where we are is behind Wageshwar temple , has 10 to 15 societies and also several cement plants. There is constant ferrying of large containers and trucks on this road, as well as that of regular traffic, which has made the road a nightmare. There has been so much rain that the road has become slush and filled with water,” said Gajanan Panchal, from Splendour County society. “Every one foot on the road there are potholes. Earlier, we would approach the Gram Panchayat, but now with Wagholi into the Pune Municipal Corporation, we are not sure who is looking after our horrible condition. We are in a no-man’s land with no one to hear our pleas,” said Amol Bagul, another resident.A gram panchayat member, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that this road is now under the the purview of the PMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wagholi-residents-take-to-the-streets-to-protest-state-of-pothole-ridden-road-101627236028601.html
25-07-2021||Other||PMC hospital-bill audit cuts ₹43,94,070 from 843 bills over 7 days||PUNE Although the number of Covid-19 cases has gone down drastically and non Covid-19 patients are being admitted to various hospitals, the district administration continues to crack down on hospitals that charge more than the capped prices for Covid-19 treatment. In the last one week alone, the administration has been able to reduce ₹43 lakh from 843 bills after auditing. The audits found that some of the most popular hospitals in the city were found to be overcharging.The state government cap on treatment costs for Covid-19 patients, which was first issued in May 2020, is still in place and hospitals that are found have to undergo an audit of the bills and reduce amounts if found to be over-charging. IThe Pune district administration has been able to reduce ₹43,94,070 from 843 bills this past week. Hospitals found to be overcharging in the district include Sahyadri hospital, Rao Nursing Hospital, Jehangir hospital, Poona hospital, Aditya Birla hospital and Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital. From 2020, the district administration has been able to reduce ₹13.66 crore from 20,535 bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-hospital-bill-audit-cuts-rs-43-94-070-from-843-bills-over-7-days-101627236028042.html
25-07-2021||Other||Mumbai-Bengaluru highway shut for 3rd day in a row; 3,000 of vehicles stranded near Kolhapur||PUNE Even as the water level of the Panchaganga river dropped by two feet on Sunday, the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway remained shut for a third consecutive day for traffic. A 500-metre stretch near Shiroli in Kolhapur was still inundated. Police officials said that at least 2,000 trucks and 1,000 private vehicles are stranded on both sides of the road: from Satara to Kolhapur and from Belgavi to Kolhapur. Many have sought shelter in hotels nearby, while private organisations, including some NGOs, have been helping drivers and travellers with food and other necessary items. “We are here since Friday and there’s no sign of when the water will recede and traffic will resume,” said Sriprakash Singh, carrying steel frames in his truck to Bengaluru. The highway was inundated on Friday after the Panchaganga river swelled, following heavy rain in the area, bringing back memories of the 2019 floods, when the entire district was badly hit and highway were shut for two days. However, as per locals and the police, this is the first time the highway has been shut for three days in a row. By Sunday evening, dam authorities started releasing water, increasing the possibility of the Panchaganga swelling again. According to Kolhapur Superintendent of Police Shailesh Balkawade, the highway may open by Monday if the situation improves. “Currently the highway is closed for traffic moving from Satara towards Belgavi. Those who want to reach Bengaluru for urgent work may opt for an alternate route via Solapur. However, it’s much longer,” said Balkawade. In Kolhapur, the rainfall activity ebbed and the water level of the Panchganga river at Rajaram weir came down to 52 feet, but it was still flowing above the danger mark of 43 feet, as per the district disaster cell. District guardian minister Satej Patil on Saturday said 74,000 people were shifted to safer places from the flood-hit regions. Six teams of the NDRF and a column of the Army were carrying out rescue operations in the flood-hit areas. In neighbouring Sangli district, the Krishna river at Irwin bridge was flowing at 54.5 feet, as against the danger mark of 45 feet, according to the local administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbaibengaluru-highway-shut-for-3rd-day-in-a-row-3-000-of-vehicles-stranded-near-kolhapur-101627236027424.html
25-07-2021||Other||ATM theft busted by Pimpri-Chinchwad police, bank official involved||PUNE: The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have arrested a gang of robbers, including a bank employee, for siphoning ₹15.4 lakh from an ATM in Bhosari in the early hours of Saturday.The arrested men were identified as Anand Chandrakant More, Rohit Mahadev Gunjal, Rohit Rokade, Rohit Bindas Kate and Sachin Surve, according to the police.Surve, who is supposed to be on externment, was arrested by Unit 2 of the Pimpri-Chinchwad crime branch while the others were arrested by officials of the Bhosari police station in a joint operation between Unit 2 led by inspector Shailesh Gaikwad and Unit 3 led by Shankar Babar.More - from whom the police allegedly recovered ₹270,000 in stolen cash - was the first one to get arrested.A statement issued by Manchak Ipper, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1, Pimpri-Chinchwad police, read, “During the investigation into the case, bank officials and staff members were called upon to provide CCTV footage of the bank. Based on the modus operandi of the theft as seen in the footage, it was clear that a bank employee was involved. Thereafter, the phones of all bank employees were inspected. The footwear that More was wearing was also seen in a photograph on Gunjal’s phone.”Of the arrested accused, Kate, had also stolen nearly ₹1,950,000 from the bank over a period of several months using a duplicate key, the police said. A case under sections 457, 380, 392, 109, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Bhosari police station on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/atm-theft-busted-by-pimpri-chinchwad-police-bank-official-involved-101627235968540.html
25-07-2021||Other||Father, two children drown in in Kusgaon Khurd||PUNE A father and two children drowned in a waterbody in Kusgaon Khurd area of Maval, Pune, on Sunday morning.The three were identified as Piraji Ganpati Sule (45), Sai Sule (14), and Sachin Sule (12), all residents of Indrayani Colony in Kamshet. The family are native to Nanded district and the man worked as a labourer, according to the police.A passer-by noticed the three drowning, but it was too late until he called for help and pulled the bodies out. The children had jumped in a puddle under a waterfall and were not able to gauge the depth, according to police.The three bodies were taken to the government hospital in Kanhe, Maval, for the postmortem.The incident was recorded at Kamshet police station as an accidental death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/father-two-children-drown-in-in-kusgaon-khurd-101627235967359.html
25-07-2021||Other||Gang of 10, including minor, arrested for murder of hotelier Ramdas Akhade||PUNE A gang of 10, including a minor, have been arrested for the murder of Ramdas Akhade, owner of Pune-based restaurant Garva Hotel. Among the arrested is nephew of the owner of a rival restaurant in the city.The two main assailants in the case were arrested on Saturday from Latur and brought to Pun - one is a minor and the other is in violation of an externment order.The others arrested have been identified as Saurabh alias Chimya, Avinash Dabhade, Kiran Vijay Khadse, Prathamesh Rajendra Kolte, Ganesh Madhukar Mane, Nikhil Mangesh Choudhary, Nilesh Arte, and one minor, according to the police.The rival hotel was identified as Ashoka Hotel, and the main assailant was identified as the minor booked in the case.Nilesh Arte and the minor had attacked Akhade with sharp weapons on July 18. Saurabh had allegedly hatched the murder conspiracy along with the others upon the insistence of Jayvant Khedkar and his son Nikhil Khedkar, according to the police.Saurabh, the Khedkar father-son duo, and five others were arrested by the police within three-four days of the murder. However, the two main assailants - Arte and the minor - were at large. The police formed two teams and physically followed a CCTV trail of the two in Pune, Ahmednagar, Barshi, Solapur, Latur, and Osmanabad.“As per information, the investigation team went to Gandhi chowk in Latur district on July 24 and set a trap. As the police identified the two suspects in the area, the two tried to escape under night’s cover on a motorbike. They were caught after a chase of 10-12km,” read a statement from Namrata Patil, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-5 of Pune police.Further investigation in the case, registered under Sections 302, 120(b), 34 of Indian Penal Code, Section 4(25) of Arms Act, Section 3, 5, 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act, and Section 37(1)with135 of Maharashtra Police Act at Lonikalbhor police station, will be done by inspector (crime) Subhash Kale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gang-of-10-including-minor-arrested-for-murder-of-hotelier-ramdas-akhade-101627235967979.html
25-07-2021||Other||Other e-bike firms will also be considered, municipal commissioner to take final decision||PUNE Although the general body meeting of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has given its nod to only two companies to provide e-bikes on rent without calling for an expression of interest (EoI), the administration has now decided to introduce a clause in the agreement to consider other e-bike companies in future with the final decision to be taken by the municipal commissioner.Dr Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner, said, “The City Improvement Committee (CIC) of the PMC sent a proposal to the administration and we gave it our nod. However, we will put in a clause in the agreement that the final decision will be taken by the municipal commissioner. The terms and conditions of the agreement are yet to be finalised but we will take care of the possibility of other companies approaching the PMC to provide electrical vehicle (EV)-related facilities.”The general body meeting of the PMC on Tuesday passed the proposal which was tabled by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporators and Amol Balwadkar, former chairman, CIC and approved in 2020. The PMC administration gave a positive response to the proposal, which was finally approved in the general body meeting sans any discussion. Typically, the corporation calls an EoI for all such facilities but in this case, the process was bypassed.As per the proposal, VITRO Motors Pvt limited and e Matrixmile India Pvt Ltd will provide e-bikes on rent to commuters. The two companies will provide a total 500 e-bikes and 500 charging stations will be made available to Punekars.The companies have proposed to charge ₹4 per kilometre for the e-bikes. There will also be one-day, weekly and monthly packages. It is proposed to charge ₹450 for a one-day package of a maximum 150 kilometre. In the weekly package, the companies will charge ₹1,900 for a maximum 1,000 kilometre, while ₹3,800 will be charged for a maximum 4,000 kilometre. The companies will also install charging stations in different parts of the city with at least one station along each main road. A single charging station will charge 10 bikes at a time.Dr Khemnar said, “The corporation is only providing space for charging stations for e-bikes under our supervision. The list of charging stations has not been finalised, yet. One Energy Efficiency Service Limited (EESL) has approached the PMC for setting up charging stations in the city. At present, we have only e-bus charging stations but in future, we will also have to provide space for two-, three- and four-wheeler charging stations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/other-e-bike-firms-will-also-be-considered-municipal-commissioner-to-take-final-decision-101627235908673.html
25-07-2021||Other||PMC seeks to use Rs7.48 crore from merged villages’ budgetary allocation for drainage work||PUNE Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar has sought permission to transfer Rs7.48 crore for drainage lines between Navale bridge and Katraj chowk. Earlier, the PMC had given an in-principle approval to relocate the drainage lines. Now, the commissioner has officially placed the proposal before the standing committee and has sought to transfer this money from a budgetary allocation for merged villages. The standing committee will take a decision on the proposal this week. The work of relocating the lines is already in progress on this stretch, according to officials. The National Highway Authority of India *NHAI) has undertaken a road widening between Navale bridge and Katraj chowk, increasing both sides of the highway by one lane each. This is one of the important roads as the population in Ambegaon and other areas has seen a massive increase in the past few years. following major real estate projects and better road connectivity. Though it was earlier considered a bypass, the five-kilometre stretch now sees a lot if traffic every day. Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari approved the funds for the project, but requested PMC to bear the costs of relocating the drainage lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-seeks-to-use-rs7-48-crore-from-merged-villages-budgetary-allocation-for-drainage-work-101627235907518.html
25-07-2021||Other||Despite 7 hotspots, Covid-19 testing, vax come to a standstill in Chiplun||The flood-ravaged Chiplun taluka has seven Covid-19 hotspots – the highest in Ratnagiri district – but testing and vaccinations have now come to a standstill. Locals and healthcare workers are dabbling with the aftermath of the floods – cleaning sludge and water from their homes and salvaging their belongings. Health officials said that it will take at least a week to resume all Covid-related works. “We have continued the Covid-related drives in all the other areas, but it was not possible to do so in Chiplun due to the high impact of floods,” said Ratnagiri district health officer Dr Aniruddh Athalye. Any village or area with more than 15 active Covid-19 cases is defined as a hotspot by district health officials. Chiplun taluka has seven such hotspots, while Ratnagiri taluka has two and Sangameshwar has one. To break the chain of infection, health officials have been tasked to achieve 100% testing in all the hotspots. “But it’ll be difficult to achieve that goal now,” said Dr Yatin Mayekar, medical officer in the primary health centre at Chiplun’s Adare village. “Locals have been traumatised by the floods, losing their homes and belongings. We have sent out mobile vans for testing, but for a few days, we’ll have to only test people who are coming to the centres on their own,” he said. Many hospitals in the taluka were impacted by the floods. On Thursday, eight Covid-19 patients succumbed in Apranth Hospital – managed by the Nagar Parishad in Chiplun – while others were shifted to government hospitals. An isolation centre in Kherdi, which had five Covid-19 patients, was also submerged. But the patients and staff were safe on the higher floors of the three-storey building. According to Dr Mayekar, many Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) workers, staff nurses and other field staff have been impacted by the floods, mainly in the urban and semi-urban areas of Chiplun. “I visited many of the homes on Sunday. They have spent hours cleaning out the mud and most of their belongings have been washed away or destroyed,” said Dr Mayekar, adding that Asha workers and other staff may take at least a week to resume their work. The affected areas do not have electricity. Drinking water is being supplied to the locals with the help of tankers. The gram panchayat members have started distributing Mediclore – a drinking water disinfectant – to avoid a spurt in waterborne diseases. But health officials fear a possible spike in Covid-19 as well as other diseases.Ratnagiri has been a district of concern after nine patients infected with the Delta Plus variant were found in six villages of Sangameshwar. The officials had achieved 100% testing in Sangameshwar within a week after finding the Delta Plus variant and planned to comb the other hotspots as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/despite-7-hotspots-covid-19-testing-vax-come-to-a-standstill-in-chiplun-101627235727429.html
25-07-2021||Other||Maharashtra govt to announce a special package for areas hit by floods||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray visited the flood-affected Chiplun city on Sunday and announced to extend the financial relief immediately after the completion of the assessment of the losses. The state government is expected to announce a special package for the flood-hit districts by keeping the set norms of National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF) aside. Meanwhile, Union minister for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) Narayan Rane, leaders of Opposition in state legislature Devendra Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar visited the landslide-hit Taliye village in Raigad as well as Chiplun on Sunday. Forty-two people were killed in Thursday’s deaths landslide at the village. Thackeray, who had visited Taliye on Saturday and will be on a visit to the flood-hit villages of Kolhapur on Monday, also announced to set up a system for the disaster response on the lines of NDRF in every district. He said that the districts of Konkan have been witnessing the natural calamities more frequently of late and the perpetual measures need to be taken. “I am not going to announce any package for the sake of publicity. The assessment of the losses will be completed in next four days after which the decision over the relief will be taken. We are taking all steps for the immediate relief of people. The calamity in Raigad and Ratnagiri is unprecedented and we will ensure that the affected people get the due compensation,” he said. According to officials from the chief minister’s office (CMO), the state government is expected to announce a special package for the flood-affected districts. “The state government has already demanded with the Centre for rise in the relief amount given for the losses of crops, houses, structures and loss of lives. The state government had given greater amount than NDRF norms to the people affected by Nisarga and Tauktae cyclones that had hit coastal Maharashtra over the past two years. This time too, the compensation amount is expected to be higher that the set norms. We expect the assessment to be completed in a week, after which the relief package will be announced,” an official said. Former CM Fadnavis said that the state government should announce a special relief for the flood-affected people. “The losses are unprecedented as some residents and traders have lost everything they owned. We had announced a special package for the flood-affected people in Sangli and Kolhapur in 2019. Small traders and labourers were given cover, while the amount for the losses and rebuilding the houses had been increased. Similar steps are required to be taken,” he said. Rane, who had accompanied Fadnavis to Taliye village, said that the rehabilitation of the village will be done at the site the villagers select. “The Central government is extending every help to the flood-affected districts of Maharashtra. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has assured me to help the affected families and submit a report on the losses,” said Rane. Meanwhile, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar will tour the flood-affected cities of Satara, Kolhapur and Sangli on Monday. BMC sends two teams for relief work to Raigad and KolhapurThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has sent two teams to carry out relief work in flood-hit Mahad at Raigad as well as to Kolhapur on Sunday, following directions from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The team that visited Mahad comprised a medical team of four doctors and two technicians, as well as 110 officials and staffers, including those of the solid waste management department. They took a mobile laboratory, four water tankers and one towing lorry, among other materials with them. The team that has been dispatched to Kolhapur carried recycling machines and other necessary equipment. The teams are coordinating with additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani, a BMC statement said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-govt-to-announce-a-special-package-for-areas-hit-by-floods-101627235427296.html
25-07-2021||Gurugram||DTCP pulls up developer over delay in affordable housing project||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) issued a show-cause notice to the developer of an affordable housing project in Sector 109 for failing to adhere to construction timelines, incomplete internal works and not renewing the project licence. DTCP officials on Saturday directed the developer, Ocean Seven Buildtech Private Limited, to submit a reply in this matter by July 30 and explain why action should not be taken against the developer for failing to comply with the licence conditions.The notice issued by the district town planner (enforcement) stated that the developer has not completed internal development works in the project. The community building, which should have been completed in four years, has not been constructed. The pace of construction is also slow and it violates the agreement with the buyers. The notice also said that the developer has failed to comply with the conditions of the affordable housing policy. Ocean Buildtech launched the affordable housing project in 2016, announcing around 1,000 flats on 7.5 acres. Buyers said that the developer has completed only 60% to 70% of the work, while payment has been made in full by them. RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement) said that the licence of the project also expired in June this year but the developer has not renewed it. “A number of complaints have been lodged by the buyers regarding the slow pace of construction and so, a review of the project was conducted. It was observed that internal development works are not completed and community building was not constructed, apart from other violations,” he said. The representative of the developer, however, said that they had not violated any conditions and would explain the situation to the department. Sanjiv Kumar, a senior official of Ocean Seven Buildtech Private Limited, said that the project will be completed within the stipulated period. “As the project is under affordable housing policy, the time for completion is four years from the date of commencement of the project, i.e November 30, 2017. So, we have to complete the project by November 30, 2021. Moreover, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the government has given a six-month extension to all projects. Availing of that, we have time till May 30, 2022, to complete the project,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-pulls-up-developer-over-delay-in-affordable-housing-project-101627235251393.html
25-07-2021||Gurugram||Almost two weeks into monsoon, MCG’s plantation drive yet to take off||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram’s (MCG) plan of planting 300,000 saplings this monsoon season is yet to start, almost two weeks after monsoon arrived in the city. Officials attributed the delay to a change of strategy, with the agency currently in the process of hiring a contractor for carrying out the drive and distributing saplings to residents.On June 21, the MCG officials stated in an official release that they are targeting to plant at least 300,000 saplings this monsoon, including 100,000 trees and 200,000 shrubs. While the MCG had not announced a date for starting the drive, officials said it would commence as soon as the monsoon arrives in the city.Last year, the MCG planted 105,910 saplings across the city with the help of 269 residents’ welfare associations (RWAs), with the drive started on June 27, two days after the arrival of the monsoon season. However, even as the monsoon arrived on July 13 this year, there seems to be little progress with the plantation drive almost two weeks later. On Sunday, the district administration started its plantation drive, while the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) started its plantation drive last week.A senior MCG official overlooking the matter, on the condition of anonymity, said that all arrangements were made to start this season’s drive from mid-July onwards but the civic agency decided to change its strategy and hire a contractor for this season’s drive.“Just prior to the drive’s commencement, I enquired from officials about the fate of saplings regarding last year’s drive. They informed me that they primarily distributed saplings to RWAs and did not carry out any follow-up or checks regarding their fate and survival rate,” the official said.To ensure, proper records and maintenance of saplings are done in the 2021 drive, the official cited above said that the MCG has floated tenders to hire contractors distribution of the saplings and looking after their maintenance in association with RWAs and non-governmental organisations.“The tendering process has started. We are aiming to start the drive from mid-August onwards. The target of planting 200,000 shrubs will be achieved. However, in regards to the tree saplings, we will be revising our target and reducing it by half, to 50,000 saplings,” said the official.Environmentalists, however, said that despite the change in strategy, the MCG’s plantation drive is likely to have limited success due to the delay. “Saplings need at least three to four weeks of continuous rains to survive, and unless the MCG manages to plant them within the next two weeks, their window will be over,” said Vaishali Rana Chandra, a city-based environmentalist.Chandra said that instead of attempting a drive that is likely to have limited success due to the short period of time, the MCG should focus on tracing last year’s saplings and ensure that the saplings that have survived are properly maintained.MCG officials privy to the matter said that last year, the MCG had originally aimed at planting around 40,000 saplings. “The demand from RWAs for the drive was much higher than we had anticipated. It was only then that we used the support of Gurujal and started keeping records,” an official with the MCG’s horticulture wing said.The horticulture wing official said that the MCG has only basic records of the first 41,000 saplings it distributed to the RWAs. Later along with Gurujal, an integrated water management initiative of the district administration, records of 65,000 saplings that were distributed were kept properly.In mid-June, the MCG and Gurujal opened registrations for RWAs and NGOs for taking part in the 2021 drive, and the invite stated the sapling distribution will be carried out between mid-July and September.For the 2021 drive, unlike last year, the MCG also announced it will sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the RWAs and the NGOs. The MoU would mandate each RWA and NGO to maintain saplings for three years. Also, a cap of 500 saplings per RWA or NGO was announced for the distribution of saplings from the MCG’s four nurseries in sectors 15, 44, and 46, and Kadipur.MCG officials said that the majority of tree saplings would be of peepal (sacred fig) and banyan, while the shrubs will be of native species.“The MCG has distributed saplings to a few RWAs on a limited scale. The full-fledged drive will commence soon. The GMDA already started its plantation drive last week, while the administration has started it on Sunday. The three aforementioned government entities, as well as the forest department, are committed to increasing Gurugram’s green cover through various plantation drives this monsoon season,” said Subhash Yadav, the district forest officer (DFO), who is also the additional chief executive officer of GMDA and the nodal officer of the MCG’s environment and sustainability wing.According to a 2019 Forest Survey of India (FSI) report, only 9.2% of Gurugram’s total geographical area is under forest cover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/almost-two-weeks-into-monsoon-mcg-s-plantation-drive-yet-to-take-off-101627235250229.html
25-07-2021||Gurugram||Woman held hostage inside home, robbed of jewellery and cash worth ₹10 lakh||Three masked men held a 31-year-old woman hostage inside her residence and robbed her of cash and jewellery at gunpoint at a residence in Sector 10 on Saturday afternoon, the police said.Sonali Vishwas, a resident of Basai Enclave in Sector 10, said that she was sitting with her children in her room when two men barged into her house and pointed a gun at them, threatening her children’s lives, before she could react. She said they ransacked the house, found the almirah keys, which were kept on top of it, and took all jewellery and cash, amounting to ₹10 lakh in total.Within minutes, a third man who had covered his face with a black cloth entered the residence, checked the situation and stood outside to keep a watch on outsiders’ movement. The suspects threatened her not to inform the police and warned her of dire consequences. They fled the spot on their motorcycles, the police said.After they left, the woman raised the alarm, following which a neighbour came to her rescue and informed others. The police said that the children were scared and are still in trauma.According to the police, the entire incident took place within 30 minutes. The woman informed the police control room after the robbers left, following which a team from the Sector 10 police station recorded her statement.A case under sections 392 (robbery) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Arms Act was registered at the Sector 10 police station.The woman told the police that she can recognise the suspects. Residents of the area requested the police to patrol the area during the day as well as at night.Sunil Kumar, the station house officer of Sector 10 police station, said that dedicated teams have been formed for patrolling the area. “We will hold regular meetings with the residents and deploy extra force on the roads to ensure the safety and security of the residents,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/woman-held-hostage-inside-home-robbed-of-jewellery-and-cash-worth-10-lakh-101627235248979.html
25-07-2021||Gurugram||Four Afghan nationals arrested for illegal stay||The chief minister’s flying squad on Sunday raided a house in Jharsa village of Sector 39 and arrested four Afghanistan nationals for allegedly overstaying in India after their visa and passports expired. Officials said they were tipped off about the matter and the police will seek custody of the foreign nationals. Officials said that they are probing the case and that they had entered the country on tourist visas.The suspects were identified as Abdul Gaffar Nori, Mohammad Shabbir, Islam Aariya and Mohammad Yasin Shahadat of Kabul in Afghanistan. The police said they have booked the house owner, named Punit Kumar, for not informing the police and failing to get a police verification conducted. A case under sections 14A , 14B and 14C of the Foreigners Act and Section 12 (1A) of the Passport Act was registered at Sadar police station on Sunday. Inderjeet Yadav, the deputy superintendent of police, crime investigation department, said that they were living in a rented accommodation. “We immediately informed seniors regarding the information, following which a joint team was formed and the house raided,” he said. According to an initial probe, the four came to India in November 2016 on a tourist visa. They were not employed and are suspected to be involved in illegal activities for money, the police said. Yadav said, “During verification, it was found that they were residing without legal documents. Their travel documents were also not valid. They were living in the area for the past four years.” “The Afghanistan Embassy and central intelligence agencies have been informed about this arrest. The police is questioning them to establish their antecedents,” said Harish Budhiraja, inspector, chief minister’s flying squad. The police said that during the raid, the four of them tried to mislead the police by claiming that they were not carrying their documents and tried to flee but were caught.According to the police, the suspects said that their visa and other travel-related documents expired but that they had submitted a copy of these documents to the Foreigners Registration Officer (FRO) in 2016. The police said they were sent to 14-day judicial custody on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/four-afghan-nationals-arrested-for-illegal-stay-101627235247972.html
25-07-2021||Gurugram||Sewage overflow, untreated wastewater major concerns for Sec 85 residents||Overflowing sewage and untreated household wastewater spill on the roads are posing a health hazard to residents of Sector 85, with residents alleging inaction by authorities for over two years despite this being a persistent issue. Residents of the Carnation Residency housing society alleged that their premises have turned into breeding grounds for mosquitoes due to overflow and stagnation of sewage. They said the situation worsened after the heavy rain last week and that a foul stench from the sewage has forced them to confine themselves to the building. The condominium is spread across 29 acres, with 1,600 apartments in all. Around 1,000 have shifted to the complex since 2015. They said that as the level of the road in front of their society is low, foul water gets collected there and also led to accidents often. Ashish Gupta, a member of the Carnation Residency residents’ welfare association (RWA), said that the issue of overflow is in neighbouring Sikanderpur Barha village, from where untreated household wastewater is channelled. Also, the village drain is not connected to the master drain and leads to overflow onto sector roads, he said. “We are facing extensive waterlogging due to which chances of mosquito-borne diseases such as chikungunya and malaria remain high. Last year, our area was declared a large outbreak area. Shockingly, the authorities have not laid the pipelines yet. We have been suffering for the past two years, and yet, no one is bothered,” he said. Naresh Kumar, the vice-president of the RWA, said that they have run from pillar to post for the last few years. “We were promised a solution to this during the state elections. However, post elections, there is no word on this. We have approached all government officials about this. The situation has turned so bad that we have to lock the main gate and use alternate routes to exit/enter the society,” he said. Residents also said that the extensive waterlogging might compromise the integrity of the construction and cause a building collapse, on the lines of an incident in Farrukhnagar last week that left three dead.Satinder Singh Bhatia, another RWA member, said that they have paid external development charges (EDC) as well as infrastructure development charges (IDC) to the government but there seems to be no end to their problem. “We are not asking for any favours, but a proper utilisation of our money,” he said.The residents, on Saturday, once again wrote to the newly formed Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM), highlighting the precarious condition of civic amenities in the area. They also alleged that de-silting was not done before the monsoon and this resulted in blockage. They also said that after a lot of effort, they managed to get financial approval from the public works department (PWD) for fixing the problem, but the matter was put on hold. “The MCM is still a nascent civic body. We were formed only in December last year. This year’s monsoon is our first experience of waterlogging and are, hence, heavily reliant on residents for feedback,” said a senior MCM official.The official quoted above said that the MCM is in the process of creating a database of waterlogging points, points where sewerage or stormwater drain overflow, and combined with rains, are leading to issues and will, accordingly, execute measures ahead of the next monsoon.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that the administration will look into the matter and get the issue checked at the earliest. “Will check with other agencies and ensure the issue is resolved at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/sewage-overflow-untreated-wastewater-major-concerns-for-sec-85-residents-101627235188028.html
25-07-2021||Mumbai||Personal Finance: Alternative investment options||With the capital market in disarray due to the Covid pandemic, alternative investment options now include asset classes that were once relegated as unprofitable. Balancing the risk-reward paradigm with a portfolio that delivers stability and returns equally is not easy. The unpredictability of the equity movement prompted many people to allocate their money in debt funds. However, as many companies defaulted on bond payments, this too was not a failsafe option. A mix of traditional and unconventional asset classes could not only earn exceptionally high returns in the long run but can also shield you against market volatility. The risk is also diversified as more money finds its way into investments that may not be related to stock movements at all. Let’s take a look at some options that retail investors are turning to. Cryptocurrencies Cryptocurrencies came into prominence as markets toppled and people lost money invested in stocks and debt funds, and with the introduction of Bitcoin in 2009. Deemed as one of the most reliable forms of digital currencies, many people resorted to investing in cryptocurrency as they lose faith in the stock market reeling under the effects of the pandemic. Those who relied more on debt funds due to their secure nature also found investments in cryptocurrencies profitable as the value of Bitcoin rose by more than 200 per cent in 2019 alone. Alternative cryptocurrencies like Ethereum performed better than Bitcoin during the same period. If you have newfound interest in cryptocurrency investments, you may also consider allocating your money into Bitcoin alternatives including Ripple, Bitcoin Cash and Litecoin. Putting money in gold and gold funds The habit of buying jewellery, coins and bars has been replaced with digital gold that includes gold Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs), gold funds and sovereign gold bonds. Some may complain that the returns from investment in gold funds do not yield high returns proportional to the rise in the stock market. However, it is the inverse relationship between gold share prices and stocks that benefits investors as gold shares soar with the plummeting of the stock market. Gold investments offer a platform to investors inclined towards alternative asset classes that grow in value over time. Gold funds yielded an average of more than 25 per cent returns in 2020 when stock prices fell, and the market took a nosedive. Sovereign Gold Bonds provide ease of purchase and storage and don’t pose the same challenges as selling gold in its physical form does. Also, gold bonds offer 2.5 per cent interest on investment every year. Government bonds Floating Rate Savings Bonds issued by the Reserve Bank of India offer more than 7 per cent with this year’s interest rate slated at 7.15 per cent till the next reset date. The interest rate on these bonds is linked to that of the National Savings Certificate (NSC) and fetches 0.35 per cent interest above the prevailing NSC rate. These bonds, available with a lock-in period of seven years, are a preferred investment option for senior citizens and investors looking for a regular income plan. Fixed income deposits in banks Risk-averse investors are now preferring cash deposits over long-term allocations or volatile investments in the stock and capital markets. Many are now allocating their savings to fixed-term deposits or recurring deposits despite their low interest rates to avail of their high liquidity levels. Bank deposits are already deemed safe with an added ₹5 lakh insurance cover given to account holders to cover their deposits. Digital collectables This concept is new, especially, after a prolonged period of having heard or witnessed art collectors buying and hoarding valuable art collections as high-priced assets for future sales. However, things have changed with the non-fungible token (NFT) art adopting blockchain technology of cryptocurrencies to create a platform for digital art collectables. Through this platform, you can invest in any artwork or creative piece including artwork, animation videos, music, etc. An unusual part of this technology is that you can trade art pieces for cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin, Ethereum and more. With the value of cryptocurrencies set to increase in future and more people showing interest in cryptocurrency investments, art investors are in for a great and profitable start. The market is close to $ 100 million and is slated to rise with NFT serving as an interesting proposition for art investors. Initial Public Offerings News surrounding possible Initial Public Offerings arouse interest in people who wish to invest early in shares with high growth potential. Buy cheap and sell at more is the mantra behind investing in IPOs. However, such investments must be made only after a detailed assessment of the company’s fundamentals that justify the share price and the potential to grow in future. With both the pharma and IT companies providing the much-needed stability even during Covid times, many people are now looking forward to IPO launches by healthcare and IT companies. Personal Finance is a weekly feature that aims to provide our readers pertinent and helpful financial information||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/personal-finance-alternative-investment-options-101627234467946.html
25-07-2021||Bangalore||‘Will be clear by tomorrow’: Yediyurappa on continuing as Karnataka CM||BS Yediyurappa said that the decision whether he will continue as the Karnataka chief minister will be clear by tomorrow, news agency PTI reported. Yediyurappa however asserted that he will continue to work for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the next 10-15 years.Yediyurappa who is a Lingayat strongman said that he was yet to receive any final message from the party’s central leadership on whether he should continue in his post or quit. “I will work for the party day and night for the next 10- 15 years. Let there be no doubt about it,” Yediyurappa said.The Karnataka chief minister expressed confidence that the communication from the central leadership may come by tonight or by Monday morning. He pointed out that he had offered his resignation two months earlier to the high command and said that he would continue or quit based on what the high command tells him to do.Yediyurappa said that he would take a decision himself in case no ‘message’ comes from the high command. He also said that he would not ‘cross the disciplinary line’ and abide by the decision taken by the party’s central leadership. “I got most of the positions in the party, which no one else might have got in Karnataka, for which I express my gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and party president JP Nadda,” Yediyurappa was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Yediyurappa said that his primary target is bringing the BJP back to power in Karnataka. Karnataka will head to polls in 2023. He agreed with BJP national general secretary CT Ravi’s statement, who had earlier said that every person in the BJP is an ordinary party worker.BJP chief JP Nadda who is currently in Goa praised Yediyurappa for his work in Karnataka. “It is good, he has done a good job. Karnataka is running smoothly. Yediyurappa is looking (managing) at things on his part,” Nadda said.Yediyurappa also refrained from commenting on his successor. He said that it is solely the high command’s decision. “I'm not the one to decide about it, it is for the high command to decide. I have decided to work till the last minute. I'm ready to resign as and when they ask me to do so,” he further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/will-be-clear-by-tomorrow-yediyurappa-on-continuing-as-karnataka-cm-101627233665312.html
25-07-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC rejects bail of man who cheated Dena Bank of ₹245 crore||The Bombay high court (HC) recently refused to grant bail to a man who had cheated Dena Bank of ₹245 crore in 2014. The man, while claiming to be a representative of the bank, had influenced eight public entities to start fixed-term deposits with the bank to the tune of ₹259 crores and then used the KYC documents of the public entities to get loans against the deposits to the tune of ₹240 crores. He later siphoned off the amount using fake loan accounts in the name of the entities.The court held that as the offense was serious and the trial was likely to commence and end in a year said it was not inclined to grant bail as the accused had absconded after the investigation had got underway as well.The single bench of justice Sarang Kotwal, while hearing the bail application of Vimal Barot, was informed by advocate Ujjwal Gandhi that after being arrested the authorities had attached his properties under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and recovered a substantial amount of the defrauded money, hence the custody of his client was not necessary and he should be released on bail.According to the FIR in 2014, Barot had approached the manager of the Malabar Hill branch and introduced himself as a custodian of funds of government departments and corporations. He was asked to mobilise funds in the form of fixed deposits for the growth of the bank.Barot used this request of the bank to get public entities like Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority, Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation Ltd., Mumbai APMC, Hero MotoCorp Ltd., Modi Innovative Education Society, Modi ATI Education Private Ltd. and Mahatma Phule Backward Class Development Corporation Ltd. to make fixed-term deposits in Dena Bank. The amount he managed to garner was ₹256.49 crores.While the bank took him to be the financial advisor of these public entities, the respective authorities took him to be a representative of the bank and hence handed over documents for KYC to him.Barot retained the receipts from the bank and gave the entities photocopies and then based on the KYC documents applied for loans from the bank using the receipts as surety. The bank assuming Barot to be the financial advisor of the entities sanctioned the loans which were deposited in fake loan accounts and later withdrawn by Barot through various other entities.Special public prosecutor Hiten Venegaonkar for CBI opposed the application stating that Barot had gone absconding after the fraud came to light and a complaint was registered and was nabbed after being traced to Ahmedabad. Venegaonkar added that as the investigating officer in his affidavit had stated that the trial would start and end in a year, the presence of the accused was necessary and as he had already absconded once, allowing him bail would prejudice the trial hence his application should be rejected.After hearing the submissions, justice Kotwal observed, “The offence indeed is very serious. The sheer audacity of the applicant in defrauding various entities including the informant’s bank shows that this is not a case where some leniency can be shown to the present applicant in granting him bail during the pendency of the trial.” The court further took note of the statements of witnesses which pointed to the involvement of a bank manager in the fraud as well.In light of the opposition by the state and CBI and the fact that Barot had used the siphoned off amount to buy properties in his and his wife’s name and as the trial was expected to be expedited the bench rejected the bail application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-rejects-bail-of-man-who-cheated-dena-bank-of-245-crore-101627234287903.html
25-07-2021||Mumbai||Thane civic body sends team of 100 to flood-hit Mahad for help||A team of 100 officials and workers from the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) were sent to flood-hit Mahad-Poladpur region on Sunday. “The team from Thane left for the flood-hit region for help operations on Sunday, as per the directions from state chief minister,” said Vipin Sharma, commissioner, TMC. The team comprises officials and workers from waste management and water departments of TMC as well as from health department to survey Covid, epidemic and fever patients. The team has a stock of 10,000 rapid antigen testing kits; malaria, dengue, leptospirosis testing kits; and required medicines, said a health worker part of the team. Apart from this, 24 pumps, four spraying machines, four fogging machines and spraying medicines were sent to the flood-hit areas. For drinking water purpose, a tanker with 10,000 litres of water was sent and another 10,000 litres of water was sent for cleaning purposes. Two trucks of water bottles, rationing kits were also sent. A team of animal husbandry department officials was also sent to look after affected animals. “A team of Thane disaster response force (TDRF) was deployed at the flood-hit spot since day one,” added Sharma. The team has managed to recover bodies of 12 victims at Taliye, Mahad so far. On Sunday, four more bodies were recovered by TDRF team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-civic-body-sends-team-of-100-to-flood-hit-mahad-for-help-101627234287275.html
25-07-2021||Mumbai||Power restored at Tata Amantra, water supply partly resumed||In a relief to residents of Tata Amantra housing society, electricity supply was fully restored in all the towers and water supply was partly resumed on Sunday morning, after five days since the society premises flooded. “The residents were relieved after five days of struggle when electricity supply was resumed on Sunday and the water supply was back for few minutes. Lifts are still not working as they are under repair,” said Govind Madhav, 49, a resident.The society was flooded twice since July 19, leading to no water and power supply as meter rooms and water tanks were submerged. Following this, the residents had demanded remedial measures from the developer. Komal Patel, 32, another resident, said, “Power and water supply has been resumed now, however there are few towers which are still out of water. Lifts are not operational yet, but our daily chores will get easy now with power and water supply.” In a statement issued by Tata, it mentioned that Amantra residents have taken over the society management in 2019 and the society has been responsible for the upkeep and maintenance of the project. The society management committee has, however, claimed that the management committee has not taken over the society from the developer. The committee claimed it had put forward several demands related to the issues caused by flooding in the society but the demands were not met. “It is not completely over; it is in conditional handover wherein we are only going to see the maintenance. The full handover is not done. We, the managing committee, will discuss this matter and further issue a statement,” said Swapna Bhanushali, chairperson of Tata Amantra housing society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/power-restored-at-tata-amantra-water-supply-partly-resumed-101627234228566.html
25-07-2021||Mumbai||FYJC optional CET site to be open from Monday 3pm||Six days after the website for the optional common entrance test (CET) exam for first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions was launched, the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) on Sunday announced that the registration will now be open from July 26, 3pm till August 2. Class 10 students interested in opting for the CET exam can now log in to https://cet.11thadmission.org.in to complete the registration process.“Students who completed the registration process last week need to only use their application form number to be eligible for the CET exam. We are also giving enough time to students to complete the registration process,” said the official statement from the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) released on Sunday.Originally, registration for the optional CET exam for admissions to first-year junior college (FYJC) seats was scheduled to take place between July 20 and 26. New dates will be announced soon, said the official.This year, the Class 10 board exams across several school education boards had to be scrapped due to rising Covid-19 cases. Results for the Class 10 batch was instead based on students’ performance in Class 9 and 10 combined. While Secondary School Certificate (SSC) results were announced last week, the Council of Indian Secondary Certificate Examinations (CISCE) announced ICSE results on Saturday.According to the circular released by the state board last week, an optional CET exam based solely on the SSC syllabus and consisting of multiple-choice questions (MCQs) for 100 marks will be conducted. This two-hour paper will be conducted in physical mode on August 21 from 11am to 1pm.Last month, a Class 10 ICSE student approached the Bombay high court seeking help in this matter. The student’s petition points out the ‘bias’ against students of other boards and the added stress for students, therefore. The court this week asked the state board to consider conducting the CET with the syllabus of ICSE and CBSE boards as well, the board is yet to respond to this as yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fyjc-optional-cet-site-yet-to-reopen-for-registrations-101627234227892.html
25-07-2021||Mumbai||Ban BS-III vehicles in MMR to prevent air pollution: MPCB panel||An independent committee constituted by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has recommended a complete ban on the entry and operation of Bharat Stage (BS)-III vehicles in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). The committee was formed last November to address concerns around vehicular pollution in Mumbai.Officials said the move, if implemented, would bring about an immediate reduction in emissions while spurring the uptake of latest BS-VI emissions norms. Experts, however, cautioned that commercial vehicles such as inter-city taxis and goods carriers may be adversely affected by this proposal.An MPCB official, seeking anonymity, clarified that no final decision has been taken in the matter. “The committee report was submitted in June and is awaiting comments from other departments. The state government will take a decision after considering all commercial and environmental aspects,” the official said.The recommendation was part of an exhaustive list of mitigation measures proposed by the 13-member committee, headed by former additional chief secretary (transport) Satish Saharabuddhe. The committee consists of officials from MPCB, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), Automotive Research Association of India (Pune), Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (Delhi), representatives from Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay, and independent experts.“The committee was constituted to make recommendations specifically on reducing vehicular pollution in the MMR region. We have suggested a range of proposals including revamping the existing pollution under control (PUC) system and setting up vehicle inspection centres along the lines of those proposed in Nashik, improving scrappage policy for legacy vehicles, remote sensing of vehicular pollutants at key junctions, and introducing a reward-based carpooling system which reduces the number of private vehicles on city streets while allowing owners to cover their cost of travel,” said committee chairman Satish Sahasrabuddhe.“We also deliberated on e-mobility. Some of the recommendations adopted in the Electric Vehicles Policy 2021 were first suggested by us, including electrifying all state government vehicles. Converting last-mile delivery vehicles for food and logistics companies to electric two-wheelers was also something which we had initially suggested,” he said.The committee has recommended that such companies pro-actively buyback two-wheelers from their delivery partners using corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds, and replace them with electric two-wheelers, availing incentives under Central and state schemes, which stand to significantly reduce the total cost of operation for such vehicles. The companies can further reduce the cost by availing scrappage policies,” Sahasrabuddhe said.However, one of the most ambitious proposals in the short-term remains the ban on BS-III vehicles which, officials said, is in line with the already existing Bombay High Court instruction barring vehicles older than 16 years from plying in the city. These are mainly BS-II vehicles. “We are making this rule stricter. BS-III vehicles plying in Mumbai will now be around 10 years old. The same rule should apply to them, given that we have stricter BS-VI norms now. We have proposed that the vehicles be converted to CNG fuel in order to keep plying,” said Sahasrabuddhe.Madhav Pai, urban policy researcher and executive director of the World Resources Institute India Ross Center, said the move to ban the operation of BS-III vehicles in MMR is a positive step. “But there will be livelihoods at stake. People who operate older goods carriers and other commercial vehicles will require some support so that they can affordably make the switch to newer BS-VI vehicles,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ban-bs-iii-vehicles-in-mmr-to-prevent-air-pollution-mpcb-panel-101627234227210.html
25-07-2021||Mumbai||Five-day-old embryos too can contract Covid-19, finds study||Embryos even as old as five days develop receptors that are known to provide an easy passage to the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19, finds a new study by ICMR-National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health (ICMR-NIRRH) carried out using 45 donated human embryos after in-vitro fertilization (IVF) procedure at fertility clinics. Researchers said their findings indicate that embryos can get infected with Covid-19 in the womb from infected mothers and also during IVF procedure in laboratories which, according to them, increase the chances of a miscarriage or even failure to conceive in both natural and IVF-induced pregnancy. Though no cumulative data is available about the total number of miscarriages recorded among Covid-19 infected pregnant women, a significant number of private and civic-run hospitals have witnessed such cases. Receptor is a specific protein that provides an entry point to the virus to hook into and infect a wide range of human cells. Studies have found that Sars-CoV-2 infects the lungs through the receptor—angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) – and enzyme TMPRSS2. The ICMR-NIRRH study—Expression map of entry receptors and infectivity factors for pan-coronaviruses in preimplantation and implantation stage human embryos published in the Journal of Assisted Reproduction and Genetics in May – found many cells of the embryos that fertilized as early as five days express the same receptors—ACE2 and TMPRSS2. Dr Deepak Modi, lead investigator of the study, explained this new finding has established the fact that embryos are susceptible to contracting the infection either through vertical transmission (from the infected mother to the foetus in the womb) or horizontal transmission during artificial fertilisation process of the embryos in labs through IVF. “We have discovered that the same cells also have the necessary machinery to allow virus multiplication and growth inside the embryonic cells. This will harm the developing embryos and may cause their death. The team also found that along with ACE2, the cells of early embryos contain receptors for other coronaviruses making them highly likely to get infected,” said Dr Modi in response to an email. Dr Manjiri Mehta, consultant gynaecologist and obstetrician, Fortis Hiranandani hospital, Vashi, said that she has seen a definite rise in first as well as second-trimester miscarriages and intrauterine deaths among Covid-19 infected mothers. “This can be directly or indirectly related to the Covid-19 infection. The study indicates the virus can infect the human embryo in the lab. In pregnant women, the Covid-19 virus can impact in different ways such as vertical (mother to child transmission), immunological mechanisms, to name a few. This will certainly have an impact on infertility treatment. The real impact will be known once we have more data and studies to substantiate these claims or otherwise,” she said. BYL Nair hospital, where more than 1,000 Covid-19 pregnant women have delivered babies, has also witnessed miscarriages. “We can’t firmly say if the miscarriages happened because the foetus contracted the infection from the mother in the womb. More studies need to be done to confirm vertical transmission among the foetus,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, hospital dean. Researchers said their findings can help couples who seek IVF treatment and doctors practicing IVF. In case of IVF labs, said Modi, the virus can spread from an asymptomatic carrier and the embryos can get infected. “The virus can stay alive on surfaces of the lab and cold chain like liquid nitrogen, where embryos are preserved. Once the virus gets in touch with the embryos, it can infect them and multiply, thereby creating a problem. There might be low pregnancy rates and poor embryo quality due to viral infection to embryos,” he added. When a woman tests positive while undergoing IVF treatment, doctors suggest that couples delay the process until complete recovery. “There is a possibility that the virus can go inside the embryos from an infected mother. So, whenever a woman gets infected before conceiving, we ask them to halt the treatment for at least 1-2 months,” said Dr Richa Jagtap, clinical director, consultant reproductive medicine, Nova IVF Fertility, Mumbai. “Although the infection rate among pregnant women was more in the second wave compared to the first wave, we didn’t see any case where an embryo contracting the infection during the fertilisation procedure in our labs,” she said. However, IVF experts said all precautions are being taken considering the high risk associated with the fertilised embryos. ICMR issued guidelines for recommencing ART (assisted reproductive technology) services during Covid-19 pandemic. “All procedures in laboratories are done through closed working chambers where the chance of embryos getting infected is almost zero. Also, the labs have high-efficiency particulate air filters which provide better safety against the microscopic viruses,” said Dr Kshitiz Murdia, chief executive officer and co-founder of Indira IVF. He said all staffers have been vaccinated following ICMR guidelines, in addition to conducting RT-PCR tests on women before performing any complicated fertility procedures. “We have started tele-consultation to avoid unnecessary crowding in clinics. For any emergency use for infected mothers, we have a separate chamber for video consultancy where a patient can virtually meet the doctors. We are in the process of acquiring RT-PCR testing kit which will get us results within 20 minutes,” said Dr Murdia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fivedayold-embryos-too-can-contract-covid-19-finds-study-101627234167244.html
25-07-2021||Other||Rail passenger complains to minister about catering staff flouting Covid norms, contractor fined||Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) fined ₹50,000 to a catering contractor after a 41-year-old resident of Vasant Nagari, Vasai (East), on Saturday, in a tweet, complained to newly-appointed Union railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, about its employees flouting Covid-19 norms, in the A-1 coach of the Ramnagar (Uttar Pradesh) to Bandra Terminus Express.Hoshiyar Dasoni had boarded the train from Lal Kuan station in Uttarakhand on Friday evening, for Vasai. While ordering packaged food and water, he found the IRCTC contractor overcharging. “Furthermore, they sold gutkha and other banned tobacco products inside the compartment,” said Dasoni. “None of the workers wore masks or practised social distancing. I also found that four of the workers were openly smoking near the vestibule of the coach. They threw cigarette stubs and lighted matchsticks near the rubber - vestibuled area, risking the safety of the passengers,” said Dasoni.“I tweeted to the Union minister at Nagda station and also registered a complaint in this regard. Surprisingly at Ratlam station, the IRCTC and RPF officers entered my coach and enquired about the complaint.”As soon as the train reached Bandra Terminus on Saturday afternoon, Dasoni was informed that the contractor has been fined ₹50,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rail-passenger-complains-to-minister-about-catering-staff-flouting-covid-norms-contractor-fined-101627234047228.html
25-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai gets 98,500 vaccine doses on Sunday, vax drive on track for Monday, Tuesday||After the city received a fresh stock of 98,500 vaccine doses on Sunday morning, the accumulated stock of doses had reached 125,000. According to civic authorities, the stock will last for at least two days, and vaccination will continue smoothly across the city on Monday and Tuesday. No vaccination drive took place on Sunday.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday said, “We already had about 45,000 vaccine doses in stock, of which we had utilised some. BMC received 98,500 doses on Sunday morning. Cumulatively, Mumbai now has 125,000 vaccine doses in stock so we should face no shortage on Monday and Tuesday.”There are a total of 414 vaccine centres in Mumbai, of which 290 are operated by BMC, 104 are privately operated, and 20 are operated by the state or central government. Cumulatively, these 414 vaccination centres conduct a total of over 200 sessions per day, with a capacity to vaccinate 57,358 beneficiaries per day.So far, BMC has vaccinated a total of 5,149,504 beneficiaries with their first dose, and 1,575,938 beneficiaries with their second dose. On Saturday, BMC vaccinated 40,627 beneficiaries, of which 25,336 received their first dose, and 15,291 received their second dose. So far, BMC has administered a total of 6,282,118 shots of Covishield, 432,224 shots of Covaxin, and 11,100 shots of the Sputnik V vaccine.On Sunday, Mumbai reported 364 new covid-19 cases, and 10 deaths, taking the total number of cases to 734,118 and toll to 15,837. There are 7,681 active Covid-19 cases in the city at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-gets-98-500-vaccine-doses-on-sunday-vax-drive-on-track-for-monday-tuesday-101627233267143.html
25-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai lake levels at 64%, water stock will suffice for 220 days||Lake levels in Mumbai are now at 64%, which is enough water to sustain the city for over 220 days. Mumbai’s seven lakes now have a total of 936,933 million litres (ML) of water more than the amount of water available same day last year (451,696 ML), and on the same day in 2019 (837,394 ML).BMC supplies 3,850 ML of water to the city per day. According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), on the same day last year, Mumbai’s lakes were 31.21% full, and on the same day in 2019, the lakes had 57.86% useful water content.Mumbai city receives its drinking water supply from Upper Vaitarna, Modak Sagar, Tansa, Middle Vaitarna, Bhatsa, Vihar, and Tulsi lakes, whose total water capacity is 1,447,363 MLThe Tulsi lake was the first one to overflow this monsoon, on July 16, followed by the Vihar lake that overflowed on July 18. The Modak Sagar lake overflowed at 3.24am on Thursday, and the Tansa lake overflowed at 5.48am.The Upper Vaitarna lake, which had 0% useful water content until Tuesday in the week, went up to 37.54% useful water content. While Modak Sagar has 100% useful water content, Tansa now has 98.85% useful water content, Middle Vaitarna has 58.55% useful water content, Bhatsa 60.01%, Vihar 100%, and Tulsi 100%. From the gross useful content of Bhatsa, 717,037 ML, 575,700 ML are allocated for BMC use.Through this monsoon, Tulsi lake has received the maximum amount of total rainfall, at 3,034mm, followed by Vihar at 2,060mm. Upper Vaitarna has received a total of 1,147mm of rainfall this monsoon. Modak Sagar has received 1,677mm, and Tansa has received 1,601mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-lake-levels-at-64-water-stock-will-suffice-for-220-days-101627233207124.html
25-07-2021||Lucknow||UP got 12 medical colleges in 69 years till 2016, but 32 in last four years, says Yogi Adityanath||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said 32 medical colleges came up in Uttar Pradesh in the last four years and, by contrast, only 12 medical colleges were established in the state in 69 years from 1947 to 2016. The last four years have coincided with the Yogi Adityanath government’s tenure. The state assembly elections are due early next year.Adityanath was in Ayodhya to review the progress of ongoing projects and the district administration’s preparedness in view of the fight against Covid-19. After inspecting the Raja Dashrath Medical College, popularly known as Ayodhya Medical College, Adityanath said to media persons: “In the ongoing session, 14 new medical colleges are being constructed with the help of the central government.” “There are 16 districts in the state that do not have a medical college. The government will take up the issue with the Medical Council of India and will come up with a policy for setting up medical colleges in these districts,” said the chief minister. On the status of medical facilities in the state, the chief minister said: “In 69 years from 1947 to 2016, only 12 new medical colleges were established in the state. But in the last four years, 32 new medical colleges have come up in the state.” He also said Uttar Pradesh will go on to have the maximum number of medical colleges in the country. Yogi Adityanath expressed his condolences for all those who died due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Commenting on the Ayodhya Medical College, the chief minister said: “This new medical college has the facility to conduct 3000 RT-PCR tests per day.” “In 2019-20, the state government had started eight new medical colleges after approval from the MCI. The Ayodhya Medical College was one of them. In March 2020, when Covid-19 was reported, this medical college was used as a Covid hospital,” the chief minister said. Stating that both the Central and state governments were committed to restoring Ayodhya to its ancient glory and importance, he said widespread development was being carried out in the pilgrim town. He directed the authorities to expedite all the projects. He also inspected ongoing construction work related to the Ram temple and offered prayers on the Ram Janmabhoomi campus and later at Hanuman Garhi temple. Besides, Adityanath met Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, at Mani Ram Das Chhavni Peeth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-got-12-medical-colleges-in-69-years-till-2016-but-32-in-last-four-years-says-yogi-adityanath-101627230987602.html
25-07-2021||Patna||Takht Sahib constitutes new committee||Takht Sri Harimandir Ji (Patna Sahib) on Sunday unanimously constituted a new committee during a meeting at Takht Sahib amid tight security.Avatar Singh Hit has again been made the president of the committee while Jagjot Singh has been selected as senior vice president. Lakhwinder Singh has been chosen as junior vice-president. Indrajit Singh has been declared as general secretary of Takht Sahib in place of Mahendra Pal Singh Dhillon. Harvansh Singh has been declared as the secretary replacing Mahendra Singh Chabra.After the announcement of the new committee, all elected members visited the Guru darbar to seek the blessing of the 10th Guru Gobind Singh Maharaaj. The head priest performed Ardas at Guru darbar. The general secretary said, “It is a proud moment for us that we got the opportunity to serve Guru darbar. The new committee will not leave any stones unturned in development and beautifications in and around of Takht sahib,” he added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/takht-sahib-constitutes-new-committee-101627230988308.html
25-07-2021||Patna||New equipment at AIIMS-Patna reduce brain, spine surgery cost||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in capital city Patna has added three state-of-the-art equipment with artificial intelligence and robotic technology that enables neurosurgeons to perform complex brain and minimal invasive spine surgeries with precision, greater efficacy and reduced time, hospital officials said on Sunday. “These first of its kind equipment in Bihar, with a consolidated cost of ₹9 crore (approximate), are a boon, as it improves patient-safety while reducing surgery time, post-operative complications and surgery cost,” said Dr Vikas Chandra Jha, associate professor and head, department of neurosurgery, AIIMS-Patna. One of the new equipment Kenovo 900 operating microscope with endoscopic assistance and robotic arm technology allows up to 20 times magnification in brain surgery, making minute vascular details clearer and neural structures more vivid, avoiding post-operation complications, Dr Jha said. “It also minimizes the cost of operation at a government set-up such as AIIMS, where complex brain tumour or brain haemorrhage surgeries are done within ₹1 lakh against an estimated cost of ₹4 lakh in big corporates,” said Dr Jha. “The high-frequency C-arm with minimal invasive spine set (MISS), which gives three-dimensional reconstruction of the spine, helps in minimally invasive spine surgery, reducing the cost of such complex surgeries with fractured vertebrae and spinal deformities from ₹3 lakh to within ₹1 lakh. It also reduces the operative time from 12-15 hours to 3-4 hours, providing better safety to patients,” he added. Both the instruments are integrated with another high-end equipment StealthStation S8 surgical navigation system, that provides sub-millimetre accuracy in spinal instrument fixation. It helps to treat deep-seated lesions like basal ganglia bleed and brain stem lesion accurately, said the neurosurgeon. Talking about a procedure recently performed using the high-frequency C-arm, Dr Jha said, “A 60-year-old female, osteoporotic (weak and brittle bones) with paraparesis (partially unable to move legs) and bladder incontinence (loss of bladder control leading to involuntary leakage of urine) was treated with percutaneous (a procedure where access to inner organs or tissue is done via needle-puncture of the skin rather than by using an “open” approach, where organs or tissues are exposed) real-time 3D imaging with navigation guided pedicle-screw fixation that allows preservation of motion segments and stabilisation of the spine. The patient’s health is fast improving.” The equipment also reconstructs the 3D spine model and helps repair under-vision fractured segment by percutaneous fusion using button-hole procedure, without having to make a big incision over spine. “It is a big leap in minimal invasive spine surgery and real-time 3D imaging with axial, saggital (also longitudinal plane) and coronal (vertical plane that divides the body into ventral and dorsal or belly and back sections) cuts giving unbelievable accuracy to the surgeon. We have performed more than 10 such surgeries, mostly in accident cases,” signed off Dr Jha. AIIMS-Patna director Dr PK Singh inaugurated the equipment at the institute on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/new-equipment-at-aiims-patna-reduce-brain-spine-surgery-cost-101627230935577.html
25-07-2021||Patna||Two juveniles missing from observation home brought back||Two juveniles, who went missing from the Khagaria observation home a couple of days ago, were brought back to the government care institution on Sunday. Pradeep Kumar, the child protection officer, Khagaria, informed that both the boys have been handed over to the government care institution by their family members. “Families of both the missing juveniles played the main role in their recovery. We had asked them to intimate us in case boys contact them or go back home. While one boy was handed over to the observation home by his mother as he went back to his family, the other boy was found at his relative’s place,” he said. Families of both the missing juveniles supported in their recovery, he added. The child protection officer said that police was informed about the incident. The official said that the boys were detained in robbery cases. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/two-juveniles-missing-from-observation-home-brought-back-101627230934942.html
25-07-2021||Patna||Two held for throwing prohibited items inside Beur jail||Police arrested two youths on Sunday for attempting to throw prohibited items, including narcotics and cell phones, into Beur jail premises, officials said. However, a third person accompanying the two youths managed to escape.The incident came to light after locals caught the three youths near watchtower number five while trying to throw narcotics and cell phones into the Jail. “Soon, people assembled there and caught them. They assaulted them before handing them over to the police. The third accused managed to escape,” station house officer (SHO) of Beur police station Manish Kumar said.Police recovered narcotics from the possession of the arrested accused. During interrogation, the two youths revealed that one Rahul Chai had lured them with the promise of money for throwing narcotics into the jail,” the SHO said.Recently, Patna Municipal Corporation served notices to 40 house owners for demolishing illegal construction near Beur jail. Locals alleged that their houses are being targeted without cause. “Some outsiders, with the consent of jail authorities, used to throw prohibited items into Beur jail for inmates,” a local alleged.However, jail authorities dismissed the allegations by terming it as “a drama” by locals, as their houses are to be demolished within a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/two-held-for-throwing-prohibited-items-inside-beur-jail-101627230934226.html
25-07-2021||Patna||City schools submit revised Class 12 marks||Several city-based private schools affiliated with the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) were seen on toes to submit revised marks of Class 12 on Sunday, which was the last date for updating moderated marks on the online portal. Earlier this month, the board had raised objections on several schools for allotting inflated marks to their students and asked them to redo the moderation of marks before July 25. Patna city coordinator Rajiv Ranjan Sinha said, “Roughly, 20 schools in the city were asked to redo Class 12 marks. The board directed those schools that awarded higher marks exceeding historical performance to scale down their marks. Schools had to revise marks of such candidates who had been awarded 95 or above marks.” “Majority of schools have submitted their revised marks while around eight schools were yet doing the same till Sunday evening. For schools who failed to submit updated marks till Sunday, their results will be declared separately after July 31,” he added. Meanwhile, schools shared that they have reviewed marks following the CBSE’s formulated policy. “We have uploaded the revised marks on the CBSE portal. No large changes were made as less than five students had scored above 95 marks in two or three subjects,” said an official of Danapur-based school. CBSE students shared that they were desperately waiting for the declaration of the result. Neha Kumari, a Class 12 science student, said, “I did not perform well in internal exams due to health issues but my Class 10 marks were good. I hope to get above 80%. I am more concerned about college admission as many varsities have decided to take admission on the basis of Class 12 results.” As per sources, more than 80,000 students from the state have filled the Class 12 examination form this year..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/city-schools-submit-revised-class-12-marks-101627230933461.html
25-07-2021||Other||Kushwaha visits Bhojpur||National parliamentary board president of JD-U Upendra Kushwaha on Sunday visited several places in Bhojpur and interacted with the party activists. Kushwaha also interacted with the people of the Dalit community and took the feedback about the several schemes launched by the state government for their welfare.Kushwaha said that the CM of Bihar is working hard for the state’s development. “Bihar will be among the developed states of the country soon. The Opposition parties are becoming restless for power in the state, but their daydream will not come true. The present government will complete its term of full five years,” he said. “Bihar was the first state in the country to give ₹4 lakh to the kin of victims died of Covid,” he added. Kushwaha was given warm welcome at different places he visited in Shahpur, Bihiya, Jagdishpur and Udwantnagar blocks.Former MP Meena Singh, former MLC Radha Charan Sah, former MLA Vijyendra Yadav, Prabhunath Ram, district president of JD-U Sanjay Kumar Singh, Pappu Choubey and several others were present during the event..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kushwaha-visits-bhojpur-101627230932598.html
25-07-2021||Patna||Monsoon session to begin today, likely to be eventful||The five-day Monsoon session of the state legislature, commencing Monday, is expected to be stormy as leaders of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Congress and left parties on Sunday resolved to rake up many contentious issues, including price rise, alleged mismanagement of Covid-19 pandemic, perennial shortage of vaccine, unemployment and blatant assault on unarmed legislators by police during the budget session.Leaders of opposition parties gathered at the residence of Opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav Sunday evening and unanimously decided to corner the government over the abovementioned issues. Senior RJD leader Alok Mehta, state Congress chief Madan Mohan Jha and Congress legislature party (CLP) leader Ajit Sharma, CPI (ML) legislator Mahboob Alam and state secretary Kunal attended the meeting.After the meeting, Yadav said the opposition will not be content with anything less than an apology from chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar over the assault on legislators by the police during the last budget session on March 23 this year. “We all want the CM’s reply on the incident on the opening day of the session and an unconditional apology,” said the opposition leader.The Opposition leaders have already disapproved of Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha’s reluctance to act against the police, who mercilessly thrashed legislators in an unprecedented chaos. Police were called inside the Assembly to assist the marshals in evicting unruly opposition members, who physically tried to stop the Speaker from presiding over the meeting, which saw the approval of the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill during the Monsoon session.Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said action against only two constables for beating up over 25-30 MLAs, including women legislators, was unjustified. “The Speaker did not take cognizance of the video clips submitted to him by the Opposition for perusal,” alleged Mishra, saying that the Congress legislature party will meet separately to chalk out its floor strategy in the Assembly and the legislative council. RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav has already written to the Speaker, saying that Opposition legislators were scared to enter the house, owing to the thrashing incident.“Unlike the last session, the Opposition leaders will try doing away with disrupting the business of the House to raise issues of public concerns. However, it all depends on the approach of the government during the session. We will be compelled to stall proceedings if the ruling benches refuse to cooperate,” said Mehta, adding that there were a lot of issues that could keep the government restive throughout the session.The Opposition leaders said they were prepared to expose the government on the issues of rising prices of fuel and essential commodities, alleged scam in state teachers’ eligibility test, state of the economy and health care, unemployment post-pandemic etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/monsoon-session-to-begin-today-likely-to-be-eventful-101627230931833.html
25-07-2021||Other||Schools reopen for Classes 10-12 today||Patiala With schools reopening for the first time for Classes 10-12 after the second wave of the pandemic, district education officer (secondary) Harinder Kaur has asked all headmasters to ensure mandatory Covid-19 norms are followed. There are 109 secondary and 94 high schools in the district. “All high and senior secondary schools in the district have been sanitised,” the DEO added.Rajneesh Kumar, principal, Government Senior Secondary School, Philkhana, in Patiala said students had been asked to wear a mask and sanitise their hands, while also maintaining the required distance through zoom meetings. “Duties of the staff have been assigned,” he added. Lalit Singla, headmaster of Government High School, Ranbirpura, said students and teachers were enthusiastic about coming back to school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/schools-reopen-for-classes-10-12-today-101627230747883.html
25-07-2021||Other||Punjab to give grant-in-aid for senior citizen homes||Chandigarh Punjab social security, women and child development minister Aruna Chaudhary announced on Sunday that her department will provide grant-in-aid to eligible NGOs for establishing and running Senior Citizen Homes in 16 districts of the state. She added that a grant-in-aid of ₹3.8 crore was released to such NGOs in district Amritsar, Ludhiana and Ferozepur for Senior Citizen Homes in 2020-21. Chaudhary added that this will be done under ‘The Punjab Management of Senior Citizen Homes for Elderly Persons Scheme 2019’. The department is already successfully running Senior Citizens Home in Hoshiarpur; the facilities are under construction in Mansa and Barnala districts. “In the remaining 19 districts, it has also been decided to provide grant-in-aid for establishing and running senior citizen homes in collaboration with local NGOs to provide shelter, food, clothing, health facilities and other essential necessities to the aged people,” she added.  For this financial year, applications have been invited from NGOs for grant-in-aid for opening and running old age homes in Bathinda, Fatehgarh Sahib, Faridkot, Fazilka, Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Muktsar, Moga, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Patiala, Rup Nagar, SAS Nagar, Sangrur and Tarn Taran districts. Referring to the conditions for providing grants to such NGOs, the minister added that the institution must have its own building and it should be registered under ‘The Punjab Management of Senior Citizen Homes for Elderly Persons Scheme 2019’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-to-give-grant-in-aid-for-senior-citizen-homes-101627230507575.html
25-07-2021||Other||85-year-old held for bid to murder grandson||Bathinda Fazilka Police have arrested an 85-year-old man for attempting to burn his grandson’s family over a property dispute in Chandigarh Mohalla locality of Abohar town on Sunday. Police said the grandson Angrez Singh, 40, suffered serious burns, while his wife and one-year-old daughter escaped unhurt.Abohar DSP Rahul Bhardwaj said Angrez had a family dispute with his grandfather, Tara Singh, over the construction of rooms at their residence.“As Angrez’s family was asleep in his room, Tara poured petrol on them in the wee hours of Sunday and attempted to set them on fire. Angrez’s legs and an arm suffered burn injuries, and he is under treatment at the Abohar civil hospital. Investigation shows that the accused collected about 5-litre petrol from a nearby petrol pump for this planned attack,” the DSP added. The octogenarian has been booked under Section 307 (attempt to murder), police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/85yearold-held-for-bid-to-murder-grandson-101627230147567.html
25-07-2021||Other||584 trees to be axed for 4-laning Adampur airport road||Jalandhar With the public works department (PWD) beginning the process of four-laning the 5.5km Adampur airport road, to be connected with Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur national highway, forest department officials said 584 trees will be axed for the project. “Of these 584 trees spread over 7.6 hectare, the majority are small. We will develop greenery in nearly 20 hectare to maintain ecological balance,” said Hargurnek Singh, a senior official with the forest department.The PWD will also develop a green belt between the road, with officials claiming that the total estimate of the project would be around ₹40 crore. The department will also need to acquire some land. The official added that the department would soon issue tenders of the project.The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) also prepared an estimate to shift electric lines and poles from the roadside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/584-trees-to-be-axed-for-4-laning-adampur-airport-road-101627229501332.html
25-07-2021||Delhi||All-women Kisan Sansad at Jantar Mantar on Monday to mark eight months of farmers' protest||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) announced on Sunday that women will conduct the ongoing 'Kisan Sansad' at Jantar Mantar here on Monday as the farmers' protest against three farm laws completes eight months.Thousands of farmers at Delhi borders have been pressing for their demand to repeal the three farm laws enacted last year.The collective of over 40 protesting farmer unions said in a statement that several convoys of women farmers were reaching the Delhi borders to join the 'Mahila Kisan Sansad'."Tomorrow's Kisan Sansad at Jantar Mantar will be conducted entirely by women. The Mahila Kisan Sansad will reflect the key role that women play in Indian agriculture, and their critical role in the ongoing movement too. Convoys of women farmers from various districts are reaching the morchas for the Mahila Kisan Sansad," the SKM said.The umbrella body of farmer unions has been protesting against the three contentious farm laws at Jantar Mantar since July 22, during the monsoon session of Parliament.It claimed that the last eight months witnessed several lakh farmers from almost all states of India joining the protests."The protests have been peaceful and reflect the centuries-old ethos of our 'anna daatas'. They reflect their persistence and perseverance in the face of hardships, and the determination and hope that they possess for the future," the statement said.SKM leaders will also be going to Lucknow on Monday to launch 'Mission Uttar Pradesh'."As is known, Uttar Pradesh will be going into Assembly elections next year. In the panchayat elections held earlier this year, the farmers' movement left its mark with BJP candidates punished in many places, and independents gaining most number of seats," it said.It added that new groups of farmers were reaching different protest sites, including a tractor rally that reached the Ghazipur border on Sunday from Bijnor in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/allwomen-kisan-sansad-at-jantar-mantar-on-monday-to-mark-eight-months-of-farmers-protest-101627229124476.html
25-07-2021||Other||IISER Pune reaches over 1.5 million viewers with science activity sessions||PUNE: Being confined to their homes ever since the imposition of lockdowns, everyone from children to adults has turned to the online medium in a big way. Taking this a step forward, the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) Pune, a research-intensive educational institute, last year initiated online demonstration sessions titled “Next-Gen Science Camps: Exploring Fun Activities at Your Doorstep” to make learning science a fun exercise. The experiment proved successful with the IISER managing to reach out to over 1.5 million viewers over the course of the pandemic and even completing the 50th episode of its demonstration sessions last week.Speaking on the occasion, Ashok Rupner, programme manager, science activity centre, IISER Pune, said, “The present situation induced by the ongoing pandemic gave the science activity centre an opportunity to explore the online medium to reach out to students, teachers, and science enthusiasts, going beyond geographical boundaries. The centre initiated online demonstration sessions beginning June 7 last year.”Rupner further said, “The sessions are designed with school curricula in mind but are organised topic-wise. The sessions begin with 40 minutes of demonstrations of science and mathematics activities followed by a 20 minutes question and answer (Q&A) with IISER Pune scientists. The sessions aim at incorporating hands-on activities that can be performed with readily available materials. They allow students and teachers to explore scientific concepts related to their curriculum in an exciting manner.” It is learned that the questions are chosen from those received over the previous weeks from members of the audience.The sessions were conducted in the form of YouTube live sessions every Sunday between 11am and noon on the science activity centre’s YouTube channel, Rupner informed. He confirmed that they had recently completed 50 episodes of the Sunday series and that their episodes had so far reached over 1.5 million viewers with an overwhelming response.Pramod Namdeo Loke, a teacher from Devgad taluka, Sindhudurg district, who participated in the online sessions, said, “Today’s electromagnetic experiments were excellent. We came to know about the relation of the magnetic field with the number of turns, strength of the magnet, speed of the coil, strength of the current, direction of the magnetic field and how to change the parameters and increase the efficiency of the project. Today’s workshop covered all concepts of electromagnetism. The experiments inspire our students and make them more creative.”Additionally, IISER Pune has also conducted 15 online sessions in Marathi titled “Let’s make friends with science and mathematics” for students and teachers in Maharashtra, in collaboration with the Maharashtra State Council of Education Research and Training (MSCERT) Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iiser-pune-reaches-over-1-5-million-viewers-with-science-activity-sessions-101627229128066.html
25-07-2021||Other||Patiala man, son killed after speeding car hits motorcycle||Patiala A 45-year-old man, Manjit Singh, and his son Jasbir Singh, 15, were killed after a speeding car, Honda WR-V, hit their motorcycle from the rear on the Patiala-Sirhind road in the wee hours on Sunday. Manjit’s wife, also riding pillion, was injured and is admitted at the Government Rajindra Hospital. Police said the family was returning to their home after paying obeisance at Gurdwara Dukhniwarn Sahib. Tripari station house officer (SHO) Harry Boparai said, “A car coming from the Patiala side hit the motorcycle. The impact of the collision was so strong that the car also rammed into an electric pole.”He added that the car driver Karandeep Singh, a city resident, has been arrested. He has been booked under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patiala-man-son-killed-after-speeding-car-hits-motorcycle-101627229127456.html
25-07-2021||Other||3 students killed after car plunges into Sidhwan Canal in Ludhiana||Ludhiana Three of four young student occupants of a car were killed when their vehicle, a Maruti Suzuki Swift, fell into the Sidhwan Canal near Raghunath Enclave on the South City Road on Sunday evening. Their car went out of control after it hit an Hyundai i-20 plying just in front, police have said.The victims are Prabhjot Singh Lubana, 19; Pahul Bains, 18, both of Gurdaspur, and Tiksha Saini, 21 of Delhi. The fourth occupant of the car, Rahul, 20, of Gurdaspur, managed to swim out of the canal and has survived the crash. Tiksha was doing internship at a hospital in the city and was putting up at a paying guest accommodation in South City. Rahul is pursuing graduation, while Prabhjot and Pahul were awaiting their Class-12 results. Prabhjot was at the wheel. Some passers-by rescued the victims and rushed them to the nearest hospital, where doctors declared them brought dead. The lone survivor Rahul, 20, said, “A Hyundai i-20 took a sudden turn, leading to our car hitting it from the rear and plunging into the canal. The three of us were friends of Tiksha and had come to meet her.”He added, “We had left Gurdaspur about 11:30am and reached Ludhiana at 2:30pm. We picked up Tiksha and went to a shopping mall, where we had some snacks. At around 5:30pm, we were going towards the South City to drop Tiksha at her paying guest accommodation, when the accident happened. I managed to jump outside and survived.”Joint commissioner of police (JCP, city) Deepak Pareek said they reached the site as soon as they were informed and started the rescue operation. “We are tracing the Hyundai i-20 car, which caused the mishap and also procuring CCTV footage to establish the sequence of events. The parents of the victims have been informed,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-students-killed-after-car-plunges-into-sidhwan-canal-in-ludhiana-101627228647292.html
25-07-2021||Other||Pune district reports 1,085 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Sunday||PUNE Pune district reported 1,085 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths in 24 hours on Sunday. This takes the progressive count to 1.083 million of which 1.048 million have recovered. The death toll stands at 18,652 with 15,803 active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment, or in home isolation. Pune also saw 22,035 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 657 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 324,560. With no deaths reported on Sunday, the death toll stands at 6,185. Pune city reported 267 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 502,383. One death on Sunday, takes the toll to 8,869. PCMC reported 161 new Covid-19 cases after which the progressive count went up to 256,202, and with one more death reported, the toll stands at 3,329.Pune also saw 22,035 vaccinations on the day, as per the CoWin dashboard on Sunday. Totally 5,912,361 vaccines have been administered, including 4,488,191 first doses and 1,424,170 second doses. A total of 132 vaccination sites conducted vaccination on the day, of which 72 were government and 60 private sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reports-1-085-fresh-covid-19-cases-and-two-deaths-on-sunday-101627226310734.html
25-07-2021||Bhopal||MP police arrest 5 people including 2 doctors for selling baby for ₹2.5 lakh||Police arrested five people including two doctors for allegedly selling a baby, born to a minor girl, for ₹2.5 lakh in Khandwa district, officials said.The police suspected that the accused used to run a baby-selling racket and used to target unmarried and minor mothers, Vivek Singh, superintendent of police, Khandwa, said.Police arrested Dr Saurabh Soni, who used to run a clinic in Khandwa, Dr Renu Soni, owner of a maternity hospital, Sanjana Patel, a nurse at a district hospital, Mohsin Khan and Kamlesh Patel, employees working at a clinic of Saurabh Soni, under different sections of the Juvenile Justice Act.The SP Vivek Singh said, “A 16-year-old unmarried girl gave birth to a baby boy a week ago at the maternity hospital of Dr Renu Soni. The family refused to accept the baby. They took the girl with them by leaving the baby at the hospital. Later, Dr Saurabh Soni gave the baby to a midwife to take care of the baby for some days.”“Instead of informing the police Dr Soni fixed a deal with a couple and asked the midwife to return the baby but she refused and informed the police,” he added.“During the investigation, police found that the government hospital nurse, Sanjana Patel, used to inform Dr Saurabh Soni about unmarried and minor girls who didn’t want a baby. The doctor used to fix the deal with family members of these women on the condition of keeping this a secret. Later, Mohsin and Kamlesh used to look for interested couples to sell the babies,” said an investigative officer.Police are interrogating to know how many babies they have sold to date. The police have issued a public notice seeking information about other cases. The district administration also sealed a clinic and medical shop of one of the accused, Dr Saurabh Soni.Two years ago, MP Police busted an inter-state racket of selling babies born to unmarried mothers in Jhabua. More than 10 people had been arrested from Maharashtra, MP and Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-police-arrest-5-people-including-2-doctors-for-selling-baby-for-rs-2-5-lakh-101627223786282.html
25-07-2021||Bhopal||Kamal Nath says 'environment of trust' lacking in Madhya Pradesh under BJP govt||A day after Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan wooed investors to the state, MP Congress chief Kamal Nath on Sunday said industries pump in money only if there is an environment of trust, which is lacking in the state under the BJP rule. Nath also claimed that during the 15-month-long Congress dispensation in the state helmed by him till March last year, the government had tried to improve the image of Madhya Pradesh and build an environment of trust, but the Chouhan-led government has brought things back to square one.“Shivraj ji, this is true that MP is the heart of India, but know the fact that investment comes with trust, which your government never earned. Because under your rule, the state earned the dubious distinction being a state of mafias, adulterators, corruption, and unemployment and for always being on top among the states in the crime against women,” Nath said in the tweet.शिवराज जी यह सही है कि मध्यप्रदेश देश का दिल है लेकिन यह सच भी जान ले कि निवेश सिर्फ़ विश्वास से आता है , जो आपकी सरकार में कभी नही रहा ?क्योंकि आपकी सरकार में देश में प्रदेश की पहचान माफ़ियाओ , मिलावट खोरो ,भ्रष्टाचार ,बेरोज़गारी ,महिला अपराध में देश में शीर्ष वाले प्रदेशDespite holding many investors' meets by spending lakhs and crores of rupees and making claims about attracting investments, everybody knows the reality on the investment front in the state, he added. “We tried to change this image (of the state) and build an environment of trust during our 15-month rule, but the BJP could not tolerate it and by striking deals, toppled our government?” Nath alleged in his tweet. But after your government came to power, the state has come back to square one, he stated. हमने अपनी 15 माह की सरकार में इसी पहचान को बदलने का काम किया , विश्वास का माहौल बनाने का काम किया लेकिन यह भाजपा को सहन नही हुआ और सौदेबाज़ी व बोली से हमारी सरकार गिरा दी गयी ?आज फिर आपकी सरकार प्रदेश में आते ही प्रदेश वापस उसी स्थिति में पहुँच चुका है ?Nath’s tweets come a day after Chouhan in his address at Horasis India Meeting, 2021 during a session on 'Madhya Pradesh – India's Emerging Economic Tiger' in New Delhi on Saturday spoke about the plans to turn Madhya Pradesh an ideal investment destination in India."We are not just the heart of India, but are the people with a heart. We don't have (only) one, but have multiple unique points like 30 per cent forest cover, a hub of minerals, Asia's largest dam and 8.5 crore population with a focus on skilled manpower,” Chouhan was quoted as saying in a government release. “I know that the backbone of Madhya Pradesh's development is in investment, and hence we are focusing on this. I welcome you all to Madhya Pradesh, and invest – we hope you get the benefit and help reach the Atmna Nirbhar Bharat dreams, I promise you won't be disappointed,” the chief minister had added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/kamal-nath-says-environment-of-trust-lacking-in-madhya-pradesh-under-bjp-govt-101627222438424.html
25-07-2021||Mumbai||HC rejects bail of man who cheated Dena Bank of ₹245 cr in 2014||The Bombay high court recently refused to grant bail to a man who cheated Dena Bank of ₹245 crore in 2014. The man, while claiming to be a representative of the bank, influenced eight public entities to start fixed-term deposits with the bank to the tune of ₹259 crores and then used the KYC documents of the public entities to get loans against the deposits to the tune of ₹240 crores, officials said. He later siphoned off the amount using fake loan accounts in the name of the entities. The court held that as the offence was serious and the trial was likely to commence and end in a year, it was not inclined to grant bail as the accused had absconded after the investigation got underway. The single bench of justice Sarang Kotwal, while hearing the bail application of Vimal Barot, was informed by advocate Ujjwal Gandhi that after being arrested the authorities had attached his properties under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and recovered a substantial amount of the defrauded money, hence the custody of his client was not necessary and he should be released on bail. According to the FIR in 2014, Barot had approached the manager of the Malabar Hill branch and introduced himself as a custodian of funds of government departments and corporations. He was asked to mobilise funds in the form of fixed deposits for the growth of the bank. Barot used this request of the bank to get public entities like Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority, Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation Ltd., Mumbai APMC, Hero MotoCorp Ltd., Modi Innovative Education Society, Modi ATI Education Private Ltd. and Mahatma Phule Backward Class Development Corporation Ltd. to make fixed-term deposits in Dena Bank. The amount he managed to garner was ₹256.49 crores. While the bank took him to be the financial advisor of these public entities, the respective authorities took him to be a representative of the bank and hence handed over documents for KYC to him. Barot retained the receipts from the bank and gave the entities photocopies and then based on the KYC documents applied for loans from the bank using the receipts as surety. The bank, assuming Barot to be the financial advisor of the entities, sanctioned the loans which were deposited in fake loan accounts and later withdrawn by Barot through various other entities. Special public prosecutor Hiten Venegaonkar for CBI opposed the application stating that Barot had gone absconding after the fraud came to light and a complaint was registered. He was nabbed after being traced to Ahmedabad. Venegaonkar added that as the investigating officer in his affidavit had stated that the trial would start and end in a year, the presence of the accused was necessary and as he had already absconded once, allowing him bail would prejudice the trial hence his application should be rejected. After hearing the submissions, justice Kotwal observed, “The offence indeed is very serious. The sheer audacity of the applicant in defrauding various entities including the informant’s bank shows that this is not a case where some leniency can be shown to the present applicant in granting him bail during the pendency of the trial.” The court further took note of the statements of witnesses which pointed to the involvement of a bank manager in the fraud as well. In light of the opposition by the state and CBI and the fact that Barot had used the siphoned off amount to buy properties in his and his wife’s name, and as the trial was expected to be expedited, the bench rejected the bail application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-rejects-bail-of-man-who-cheated-dena-bank-of-rs-245-cr-in-2014-101627220967862.html
25-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana hikes dearness allowance from 17% to 28%||Following in the footsteps of the central government, the Haryana government on Saturday announced to increase the rate of dearness allowance (DA) for state government employees and pensioners from 17% to 28%. The fresh increase will be applicable from July 1 which means that employees and pensioners will get 28% DA on their basic salary in this month’s pay packet. It also means that no arrears pertaining to the period of freeze will be paid. The DA is a financial component added to the basic salary or pension of an employee twice a year to meet the increase in cost of living or inflation. Quoting a communication of Union finance ministry, the state government in 2020 had decided not to pay the additional DA instalments applicable to the employees from January 1, 2020; July 1, 2020; and January 1, 2021, on account of economic crisis due to pandemic. The state government though continued paying DA at the existing rate of 17% “The rate of dearness allowance as effective from January 1, 2020; July 1, 2020; and January 1, 2021, has been restored prospectively and subsumed in the cumulative revised rate effective July 1, 2021. No arrears for the period from January 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021 will be paid,’’ said an order. Chief minister ML Khattar, who holds the finance portfolio, said the revision will benefit about 2.85 lakh government employees and 2.62 lakh pensioners. It will put an additional burden of about ₹210 crore per month on the state exchequer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-hikes-dearness-allowance-from-17-to-28-101627218747674.html
25-07-2021||Jaipur||‘State Congress leaders reach consensus over cabinet reshuffle’: Ajay Maken||AICC general secretary and Rajasthan in-charge, Ajay Maken on Sunday said the state Congress leaders have reached a consensus over cabinet shuffle and the final decision is to be taken by the party high command. Maken’s comments came during a press briefing.However, both cabinet shuffle and political appointments may have to wait until next month as Maken said he would be returning to the state on July 28 and 29 to hold discussions with MLAs once more. Maken, along with AICC general secretary (organization) KC Venugopal, arrived in the City last night and held long discussions with CM Ashok Gehlot at his residence. Maken and Venugopal are members of the committee constituted by the AICC last year when senior Congress leader and former deputy CM Sachin Pilot revolted. This is the first time that they held discussions together on issues raised by Pilot with CM Gehlot. After meeting ministers, MLAs and office-bearers at the party office, Maken said that all the leaders have unanimously left the decision of the cabinet reshuffle to the party high command. However, he did not disclose the date of cabinet expansion. “I can say that there is no disagreement or contradiction among the party leaders and they all have left the final decision about the cabinet expansion to the party high command,” he said addressing the newspersons. “I am returning on July 28-29 and will hold one-on-one dialogue with Congress MLAs over district and block (appointments) as AICC wants to know the feedback of MLAs before taking any decisions. We will also ask them for good names for appointments on Boards and Corporations,” he said “We are holding discussions over the appointment of district presidents, and political appointments on Boards and Corporations. I just want to say that all unanimously have stated that whatever high command decides is accepted to us. We soon will take decisions on these issues as there is no disagreement,” he said. Maken, along with Venugopal, reached the state party office where the meeting with the ministers, MLAs, and office bearers, who were in present Jaipur, was held. It was an unofficial meeting during which issues like inflation, Pegasus ow, among others were discussed. “People of the country are suffering from high inflation; many people lost jobs during the corona pandemic and instead of spending money and resources for people, the central government misused the resources for snooping and spying on the leaders, journalists and judiciary. This is highly condemnable,” Maken said. Last night, both the senior leaders held a meeting with chief minister Ashok Gehlot at his residence and held a detailed discussion about the cabinet expansion, political appointments in boards and corporations, and manifesto implementation, which was raised by Pilot during the political crisis. After Punjab, the party high command has shifted its focus to Rajasthan, where demands for cabinet expansion and political appointments gained momentum after reports of resentment in the camp led by Pilot, who along with 18 MLAs had rebelled against the leadership of Gehlot last year. Three days back, Pilot had indicated that Congress would soon take suitable steps to address issues raised by him. He had said that he is in touch with the party’s high command over the issues raised by him and hoped that the required steps would be taken soon. Pilot was removed from the post of Rajasthan’s deputy chief minister and state party chief in July last year after he rebelled against the Gehlot leadership. After a one-month-long political crisis, the party high command announced to form a three-member committee to address the issues raised by him. Last month, MLAs from the Pilot camp said that the party should fulfil the promises made to Pilot last month, following which the demand for cabinet expansion and political appointments gained momentum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/state-congress-leaders-reach-consensus-over-cabinet-reshuffle-ajay-maken-101627216408070.html
25-07-2021||Patna||Bihar seeks to reduce pendency of bills submission after rap from CAG||The Bihar government departments are scampering to submit utilization certificates (UCs) and detailed contingent (DC) bills against use of government funds in the last few years to the accountant general (AG) of the state, weeks after the pendency was red flagged by the comptroller and auditor general of India (CAG), officials said. Over 30 state government departments were read the riot act by the chief secretary to clear the pendency and submit the documents to the AG office, which had flagged pending UCs and DC bills for reconciliation and submission at the earliest, an official in the finance department said on condition of anonymity.They said UCs worth ₹90,000 crore was pending with various departments including ₹26000 cr with the panchayati raj department followed by ₹17000 cr by the education department and ₹8000 crore by the health department as on March 31st, 2021. Similarly, submission of abstract contingent (AC) bills worth ₹13,500 crore is pending as on March 31st, 20201 as per AG records sent to the state government, the finance department official quoted above said. The panchayati raj department on Friday issued a letter to district panchayati raj officers to ensure that gram panchayats and other rural local bodies submit the UCs of central funds utilised in 2018-19 by August 5 and also asked for submission of UCs from 2019-20 by 30 September. “The pendency of UCs as indicated by the AG is not only of recent years but some as old as 2002-03. We are working on it and directives have been issued to major departments to lessen the pendency of UCs and DC bills. There is a drive underway to reduce the pendency of UCs and focus is on 16 major departments where pendency is high,” another officer said on condition of anonymityUCs are documents of expenditure made against grants in aid made to departments for specific purpose while DCs bills are final vouchers of expenditure details against withdrawal of public funds from state treasuries by various departments against abstract contingent (AC) bills.UCs have to be submitted within 18 months of withdrawal while DCs have to be submitted within six months of withdrawal of ACs to the AG office, as per rules. Last week, additional deputy CAG (eastern region) Rakesh Mohan had flagged the issue of outstanding UCs during his interaction with deputy chief minister cum finance minister Tarkishore Prasad and other senior officials. He had said UCs worth ₹55000 crore were pending as on 2018-19. Mohan, in a media interaction had pointed out that the “delay in submission of such vouchers leave ample scope of financial misappropriation”.He had also censured the state government for making unrealistic budgets and parking of funds in personal ledger accounts and personal deposit accounts. Additional chief secretary, panchayat raj department Amrit Lal Meena said his department has set a target for bringing down the pendency.“We are aware there is a pendency of UCs around ₹26,000 crore. A drive has started for submission of UCs by gram panchayats against funds given under 14 finance commission, fifth state finance commission and the state plan. The pendency of UCs would be brought down to ₹10,000 crore by December this year,” Meena said. Meanwhile, principal secretary, finance S Siddharth said instructions have been issued to departments to submit the UCs and DC bills on a priority basis so that it could be submitted to the AG office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-seeks-to-reduce-pendency-of-bills-submission-after-rap-from-cag-101627211005761.html
25-07-2021||Pune||Your Space: Ensure all students appear for exams||Some colleges affiliated to SPPU have not given clearance to final-year students to sit for annual exams due to pending fees. With parents facing financial strain to cover their kids’ college expense due to the Covid situation, what steps should the state, local and college authorities take to ensure that educational pursuits of students are not affected. Reduce education fees The Covid pandemic has affected all sectors financially. Colleges and universities are taking unnecessary fees like development fees, library fees, parking fees, etc. The administration should take steps to do away with unnecessary expenses. Nagpur university has already cut down expenses in their fees on these grounds and other varsities should follow this example. If the educational institutes are not taking steps to ease the fee expenses then the government must intervene. Vaibhav Edke Colleges should not bar students from exams Students from all over the state come to Pune for higher education. With colleges closed due to the Covid situation, hostels and other rooms are mostly vacant as students have returned to hometown. Even as these expenses have been excluded, students and their parents have to pay for laptops, Wi-Fi or high-speed internet connection at homes, and college fees. With many parents facing financial crisis in the pandemic, colleges should definitely give fee concession. Only tuition fees should be charged and other amenities like campus maintenance, libraries, laboratories should be waived off. It is the only justifiable way to move forward. Blocking of students from examination over fee dues indicates the blatant arrogance of institutions. Tanmay Joshi Waive fees for EWS students The opportunities for employment have shrunk because of the Covid-induced financial crisis. Though colleges were closed, students had to pay for the new electronic/digital devices and the internet. In such a scenario, collecting overall fees from students is wrong. If practical lessons are not taken then why students should pay for laboratories? Also, the additional fees such as gyms, recreational centres should be waived off. Exams are being conducted online now. So, examination fees also can be reduced. Considering all these points, the overall fee for the semester could be reduced at least 40%. The entire fee of students who are from the economically weaker section (EWS) should be waived off. This facility should continue for upcoming years as well because it will take time to recover from the losses caused by Covid. Amir Kasim Pathan Do not deny right to education The nation has witnessed the horrors of Covid for the last one and a half years. Many of our brothers and sisters have lost their parents and dear ones. Uncountable people have lost their livelihood. In this hour of the grave, it will be inhuman to deny them their right to education just for lack of monetary capacity. It is the right time to understand that education is a right that everyone should get without any discrimination and not a luxurious commodity to be bought by the rich only. Government, Institutions, UGC, and all parties concerned should come to the table to safeguard the future of youth. This is the least we can do for our young citizens. Vijaysingh Chaudhari Authorities should support students Every sector has been impacted because of the Covid. It has caused severe social and financial crisis for the informal sector such as farmers and labourers. Students like me, who come from such families cannot afford to pay fees. The financial condition of the families has collapsed. If more than one student is in the family then it is adding to the worry. So, a certain relief must be given to students from weaker economic background. In these uncertain times, everyone has the right to complete their education. We were somehow managing to pay the college fees regularly until now. But the situation has worsened after the second wave. Institutions, colleges, universities and the government should adopt a sensitive approach in these difficult times. Balaji Narwate, student Centre, state should allocate funds, fellowships The Covid-19 isn’t just a health crisis. It has weakened our economy and unsettled our education system. It has exposed our education model. And therefore, there is a growing need to modify our education system. New techniques in the field may help us to reduce fees and mental pressure. Many girl students discontinued their education owing to a streak of lockdowns and economic hardships. Countless students find it difficult to pay college fees. And hence, I urge the universities to revise their fee structure. Apart from tuition and exam fees, the other fees should immediately be dropped, so that students can continue their studies. The Centre and state governments should rigorously monitor the situation and allocate funds and fellowships. Satish Gore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-ensure-all-students-appear-for-exams-101627209746319.html
25-07-2021||Jaipur||No conflict among party leaders: Maken ahead of Rajasthan cabinet reshuffle||Congress leader Ajay Maken on Saturday said that there is no conflict among the party leaders in Rajasthan ahead of the planned cabinet reshuffle. Maken, who is also the general secretary of the All India Congress Committee, said that the party leaders have left the decision on the central leadership.Maken was accompanied by AICC general secretary KC Venugopal as the leaders met several ministers, MLAs and office bearers at the Congress office in Jaipur, amid reports of resentment among a section of the party members loyal to former Rajasthan deputy minister Sachin Pilot.Both of them also met chief minister Ashok Gehlot. Following the meeting, Maken said the party members exuded their confidence in the high command. Maken said he would visit Rajasthan on Wednesday but did not disclose any date for the cabinet expansion.Pilot, who along with 18 MLAs rebelled against the leadership of Ashok Gehlot last year, said that Congress would take suitable steps soon to address the issues raised by him. Earlier in June, Pilot said the party should fulfil the assurance made to him, giving credence to his demand for cabinet expansion and new political appointments.“I can say that there is no conflict among the party leaders and they all have left the final decision about the cabinet expansion to the party high command,” Maken was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.At present, there are 21 members in the council of ministers, including the chief minister, forming the Rajasthan cabinet. The cabinet has nine vacant spots. Rajasthan can have a maximum of 30 ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/no-conflict-among-party-leaders-maken-ahead-of-rajasthan-cabinet-reshuffle-101627208688756.html
25-07-2021||Patna||Monsoon session of Bihar Assembly to begin on Monday, likely to be eventful||The monsoon session of the Bihar Assembly, which will begin on Monday, is likely to be eventful as the opposition parties have chalked out a strategy to corner the state government on issues such as rising prices of fuel, cooking gas, fertilisers and edible oil.The stage for a stormy session has been set by the tug of war between the state government and the opposition over the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021, passed by the Assembly in the last budget session.Unprecedented chaos erupted on March 23 when police was called inside the Assembly to assist the marshals in evicting unruly opposition members who tried to physically prevent Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha from taking his chair. The bone of contention was Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021, which the Nitish Kumar government had introduced in a bid to give its police more teeth, deemed necessary in view of the increasingly complex security needs of the state which has been witnessing rapid economic growth.The opposition had termed it as "black" legislation, taking strong exception to provisions that empower the Special Armed Police, previously known as the Bihar Military Police, to conduct searches and arrests without producing a warrant. The Bill was passed by the Assembly, amid a "walkout" by opposition MLAs who had squatted outside the building and raised slogans, slighted by the manner in which they were ousted from the hall on that day by the men in uniform.RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav has already written to the Speaker, saying that opposition legislators were scared to enter the House due to the March 23 incident. “Our MLAs are now afraid of entering the House and raising questions there...let us know the result of the investigation on the March 23 incident. That was a black day which will never be forgotten," Yadav wrote in his letter. “Whether in the Assembly or on the road, anyone who asks questions related to the public interest is being thrashed by this government headed by Nitish Kumar”, he said.The monsoon session will continue till July 30. Two policemen were recently suspended after they were found guilty of assaulting opposition MLAs in the Assembly on March 23. The Speaker had already assured that strict action would be taken against those who were involved in the scuffle with the opposition legislators.Meanwhile, Sinha has said legislators, who haven't received vaccine doses, would not be allowed to attend the monsoon session, stressing on the need to adhere to the Covid protocols for safe conduct of the proceedings. "MLAs, who have not been vaccinated, will not be allowed to attend the session. Vaccination is important for all the MLAs attending the House”, he said. Sinha said exemptions can be given to the members on certain medical grounds. MLAs who have recovered from Covid-19 and have been advised by their doctors to get jabs after a certain period will be allowed to participate in the monsoon session, the Speaker said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/monsoon-session-of-bihar-assembly-to-begin-on-monday-likely-to-be-eventful-101627206751261.html
25-07-2021||Mumbai||Will go beyond politics, stand by all: Aaditya Thackeray on Maha flood crisis||Maharashtra cabinet minister and Shiv Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray said on Sunday the government will stand by every flood-hit resident of the Konkan and western regions of Maharashtra and not indulge in politics. Hitting out at the opposition for questioning the coalition government, led by Sena supremo Uddhav Thackeray, over its handling of the crisis, Aaditya said it was time to stand behind the people and go beyond politics.“If you're going to focus on the opposition, it's not something for us to do. The work for all of us is to go beyond politics. It's time to stand behind the people,” the state environment and tourism minister told news agency ANI.Maharashtra witnessed the worst flooding in a decade after 48 hours of unprecedented rains in Raigad, Ratnagiri, Palghar, Thane, Sindhudurg, Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara. The official death toll from the deluge and landslide stood at 112, with 99 people still missing, while a total of 1,35,313 people have been evacuated so far from vulnerable areas. The state government has undertaken rescue operations in the most affected districts with the help of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Navy and Army.On Saturday, the chief minister visited Taliye village, where around 50 people were feared trapped under the debris of at least 32 houses. Thackeray assured the affected people of rehabilitation and promised to ensure that no such incident happened in the future. “The state government will see that no such incidents will happen in future and even if they happened, no human life will be lost. To achieve this, the state government will have to rehabilitate all villages located at hillslopes and foothills. The residents of such villages will be resettled at safer places,” he told reporters.On Sunday, while on a visit to flood-hit Chiplun, the CM said the state government will set up special disaster response teams along the lines of NDRF/SDRF in every district. He is scheduled to visit affected areas in western Maharashtra||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-go-beyond-politics-stand-by-all-aaditya-thackeray-on-maha-flood-crisis-101627207586846.html
25-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro’s Dhansa metro station adorns artwork, depicting heritage, culture||The upcoming Dhansa bus stand metro station at the Dwarka-Dhansa grey line metro corridor, soon to be thrown open, has been done up with artwork and photographs depicting the rich heritage, culture, flora and fauna of the suburban locality in the national capital. According to officials of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), the area in the Najafgarh-- Dhansa region of southwest Delhi has deep cultural roots. “It has a rich history and is also home to a marshy ecosystem, which allows flourishing of local wildlife with a number of migratory birds seen here every year. The photographic displays have tried to showcase these characteristics of the region,” the DMRC said in a statement. A jheel (lake) located between Najafgarh and Dhansa has a rich biodiversity inviting species such as eagles, ducks, kingfishers and parrots, among others, making it a hub for bird watchers, especially during the winters. “The printed glass panels at the station showcase the rich biodiversity and are themed as Migratory birds,” it said. Besides, the colour palette of the station area has been kept earthy and bold to show the amalgamation of rural and urban settings. For instance, a hand-painted artwork titled Fringes of rural-urban progression shows the values held by the two communities. Also, the surrounding villages in this area are known for their ancient folklore and hence some of the painted artworks inspired by this spirit are themed as Local socio-cultural scenarios. The artworks, contributed by various budding artists and photographers, have been curated by the DMRC’s architecture department. DMRC officials said that the approximately one kilometre-long Najafgarh -- Dhansa bus stand corridor is now ready for operations after receiving the mandatory approval from the Commissioner of Metro Rail Safety (CMRS).“The exact date for opening of the corridor shall be intimated shortly,” said a senior DMRC official. With the opening of this extension, the Delhi Metro rail network will become 390 km long comprising 286 metro stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-s-dhansa-metro-station-adorns-artwork-depicting-heritage-culture-101627207285557.html
25-07-2021||Patna||Bihar: 4 killed, 3 injured as speeding car rams into stationary truck in Purnia||Four persons died and three sustained serious injuries when a speeding car hit a stationary truck on national highway 57 near Sheeshabari in Bihar’s Purnia district late Saturday evening. All seven people were travelling in the car. Among the deceased, Dinkar Pradhan, 35 and Suleman Soren, 30, were residents of Araria district while Sameer Chakravarty, 32 and Rahul Kumar, 25, were from Purnia district. All seven were returning from New Jalpaiguri in West Bengal after attending a business meeting when their car rammed into the truck at about 10 pm last night.The three injured were rushed to district hospital in Purnia from where they were referred to a private hospital. Two of them were identified as Sanjay Kumar Dubey and Subodh Kumar Sah, both residents of Araria but the identity of the third injured had not been established yet.Station house officer (SHO) of Sadar police station Madhurendra Kishor said, “We have sent all the four bodies for post-mortem and the injured are undergoing treatment at a private hospital.” One of the injured had been referred to Siliguri, he added.A policeman said that one of the injured had said that the driver lost control of the car that was being driven at a high speed and hit the stationary truck.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-4-killed-3-injured-as-speeding-car-rams-into-stationary-truck-in-purnia-101627198224756.html
25-07-2021||Kolkata||Covaxin stock in West Bengal very low, meagre supply of doses likely to hit inoculation: State govt||A "very low" stock of Covaxin and a meagre supply of the vaccines are going to badly affect the ongoing inoculation process in West Bengal, a senior health department official said on Saturday.The state was supposed to get 75 lakh of vaccine doses this month and received 54 lakh till Friday, he said."The Covaxin stock in our state is very low. We have only one lakh and some small quantity in the hands of the districts. We were supposed to receive two tranches of a total of 2.55 lakh Covaxin which were not delivered as per schedule," the official said.Till Saturday, West Bengal has received a total of 2.36 crore vaccine doses from the central government and procured at least 17.74 lakh doses, he said.The state has vaccinated over 2.75 crore people so far and out of them, 81.9 lakh got the second dose, he said.According to the official, the state has currently the infrastructure to administer more than 1.5 crore doses per month."The only constraint is getting an adequate quantity of vaccine on time," he said.West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has urged the central government to allot at least three crore vaccine doses to the state.Meanwhile, on Saturday, the Covid-19 toll in West Bengal rose to 18,604 with eight more deaths while the tally went up by another 730 new cases to reach 15,22,833, the health department said in a bulletin.In the last 24 hours, 920 recoveries were registered in the state, which improved the discharge rate to 98.03 per cent.Till Saturday, 14,92,878 people have recovered from the disease and the state currently has 11,891 active cases.In the last 24 hours, 52,188 samples have been tested for Covid-19 taking the total number of such clinical examinations to 1,54,28,549, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covid19-covaxin-stock-in-west-bengal-very-low-says-state-govt-101627177759106.html
25-07-2021||Patna||Bihar panchayat polls: EVMs to get first-level checks by August 20, says report||Ahead of the panchayat elections in Bihar, all electronic voting machines (EVMs) ordered from other states for polling purposes will undergo a first-level check (FLC) by August 20, HT's sister publication Live Hindustan has reported. The State Election Commission (SEC), mandated to hold the election to the three-tier local bodies in the state, has directed all the districts to get FLCs done when the poll process kicks off from the next month, according to the report.The SEC has also directed all district administrations in Bihar to launch their own initiatives in this matter and invite technical experts from the respective EVM manufacturing companies. The FLC process must be completed across all districts by August 20, the poll body said, adding that necessary instructions have been issued in this regard to all the district collectors and panchayat election officers.The EVM machines will undergo first-level checks under the supervision of the district administrations, the publication reported, citing poll commission officials familiar with the matter. Engineers of the concerned EVM manufacturing companies will visit all the districts under the directions of the election commission and conduct an inquiry. Additionally, prominent potential election candidates from the region may also be invited during the EVM checking, the report stated.More than 1,80,000 EVM machines are going to undergo first-level checks in Bihar by August 20, it added.Notably, the Election Commission of India (ECI) gave its nod for the use of single post-EVMs (M2 model) in the forthcoming panchayat polls, the first such exercise to be conducted in local bodies elections in Bihar.The SEC has assessed that around 8.5 lakh EVMs would be required for multi-phase polls having a total number of 1.15 lakh polling stations and around six crore electorate. A total of 2.58 lakh posts in the three-tier local bodies, including gram kutcheries, would be elected in the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-panchayat-polls-evms-to-get-first-level-checks-by-august-20-says-report-101627173905093.html
25-07-2021||Mumbai||Raj Kundra may now face charges of money laundering, foreign exchange violation||Raj Kundra may face charges of money laundering and those of violating foreign exchange rules with the Enforcement Directorate (ED) likely to register cases against him. Kundra, the husband of Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested by the Mumbai Police late on July 19 along with 10 others in connection with a pornography case and was placed in police custody till July 23, which was later extended to July 27.Raj Kundra has challenged in the Bombay High Court the July 20 order of a metropolitan magistrate court remanding him in police custody in connection with the alleged pornography racket.Here is the latest in the pornography case:1. News agency ANI reported that the central agency mandated to probe financial frauds may file cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) against Kundra. ANI, reported citing people familiar with the matter, that ED may do so "anytime after July 26".2. Mumbai Police will inform the ED to probe the financial irregularities in the case that also involves the violation of foreign exchange. The case right now pertains to the alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps.Also read | Shilpa Shetty says Raj Kundra innocent, wasn't involved in producing porn3. The ED will take the First Information Report (FIR) copy from Mumbai Police before starting its probe after filing a case. The ED may issue a summon against Raj Kundra under PMLA and FEMA before questioning him.4. The Mumbai Police's crime branch has claimed before a local court that Raj Kundra was making financial gains through this illegal business by taking subscription fees from the users of these apps.5. Mumbai Police have also told the court that they suspect the money earned from pornography was used for online betting.Also read | Twitter discovers Raj Kundra's book How Not To Make Money: that didn’t age well6. The ED will find out details about the claims made by the Mumbai Police over Raj Kundra's involvement in the financial dealings of the app and its contents based on inputs about several WhatsApp chats.7. The director of Raj Kundra's company Viaan Industries may also be quizzed by the ED in its investigation.8. Shilpa Shetty could also be questioned by the ED as she was the director of Kundra's firm till last year.9. Meanwhile, Shilpa Shetty has told the police that she had no idea about the content of the HotShots app through which her husband Raj Kundra allegedly distributed pornographic films. Shilpa Shetty has said Raj Kundra is innocent and was not involved in producing porn content.10. Kundra has been named as the key conspirator by the Mumbai Police. He has been charged under Sections 420 (cheating), 34 (common intention), 292 and 293 (related to obscene and indecent advertisements and displays) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He also faces charges under the IT Act and the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raj-kundra-may-now-face-charges-of-money-laundering-foreign-exchange-violation-101627172582400.html
25-07-2021||Other||HP transport employees on flash strike||Over 3,000 Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) buses remained off the road on Saturday following a sudden strike call by the staff, which left passengers stranded. The HRTC bus drivers and conductors are agitating for their pending dues, while the transfer of Shimla’s regional manager to Nerwa has irked them further. HRTC employees’ union president Manoj Sharma said, “The trigger for this strike has been the transfer of our regional manager to Nerwa. We have been demanding night allowance, overtime allowance, dearness allowance of 8% and clearance of arrears for several months now. But instead of fulfilling our demands, the government is trying to humiliate honest officers, following pressure from private bus operators.” “We will continue this strike till our demands are fulfilled,” he added. Meanwhile, the strike has heightened fears of Covid infection spread, especially since the hill state is seeing increased tourist activity amid a fading second wave. Passengers say that as HRTC buses are refusing to ply passengers, people are left with no option but to board private buses, which don’t seem to care about maintaining social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hp-transport-employees-on-flash-strike-101627159702141.html
25-07-2021||Other||With eye on polls, Jai Ram goes on inauguration spree||With byelections to the three assembly segments and one parliamentary segment drawing near, Himachal chief minister (HP) Jai Ram Thakur continued with his foundation-stone laying spree. Thakur during his day-long tour to his home constituency, Seraj, inaugurated and laid foundation stones (LIS) of developmental projects worth about ₹5 crore in different parts of the constituency. He inaugurated a lift irrigation schemes in Saroa and Tandi gram panchayats at a cost of ₹60.22 lakh and ₹70 lakh respectively. Jai Ram also inaugurated a ₹1.23-crore forest rest house in Dharot, and ₹43.06 lakh building to provide additional accommodation to Government Senior Secondary School, Dadoh. He also announced ₹11,000 each for all Mahila Mandals present on the occasion from his discretionary fund. He announced ₹5 lakh for improvement of link road in Kandi panchayat and ₹2 lakh each for two link roads in Saroa panchayat. He announced starting of Science classes at Government Senior Secondary School. Bathli. The chief minister addressed public meetings at Saroa, Bara, Keolidhar and Dadoh in Seraj Assembly Constituency. Addressing a public meeting at Saroa, the CM said the area was once part of Nachan Vidhan Sabha area and now in Seraj Vidhan Sabha due to delimitation and thanked the people of the area for giving their wholehearted support to him.“Despite the corona pandemic, the state government ensured that the pace of development was uninterrupted,” he said and added that the state government took effective steps for Covid-19 management and ensured that there were adequate facilities for treatment of patients. “Sufficient availability of oxygen, ventilators, beds and medicines were ensured in all parts of the state,” he said. Jai Ram said that during the three-and-a-half-year tenure of the state Government, there was not even a single case of any irregularity. He said his government ensured balanced development of every area of the state. He said that recently he opened sub-divisional magistrate’s offices at Jubbal, Kotkhai and Nirmand to ensure equitable development of these areas. He said that about ₹50 crore were being spent on water supply schemes in about eight neighbouring panchayats of the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-eye-on-polls-jai-ram-goes-on-inauguration-spree-101627159097987.html
25-07-2021||Other||Himachal logs 130 fresh Covid infections, 2 deaths||Himachal Pradesh recorded 130 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the state’s tally to 2,05,017 while the death toll mounted to 3,497 after two patients died of the infection. Of the new cases, 35 were reported in Mandi, 25 in Chamba, 21 in Kangra, 17 in Shimla, seven in Una, six each in Bilaspur and Hamirpur, five each in Kinnaur and Kullu, two in Solan, two in Sirmaur and one in Lahaul-Spiti. Recoveries reached 2,00,571 after 90 people recuperated while active cases have gone up to 931. Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 46,247 cases followed by Mandi (27,710), Shimla (25,580), Solan (22,377), Sirmaur (15,359), Hamirpur (14,511), Una (13,411), Bilaspur (12,859), Chamba (11,875), Kullu (9,046), Kinnaur (3,296) and Lahaul-Spiti (2,746).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-logs-130-fresh-covid-infections-2-deaths-101627158677807.html
25-07-2021||Other||LG inaugurates night flight ops at Jammu airport||Officially inaugurating the much-awaited night-flight operations at the Jammu Airport, lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha virtually flagged off a Go Air flight from Jammu to Delhi on Friday night. “Inaugurated the much-awaited night flight operations at Jammu Airport by flagging off the maiden late evening Go Air flight from Jammu to Delhi. The historic commencement fulfills the long-pending aspirations of the people of the region,” Sinha posted on his Facebook wall. “The commencement of the night-flight operations will give impetus to the local economy by enhancing aerial connectivity and increasing tourism footfall in the region,” he added. The move comes amid heightened drone activities in Jammu region that include IAF station attack of June 27 that left two air force personnel injured. IAF station and civil airport are located next to each other in Satwari area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lg-inaugurates-night-flight-ops-at-jammu-airport-101627158497942.html
25-07-2021||Other||India lodges strong protest with Pak over drone activities in Jammu region||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Saturday lodged a strong protest with its counterparts, Pakistan Rangers, over drone activities in Jammu region at a sector commander- level meeting between the two border guarding forces.The sector commander level meet, first after renewed truce deal of February 24 this year between the two directors general of military operations (DGMOs), was held at Suchetgarh along the international border in RS Pura sector of Jammu district.“Today, on the request of Pakistan Rangers, a sector commander level meeting was held between Border Security Force and Pakistan Rangers on International Border in Suchetgarh area,” said a BSF spokesperson. The BSF delegation was led by Surjit Singh, DIG, Border Security Force while the Pakistan Rangers delegation was led by Brig Murad Hussain, sector commander Pakistan Rangers, Sialkot Sector.“During the meeting, commanders of both the border guarding forces, discussed various issues and BSF delegation lodged a strong protest over Pakistan’s drone activities, terrorist activities from across the border, digging of tunnels by Pakistan and other issues related to border management,” said the spokesperson. It may be stated that on June 27, two drones dropped explosives on IAF station that left two personnel injured. Since then, there has been no let-up in drones hovering over defence installations in Jammu region.On Friday, police shot down a 5kg IED laden hexacopter in Kanachak area along the border in Akhnoor sector.“It was decided to re-energise instant communication between field commanders, whenever required, to resolve the operational matters,” said the spokesperson. The meeting was held in a cordial, positive and constructive atmosphere and both side agreed for expeditious implementation of the decisions taken in the earlier DG level talks and committed to each other to maintain peace and harmony at international border, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/india-lodges-strong-protest-with-pak-over-drone-activities-in-jammu-region-101627157177870.html
25-07-2021||Other||Civilian shot dead by unidentified gunmen in Tral||Unidentified gunmen shot dead a civilian in South Kashmir’s Tral area on Friday evening.The victim was identified as Javid Ahmad Malik, an employee of the education department. The attack took place near Lurigam of Tral and Malik was taken to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s J&K spokesman Altaf Thakur condemned the killing of the civilian and said, “Those killing innocents are enemies of humanity. Killing innocents won’t help anyone.” He extended his condolence with the family members of Malik.No militant group has claimed responsibility for the attack on the government employee. Police, however, said it is the handiwork of militants operating in Pulwama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civilian-shot-dead-by-unidentified-gunmen-in-tral-101627156817569.html
25-07-2021||Other||Man evading arrest in Arms case since 1997, finally nabbed from Baramulla||A 50-year-old man was arrested from Jammu and Kashmir’s Baramulla 25 years after he was booked and declared an absconder under the Arms Act over four grenades allegedly recovered from his possession, police said on Friday. “In continuation of action against absconders, Baramulla Police arrested an absconder who was evading arrest since 1997,” the police said in a statement.The man has been identified as Bashir Ahmad Lone of Khadinyar Baramulla village, who was produced before a court and sent to jail. The statement said the case was registered against him and another person in February 1997 over the recovery of grenades. It added that during the trial, the accused was declared an absconder.Baramulla deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Syed Sajjad Bukhari said Lone was arrested initially in 1997 and had got a bail. “During the trial, he went absconding and police has been looking for him ever since.”Bukhari said he was arrested from his home after they received a tip-off about his presence.“This is an old case and police has to look for records about the other person involved in the case. If he too is absconding, then he will also be arrested.” “Now trial will again start in the case,” the DSP said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-evading-arrest-in-arms-case-since-1997-finally-nabbed-from-baramulla-101627156337510.html
25-07-2021||Chandigarh||Over 27 gastroenteritis cases reported in Sangrur||Over two dozen people contracted gastroenteritis after reportedly drinking contaminated water in Matran village near Bhawanigarh town of Sangrur on Saturday. The health department took action after people complained of vomiting and diarrhoea and started medical checkups of locals.Senior medical officer from Bhawanigarh government hospital Dr Mahesh Ahuja said seven patients were admitted there and one was referred to Patiala. “However, over 20 others hailing from the village were suffering from symptoms of gastroenteritis,” he said, adding that a team of doctors reached the village and started treating the patients. Jagtar Singh, son of sarpanch Gurmel Kaur, said the disease spread due to contamination of drinking water. He said leakage in water pipes led to mixing of dirty water with regular supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/over-27-gastroenteritis-cases-reported-in-sangrur-101627156157837.html
25-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir visits elderly protester at Matka Chowk||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday visited Baba Labh Singh at Chandigarh’s Matka Chowk to express solidarity with the aged protester from Haryana’s Karnal, who has been for the last five months sitting there to support the farmers’ agitation. Calling him the spirit of ‘Kisan Andolan’, Sukhbir said people must learn from him. “He is a true inspiration of selfless service,” he added. The SAD president said he came to know about the unique protest of Baba Labh Singh when he saw his video during the ongoing Parliament session. He said Baba’s protest has inspired thousands to join the ‘Kisan Andolan’ and he has become a symbol of the peaceful struggle for the repeal of three agricultural laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-visits-elderly-protester-at-matka-chowk-101627156100420.html
25-07-2021||Chandigarh||Fake billing scam: Punjabi varsity staff asked to record formal statements||Patiala police have asked Punjabi University officials and employees to record their formal statements in the fake billing scam wherein the varsity has already sought registration of a first information report (FIR).The varsity has already suspended two of its employees for their alleged involvement in the scam and lodged a complaint against eight staffers with the senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Garg, who has directed DSP Sourav Jindal to investigate the matter. The police have also asked the varsity to submit its records, including a three-member fact-finding committee’s report, which found substantial evidence of embezzlement of funds. In May, the cash-strapped university’s internal audit department and finance wing had red-flagged five bills amounting to ₹6 lakh. The stamp and signatures of the department head were found to be fake and the names of research scholars and assistants against whom the bills were raised turned out to be bogus. The committee, comprising registrar Varinder Kaushik, dean (research) Ashok Tiwari and finance officer Rakesh Khurana, probed the bank accounts of the senior assistant and others involved. The help of the university’s forensic department was taken to investigate the fake signatures and stamps. DSP Jindal said the preliminary report in the matter will shortly be submitted as the varsity has asked to furnish records pertaining to the matter. “The statements of three-member committee will be recorded. Moreover, those against whom the complaint is filed have also been asked to submit their statement so that preliminary report could be prepared,” he added. DSP Jindal said on the basis of their statements and findings of the preliminary investigation, further criminal action could be suggested.According to the varsity report, the senior assistant — who handled funds provided to the university under various heads and was posted in the same department for over a decade — used to create and submit bogus bills in the name of fake research scholars and assistants to siphon off money. The funds included those provided by the University Grants Commission (UGC) for development schemes, non-UGC grant for research projects and scholarships given by the Union ministry of education besides those received under the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan. It has been learnt that the embezzlement went unchecked for six years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fake-billing-scam-punjabi-varsity-staff-asked-to-record-formal-statements-101627156099324.html
25-07-2021||Chandigarh||Heavy rain, thunderstorm on the cards in Chandigarh||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted chances of heavy rain up to 60mm between July 26 and 29 due to increase in monsoon activity.The rain spell is likely to be accompanied with a thunderstorm. IMD has advised people to avoid venturing into low-lying areas, rivers and other water bodies.Since the onset of monsoon on June 13, the city has received 197.5mm rain, against a normal of 337.9mm – a 42% deficit.With mostly clear skies on Saturday, the day temperature rose to 36.2°C from 35.1°C on Friday. In the coming three days, the day temperature may drop to 31°C, while the minimum temperature is expected to be around 26°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heavy-rain-thunderstorm-on-the-cards-in-chandigarh-101627156097979.html
25-07-2021||Chandigarh||Administer 2nd dose of vaccine on priority: Centre to Punjab||The central government has flagged the sluggish administration of Covid vaccine’s second dose in Punjab and asked the state government to take immediate measures to carry out the process on priority. In a demi-official letter written to the Punjab government earlier this week, secretary, health and family welfare, Rajesh Bhushan, has cited the vaccination data till July 17 to strengthen the claims that the state was going ‘very slow’ on administering second doses of the vaccine. “The dose interval for Covid-19 vaccines under the National Vaccination Drive is 12-16 weeks for Covishield and four to six weeks for Covaxin. The CoWIN data as on July 17 shows that 9,36,758 beneficiaries are due for second dose of Covishield (beyond 12 weeks of first dose) and 78,062 beneficiaries are due for second dose of Covaxin (beyond six weeks of first dose),” the letter stated. Officials said among over nine lakh beneficiaries due for the secondary shot — as citied by the Centre — are two lakh whose second jab is pending for the past more than 40 days. Following the Centre’s letter, director, health and family welfare, on July 23 wrote to all civil surgeons to immediately focus on increasing the administration of second doses to the tune of 80% from the fresh supply. ‘Vaccine shortage biggest reason behind pendency’State’s nodal officer for Covid, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, said the biggest reason behind the high pendency is the inadequate supply of vaccines. “On Friday, we got just 28,000 doses, whereas on July 21, over 2.5 lakh doses arrived and most of them were consumed for second shots,” said the nodal officer. Punjab is expected to get the next supply of vaccines on July 28 and 29. “I was due for my second shot one week ago. I belong to Sangrur, so I tried my best to get the jab there but without any success. In Mohali, too, I failed to get the second dose and ultimately I preferred to get one at a private facility,” said Vikas Gupta, a 34-year-old gym trainer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/administer-2nd-dose-of-vaccine-on-priority-centre-to-punjab-101627156039440.html
25-07-2021||Mumbai||Contractors write to BMC, allege tender for demolition of fish market was fixed||Five contractors have written to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) alleging that the tendering process for the demolition of one of the city’s oldest markets – Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Fish Market – at Fort has been fixed.On July 12, BMC had floated a short quotation tender for the demolition of the dilapidated market. A short quotation tender is floated when there is an emergency to conduct a work, while following the traditional manner of tendering.The fish market was taken up for demolition in 2016, following the collapse of a building at Dockyard Road, in which municipal employees and their families had lost their lives. However, only four floors of the market were pulled down and the ground floor as well as the basement were left out.The Bombay high court had pulled up BMC, following which the civic body had submitted that it would undertake the structure’s demolition and rebuild it. BMC then floated short quotations tender for demolition of the remaining part of the structure.The five contractors have alleged that one contractor was informed about the tender in advance and that as per the tender they were given only day to submit the bids. The contractor, allegedly along with his dummy associates (to show competitive bidding), submitted the tender and bagged the contract. The five contractors have alleged that over 40 other registered contractors were not informed about the tender.Mohammed Hussain, whose firm Moosa Uka & Company has sent the letter to BMC, said, “This is fixing of the tender and it is going on from quite a few months. We had brought it to BMC’s earlier too, but no action was taken. We will take BMC to the court if the awarded contract is not cancelled and an inquiry is not ordered into the same.”BMC, however, denied all the allegations. Assistant municipal commissioner Chanda Jadhav said, “This is a court matter. The court directed BMC’s market department to demolish the market immediately. As per directions, a short tender notice inviting quotation from registered demolition contractors was displayed on the [A ward] office notice board, as the SAP system (software), including BMC portal, was closed for upgradation.”BMC had not pre-decided the cost of the demolition work. In such demolition contracts, the usual practice is that the contractor demolishes the structure and is allowed to sell the scrap material from the demolition as profit. However, whichever contractor offers the highest ratio of the amount to be obtained by selling the scrap material is awarded the contract by BMC.Matiullah Khan of MK Traders, which bagged the contract, said, “All allegations made against me by the five contractors are baseless. Even others had submitted the tender. So why did they not fill it? Their job is only to extort money from those getting the work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/contractors-write-to-bmc-allege-tender-for-demolition-of-mumbai-market-was-fixed-101627155976887.html
25-07-2021||Chandigarh||High court wants a deeper look at appointment of Punjab DGSE’s OSD||A contractual employee of the Punjab education department being entrusted with a probe against a school principal has caught the attention of the Punjab and Haryana high court.Unsatisfied with the state counsel’s submissions in the matter, the high court bench of justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu has now told the Punjab director general of school education (DGSE) to submit details of the appointment, salary and other facilities being given to IPS Malhotra, his officer on special duty (OSD). In the latest hearing of the plea by the principal on July 22, the court directed the DGSE to file an affidavit detailing relevant rules, regulations, instructions or decisions of competent authority vide which the post of OSD to DGSE was created, and total remuneration and other facilities being provided to him. The court has also sought to know by August 11 whether before appointing Malhotra the post was advertised in any newspaper, and information on the financial head under which funds were made available for the post. Besides, the DGSE was told to provide complete details of all departmental inquiries entrusted to Malhotra and their status so far. The appointment came under scanner during the plea of Himachali Devi, a school principal, against whom Malhotra is conducting a departmental probe. In the previous hearing of this plea on July 15, the court had asked the state’s counsel to provide a copy of the order vide which Malhotra was appointed as OSD. But on July 22, the counsel only submitted that post retirement from the Punjab State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited (PUNSUP), Malhotra was appointed as OSD to DGSE for one year from August 14, 2017. The counsel was not aware about any further extension given to him, leading the court to seek details from the DGSE. School principal had sought closer postingThe school principal, Himachali Devi, had approached the high court on June 28 after the state government failed to decide on her request despite a legal notice on January 11, 2021. Having lost her parents in the past two years and facing departmental proceedings in Mohali, Devi, who retires in June 2022, had requested the department to transfer her from Ferozepur to Mohali, where she also lives, or to neighbouring districts like Ropar or Fatehgarh Sahib. Her counsel Vipin Mahajan had argued that even a 2018 policy provided for “favourable” posting to an employee who was about to retire. After her parents’ demise and due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it was difficult for her to live alone in Ferozepur. Also as the probe officer in the departmental proceedings going on against her was in Mohali, it was difficult for her to visit the town every now and then to join the probe, the court was told. This is when it came to light that Malhotra’s post was not cadre based and he was a contractual employee, prompting the court to seek details about his appointment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-court-wants-a-deeper-look-at-appointment-of-punjab-dgse-s-osd-101627155857503.html
25-07-2021||Other||Hamirpur soldier dies in mine blast along LoC in Poonch||A soldier died along the Line of Control (LoC) in Krishna Ghati (KG) sector in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district on late Friday night reportedly after accidentally stepping over a mine during a patrol. During monsoon, anti-personnel mines drift away from their place and pose a threat to soldiers on the LoC. The deceased soldier has been identified as Sepoy Kamal Dev Vaidya, a native of Hamirpur in Himachal Pradesh. “On Friday night, Sepoy Kamal Dev Vaidya was on an operational duty in Krishna Ghati Sector. While moving during the duty, Sepoy Kamal Dev Vaidya was critically injured in an accidental mine blast. He was immediately evacuated to the nearest medical facility but later succumbed to his injuries,” said a defence spokesman. Sepoy Kamal Dev Vaidya, aged 27, hailed from Ghumarwin village in Hamirpur district of Himachal Pradesh. He is survived by his mother Vanita Devi. “Sepoy Kamal Dev Vaidya was a brave, highly motivated and sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for the supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” said the spokesperson. Meanwhile, a PIA (Pakistan International Airlines)-marked dummy aeroplane balloon was also recovered near the LoC in KG sector on Friday. However, nothing incriminating was found from it. It was the seventh such aeroplane shaped balloon found along the borders of J&K, Punjab and Rajasthan since March this year. On March 30, a similar balloon with the letters PIA written on it was found in Mendhar in Poonch. Similar balloons were found in the Hiranagar area of Kathua on March 9 and in Gharsana, Rajasthan, on March 11. On March 16, it was recovered in Bhalwal area of Jammu and 10 days later, another such balloon was found at Dera Baba Nanak, Batala, in Punjab. On March 29, it was again recovered in the Kanachak area of Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hamirpur-soldier-dies-in-mine-blast-along-loc-in-poonch-101627155798560.html
25-07-2021||Chandigarh||Man who shot dead Bishnoi’s aide Gurlal Brar in Chandigarh arrested||Police have arrested the prime accused who shot dead gangster Lawrence Bishnoi’s close aide and former student leader Gurlal Brar outside a mall in Industrial Area in October last year. One of the main shooters of the Davinder Bambiha gang, the accused, Chamkor Singh, alias Beant, 27, hails from Madi Mustfa village in Bhagapurana, Ferozepur district. Sources said Chamkor, along with his accomplices, Neeraj Chaska and Mandeep Mandy, both Faridkot natives, had killed Brar to avenge the murder of Lavi Deora. The Bambiha group associate was killed by members of the Bishnoi gang at a fair in Kotkapura in 2017. Chamkor was brought to Chandigarh from Bathinda Central Jail on production warrant. He was produced in a local court and sent to two-day police custody. Investigators said a notorious criminal, Chamkor was also named as accused in several heinous crimes, including ransom and dacoity, in various police stations of Punjab.Gang war followed murder Hours after Brar,26, was gunned down on October 11, 2020, slain gangster Davinder Bambiha’s group had taken responsibility for it. In response, a Facebook page in the name of jailed gangster Lawrence Bishnoi threatened retaliation and bloodshed on streets. To avenge Gurlal’s murder, the Bishnoi group killed a former student leader, Ranjit Singh Rana, in Muktsar in October and Faridkot Youth Congress president Gurlal Singh Pehalwan in February this year. Chargesheet filed alreadyChandigarh Police have already filed a chargesheet in this case, with gangster Dilpreet Singh Dhahan, alias Baba, Gurvinder Singh and Gurmeet Singh named as accused. Baba is accused of providing weapons used in the murder. His disclosure had led to the recovery of the weapons from a drain in Industrial Area. Gurvinder and Gurmeet are facing charges of providing a motorcycle to the shooters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-who-shot-dead-bishnoi-s-aide-gurlal-brar-in-chandigarh-arrested-101627155797395.html
25-07-2021||Chandigarh||ISC Class 12 results: Three students from Chandigarh tricity score 99.75%||Three tricity students have achieved 99.75% marks in the Class 12 Indian School Certificate (ISC) exams, conducted by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE).Among them Noorbir Kaur Grewal is a humanities student at Yadavindra Public School (YPS), Mohali, and the other two – Himanshi Kansal and Khushi – are commerce students at St Xavier’s Senior Secondary School, Sector 44, Chandigarh.In the non-medical stream, Sejal Trehan got 97.75% marks, while Ranmeekjot Kaur scored 99.25% marks in the medical stream. Both are students of YPS.In the Class 10 Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) exams, Tanisha Gupta and Anav Jain from Little Flower Convent School, Sector 14, Panchkula, and Aryan R Chugh and Jeevanjot from St Stephen’s School, Sector 45, Chandigarh, scored 99% marks.This year, results for both classes were calculated on the basis of internal assessment and no merit list was announced by the board.There are four CISCE schools in Chandigarh — Strawberry Fields High School, Sector 26; St Xavier’s Senior Secondary School, Sector 44; St Stephen’s School, Sector 45, and Tender Heart School, Sector 33. YPS School is in Sector 51, Mohali.In Panchkula, St Xavier’s High School, Sector 20; Saupin’s School, Sector 9; and Little Flower Convent School, Sector 14, are affiliated to the board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/isc-class-12-results-three-students-from-chandigarh-tricity-score-9975-101627155742860.html
25-07-2021||Chandigarh||Preparing for third Covid wave: Two more O2 plants to be set up at Chandigarh’s govt hospitals||Amid the possibility of a third Covid wave, the UT health department is leaving no stone unturned in ramping up medical facilities in the city, and to ensure regular supply of medical oxygen in hospitals, the department has decided to set up two more oxygen generation plants at city’s government hospitals.With the help of Programme for Appropriate Technology in Health (PATH), a non-governmental organisation, the UT health department is setting up the oxygen generation plants at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16 and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32.Each plant will hold the capacity to generate 1,000 litres of medical oxygen per minute.Dr Amandeep Kang, director, UT health services, said, “At present, the Government of India has allocated the supply of 20MT of liquefied medical oxygen to Chandigarh for the treatment of Covid-19 infected patients. Besides this, we already have three oxygen generation plants at GMSH-16, GMCH-32 and the civil hospital in Sector 48.”Dr Kang added that GMSH-16 is already generating 500 litres of oxygen per minute and GMCH-32 is generating 1,000 litres, and the setting up of additional plants will increase the capacity to 1,500 and 2,000 litres, respectively.“The process has been started at the plants and will be set up soon,” said Dr Kang.PGIMER has two O2 plants generating 1,000 litres of oxygen per minuteMeanwhile, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has also installed two oxygen generation plants on campus, and each plant holds the capacity to generate 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute.“Also, a proposal has been made to the Government of India to set up two more oxygen plants at the UT’s civil hospitals. Two of the three hospitals—civil hospitals in Sector 22, Sector 45 and Manimajra—will soon get approval, and at least 200 litres of oxygen per minute will be generated at each plant,” said Dr Kang.During the second wave, the demand for oxygen had suddenly increased with the increase in patient load, and the UT administration had to request the Centre to raise its oxygen quota from 20MT to 35MT. The UT health department had wisely distributed the 20MT oxygen among government and private hospitals during the second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/preparing-for-third-covid-wave-two-more-o2-plants-to-be-set-up-at-chandigarh-s-govt-hospitals-101627155618949.html
25-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University prof granted five patents in 2020-21||Indu Pal Kaur, chairperson of Panjab University’s University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS), has been granted five patents during the 2020-21 academic session.Now, she has the most patent applications among PU professors. The varsity, in its official communiqué released on Saturday, said, “In total, she has nine Indian and one US granted patents to her credit and has filed 20 overall. Emphasis of her work lies on industrial and clinical translation.”“Such addition to intellectual property and licensing portfolio adds prestige to UIPS and PU and fetches high scores for the university under various ranking systems,” the varsity stated.Kaur has been named among the top 2% most cited world scientists in pharmacy and pharmacology category across the globe as per Stanford University, USA, based on her career long citation impact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-prof-granted-five-patents-in-202021-101627155558674.html
25-07-2021||Other||Three militants neutralised in Banidpora’s Shokbaba forests||Three militants were killed in an early morning operation jointly conducted by the army and Jammu and Kashmir police in Shokbaba forests in Sumblar Bandipora district.The forces launched the operation following inputs of terrorist presence in the area. The Shokbaba forests, which is the site of the latest encounter, is notorious as a terrorist hideout and was previously known to have been used for infiltration purposes. Police said they had information that three to five militants were hiding in a cave-like structure.An army soldier was also injured in the encounter. Officials said besides, police, soldiers from two units of Army’s Rashtriya Rifles were involved in the operation.This is the third encounter in the last five days. On Friday, two militants, including a commander, were killed in an encounter in North Kashmir’s Sopore village.On Monday, top Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) commander Ishfaq Ahmad Dar alias Abu Akram, who deserted the ranks of Jammu and Kashmir Police about four years ago, was among the two militants killed in south Kashmir’s Shopian district.Police said the commander was involved in the killing of four cops in 2018 in south Kashmir’s Zanipora village.Last Friday, two militants believed to be involved in the killings of policemen and civilians in Srinagar were neutralised by security forces at Alamdar Colony in Danmar area of Srinagar.So far, 83 militants have been killed in Kashmir since January this year including some top commanders belonging to different militant groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-militants-neutralised-in-banidpora-s-shokbaba-forests-101627155557592.html
25-07-2021||Other||Post rain horror in Maharashtra, efforts on to fix power, stop disease outbreaks||As flood water receded in parts of the affected areas of Raigad and Ratnagiri districts, the administration and state government are now faced with challenges to restore power supply as well as potable water supply and tackle the threat of disease outbreak. Heavy rains had wreaked havoc in Raigad, Ratnagiri and parts of Sindhudurg districts of the Konkan region, causing floods and landslides at 11 locations and killing over 76 people in the past couple of days.The district administration in Chiplun, Mahad and Poladpur areas – which were vastly impacted – have started work to restore power and water supply, provide potable water, carry out medical check-ups and distribute medicines, officials said. In Raigad’s Mahad and Poladpur areas, over 180 villages are affected, district officials said. Most of these villages are without power supply and access to clean water. Similar scenes were witnessed in Ratnagiri district’s Chiplun area where electricity is yet to be restored for 80% of the town, districts officials informed. People in the affected areas have spent over 80 hours without adequate food and water. Their homes, shops and establishments which were submerged underwater are now filled with muck.Raigad collector Nidhi Chaudhari said that water has now receded in most parts of the district, but two fresh landslides were reported. Though the landslides occurred in an uninhabited area, it is blocking the highway, thereby creating hurdles to reach out to flood-affected areas, she said.“Mahad and Poladpur are the adversely-affected areas in the district. Only one carriageway is operational on the highway between the two places due to the landslides and flood. So the relief work is taking more time. It will take some more time to restore power supply in these parts. In other talukas, the work of restoring electricity supply is on. For water supply, we are sending tankers, and bottled drinking water has been sent to all the flood-affected villages. We have some NGOs that have come forward to help. We are also utilising our funds to provide food packets, water, clothing etc,” Chaudhari said.BN Patil, Ratnagiri district collector said that around 20% of the power supply in Chiplun has been restored. “Water supply is being restored as most sub-stations that were submerged and are being cleaned. They need to heat the transformers for two days at least [before starting supply]. We are using transformers which were not affected to supply power for emergency services.”In a bid to tackle the threat of disease outbreak following the floods, the district administration has geared up its machinery with the help of local civic bodies and Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) workers. Authorities added that they have received help from NGOs and private hospitals to distribute medicines. Chaudhari said the district is going to conduct tests to check for water and vector-borne diseases. “We have planned to carry out a universal check-up of people in the affected villages. We will conduct four-five tests, including for typhoid, jaundice and diarrhoea, for people who have fever. Besides that, we will also do Covid-19 tests. Medicine distribution is in progress with the help of government machinery and private hospitals,” she said.Authorities in neighbouring Ratnagiri have started door-to-door surveys in Chiplun to check for influenza-like illnesses. “Our district officials, along with municipal council and gram panchayat officials, Asha workers are going door to door to check for any influenza-like illness symptoms. The local body has started disinfecting water and only then will water supply be resumed,” Patil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/post-rain-horror-in-maharashtra-efforts-on-to-fix-power-stop-disease-outbreaks-101627155436823.html
25-07-2021||Other||P305 tragedy: Mumbai court refuses bail to 3 officials of firm that owns barge||The sessions court on Friday rejected the bail plea of Prasad Rane, Nitin Singh and Akhilesh Tiwari – key staff members of Papaa Shipping Company Pvt Ltd – arrested in connection with barge Papaa305 (P305) that had capsized in the Arabian Sea during Cyclone Tauktae on May 17, resulting in the loss of 75 lives.The three were arrested by Yellow Gate police in the first week of July on charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, endangering life or personal safety of others and common intention.Rane is the office administrator of Papaa Shipping Company Pvt Ltd, while Singh is its director. Tiwari is the technical superintendent of the company. The trio had sought bail from the magistrate court but as it was rejected, they had moved the bail plea before the sessions court.They argued that AFCONS company – which had engaged the barge and the staff thereon – and ONGC (Oil and Natural Gas Corporation) were responsible for the incident and had the authority to take a decision about moving the barge. They also contended that the captain of the barge had all the weather updates at his disposal, and it was his decision to stay at the sea. They claimed the decision taken by the captain might be wrong, but the accused persons cannot be blamed for that.They said they had relied on WhatsApp chat and emails between them and the captain to claim that in the opinion of the captain, the barge was absolutely normal at all the material times, except during the last few hours, due to the extremely bad weather conditions.“They were in constant touch with the captain and did their best to take every care of the barge and the members thereon. The barge was well-equipped with all the security and safety instruments. The incident is merely an accident,” the trio contended.The police opposed the plea and claimed, “The accused persons did not exercise proper caution and control over the situation. They, despite being aware of the increasing severity of the cyclone, let the captain go ahead with his decision to stay at the sea. They had every knowledge that their decision would bring forth a disastrous result. Yet they did nothing to save the lives of the members on the barge.”After hearing both the sides, the court refused to accept the defence that the three were in constant touch with the captain and went by his decision.The court said, “Such correspondence cannot be given much significance at this initial stage, particularly in view of the fact that only the barge in question was there in the seas and all other barges and boats had already returned to the shore/shelter.”“It is also quite obvious that the accused persons too had every knowledge of the fast-changing weather conditions and still did not make any attempt to apprise the captain of the severity of the cyclone from their side. They apparently were content with whatever the captain would decide. The accused persons thus did not exercise the proper caution that was expected of them. That was more necessary since the captain was obviously not taking a proper decision of keeping the only barge in question at the sea,” read the order.The court also noted that soon after registering the case, the police found that a CPU, supposedly containing all the relevant data, was found missing.“This rather extends substantial credence to the prosecution case that the accused had every knowledge of the havoc and the impact that the cyclone was going to make and yet let the barge and its members were allowed to stay at the sea,” read the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/p305-tragedy-mumbai-court-refuses-bail-to-3-officials-of-firm-that-owns-barge-101627155136805.html
25-07-2021||Other||15 Rohingyas arrested in Assam’s Badarpur||Fifteen Myanmar nationals of the Rohingya community, who entered illegally, were detained in Assam’s Karimganj district on Saturday morning, officials said. They travelled from Uttar Pradesh’s Aligarh and were attempting to move to Tripura for some unknown reasons. Railway Police Force (RPF) arrested them after observing some suspicious activities. All of them were handed over to the local police. Preliminary interrogation revealed that they had been residing in Indian territory for almost a decade. RPF sub-inspector Vinod Kumar Roy informed that 15 Rohingya immigrants, including six children (four girls and two boys), six men and three females, travelled to Badarpur in Kanchenjunga Express on July 22. They took shelter in a lodge for two days and attempted to move to Agartala on Saturday morning. “At around 9:00 am we noticed that a group of people was seated at the platform, their language and activities were different. During our regular checkup, we asked them to show tickets and documents, but they failed to show tickets or any valid Indian document. With the available documents, it was found that they were citizens of Myanmar who illegally entered Indian territory. They could not buy tickets because of a lack of Indian documents. We handed them over to Karimganj police after that,” he said.People familiar with the matter at Badarpur police station informed that, in initial interrogation, it was found that this group of Rohingyas entered into Indian territory in 2012 and went to West Bengal for work. Later, they moved to Uttar Pradesh’s Aligarh and started working in a construction company as daily waged labourers. Five of the six kids were born in India but they don’t have any document issued by the Indian Government. The detainees were identified as Mohammed Kaisar (19), Mohammed Ayub (28), Mohammed Sayid (30), Mohammed Anis (18), Mohammed Ismail (16), Mohammad Rafiq (19), Sona Mehar (28), Jaynab Begum (30), Subera Begum (18), Rafia Begum (7), Muslim Uddin (5), Dilara Begum (9), Noor Ajida (7), Mohammed Islam (6) and Noor Fatima (3).During the lockdown, they lost work in Uttar Pradesh and were looking for earning opportunities. They went to West Bengal’s Siliguri once but could not manage to get any work. Finally, they decided to move to Agartala which is near the Bangladesh border. Police are suspecting that these people were planning to cross the border from Agartala.Police have found some documents along with these people which proves that they are residents of Myanmar. According to the documents, they are residents of Arakan coastal region of Myanmar which is near to Bangladesh border. Six mobile phones and some Indian currency were also recovered from them. This is not the first time that illegally entered Myanmar nationals have been arrested in Karimganj district of Assam. Presently, 42 illegally entered foreigners are being detained in Karimganj District Jail. They include 14 Myanmar nationals of the Rohingya community along with 12 Bangladeshis and people from African countries like Nigeria, Ghana and Angola. Most of them were arrested while they tried to cross the Indo-Bangladesh International Border located along the district. The African nationals include some women as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/15-rohingyas-arrested-in-assam-s-badarpur-101627155078077.html
25-07-2021||Other||Jeetgarh becomes 2nd village in Haryana’s Kaithal to achieve 100% vaccination||Taking a lead in administering the Covid-19 vaccine, Jeetgarh became the second village of Haryana’s Kaithal district to achieve cent per cent vaccination against the Coronavirus disease, officials said.Earlier this week, Kheri Sikandar was declared the first village of the district where all 989 residents above the age of 18 years have got their first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.Dr Shailender Mamgain, chief medical officer of Kaithal said, “Jeetgarh is a small village with a population around 600 people but the residents came forward for vaccination”.He said that a total of 311 people above the age of 18 were given the first jab including 156 people between 18 to 44 years age group, 92 were between 49 to 59 years and 63 were above 60 years of age.The CMO also hailed the efforts of doctors and staff members at primary health centre Pharal and said that the move will help encourage residents of other villages too to achieve cent per cent vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jeetgarh-becomes-2nd-village-in-haryana-s-kaithal-to-achieve-100-vaccination-101627154657541.html
25-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana couples increasingly parting over petty issues, police offer counselling||Not only has the pandemic left the lungs of those who had the misfortune of contracting the virus scarred, but the lockdown imposed to check its spread has dealt the death blow to several people’s marriages. To counsel couples who were driven to divorce over petty issues, the police setup a mega camp at a park near the crime against women and children cell on Saturday. Around 555 unhappy couples were counselled at the camp, of which 415 cases were successfully disposed of, while 59 couples will file divorce cases at court as they failed to reach a settlement. As many as 22 counters were setup. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said, “There has been a change in the pattern of matrimonial disputes after the lockdown was imposed as family members has to spend more time together, which allowed misunderstandings and petty grievances to fester.”“The deteriorating economic condition of families also contributed to strife in the marriage as did varying expectations from partners, and ego. In some cases, the women said their husbands were drug addicts and in others they complained that their partners spent too much time glued to the screen.” Around 14 cases have been lodged for dowry harassment and 99 couples sought more time to take a decision. In 91 cases, the complaints were found fake and were cancelled. In the last three days, police have lodged 26 cases of dowry harassment.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP)-level officers were made in charges of their respective zones and 40 counselors, psychiatrists and psychologists were deputed for counselling the couples.Complainants registered to get the jab The commissioner of police said the police had said that they will only entertain those who had received at least one dose of the vaccine, but many of people had not received the jab at all. The police allowed them to present their grievances, but registered them online for the jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-couples-increasingly-parting-over-petty-issues-police-offer-counselling-101627154598918.html
25-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 83 new Covid cases, 1 death||Chandigarh Punjab on Saturday reported one Covid fatality, taking the death toll to 16,258. The state also reported 83 fresh cases, pushing the infection count to 5,98,741, according to a medical bulletin. With this, the state recorded a positivity rate of 0.21%. Pathankot reported 11 cases, followed by nine in Patiala and six each in Ferozepur and Ludhiana. The number of active cases stood at 711, the bulletin said. With 78 recoveries, the number of cured people reached 5,81,712, the bulletin said. A total of 1,18,77,764 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-83-new-covid-cases-1-death-101627153998641.html
25-07-2021||Other||Non-compliance of solid waste management rules: PPCB imposes ₹1.8 crore fine on Ludhiana MC||With the municipal corporation (MC) failing to take up proper solid waste management in the city and failing to deal with over 16 lakh metric tonnes of legacy waste dumped at the main dump site, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has imposed an environmental compensation of ₹1.8 crore on the civic body.The penalty has been imposed on the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT).In the notice issued by the PPCB, the officials have stated that the civic body failed to manage the solid waste and process the waste dumped at the main site on a daily basis. Over 1,100 metric tonnes of waste is generated in the city and dumped at the main site everyday.Getting directions from the NGT, the PPCB officials inspected the work to process the waste at the dump site six times in the period between June 2019 and December 2020 and found that the waste processing plant (RDF plant) run by A2Z Company was not working properly. Also, the civic body was not complying with the solid waste management rules regarding waste segregation, etc.The penalty has been imposed for the period July 1, 2020, to March 31, 2021.Civic body given 15 days to submit penaltyPPCB chief engineer Gulshan Rai said that the notice was issued to MC on July 15 and the civic body has been given 15 days to submit the environmental compensation.Meanwhile, mayor Balkar Sandhu said that the process to deal with solid waste got disturbed due to the pandmeic last year. “The MC will file an appeal in the case and we are working to hire contractors for dealing with solid waste in the city. Action will also be taken against the MC officials responsible for the failure,” said the mayor.The trouble for the MC has further increased after the A2Z company terminated the contract of solid waste management in the city on February 4. Now the processing of waste has completely stopped and over 1100 metric tonnes of waste, which is generated in the city, is accumulating at the dump site. The MC has been facing the heat of NGT over the same.In the month of May, an NGT monitoring committee had also slammed the MC for failing to deal with legacy waste, which is contaminating groundwater around the dump site. The fire incidents are reported due to generation of highly combustible methane gas at the landfill site, resulting in air pollution, the committee had said.The MC has entered into a contract with a private firm for lifting garbage from the city, while it is working to hire a contractor for dealing with solid waste on a permanent basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noncompliance-of-solid-waste-management-rules-ppcb-imposes-1-8-crore-fine-on-ludhiana-mc-101627153997495.html
25-07-2021||Other||49 Ludhiana students clear Punjab state talent search exam||Only 49 out of the total 2,098 Class 8 students from the district, who appeared for the Punjab State Talent Search Examination (PSTSE), were able to clear it. Of 49, 36 are girls. The result was declared by the State Council Educational Research and Training (SCERT) on their website ssa.org. punjab on Saturday.These students will get ₹200 as a stipend per month from Class 9 to 12.Girls bag top three positionsA total of 500 Class 8 students from across the state cleared the exam, which was conducted on January 3. In Ludhiana, girl students from rural areas have clinched the top three positions.Simarjeet Kaur, a student of Government Middle School, Mangli Tanda, scored 125 marks which is the highest in the district.Ramandeep Kaur, Government Middle School, Barma, scored 121 marks, while Jasmeenjot Kaur of Government Senior Secondary School, Kotala secured 119 marks in the test.District topper Simarjeet Kaur said, “My hard work along with my teachers’ guidance led me to score well in the exam. I attended online classes for exam preparation. When the school re-opened last year, I prepared for the exam during physical classes.”Simarjeet credit her success to her teachers Suresh Kumar, Kiran Kumari, Rama Chandel, and Satinder Kaur, who encouraged her to appear in the exam.The 12-year-old, who aims to become a doctor, said, “I will save the scholarship amount to pursue higher studies after Class 12.”Her father, Harnek Singh, is a labourer, and her mother, Bhupinder Kaur, is a homemaker.Second position holder Ramandeep Kaur said her parents motivated her to appear in the exam. She added, “The motivation by the teachers and online classes helped me to clinch this position. I am inspired by my father to become an IPS officer and will use the scholarship amount to buy books for the entrance exam preparation.” Jasmeenjot Kaur, who clinched the third position, belongs to Toderpur village. The 15-year-old said, “I have put in dedicated hours for exam preparation and was sure that I will clear it. Former student Preet Kaur guided me, and English and science teachers in the school helped clear my doubts.”Daughter of a farmer, Davinder Singh, Jasmeenjot wants to become a doctor. Her mother, Rupinder Kaur, is a housewife. Gurjant Singh, principal of GSSS Kotala, congratulated the student and teachers for the outstanding achievement. Lakhvir Singh district education officer, secondary, Ludhiana, congratulated the students for clearing the exam and lauded the efforts made by the teachers and principals in motivating the students to appear in this scholarship test.“This stipend will enable my students to continue with their studies in the future,” he added.Maximum students from these schoolsFive students of Government Senior Secondary School, Hagobindpur; two each of Government Middle School, Mangli Tanda; Government Senior Secondary School, Kotala; Government High School, Jamalpur Awana; Government High School, Ramgarh; Government High School, Paddi; and Government High School, Sherpur Kalan; cleared the exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/49-ludhiana-students-clear-punjab-state-talent-search-exam-101627153819911.html
25-07-2021||Other||2 days after cow attacked minor girl, MC demolishes illegal cattle shelters||Two days after a stray cow mauled a 12-year-old girl outside her house in HE colony near Ayyappa temple in Jamalpur area, the municipal corporation (MC) demolished illegal cow shelters established in the slums situated there and lifted around a dozen stray cattle on Saturday.Joint teams of MC, comprising officials from different departments including building branch, health branch, Tehbazaari wing, and operations and maintenance cell, in presence of the police force, conducted the drive.The slum dwellers resisted the drive but were pacified by the police force. Area councillor Sandeep Kumari’s husband and Congress leader Gaurav Bhatti also got engaged in the drive to lift the stray cattle from the area.Earlier on Friday, councillor Sandeep Kumari had submitted a complaint with MC joint commissioner Swati Tiwana stating that illegal cow shelters had been established in the slums, and the slum dwellers had been leaving their cattle to stray in the area after milking them in the morning. The residents have been complaining about a large number of stray cows and bulls roaming in the area as they also cause road accidents.The victim’s father, Sushil Singh, said a large number of stray cattle are still roaming in the area, and the MC should lift them.“We are fortunate that our daughter Kritika was not killed by the stray cow and is recovering. But MC should lift the cattle from the area, so it doesn’t happen to anyone else,” said Singh.MC superintending engineer Rajinder Singh said,” The joint drive was conducted on the directions of the MC joint commissioner. The stray cattle have been shifted to Govind Gaudham gaushala. The drive to lift the stray cattle will continue in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-days-after-cow-attacked-minor-girl-mc-demolishes-illegal-cattle-shelters-101627153758469.html
25-07-2021||Chandigarh||NIA takes over 194kg heroin seizure case from Punjab STF||AMRITSARThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) has taken over the 194kg heroin haul case from Punjab Police’s special task force (STF) considering its international ramifications, said an official aware of the development on Saturday.The NIA is trying for kingpin Simranjit Singh Sandhu’s extradition from Italy. Sandhu, a native of Amritsar, is also wanted in a drug-trafficking case in which 300kg heroin was smuggled from Pakistan to Mandvi in Gujarat through sea route in 2018.In January last year, the SFT had recovered 194-kg heroin and chemicals from a house in Sultanwind area of Amritsar, which was registered in the name of former member of the Subordinate Service Selection Board (SSSB) Anwar Masih on the disclosure of one Sukhbir Singh, alias Happy, who was arrested with 6-kg heroin in Mohali.After the raid, police also arrested seven people, including Masih and an Afghan national. During investigation, many more people were named in the case, including Sandhu. The heroin was smuggled from Pakistan via a Gujarat port, the investigation had found.Besides heroin, suspected 38.2-kg dextromethorphan and 25.9-kg caffeine powder, along with six drums of chemicals, were recovered from the house. The Afghan national, who was identified as Arman Basharmal, had travelled to India and was helping the accused in processing and increasing the quantity of the contraband. Masih had given his house on rent to another accused Sukhwinder Singh since December 2019 at ₹80,000 per month.“We have received an order saying the case has been taken over by the premier anti-terror investigation agency considering its international ramifications. A team of the NIA is expected to reach Amritsar in a few days to begin its probe. We will hand over our probe records to the team,” said a senior STF official, who didn’t wish to be named.“Racket’s kingpin Simranjit Singh Sandhu is presently living in Italy. The NIA got issued a red-corner notice (RCN) through Interpol against Sandhu in a case that was registered by the Gujarat anti-terrorist squad. His extradition was also approved, but he filed an appeal in an Italian court. It is expected that Sandhu will soon be brought to India,” he added. In 2018, Gujarat ATS had seized 5kg heroin in Salaya, a city in Dwarka district. Two persons, Rafiq Sumra and Abdul Aziz Bhagad, were arrested after the seizure. The Gujarat ATS’s investigation had found that they had brought 300kg heroin in two rounds through the sea route and Sandhu’s name emerged as the kingpin of the case. The NIA took over this case in July 2020. The 300kg consignment that was smuggled by Sandhu and his men into India was transported to Punjab and other north Indian states in trucks carrying cumin. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP-STF) Amritsar, Vawinder Mahajan, who is one of the investigation officers in the 194-kg heroin case, confirmed the NIA taking over the case, but didn’t divulge details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nia-takes-over-194kg-heroin-seizure-case-from-punjab-stf-101627153757403.html
25-07-2021||Other||525 farmers booked for blocking Delhi-Dabwali highway||The Sirsa police have booked 525 farmers in three separate first information reports (FIR) for blocking the Delhi-Dabwali highway at three different toll plazas in district for two hours on July 21.Total 150 farmers were booked in the first FIR, 250 in the second one, and 125 in the third FIR.Sirsa superintendent of police (SP) Arpit Jain said the farmers were booked for violating Section 144 imposed by the administration and for blocking the highway which led to inconvenience to commuters.He said no arrest has been made so far.The protesters were demanding release of five farmers who were held for allegedly attacking deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwa on July 11.On July 22, the five farmers were released from the Hisar jail after a Sirsa court granted them bail.Following their release, the protesters had cancelled the proposed Sirsa bandh and gherao protest outside Gangwa’s residence in Hisar.3 hutments, trolley gutted at SinghuAt least three makeshift hutments and a trolley were gutted at the Kundli-Singhu border on Saturday where the farmers have been sitting-in against the Centre’s three farm laws since November last year.No casualty was reported in the incident, but clothes, coolers, and other belongings of the protesters were gutted.This is the fourth incident of arson at the protest site. Multiple fire tenders were rushed to the spot to douse the flames.The farmers alleged that some miscreants have been trying to break-off the agitation and are making attempts to harm the protesters. The arson took place near the main stage of the protest site.Farmers said the fire was spotted in two tents and inside a trolley. Later, a third tent also burnt in flames.No FIR was registered in this regard till the filing of this copy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/525-farmers-booked-for-blocking-delhi-dabwali-highway-101627153697227.html
25-07-2021||Chandigarh||Aditya Birla Group invests ₹1,500 crore in Punjab||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday welcomed the Aditya Birla Group for making an investment of around ₹1,000 crore in its recent foray into the paints segment and another ₹500 crore in setting up a cement unit at Rajpura.Speaking on the occasion after handing over land allotment letter for 61 acres at a cost of R 147 crore in the recently developed Hi-Tech Valley, Ludhiana, the CM said this investment would further act as a catalyst to boost industrial activity in the region. The CM also mentioned that Punjab offers a congenial climate to the prospective entrepreneurs and industrialists due to peaceful labour coupled with robust infrastructure in terms of excellent road, rail and air connectivity. He said that Punjab has been ranked 2nd in the ease of logistics in the country and would be soon connected to both the eastern and western freight corridors.Amarinder said that Punjab, due to its pro-investor industrial policy and lucrative incentives, has now emerged as the most preferred investment destination in the country as “Invest Punjab” being one stop shop has seamlessly facilitated in garnering massive investments worth ₹91,000 crores in over 2,900 project proposals received during last four years. Aditya Birla Group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla, who joined the meeting virtually from Mumbai, affirmed faith in Punjab’s industrial eco-system, forward looking industrial policies and a non-intrusive government interface. He lauded the speed at which Punjab government moved to attract this investment to the state and also appreciated the facilitation provided by the state at every step.Birla apprised the CM that the upcoming paint manufacturing unit is likely to generate a direct employment of over 600 persons and around 1,500 indirect job potential through its operations. The manufacturing unit will also give a fillip to the value-chain of allied sectors such as packaging industry, tin and plastic can manufacturing, mobility etc in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aditya-birla-group-invests-rs-1-500-crore-in-punjab-101627153637238.html
25-07-2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown relaxations in Haryana: Standalone restaurants can start operations from 8am||Extending the nominal lockdown by another week till August 2 on account of the coronavirus spread, the Haryana government on Saturday allowed standalone restaurants to start operations from 8am till 11pm with 50% seating capacity from July 26.As per an order issued by chief secretary Vijai Vardhan, restaurants and bars in shopping malls and hotels will continue to open from 10am to 11pm.These timings will not be applicable to restaurants in hotels, the order said.Officials said this means restaurants in hotels can continue round-the-clock services. Also, night curfew will continue from 11pm to 5am on all days.All shops will continue to operate from 9am to 8pm. The permissible gatherings at weddings and funerals will continue to be up to 100 persons. And, in open spaces, gatherings will be allowed up to 200 persons.Gyms will continue to remain open from 6am to 9pm and spas from 6am to 8pm with 50% capacity after adopting requisite social distancing norms.All production units, establishments, and industries will continue to function as per the previous orders.13 fresh cases, 1 death reported in stateHaryana reported 13 fresh coronavirus infections, 35 recoveries and one death on Saturday.The active case count was 740. Hisar continued to lead the active case tally with 121 cases and was the only district having more than 100 active cases.It was followed by Panipat (97), Gurugram (79), Rohtak (73), Bhiwani (60), Sirsa (58) and Karnal (51).The day’s positivity rate was 0.05%, recovery rate 98.65% and fatality rate 1.25%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdown-relaxations-in-haryana-standalone-restaurants-can-start-operations-from-8am-101627153458058.html
25-07-2021||Other||Constable dies by suicide: ADGP for action against Ambala cop for lapse||After a constable of the Madhuban unit of the Haryana Armed Police (HAP) died by suicide in Yamunanagar, ADGP Navdeep Singh Virk has called for action against the cop responsible for lapse.The cop was found hanging in the administration block of the Police Lines on Jagadhri Road on Friday afternoon, police said.Virk had enquired about the incident from SP Kamaldeep Goyal and his counterpart in Ambala, Hamid Akhtar, on Friday and said 48 personnel of the HAP, including the deceased cop, were deputed by Akhtar to Yamunanagar, without any authorisation of the police headquarters.“Akhtar had admitted on phone that a lapse was committed in deputing the HAP force to another district without headquarters’ orders. Moreover, the HAP, being an armed reserve of the state, is supposed to move in company and platoon formation. Breaking up of the HAP cops into smaller units is in violation of the standing orders issued by the police headquarters,” Virk said, in his order.He ordered HAP inspector general Hardeep Singh Doon to withdraw two cops deputed to Ambala (on May 18, 2020) by 9am on Sunday and to place the police personnel concerned of ASI rank under suspension along with a regular departmental enquiry against him for this lapse.The officer on radar is OASI or Sena Shakha Pramukh at Commandant 1st Battalion in Ambala City. However, both Akhtar and Goyal remained unavailable for comments on the matter despite multiple attempts.Sub-inspector Mansa Ram of the Jagadhari City police station, who is the investigating officer of the suicide case, said the deceased’s body was handed over to his family on Saturday after proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC were conducted.“The deceased cop was deputed in Ambala in February to control the law and order situation following farmers’ agitation and was transferred here after tensions in Jaidhar village earlier this week,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/constable-dies-by-suicide-adgp-for-action-against-ambala-cop-for-lapse-101627153277175.html
25-07-2021||Chandigarh||She isn’t a ‘woman’, says Ludhiana man seeking divorce from 3rd wife||In a bizarre incident, a man approached cops saying he wanted to divorce his wife as she was not a ‘woman’ and demanded that his new bride and in-laws be booked for cheating on Saturday. The man, who has been divorced twice, told the police officers and counsellors at the Ludhiana police commissionerate’s mega camp at Shri Ram Park in Rishi Nagar that he had gotten married 11 months ago. Three days later, he realised that his wife had a physical deformity, which made it impossible to consummate the marriage. Nine days later, his wife, who had married the complainant after the death of her first husband, returned to her parents’ house. His wife followed suit and filed a cross case of dowry harassment against the man and his parents. After hearing both parties, the police have asked the woman to have herself medically examined by a board of three doctors at the civil hospital. Counselor Surjit Bhagat said the case was one of the most unique cases they had come across. “We are counselling both parties to opt for mutual settlement. Both families knew each other for two decades.” Elderly couple seeks separation after 40 years An elderly couple also approached the mega camp and sought separation after 40 years of marriage. The 60-year-old woman Jamila accused her husband Sunil, 63, for assaulting her. She said that her husband, who had retired from a charitable hospital, had started thrashing her after his superannuation. Their son had also accompanied them to the camp. After counseling, the couple came to a compromise and agreed to live together. Husband abandons wife during lockdown A woman Leena, 37, along with her nine-year-old daughter has been making rounds of the women cell for the last four months. She alleged that her husband them and gone to Uttar Pradesh, leaving her dependent on her parents. The complainant, who hails from Delhi, said she had gotten married 11 years ago and had moved to the district where her husband was posted. “When lockdown was imposed during the second wave of the pandemic, my husband left the house saying that he was going on an official assignment. Later, he stopped answering my calls,” she alleged. “We have not paid rent for the last four months. When the landlord called my husband, he disowned us,” she said, adding that her husband had only appeared for two of five hearings. Inspector Kiran Lata, who is dealing with the case, said they had witnessed a spike matrimonial dispute cases after the lockdown.Police go for kundi connection (BOX) While setting up tents to host the mega camp to dispose of matrimonial dispute cases in the park, cops were faced with an unforeseen challenge of arranging power to plug in fans. Ultimately, they powered the fans through an illegal kundi connection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/she-isn-t-a-woman-says-ludhiana-man-seeking-divorce-from-3rd-wife-101627153100530.html
25-07-2021||Lucknow||2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls: Grand alliance of Opposition parties may remain elusive||A broad-based political alliance bringing all the key players together is likely to remain elusive for the Opposition ahead of the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.Despite alliances, the Opposition failed to defeat the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and the 2017 assembly elections. The situation was no different in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls although there were no major alliances then.As the BJP gears up for the 2022 UP assembly elections by balancing caste and regional equations, the Opposition appears a divided house as of now.Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav has given indications about going for an alliance only with the smaller parties, saying the SP has had bitter experiences of aligning with major political parties (the BSP in 2019 and with the Congress in 2017).Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati, on the other hand, has declared her party will go it alone in the assembly polls in UP and Uttarakhand. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has said her party is open to an alliance to achieve the objective of defeating the BJP though going it alone will help strengthen the party organisation.“All major parties are unlikely to come together. There will, however, be alliances for sure for the 2022 UP assembly polls. Major parties need to work out a common minimum programme for forming a workable alliance instead of just reaching an electoral understanding before the polls,” said SK Dwivedi, former head of department of political science, Lucknow University.The BJP worked out successful poll alliances both in 2019 and 2017. Since then, the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) has parted ways with the BJP. The Apna Dal (Sonelal) continues to be its alliance partner and is likely to remain so in 2022.Alliances on the other hand have not worked for the Opposition. Alliance partners have parted ways soon after the elections with claims of bitter or bad experiences of joining hands. The BSP and the SP that contested the Lok Sabha elections together parted ways soon after the polls. The RLD, a partner in the SP-BSP alliance, however, had an understanding with the SP in the panchayat polls. The SP, the Congress and the RLD had contested the assembly polls together in 2017. The SP and the Congress parted ways after the elections.“Yes, alliances in the past have not been stable. The Janata Party experiment also failed eventually,” said Dwivedi.The BJP’s vote share was 49.97% in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Uttar Pradesh. This is much more than the total vote share of the major opposition parties — the BSP (19.42%), the SP (18.11%) the Congress (6.36%) and the RLD (1.68%).In 2017, the BJP won the UP assembly elections with 39.67% of the total votes polled against the the BSP’s (22.23%), SP (21.82%), the Congress (6.25%) and the RLD (1.78%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/2022-up-assembly-polls-grand-alliance-of-opposition-parties-may-remain-elusive-101627153097267.html
25-07-2021||Other||In 5 yrs, Haryana govt spent ₹42.3 cr on Gita Mahotsav||Aiming to promote the teachings of the Bhagavad Gita worldwide, the BJP-led Haryana government had spent ₹42.33 crore in organising the International Gita Mahotsav (IGM) in the last five years (between 2016 and 2020).Most of the expenditure occurred on organising the religious extravaganza in Kurukshetra, other districts of Haryana, and abroad. It included expenditure of foreign tours of officials, religious gurus and media persons for organising the Mahotsav.The information provided by the Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB), in reply to an RTI application filed by Panipat-based advocate Amit Rathee, revealed that of total ₹42.3 crore, ₹9.59 crore was spent in 2016.A maximum of ₹15.19 crore was spent in 2017, followed by ₹11.07 crore in 2018, and ₹6.28 core in 2019, revealed the reply.The yearly average on the expenditure remained around ₹10 crore since 2016. But in 2020, the KDB could not organise the event on a large scale due to the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent restrictions.But a small ceremony was held at the cost of ₹0.17 crore, including ₹3.40 lakh spent on food and refreshments.The KDB had organised Gita Mahotsav in the United Kingdom and Mauritius as well. A similar event was scheduled to be held in Australia in March last year but was put off due to the pandemic.KDB honorary secretary Madan Mohan Chhabra told HT that the expenditures on the IGM is gradually coming down. He said the money was spent by the government via KDB and included all expenditures of events organised across state and in different countries.Chhabra, however, made it clear that there are no religious motives behind the expenditure. The aim is to provide facilities and infrastructures to visitors and promote cultural activities, he said. “These expenditures occurred on organising different activities, maintenance of places including the Brahmasarovar, providing facilities to artistes and guests and activities done in different countries,” he added.The KDB officials said the event provides a platform to craftsmen and artistes to showcase their skills and talents as the fortnightly crafts fair organised at the Brahmasarovar that lakhs of people visit. The KDB is also working on come out with more plans to generate income and provide better facilities to the visitors, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-5-yrs-haryana-govt-spent-rs-42-3-cr-on-gita-mahotsav-101627153040605.html
25-07-2021||Other||ICSE result: Three girls top examination in Ludhiana||Arshjot Kaur from Sacred Heart Convent School, Chandigarh Road, and Siya Kapoor and Rashita Pahwa from Sat Paul Mittal School have jointly topped the city in the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) Class-10 examinations, the results of which were declared on Saturday. They scored 97.8%.This year, the board had cancelled the Class-10 exams amid the rise in Covid cases across the country. The results were based on students’ performance in Classes 9 and 10 (unit tests and pre-boards).Gurleen Kaur from Sacred Heart Convent bagged the second position with 97.6%.. With 97.4%, five students: Shobina Midha, Sreeya Chatterjee, and Garima from Sacred Heart Convent; and Ria Bansal and Shea Mago from Sat Paul Mittal shared the third slot. Toppers’ talkArshjot, who has opted for the medical stream in Class 11, aspires to be a dentist. Sharing her other interests, she says, “I am fond of drawing and painting. I even renovated my room with my paintings during the lockdown.”Her father, Jagdev Singh, is a businessman and mother, Balwinder Kaur, is an inspector in the intelligence wing of Punjab Police. “I am happy with the result. The teachers put in a lot of effort to clear doubts during online classes,” said Arshjot, a resident of Urban Estate, Jamalpur. Siya Kapoor, 16, wants to become a businesswoman. Siya said, “It is important to be financially independent, and I want to create job opportunities for others. Even though it was difficult to study online, I scored well as teachers guided me throughout the year.”Her father, Sunil Kapoor, is a businessman, and mother, Shveta Kapoor, is a housewife. Rashita Pahwa, who has a keen interest in business, aspires to become an entrepreneur. She says, “It is important to score well in all exams due to the new marking system.” Her father, Rohit Pawha, owns Nova cycles and her mother, Sheena Pawha, is a housewife. Crispin Maria, principal of Sacred Heart Convent School and Bhupinder Gogia, principal of Sat Paul Mittal School, congratulated the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/icse-result-three-girls-top-examination-in-ludhiana-101627152863985.html
25-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana girls shine in ISC examinations||Students of Sat Paul Mittal School, Dugri, and Sacred Heart Convent School, Sector 39, Urban Estate, Chandigarh Road,have bagged top positions in the Class 12 Indian School Certificate Class 12 exams in the city, results of which were declared on Saturday.Of the total eight students who topped in the city, five are girls. Pranav Fatehpuria and Manit Gupta, students of Sat Paul Mittal School, Dugri, scored 99.75% marks in the commerce stream and topped in the city.While in the humanities stream, Barbie Chawla, Prachi Mehra, and Romita Handa of Sat Paul Mittal School topped in the city by securing 99.75% marks. Harshil Jain of Sat Paul Mittal School, Dugri, topped in the non-medical stream in the city. He scored 98% marks in the exams.Jivjot Kaur of Sat Paul Mittal School and Kavya of Sacred Heart Convent School jointly topped in the medical stream with 97.5% marks each. Due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases in May, the board had cancelled the examinations. The council has declared the results based on students’ performance in Classes 11 and 12 (unit tests and pre-boards). COMMERCE TOPPERSName: Pranav FatehpuriaScore: 99.75%School: Sat Paul Mittal School, Dugri Aim: Chartered accountant Success mantra: Focus on what teachers teach in class Hobbies: Playing badminton and volleyball Parents: Father Vinod Kumar Fatehpuria is a CA, and mother Smita Fatehpuria is a homemakerName: Manit GuptaScore: 99.75%School: Sat Paul Mittal School, Dugri Aim: Actuary Success mantra: Self-study and self-belief Hobbies: Cycling and solving puzzles Parents: Father Nitin Gupta, a retailer, and mother Sarina Gupta is a homemakerHUMANITIES TOPPERSName: Barbie ChawlaScore: 99.75%School: Sat Paul Mittal School, DugriAim: Artist Success mantra: Consistency and hard workHobbies: Reading and paintingParents: Father Maninder Pal Singh Chawla is a businessman; mother Tajvinder Kaur Chawla is a teacher at Sat Paul SchoolName: Prachi MehraScore: 99.75%School: Sat Paul Mittal School, Dugri Aim: Well-known entrepreneur Success mantra: Live life to the fullest Hobbies: Read mythologyParents: Father Devinder Mehra, is a manufacturer of paper and tubes, and mother Sonia Mehra is a homemaker. Name: Romita HandaScore: 99.75%School: Sat Paul Mittal School, DugriAim: Psychologist Success mantra: Consistency, being regular in online classes Study hours: Studying eight hoursHobbies: Reading and writingParents: Father Manoj Handa is a cycle manufacturer, and mother, Roshni Handa, is an English teacher at Sat Paul Mittal School||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-girls-shine-in-isc-examinations-101627152860191.html
25-07-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 860 new Covid cases, 46 deaths||The district reported 860 new Covid-19 cases and 46 deaths in 24 hours on Saturday. This took the progressive count to 1.082 million out of which 1.047 million have recovered, 18,650 deaths and 15,714 are active cases who are currently in hospitals undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw over 74 thousand vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 535 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 323,903 and with five more deaths the death toll stood at 6,185. Pune city reported 202 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 502,116 and reported 11 new deaths on the day the toll stood at 8,868 while PCMC reported 123 new Covid cases the progressive count went up to 256,041 and with 30 more deaths reported the toll stood at 3,328. Pune also saw 74,565 vaccinations on the day as per Co-WIN dashboard on Saturday and 5,886,546 vaccines have been administered total including 4,472,101 first dose and 1,414,445 are second dose. A total of 558 sites conducted vaccination on the day of which 374 are government and 184 private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-860-new-covid-cases-46-deaths-101627152616454.html
25-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra floods toll now 112; 99 missing; 135K evacuated||The death toll due to the floods and landslides triggered by unprecedented rain over the past 48 hours in the Konkan and western Maharashtra regions climbed to 112 on Saturday, official data revealed. Rescue workers combed through the mud and debris in a desperate search for survivors with 99 still missing. A total of 135,313 people were evacuated from vulnerable areas.The monsoon mayhem of the past two days has caused the worst floods in decades in Raigad, Ratnagiri, Palghar, Thane, Sindhudurg, Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara districts. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray visited the hillside Taliye village in Raigad, where a landslide left just two concrete structures standing and flattened dozens of homes in a matter of minutes, burying 49 alive. He announced that the state will work out a plan to resettle people living in landslide-prone areas. He also said the government is preparing a floodwater-management plan.On Sunday, the chief minister will visit Chiplun in Ratnagiri district, most affected by floods.The state government with the help of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Coast Guard, Navy and Army, undertook rescue operations in the most affected districts. According to official information, 890 villages in nine districts were affected due to the torrential downpour and landslides since Thursday. Most people were shifted from the Sangli and Kolhapur districts — 78,111 and 40,882 respectively — according to the statistics released by the state relief and rehabilitation department.Rescue and relief work was hampered due to poor connectivity at some places. In Mahad in Raigad district, NDRF teams could not be sent by air as the helicopter carrying them could not operate due to bad weather. Residents in the flood-affected Chiplun town of Ratnagiri, which was mostly submerged on Thursday, expressed their anguish that the pace of relief work was too slow. They complained that even drinking water was not available. Water and electricity supply was badly hit in flood-affected parts of Ratnagiri and Raigad districts. As of Thursday, 11 cases of landslides were reported in the state. Taliye, Sakhar-Sutarwadi and Kevnale in Raigad, Posare in Ratnagiri, Ranjangaon in Sindhudurg and Ambeghar, Mirgaon, Humbarli, Dhokavale, Kondavli and Mojezor in Satara saw landslides where several people were found trapped and many lost their lives. A total of 135,313 people have been evacuated and shifted to safer places. However, 99 people are still missing, said a senior official from the relief and rehabilitation department.Thackeray on Saturday visited the Taliye village, where around 50 people are still feared trapped under the debris of at least 32 houses. Thackeray assured all the help and rehabilitation of affected people. He said the state was experiencing unprecedented incidents and required smart measures as no agency can predict the intensity and quantity of rains. The hopes of finding survivors in Taliye, Mirgaon, Dhokawale and Ambeghar in Satara were fading away as the rescue operation was stalled due to heavy rain on the third day. At Taliye, loose mud prevented NDRF from resuming digging to look for the missing. Locals said the rescue operation was progressing slowly due to bad weather and difficulty.“The state government will see no such incidents will happen in future and even if they happened, no human life will be lost in future. In order to achieve this, the state government will have to rehabilitate all villages located at hillslopes and foothills. The residents of such villages will be resettled at safer places,” Thackeray told mediapersons. “This has become necessary as no agency can forecast the intensity and quantity of rain, which is pushing the state into unprecedented conditions,” he added. He also declared to prepare a water management scheme, which will help in the state in the management of excessive water so that flooding can be avoided. Three districts in western Maharashtra — Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli — are hit by floods. Earlier in 2019 too. This area saw devastation due to flooded rivers. “We have started working on formulating a water management scheme to overcome the flood situation in the state. It will ensure management of excessive water collected in catchment areas of dams due to heavy rains, which often results in floods following discharge from dams,” Thackeray said.Although floodwater is receding in many areas in Konkan, it is rising in a few districts of western Maharashtra owing to discharge of water from dams. Till Saturday afternoon, 29,960 cusecs of water was released from Koyna dam. In addition to this, 10,420 cusec from Dhom dam, 5,237 cusec from Kanher, 4,645 cusec from Urmodi, 6,810 cusec from Tarali and 3,183 cusec from Dhom Balkawadi dam was released leading to overflowing of a few rivers and rise in floodwater levels in many areas of Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara districts, the officials said.Pune-Bengaluru national highway was closed owing to flooding, which led to a long queue of vehicles on the highway.Satara district collector Shekhar Singh said that 379 villages were affected due to flooding in Satara district of western Maharashtra leading to 18 deaths and 24 missing. Of them, 167 villages were entirely affected and 212 villages were partially affected. Around 1,324 families from the district were rescued and shifted to the safer places.Sangli district collector Abhijeet Chaudhari said that 94 villages have been affected by floods and 22,467 families will be evacuated to safer places in the district.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar in Pune said the state government is coordinating with its Karnataka counterpart to ensure flood relief for the people, especially in Kolhapur district, by releasing water from Almatti dam, which is downstream.He also said the state government has decided to distribute ration kits with rice, pulses, and kerosene in ration kits. “Normally, wheat, rice, pulses and kerosene are distributed as part of ration kits but considering the current situation wheat flour may not be available and hence the state government decided to provide rice, pulses, and kerosene in ration kits, which will help people to prepare khichdi as a meal,” Pawar said further.Meanwhile, union minister of education and skill development Dharmendra Pradhan declared that students in Maharashtra from flood affected districts will be given another chance to appear for the engineering entrance test — JEE (Main)-2021 session 3. The National Testing Agency announced that the exam dates will be announced soon.“In light of the heavy rain and landslides in Maharashtra, to assist the Maharashtra student community, I have advised the NTA to grant another opportunity to all candidates who may not be able to reach the test centre for JEE (Main)-2021 Session 3,” Pradhan tweeted.“Students from Kolhapur, Palghar, Ratnagiri, Raigad, Sindhudurg, Sangli, & Satara, who are unable to reach their test centres on 25 & 27 July 2021 for JEE (Main)-2021 Session 3 need not panic. They will be given another opportunity,and the dates will be announced soon by the NTA,” he added.The third session of JEE main is scheduled on July 20, 22, 25, and 27 . NTA had already conducted the JEE Main Session 3 exams on July 20 and July 22 successfully.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-floods-toll-now-112-99-missing-135k-evacuated-101627152437050.html
25-07-2021||Pune||PMC corporators seek reduction in hawker fine||The elected members in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) have requested to bring down the fine amount collected from offender hawkers from ₹5,000 to ₹1,000. The proposal has been submitted before the PMC standing Committee. The anti-encroachment department used to take action against hawkers and seize zing their carts. A fine of ₹5,000 had to be paid to PMC for releasing the cart. The general body of PMC approved the fine amount in 2017. There was opposition from the hawkers’ union for the heavy fine, but the civic administration was firm to check encroachment. However, by considering the Covid situation and the financial condition of hawkers, many elected members jointly requested to bring down the fine amount to ₹1,000.The standing committee of the PMC has asked advice from administration over the elected members’ demand to bring down the fine amount.The administration submitted their view which will be discussed in the standing committee meeting to he held next week.The standing committee has the power to take decisions on financial issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmccorporators-seek-reduction-in-hawker-fine-101627152436528.html
25-07-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: In harmony with nature||With the wisdom of age, retirement and time for contemplation, developing a deepening sensitivity towards nature is inevitable. One such Chandigarh couple have woven a creative partnership that reflects this evolving sensibility. Lt Col RS Gill, a retired infantry officer from the Punjab Regiment, revels in photographing the double delight of butterflies alighting on gorgeous blooms in their Sector-36 bungalow. His wife, Jyotsna, a former Kendriya Vidyalaya teacher, is so deeply moved by the flower-butterfly harmony that she lets her feelings crystallise in verse. Her poems lend the proverbial “wordsworth” to her hubbie’s photographs and complete them.The nature-loving couple also had occasion to nurse a fallen squirrel pup, whom they christened Tipsy. The pup blossomed, went on to have three pups of her own and bestowed them blindly to the Gills’ trusteeship. The couple showered all the unrestrained affection and care on the helpless creatures that doting grandparents reserve for ‘dota-dotees’ (a daughter’s kids). “Whenever I feel low, I sit in the garden. Watching beautiful flowers, butterflies and honey bees revives me. It is therapeutic as you connect to nature. Colourful butterflies sucking nectar is a message to all of us: ignore your problems, think how blessed are we with this beautiful world,” Jyotsna told this writer.Stirred by the spectacles afforded by her garden, Jyotsna’s thoughts metamorphosed into a poem titled, Rainbows of colour or a kaleidoscope! “Butterflies bring a promise of hope, A garden with blooming flowers with colours so bright, Beautiful butterflies make a perfect sight, The little fairy with delicate wings, Sits on flowers and drops the pollen it brings, In the short span of life it performs its duty, Spreading a message of love and beauty, The life cycle itself a struggle, From the egg comes a larvae that wriggles, The dormant pupa locked in a cocoon, Then emerges a beauty a heavenly boon, They unfold their mesmerising wings, We forget our woes and our heart sings.”Just blue me awayTravellers to the mountains when monsoon magic exerts its ethereal charms speedily post photographs on social media. The enchanting images provoke the viewer’s lingering eye to savour the beauty and the imagination to soar to that blessed spot in the high mountains. Marooned in the plains’ suffocating humidity, how the heart sighs it were there, too!Explorer Saurabh Ranade from Nashik was fortunate enough to travel, photograph and post on social media one of the most mystical of the high sights: Himalayan blue poppies bending like chandeliers to a drape of monsoon drops. Truly, blue is the colour of depthless desire, of a longing for the distances you never arrive in. Artists have creatively copied and innovated from a diverse cache of bird, flower and landscape images uploaded on social media. Jaipur-based artist, Anshu Kashyap Jammoria, pines deeply for a trek to the poppy mountains because she has never seen such dreamy flowers. Pending that pilgrimage, a series of poppy paintings emerged from the wandering strokes of her brush. Easily accessible photos such as Ranade’s served as a beacon to her wondering imagination, to the yearning stirred in her soul.“There is something so fragile and delicate about poppies. Their transparent petals, the way they bow to rain and dew. I have depicted dewdrops and depending on the direction of light, the dewdrops show luminosity on the poppies’ outside while those settled deep within petal folds are subdued and subtle,” Dr. Jammoria told this writer. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-in-harmony-with-nature-101627151904150.html
25-07-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column: A thought in any other language would be as potent||Of late, I have found myself competing in the perfect-parenting race. My contenders are young parents who know exactly what they want and do not want for their child, the overachievers trying to summit still more mountains through their progeny and the ones correcting their own perceived shortcomings through their kids.Also in running is that rare variety: parents who are passive and dubitable. They are the ones learning parenting not from a textbook or the vast ocean of cyberspace resources, but through the eyes of their child and by stepping into their tiny boots.One of the obstacles in this hurdle race is primary school admissions. While I was waiting in an interview room with the other contenders, I overheard one of them confidently say, “I want my child to think in English.”In a different corner, a parent could be heard bemoaning that their child had picked up the Hindi language from the domestic help, while another commiserated saying that their son’s grandparents only spoke to him in their native language.I, on the other hand, was having a hard time processing the notion of a child ‘thinking in English’, the need for ‘perfecting-the-English language’ classes for preschoolers or the benefit of limiting the influence of those who communicated effectively in their indigenous tongue.I tried to remember what I thought and imagined as a child. Were the thoughts limited to a specific language? Did my thoughts even have a language? I was always encouraged to think freely, without being limited by societal bias or gender. I was told I could be anybody I imagined, provided I believed in myself.What became of those concepts of freethinking? Is a thought or idea in the English language superior to those in a different language? Is a child mastering a particular language the ultimate criteria of supremacy? Are we creating an army of functionally identical mindsets? Do we correct the child at a pre-school level to revise the thought that was not in English? What effect does restricting a child’s thoughts to a single language have on him? All these questions called for in-depth study and research. After all, I was in a race, remember?Popular books such as the Bilingual Edge and articles such as ‘The power of the bilingual brain’ (Time Magazine, Kluger 2013) have reiterated the advantages of early bilingualism in employment, travel, establishing and maintaining a connection with family members, their culture and history, and making friends from different backgrounds.Assorted studies have also suggested that bilingual children show higher levels of social understanding and form better, long-lasting emotional connections. Most of these attributes are taken for granted. Bilingual children have demonstrated better skills than monolinguals in understanding thoughts, intentions, and perspectives. Thus, a relatively balanced exposure to multiple languages, people and thoughts, is likely to produce a generation of free thinkers, kind beings and approachable individuals.With all this supplementary knowledge, I soon found myself in another waiting room at yet another sought-after school, overhearing another conversation between my fellow contenders, contemplating on the role parents play in creating a beautiful mind without boundaries.shazuks@gmail.com( The writer is an advocate at Punjab and Haryana high court, Chandigarh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-a-thought-in-any-other-language-would-be-as-potent-101627151416994.html
25-07-2021||Jaipur||KC Venugopal, Ajay Maken reach Rajasthan amid buzz over cabinet rejig||Congress general secretary KC Venugopal and party’s Rajasthan in-charge Ajay Maken reached the state late on Saturday amid speculation of a reshuffle in the chief minister Ashok Gehlot-led cabinet, people familiar with the matter said.Speaking on condition of anonymity, party leaders aware of the developments said that Venugopal and Maken were set to hold a meeting with Gehlot over the cabinet reshuffle, the appointment of district heads of the party organisation and other political appointments.The demands for cabinet expansion and political appointments gained momentum after reports emerged of resentment again brewing in the camp led by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot.On Wednesday, Pilot said he was in touch with the Congress high command over the party issues raised by him and hoped that required steps will be taken by the top leadership.“In-depth discussions were held on the issues which were raised in the context of Rajasthan. The AICC is taking steps for the betterment of the government and party organisation. We are in touch with the high command and I believe that the AICC is going to take necessary steps required to be taken,” he said.On July 12, 2020, Pilot, the then Rajasthan deputy chief minister and state Congress chief and 18 MLAs rebelled against chief minister Gehlot, leading to a 30-day-long turmoil that saw conversations of rebel MLAs and a Union minister leaked on social media, a protracted legal battle over powers of the legislative assembly speaker to disqualify MLAs that reached the Supreme Court, and an anticlimactic compromise that ended the revolt, but which, as recent events have shown, did nothing to address the underlying issues.“It has now been 10 months. I was given to understand that there would be swift action by the committee, but now half of the term is done, and those issues haven’t been resolved. It is unfortunate that so many of the party workers who worked and gave their all for getting us the mandate are not being heard,” said Pilot in an interview to HT in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/venugopal-maken-reach-raj-amid-buzz-over-cabinet-rejig-101627151356383.html
25-07-2021||Delhi||Man kills daughter’s stalker, caught while moving body on cart||A 41-year-old private security guard, who allegedly strangled his 25-year-old former neighbour to death with a cotton towel in a building in south Delhi’s Mahipalpur on Thursday night for reportedly harassing and stalking his 21-year-old daughter, was arrested while allegedly moving the body on a cycle cart to dispose it on Saturday.After the murder, the suspect, Surmesh, who originally hails from Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh and was working as a security guard at a building owned by former Indian cricketer Atul Wassan, allegedly stuffed the body in a sack and hid it in a room at his workplace for nearly 30 hours. Later, a police patrolling team spotted the suspect moving the body on a cycle cart in Mahipalpur’s A-Block around 4am on Saturday and arrested him.“The guard was employed around three months ago through a private security agency and remained on night duty. I have learnt that the guard killed the man somewhere else but hid the body for two days in a vacant room in the parking space of my building. There are two rooms that we had planned to use for running the kitchen of my hotel that could not be made operational due to the Covid-19 lockdown. As far as the murder case is concerned, we are cooperating with the police and have provided them the CCTV camera footage in which the guard is seen carrying the body on a cycle cart,” said Wassan.A police officer, who did not want to be named, said, “Although the former cricketer has nothing to do with the murder, we may serve him a notice to join the investigation, if needed, because the body was kept at his property.”Police said that the victim, identified as Santosh Kumar Jha, worked as a driver in a courier company in Mahipalpur, and lived with his family some distance away from Surmesh’s house. They originally hail from Muzaffarpur in Bihar.Deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said a case of murder was registered at the Vasant Kunj North police station.Police said Surmesh confessed to the murder and said that Jha had been harassing his daughter for the past three years as he wanted to marry her. He alleged that Jha used to stalk his daughter all the way to her office and other places she visited.Despite the woman’s family members telling Jha several times that they will never agree to an alliance, he was allegedly constantly pressuring them for marriage, a police officer said, quoting Surmesh’s disclosure statement.On Thursday evening, the officer said, Jha consumed alcohol with a friend and then, at around 8.30pm, went to Surmesh’s house to once again seek permission for marriage which led to an altercation.To cool the tempers, Surmesh took him to the vacant room on the ground floor of his building to talk things through. “However, the fight continued and in a fit of rage, Surmesh punched Jha and the latter fell unconscious. Surmesh panicked and strangled Jha to death using his towel, after which he locked the room, and informed his wife about the murder. Later in the night, Surmesh stuffed the body in a sack and transported it to his workplace, which is 200 metres away, on a cycle cart that he had taken from there,” said the officer.Around 4 am on Saturday, while trying to put Jha’s body on the cycle cart, the sack tore and one of his limbs poked out, the officer said, adding that he went ahead to dispose the body but was spotted by a police patrol team.Jha’s family was informed about his murder when they reach the police station to file a missing persons complaint on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/security-guard-kills-man-who-stalked-his-daughter-caught-while-moving-body-on-a-cart-101627150036250.html
25-07-2021||Mumbai||CBI arrests CSMT station director, aide in bribery case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday arrested the station director (Indian Railway Traffic Services Officer) of Central Railway (CR) and another official at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharashtra Terminus (CSMT) in a bribery case.According to CBI, the accused, GS Joshi, was booked in a bribery case after a private contractor alleged the accused had demanded ₹10,000 as bribe to allow him to operate his contract without any problems.Acting on the complaint, CBI laid a trap and caught one Mr Babu while accepting the bribe amount from the contractor. Babu accepted the bribe on Joshi’s instructions, CBI said in a statement.“There is a development in this case. We are co-operating with the investigating team. A detailed investigation report is awaited,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR.Earlier, CBI had arrested the senior divisional mechanical engineer of the Central Railway in Nagpur for allegedly accepting a bribe of ₹10,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbi-arrests-csmt-station-director-aide-in-bribery-case-101627149976729.html
25-07-2021||Lucknow||ICSE, ISC results: Lucknow students excel, look forward to college, university admissions||After ICSE (class 10) and ISC (class 12) results were declared on Saturday on the basis of pre-board marks and internal assessments, the Lucknow students who excelled said it was time to put an end to the raging debate over the manner of evaluation and look forward to admissions in colleges or universities, even in Delhi or abroad.While marks were important, protection from Covid-19 was paramount, they said.The CISCE (Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations) had cancelled the exams for both classes this year in view of the aggressive second wave of Covid-19.Given the exceptional circumstances under which the results have been prepared, this year too, CISCE will not be publishing the merit lists for the ICSE and ISC Year 2021 examinations, said Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the council. In Uttar Pradesh, the pass percentage in ICSE was 99.95%. It was 99.71% in ISC. Girls fared better in the state in both classes. They recorded a pass percentage of 99.96 in class 10 and 99.80 in class 12. The boys’ pass percentage in Uttar Pradesh was 99.95 in class 10 and 99.64 in class 12.Across the country, class 10 girls and boys achieved the same pass percentage of 99.98. In ISC, the overall pass percentage was 99.76 across the country. Girls recorded a pass percentage of 99.86 in class 12 and boys 99.66 in same class, pan India. The pandemic situation has not impacted the aggregrate of Shubhi Kapoor, a student of City Montessori School (Aliganj branch) in Lucknow. She said she could have notched 100%, but missed it by 1 mark. She obtained 99.75% with 100% each in computer, physics, chemistry and 99% in mathematics. Even if there had been an exam, she would have got somewhere around the same percentage, she said.Shubhi, who is seeking admission in Delhi University, wants to become an IAS officer.Chahak Bhartiya, a student of La Martiniere Girls’ College passed the ISC (class 12 exam) with an aggregate of 98.5% marks, obtaining 100% each in mathematics and computer science. She said she was fairly satisfied with her marks.“Can’t complain about it, given the pandemic situation which was beyond my control. Parents are happy,” she said. Daughter of a businessman, Chahak has got admission at Christ University Bengaluru to pursue Bachelor in Computer Applications (BCA).Devangi Dubey, another LMGC girl, obtained 98.25%.“Given the pandemic situation, it was the best possible thing to do by awarding marks on the basis of pre-boards and other assessments,” she said.Keen on a career in law, she has appeared in the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT). Her mother Vijay Laxmi Dubey is a teacher with Study Hall and her father works with a private company.Loreto Convent student Vedanshi Tripathi got 97% marks in ISC. “I feel overjoyed that my consistent hardwork paid off and am satisfied with the result. I wish to study psychology in the future and aim for admission in Delhi University,” she said. Her father Abhay Nath Tripathi is an additional SP-rank police officer.City Montessori School, in a press release, claimed 40 students secured 99.75% marks in ISC (Class 12) exam. Chief public relations officer of CMS Hari Om Sharma said 121 students of CMS secured above 99% marks in ISC (Class 12) while 831 students passed with above 95% marks and 1974 CMS students (72.12% of the CMS ISC students who were assessed) have secured above 90% marks. CMS had a total of 2737 students in ISC this year. In ICSE (Class 10), on the other hand, five CMS students have secured between 99% and 99.40% marks this year.La Martiniere Girls’ College, in a press release, said Chahak Bhartiya (commerce), Zoya Azhar Sayeda (humanities) and Saniya Sarosh (humanities) are the joint school toppers with 98.5%. The second joint toppers include Devangi Dube (humanities), Arika Agarwal (science), Zaaina Husain (humanities), Arya Mishra (humanities) and all of them got 98.25%. In ICSE, Shria Agarwal got 99%, Shifa Shafique 98.4%, Mahi Agarwal 98.2%, Anushka Sharma 98% and Nandini Upadhyaya 98%. Principal Aashrita Dass congratulated the students.Students of SKD Academy also did well. In ISC, Anushka Kaushal got 97.25% marks and Mohd. Waris and Vaishnavi Srivastava got 97% marks. In ICSE, Rashi Gaur got 99.2% marks, said Manish Singh, director of the school, in a press release.Lucknow Public Schools and Colleges claimed 103 students of ICSE and 112 of ISC students got above 95% marks and 315 students of ICSE and 243 students of ISC achieved 90% and above marks. In ICSE, 871 students and in ISC 726 students appeared in examinations. ISC high rankers are Prabhash Mishra and Utkarsh Patel (LPC, Sahara States), Amitesh Kashyap (LPC-A-Block, Rajajipuram) with 99.75% marks while ICSE high rankers are Jahnvi Pandey (97.8%), Saba Parveen (97.8%), Bhumika Pandey (97.6%) and Vatsal Kumar Singh (97.6%).No exam held in 1917 too due to World War ILa Martiniere College principal Carlyle McFarland said, “Historically, this is the first time in the history of the college that a physical school leaving examination was replaced by a system based on cumulative assessment and previous academic achievements. The only other example of the school leaving examination not being conducted was in 1917, long before the digital generation, when, due to World War I, the examination papers that were sent via sea mail from Cambridge, UK, could not be received.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/icse-isc-results-lucknow-students-excel-look-forward-to-college-admissions-101627149918573.html
25-07-2021||Lucknow||All 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh will have medical colleges soon, says chief minister Yogi Adityanath||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said that all the 75 districts in the state will have a medical college soon. His government had either built or sanctioned a total of 32 medical colleges in the state in its term, he said in Deoria.In the next six months, 16 districts without a medical college will have one on PPP (public-private partnership) model, he added. “Medical colleges are important institutions for better, superior and special health care facilities. But in the last 70 years, the state had only 12 medical colleges. The present government either built or sanctioned 32 medical colleges,” the chief minister said to newspersons at the newly constructed Maharishi Devrah Baba autonomous state medical college in Deoria.“This medical college is ready for admissions now,” he said.He also announced that the nine new medical colleges that are ready will be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, all together, after the National Medical Council approves them.He also said that in recent years, AIIMS (All India Institute of Medical Sciences) had begun in Rae Bareli and Gorakhpur. The Prime Minister is scheduled to formally inaugurate the Gorakhpur AIIMS in October.He also planted a sapling on the campus of the new medical college and inspected the institution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/all-75-districts-of-uttar-pradesh-will-have-medical-colleges-soon-says-yogi-adityanath-101627149138462.html
25-07-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh records its highest single-day Covid vaccination with over 1 million doses||Uttar Pradesh administered over 10 lakh (one million) doses of the Covid vaccine on Friday, reaching the milestone for the second time in July.A total of 1,006,078 doses administered on Friday (July 23) was the highest single-day Covid vaccination in the state so far. Earlier, a total of 1,003,435 doses were given in the state on July 6 , according to official data. “We have set a new benchmark in vaccination on Friday as we administered 1,006,078 doses of the vaccine to beneficiaries. This is the highest in one day till now,” said Uttar Pradesh’s additional chief secretary (medical health) Amit Mohan Prasad at a press conference on Saturday.A total of 490,792 doses were administered in UP on Saturday and the number was likely to cross the five-lakh (500,000) mark for the day. Uttar Pradesh had aimed to administer 10 lakh (one million) doses every day in July, but with a limited supply of vaccines, the actual number remained below the target.The state has administered a total of over 4.4 crore or 44 million (44,078,889) doses of the Covid vaccine since the inoculation campaign began on January 16 this year, according to the data available with the CoWin portal.The number includes 36,920,479 first doses and 7,158,410 second doses.Uttar Pradesh aims to administer a total of 10 crore doses by August 31.The maximum of over 1.96 crore (19,6 million) doses have been administered to beneficiaries between 18 and 45 years of age in the state. Over 1.46 crore (14.6 million) doses have been given to those between 45 and 60 years. People above 60 years of age have got over 97 lakh (970,000) doses till now, according to the data with the CoWin portal.Among the 75 districts in the state, Lucknow has administered the maximum of over 18 lakh or 1.8 million (1,834,514) doses of the vaccine till now. The state has reported a total of 1,708,152 Covid cases and 22,749 deaths since March last year, according to official data.Uttar Pradesh now has 932 active Covid-19 cases (patients under treatment) and the recovery rate is 98.6%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-records-its-highest-single-day-covid-vaccination-with-over-1-million-doses-101627144036194.html
25-07-2021||Patna||CISCE: Board results out, Bihar students pass with flying colours||Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) on Saturday declared results for the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) (Class 10) and Indian School Certificate (ISC - Class 12) examinations. In Bihar, the overall pass percentage of Class 10 and Class 12 stood at 99.92% and 99.91% respectively.Altogether 5,240 students, including 2,368 girls and 2,872 boys, had appeared for the Class 10 exam while 1,106 students, including 719 girls and 387 boys, for the Class 12 exam from the state. Four students from Class 10 and one student from Class 12 flunked the examination in Bihar.Last year, the overall pass percentage of Class 10 and Class 12 stood at 99.48 % and 98.46% respectively.Chief executive and secretary of CISCE board Gerry Arathoon said, “Given the exceptional circumstances, this year CISCE will not be publishing a merit list for either the ICSE or ISC year 2020 examinations.”“In the event, any candidate wishing to raise objection(s) regarding computation of marks in the result, she/he can send a written application to the school, stating the objection in detail along with reasons thereof before August 1”, a press release stated.Meanwhile, students of multiple schools scored high percentages, many schools, including St. Joseph’s Covent High School, Don Bosco Academy and St. Xavier’s High School registered a cent per cent result.At St. Xavier’s High School, Aafreen Tahir and Shivam Raj Jointly emerged as the school toppers by scoring 99.65% in Class 10. All 154 students who appeared in the Class 10 exam passed. Of them, 63 students scored above 90%.At St. Joseph’s Convent High School (Jethuli), Amanee Agarwal scored 98.6% in Class 10 while Sana Jahan of Carmel High School secured 98.4% in the same exam.At Don Bosco Academy, Shaswat Sanjeev, Anurag Gautam and Anubhav remained the top scorers in Class 12 while Class 10 student Shashank Kumar bagged the first position in the school by scoring 99%.CISCE’s Patna city coordinator Mary Alphonsa said, “This was an exceptional academic year but results are satisfactory. Students in the city have performed well.”Graphics:Class-10 overall pass percentage: 99.92%Boys: 99.93%, Girls 99.92Class-12 overall pass percentage: 99.91%Boys: 100%, Girls 99.86%Total students who appeared for Class-10: 5,240Flunked:4Total students who appeared for Class-12: 1,106Flunked: 1||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cisce-board-results-out-bihar-students-pass-with-flying-colours-101627139538128.html
25-07-2021||Other||Congress accuses Jai Ram govt of wasteful expenditure for electoral gains||Ahead of the high-stakes byelections to three assemblies and one parliamentary seat in Himachal, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and opposition Congress are trading barbs.State Congress chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore on Saturday alleged that despite the poor fiscal health, the state government was making unnecessary appointments and giving cabinet status to its legislators by elevating them to the post of chief whip and deputy chief whip in the assembly. “With byelections and assembly elections round the corner, the BJP is making appointments just for electoral gains,” he said.“These appointments will only add a burden on the state treasury, while the government is still taking loans to run its expenses. The government is going on an overdrive. It is rampantly announcing new offices and projects without budgetary provisions,” he said.He further claimed that the state government was turning a blind eye to norms’ violations by tourists, which may ultimately lead to the third wave of the pandemic.Rathore also expressed concern over the deteriorating law and order situation in the state.He claimed the Congress will win the Mandi parliamentary elections as well as Fatehpur, Jubbal Kotkhai and Arki byelections. In Arki, he said that the family members of Virbhadra Singh will be consulted before the party decides on the candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congress-accuses-jai-ram-govt-of-wasteful-expenditure-for-electoral-gains-101627133714441.html
25-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro to run at 100% of seating capacity from Monday, cinema halls to reopen partially||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Saturday allowed further relaxation in the national capital and said from Delhi Metro will run at 100 per cent of its seating capacity and cinema halls and theatres in the city will be allowed to reopen at half of their capacity. Bars will also be allowed to reopen with 50 per cent of the seating capacity from 12pm to 10pm. All shops will be permitted to function on all days of the week without any distinction of essential and non-essential goods and services between 10am and 8pm."It has been observed that the number of Covid-19 patients and the positivity rate has declined considerably and the overall situation has improved," the DDMA order said adding that due caution, however, has to be maintained for "consolidating the whole process of Covid-19 management".What is colour-coded plan to combat Covid-19 in Delhi?Auditoriums and assembly halls can reopen with a 50 per cent seating capacity from Monday. Intra-state buses shall be allowed to run with 100 per cent seating capacity with boarding only from the rear door and deboarding from the front door. In both buses and Metro trains, no standing passenger will be allowed, the order said.Wedding events can take place with the presence of a maximum of 100 persons and the same cap is applicable for funerals too, the DDMA said.Religious places will also open in the national capital but visitors will not be allowed.For the reopening of spas, the DDMA mentioned that all employees will have to be vaccinated mandatorily and they will also have to undergo RT-PCR tests every fortnight. For treatments that take longer than 30 minutes, staff should wear PPE kits."It is further directed that the market trade associations, banquet halls, marriage hall associations, gymnasiums and Yoga institute association, other trade associations and resident welfare associations shall also be responsible for ensuring compliance of Covid appropriate behaviours by all shops, malls, markets, market complexes, offices, weekly markers, clinic, banquet halls/marriage halls and residents within their respective areas," the order stated.Delhi's Covid-19 situation has been improving steadily with related deaths coming down to almost nil. On Friday, Delhi reported one death related to Covid-19 and 58 fresh infections. Instances of crowding at local markets have been reported following which the authorities temporarily shut those markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-to-run-at-100-of-seating-capacity-cinema-halls-to-reopen-partially-101627132886351.html
25-07-2021||Noida||Chorus grows for public transport services in Greater Noida West||The lack of public transport facilities in Greater Noida west, that is a hub of affordable housing, makes commuting a harrowing experience for residents as they have to depend on private vehicles and unruly autorickshaw drivers, most of whom refuse to take them to their desired destinations.Several representations to the UP government have failed to move authorities. Residents said a safe public transport system that will be affordable for all sections of the society and ply to all the housing projects is the need of the hour.“There is no public transport service in Greater Noida west, which is home to at least 4 lakh housing units. We have demanded public transport facilities in meetings with officials and also written to top authorities, but nothing happened. Autorickshaw drivers demand ₹150-200 for a distance of 5km and most of us cannot afford private vehicles,” said Anita Prajapati, a resident of Gaur City of Greater Noida West.“In the absence of zero public transport facilities, travelling from one sector or group housing to another is a daily struggle in this area. All sections — be it domestic helps, school or college going students, elders and many others — have no alternative other than depending on unruly autorickshaw drivers, who refuse to go to all the areas. We recently demanded from the Greater Noida CEO to make sure all areas are covered by the public transport system,” said Abhishek Kumar, president of Noida Extension flat owners’ welfare association, who has written to the UP government and other officials demanding public transport services.Spread on an area of about 4,000 hectares and home to many housing groups, the Metro connectivity in Greater Noida West is a distant dream as the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC), that has been entrusted the responsibility of building the Metro project here, is yet to hire an agency. The nearest Metro station from Greater Noida West’s sector 1 or Gaur City is the one at Noida’s Sector 51.“To travel from Gaur City to Sector 51 metro station of the Blue Line, autorickshaws throw tantrums and demand exorbitant fares. Daily office goers and other commuters have no choice but to travel in autorickshaws,” said Rani Mahajan, a resident of sector Techzone-IV in Greater Noida West.Earlier, the NMRC was running a city bus service with 50 air-conditioned buses on 21 routes covering Noida and some parts of Greater Noida West. However, the buses plied only to a few main roads.“We have communicated the need for a public transport system in Greater Noida West to the NMRC, which has the mandate to run this service. We hope that the NMRC will soon address this issue,” said Narendra Bhooshan, CEO of the Greater Noida authority.“We had to stop the bus service in February last year because of issues with the contractor, whose work order was terminated. Now, the service will be restarted only after a new agency is hired. The decision to hire a new agency has been delayed because of the Covid-19 outbreak,” said Gopal Sharma, an officer on special duty, NMRC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chorus-grows-for-public-transport-services-in-g-noida-west-101627062009659.html
