26-07-2021||Other||Impasse at Calcutta high court as some lawyers want to skip hearings by acting Chief Justice||Differences have emerged among members of the bar association of the Calcutta high court after a section of lawyers wrote to acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal on July 22 that they will not attend proceedings in his court unless he recalls his order to transfer a civil case from the court of Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya instead of addressing the latter’s concern about technical glitches during virtual hearings, HT has learnt.The case Justice Bhattacharyya was hearing was assigned to the division bench headed by Justice Harish Tandon. Justice IP Mukherjee, who is a member of the five-judge bench headed by Justice Bindal, held a meeting with members of the bar association on Monday and discussed the issue. “We are not disclosing the outcome of today’s meeting. We will take it up at a meeting of the lawyers on Tuesday evening,” an office-bearer of the bar association said on condition of anonymity.The sequence of events unfolded on July 19. Justice Bhattacharyya, who had reacted sharply on July 16 when technical glitches disrupted the virtual hearing of the civil case, passed a strongly-worded order when he found that the case was transferred to the division bench of Justice Tandon. In his 10-page order, Justice Bhattacharyya criticised the court administration as well as the acting chief justice on whose orders the case was reassigned. “Although it has been clarified that the Chief Justice (including Acting Chief Justice) is the Master of the Roster and “more equal among equals” (not by Orwell but our own Supreme Court), the excess equality pertains only to the administrative side of this court and cannot override the appellate side rules, framed and modified by the full court comprised of all Judges of this Hon‟ble Court. There is doubt as to whether the Chief Justice/Acting Chief Justice, in her/his administrative capacity as the Master of the Roster, can override a judicial order passed by a Bench having determination fixed by the Chief Justice/Acting Chief Justice herself/himself and the file of the matter be assigned to some other court overnight,” justice Bhattacharyya wrote in his order on July 19. “’Do not wash your dirty linen in public’ is a nice defence for the beneficiaries of an oppressive/corrupt system, but is the anathema of transparency, which is in-built in the concept of the judiciary being the last bastion of democracy,” said the order. The incident triggered strong reactions. On July 22, some members of the bar association convened a meeting and wrote a four-page letter to Justice Bindal. “We are extremely shocked that the moment Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya questioned as to why measures are not taken to improve the quality of virtual hearing, the same matter was suddenly assigned to a division bench. It is extremely apparent that the sudden assignment to a division bench was made only for the reason that Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya questioned the administrative side of the high court for not doing their required job…” wrote the lawyers. “We are not questioning that fact that you in the capacity of an acting chief justice can definitely assign a matter… However, the question here is the time and matter coupled with to whom i.e. which bench,” the letter said. HT has seen a copy of the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/impasse-at-calcutta-high-court-as-some-lawyers-want-to-skip-hearings-by-acting-chief-justice-101627323581036.html
26-07-2021||Other||HC appoints local commissioner for cleanliness at Kalkaji temple||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court has appointed a local commissioner to look into the unhygienic conditions at the Kalkaji temple saying that cleanliness, sanitation and infrastructure of the temple and its complex is “completely unsatisfactory” putting devotees to great inconvenience.Justice Prathiba M Singh, on July 16, noted that devotees who visit the temple are in lakhs during the festive season and cleanliness of the temple, as also the provision of civic amenities for devotees is a major concern.The court said one of the three issues concerned with the mandir are the renovation/re-development of the mandir premises, and provisions of civic amenities, cleanliness, etc. in and around the temple complex for the devotees.The other two pertain to the rights, occupation and the manner of allocation and revenue collection from shopkeepers, tehbazari holders, dharmshalas and the tussle among various groups on the puja sewa rights.On July 16, the court directed the local commissioner to conduct surprise checks at least twice during the next 10 days to also ascertain as to who is conducting the puja sewa and who is collecting the offerings which are being put into the donation boxes and being given during the puja sewas.The court has been dealing with a bunch of petitions on the various issues including the puja rights and collection of offerings. The court has been appointing local commissioners at regular intervals for several problems related to the functioning of the temple.The judge noted that the local commissioners in their report have highlighted the issues of cleanliness and it should be addressed for better facilities to the devotees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-appoints-local-commissioner-for-cleanliness-at-kalkaji-temple-101627322859979.html
26-07-2021||Other||Delhi: 300 ventilators at Burari Covid facility as govt preps for next wave||New Delhi: In preparation for the next wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Delhi government has added 200 ventilators for adults and 100 more for children at a makeshift 1,000-oxygen-bed facility in Burari. The facility was first started with oxygen beds towards April-end when cases of Covid-19 shot up, creating a crisis for the healthcare infrastructure. With the addition of ventilators, now the facility will also treat severe Covid cases. The equipment for the facility has been arranged by the Delhi government, whereas the manpower is supplied by Ujala Cygnus Group. “With very few cases of coronavirus disease, we are running only 50 beds at the moment. There are no patients in the facility; we discharged the last patient only a few days ago,” said Dr Shuchin Bajaj, founder-director, Ujala Cygnus Group of Hospitals, adding that the facility will keep opening up 50 beds for every 0.5% increase in the city’s positivity rate. “We will hire staff for a short time or divert them from across our hospital chain to open beds as the positivity rate goes up. The Centre had set a threshold of 5% but as we saw how the cases shot up last time, we will start increasing capacity early on this time,” said Dr Bajaj. Increasing the number of beds according to rise in positivity is part of the government’s graded action plan for hospitals. “In the second wave, we had seen the peak and we ran out of beds, oxygen and ICU facilities. So, for the upcoming third wave, we have to make sure that we don’t commit the same errors,” said Dr Bajaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-300-ventilators-at-burari-covid-facility-as-govt-preps-for-next-wave-101627322681741.html
26-07-2021||Other||Five men from Meerut held for cattle lifting in Delhi||New Delhi: Five alleged criminals from Meerut, mostly involved in cattle lifting, were arrested after a 3-km dramatic chase, followed by an exchange of fire at Dwarka-Kakrola road in southwest Delhi early Monday morning, police said.Four bullets were fired during the shoot-out, causing injuries to two suspects while the two bullets fired by the alleged criminals hit two policemen in their bulletproof vests. The police operation lasted for nearly 15 minutes, said deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena.“The arrested cattle lifters were involved in stealing more than 1,000 cattle, mostly buffaloes, from Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan in the last four to five years, and selling them to unauthorised butchers in Uttar Pradesh. The five men had come to Goyala Dairy area near Dwarka in a pick-up van to steal cattle when our team members chased and caught them following an encounter. They also tried to snatch the service weapons of our policemen,” said DCP Meena. The suspects were not carrying cattle at the time of encounter with the police. The arrested men were identified by their first names Ajaj, Irshad, Ismail, Sajat and Nabiya, all residents of Meerut. A total of 11 cases were solved with their arrest, the police claimed.DCP Meena said that the district’s special staff team was tasked with identifying and arrest cattle lifters following a incident in Chhawla, in which the suspects stole four buffaloes after tying their caretaker with a rope on January 12 this year. During the probe, it was learnt that there several similar incidents. The team started collecting information about the cattle lifters and learnt about a Meerut-based gang.On July 26, the team received information that five cattle lifters from Meerut, carrying illegal weapons, were coming towards Goyala Dairy in a pick-up van. The team laid a trap near Samta Enclave and barricaded the road. Around 4.30 am, the team spotted the van and signalled its driver to stop. However, the truck hit the iron barricades and sped away“Our team members chased the van, while others tried to block it with their vehicles. The suspects started pelting stones at the police team. As our team members continued chasing them, the van driver lost control and rammed a street light pole,” said Meena.Police said two suspects fired one bullet each at the police party. Two head constables received the bullets on their bulletproof vests. The police team fired back and hit the two suspects in their legs. The two injured men were overpowered along with three other suspects, who also tried to snatch the service weapons of the policemen.“We checked the van but it did not have any cattle inside. Two pistols and two knives were seized along with an iron rod, a bundle of rope and a stick from the van,” said DCP Meena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-men-from-meerut-held-for-cattle-lifting-in-delhi-101627322680577.html
26-07-2021||Other||791 women widowed by Covid, DCW seeks rehabilitation for them||New Delhi: The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Monday said that it has identified 791 women who lost their husbands to the coronavirus pandemic in the national capital, adding that it has submitted a report to the social welfare department for their rehabilitation. The DCW said that it was in the process of identifying more widows.In a letter addressed to Madhu K Garg, secretary, Department of WCD and Social Welfare, DCW chairperson Swati Maliwal said of the 791 identified women, 774 (97.85%) have children, out of which 384 have one or two children and nearly 360 have 3-5 children. Thirty widows have more than five children, the DWC stated in its letter.The survey showed that 734 women fall in the age group of 18-60 years and the rest are senior citizens. As many as 721 women are homemakers while the rest are employed as domestic workers, labourers, small business owners, and private and government employees, the survey found. According to the findings, 28.57% widows have no income source and are dependent on their husbands financially while 60.93% of women’s family income at present is ₹15,000 or less every month. “The past few months have been very difficult for humanity, especially India which was ravaged by the third wave of the Covid pandemic. The entire country came in the grip of the disease and several thousands died. In Delhi too, hundreds of women were widowed, and several children became orphans,” said the letter, adding that the DCW had carried out a survey through its mahila panchayat program.Maliwal asked the department to ensure that the women -- 597 widows had not been vaccinated against Covid-19 till the survey was carried out.-- are inoculated on priority and also requested the Women and Child Development Department to ensure that schemes such as Mukhyamantri Covid-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojana, a social security scheme for families affected by the pandemic, reaches the affected women. “Our mahila panchayat teams have traversed every nook and corner of Delhi to identify 791 women who became widows during the Covid pandemic. We have done a social survey of all these women. Most of the women do not have a source of income, or are extremely poor. A detailed report has been submitted to the government,” Maliwal tweeted on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/791-women-widowed-by-covid-dcw-seeks-rehabilitation-for-them-101627322560545.html
26-07-2021||Other||Delhi hands out ₹5k aid to 264,000+ construction workers in the Capital||New Delhi: The Delhi construction workers welfare board has disbursed ₹5,000 financial aid to over 264,000 registered workers since April this year, said deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia’s office on Monday. The Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board disbursed the aid, to help workers during the lockdowns in the city, to 216,602 people during a drive in April, and 47,996 others between May 28 and July 18, said state government officials.Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s labour minister said, “When the first lockdown was imposed because of the pandemic [in end-March] last year, the Delhi government was one of the first state governments to grant relief disbursement to all 39,600 workers who were registered with the construction board in March 2020.”“After taking charge of the labour department in November last year, inspections and mass registration drives were conducted at all the labour offices. Based on these inspections and registration drives, we have carried out a series of reforms in the labour department. As a result of this, within eight months, the number of construction workers registered with the construction board has increased to three lakhs [300,000],” Sisodia said. The deputy chief minister took charge of the labour ministry from Gopal Rai last year.He also said the Delhi government disbursed ₹5,000 each to 216,602 construction workers as Covid-19 relief in April this year. “This ex-gratia payment is for construction workers whose applications were approved between May 28 and July 18 this year. I appeal to all eligible workers to get registered with the construction board so they can avail its benefits... The ex-gratia relief comes as an additional benefit for construction workers who were hit hardest because of the Covid-19 crisis in Delhi,” Sisodia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-hands-out-5k-aid-to-264-000-construction-workers-in-the-capital-101627322559891.html
26-07-2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya Development Authority plans two housing colonies||The Ayodhya Development Authority (ADA) is planning two housing colonies on the Rae Bareli and Azamgarh highways as part of its new housing policy, an official said.Besides, three new townships are likely to come up on Sultanpur Road in the state capital.As for the Ayodhya projects, ADA has identified 30 acres’ land on Rae Bareli highway and 35 acres on the Azamgarh highway for the two housing colonies. “The Ayodhya Development Authority has decided to come up with new housing colonies on Rae Bareli and Azamgarh highways. Land has been identified for both the projects,” said RP Singh, secretary, ADA.In the last two years, the demand for houses has gone up considerably in Ayodhya, especially after the November 9, 2019 verdict of the Supreme Court in favour of the Ram temple in Ayodhya.These two colonies will also have commercial complexes. According to ADA officials, the front portion of these colonies will have the commercial complexes while the residential complex will be at the back. Both the colonies will be a few metres from the ring road, ADA officials said, adding that in future also housing projects will come up near the ring road due to the availability of space.Lucknow projectsFor the likely Lucknow townships, three promoters have applied for licence with the Lucknow Development Authority (LDA). According to LDA officials, these townships will be of 28 acres, 112 acres and 210 acres respectively. At the LDA’s board meeting in June this year, it was decided to invite proposals from private developers for integrated township on more than 25 acres. After this proposal, three private developers applied for the licence. Clearance for these three townships may take some time as new LDA vice-chairman Akshay Tripathi will take a final decision only after going through all the details of these projects, according to those familiar with the matter. Nitin Mittal, chief town planner, had apprised the outgoing LDA vice-chairman Abhishek Prakash about these three proposals, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ayodhya-development-authority-plans-two-housing-colonies-101627322501408.html
26-07-2021||Lucknow||Trillion-dollar economy goal: 13 months on, Uttar Pradesh still weighing its options||About 13 months after initiating the international bidding process for the selection of a consultant to boost the size of state’s economy to one trillion dollars and subsequently amending and cancelling the bids, the state government appears to be still working on its options. The objective was supposed to be achieved in five years by 2025.The state government had issued a notice, calling for bids for the appointment of a consultant on June 19, 2020. It revised the RFP (request for proposal) with October 9, 2020 set as the last date for the submission of the bids. It opened the financial bids on November 27, 2020 and zeroed in on the selection of a consultant but cancelled the bids on March 22, 2021, saying, “Fresh tender notice in this regard is likely to be published soon.”While a considerable period from the given timeline (2020-25) has gone by, there are indications that the state government is exploring the option of selecting a government agency as the consultant.“Chief minister Yogi Adityanath is upset over the delay. Making the state a trillion dollar economy is on top of the state government’s priority list. The government will soon appoint a consultant by way of bidding or opting for a government institution/agency,” said a senior officer on condition of anonymity.Those aware of the development said Invest India, a national investment promotion and facilitation agency, made a presentation on the issue at a high-level meeting early this month.“We are in the process of taking a decision. We will take a call on revising the timeline only after a decision on selecting the consultant is taken,” said another officer.“The Uttar Pradesh government has been talking about making UP a trillion dollar economy since 2018. But there is no clear roadmap to achieve this objective. If you look back at the performance of the state in the past three years, the rate of GSDP growth has been low and even negative in 2020-21. This does not inspire confidence that UP will achieve the target in the given timeline. Given the present size of UP’s GSDP, an annual growth rate of about 45% would be needed to achieve the target. It would be better if the state government works out a long-term perspective plan of development and the trillion dollar economy may be a mid-term target,” said Yashvir Tyagi, former professor at department of economics, Lucknow University.The state government began working on the idea after Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke on the issue at the Uttar Pradesh Investors’ Summit 2018 here on February 21, 2018.Modi referred to his association with the investors’ summit as chief minister of Gujarat and later with the UP Investors Summit-2018 as the PM. He said Maharashtra had also set a target to become a trillion dollar economy.“Can Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh compete with each other to become the trillion dollar economy? Will Uttar Pradesh government compete with other states? The more the competition, more will be the investment. This will result in the creation of more jobs and strengthen the concept of cooperative federalism,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/trilliondollar-economy-goal-13-months-on-uttar-pradesh-still-weighing-its-options-101627322440496.html
26-07-2021||Noida||Hunt on for site to host foundation stone laying ceremony of Noida airport||The Gautam Budh Nagar police and the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) are on the hunt for a site to host the foundation stone laying ceremony of the upcoming international airport at Jewar, which is likely to be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath.The date of the event is yet to be finalised, officials said.GB Nagar police commissioner Alok Singh, Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL) and Yeida chief executive officer (CEO) Arun Vir Singh, and Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh, who is also part of the search team, inspected a plot in Ranhera on Monday.“Nothing is final yet — neither the land nor the date. We have visited Ranhera and Sector 28. We may visit other sites too later. We will follow the Uttar Pradesh government’s instructions and do the needful. We cannot comment further on this,” said Yeida CEO Singh.“If everything goes according to the plan, bhoomi pujan and inauguration ceremonies for the mega project will take place in August-end,” said MLA Dhirendra Singh.According to Singh, he has suggested Ranhera for the foundation stone laying ceremony of the airport as that was the first village where land acquisition for the airport project had started.Yeida has shortlisted 16 agencies for management of the mega airport event, the officials said.Swiss company Zurich Airport International AG has been selected as the concessionaire for developing the international airport at Jewar. There will be two runways in phase 1 and the airport is expected to become operational by 2023-24. In total, the airport is projected to have five runways when it is developed to its full capacity over about 5,000 hectares of land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/hunt-on-for-site-to-host-foundation-stone-laying-ceremony-of-noida-airport-101627322140661.html
26-07-2021||Noida||Noida: Apparel industry pins hopes on international fair||Noida The apparel industry in Gautam Budh Nagar, still recovering from the losses due to the Covid-19 pandemic, is now banking on the 66th India International Garment Fair (IIGF) that kicked off on Monday. The two-month fair is being held virtually for the second time since last year and is scheduled to go on till September 25. Earlier, the fair used to be held at the India Expo Centre and Mart in Greater Noida.The International Garment Fair Association (IGFA) organises two events every year in the month of January and July in India. The event is aimed at helping exporters from India to showcase their latest designs and apparel for the upcoming season to importers from all across the world.“At present, we have 1,123 registered buyers and 181 registered buying agents, while 251 exhibitors are showcasing their latest collections. However, we expect the number of buyers to increase to 2,000 in the course of next two months as our team is following up with over 14,000 buyers across the globe,” said Lalit Thukral, , vice-chairman of the IGFA.According to Thukral, the association was looking forward to holding a physical fair this year before the second Covid wave hit the country.The apparel and fashion accessories fair is being held in India since 1988.Daljeet Singh, a buyer from London, who has been a regular at the fair for the past 20 years, said that the fair helps meet new exporters and exhibitors.“China has been holding such virtual fairs and hence new collections keep coming from that country. Now, I am happy that India has again held this event as the kind of material we need for our market can only be supplied from India,” said Singh from London, who runs Coleridge UK, an apparel firm.Uday Sehgal, an exporter from Noida Sector 59, said that many of his regular buyers stopped business due to losses incurred during the pandemic. “We are heavily dependent on the IIGF now because the pandemic hit the business badly. By showcasing our collection at the fair, we can be sure of business because the buyers are registered and genuine. We are expecting new buyers for this season at the fair,” said Sehgal.Since the outbreak of Covid-19 in March last year in the country, the GB Nagar apparel industry suffered a collective loss of over ₹3,000 crore, said Thukral, who is also the president of Noida Apparel Export Cluster (NAEC). However, he said that the market has recovered up to 80% of its business.“In 2020, we did suffer losses but in 2021, the business is back to 80% capacity of what it was before the pandemic. We hope that we will reach the pre-pandemic business, which is ₹10,000 crore, by end of this year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-apparel-industry-pins-hopes-on-international-fair-101627322139923.html
26-07-2021||Noida||Noida: Cyber criminals held for duping e-commerce site of ₹2 crore||Noida The cyber police in Noida have nabbed two persons for allegedly duping an e-commerce site of more than ₹2 crore on the pretext of receiving defective goods, officials said on Monday. The suspects — both natives of Hisar in Haryana — were identified as Anil, 27, and Sachin, 30.According to the officials, the suspects used to purchase electronics from the e-commerce site and put in return requests after claiming that they had received defective goods. They used to make payments in both prepaid and cash on delivery. “They had joined hands with some delivery agents, who used to take pictures and show to the management that the suspects returned the defective goods, whereas the duo did not. The suspects used to sell these products as new ones in wholesale markets,” said Vinod Kumar Pandey, investigating officer, cyber police station. Police said that the suspects had registered 99 accounts on the website, with the help of fake documents, through multiple virtual numbers. “We have identified 64 bank accounts made for these e-commerce accounts. They have been freezed and ₹26 lakh has been recovered from these accounts,” said Pandey. Police have also recovered three cellphones from their possession. Officials said that the selling partners of the website had registered separate cases in Hapur, Dadri and Agra for fraud cases. “We have been investigating these cases for the past three months. After a lot of technical back tracing, the suspects were identified and nabbed from their homes. There are several others associated with the scam. We are working on identifying them. Delivery agents, who were associated with them, and the buyers of the goods in Delhi’s wholesale markets will also be apprehended soon,” Pandey added. The suspects were booked under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (whoever fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any document or electronic record), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 120B (whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence punishable with death) and relevant sections of the IT Act at the Sector 36 cyber police station, which falls under the jurisdiction of the Lucknow headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-cyber-criminals-held-for-duping-e-commerce-site-of-2-crore-101627322019876.html
26-07-2021||Noida||Five vehicle lifters nabbed, 16 two-wheelers recovered||The Noida Phase-3 police on Sunday arrested five persons allegedly involved in stealing vehicles in Delhi-NCR. Police said they recovered 17 stolen vehicles, 16 two-wheelers and an e-rickshaw based on information gathered from them. Police identified the suspects as Neelesh Kumar (20), Lucky (18), Lokesh (19), Rahul (21) and Suryansh (20), all hailing from different UP districts. According to police, the gang had been active for the last two years. “They were nabbed at around 11.50pm from near the JM Cut based on a tip. Two stolen bikes were recovered from them along with seven stolen phones and two countrymade pistols,” said Elamaran G, additional deputy commissioner of police, crime. When they were questioned, the suspects allegedly led the police to the other vehicles from an empty house near the Hindon. Police suspected that the number plates on most of the recovered vehicles were fake and said they will be investigating this too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/five-vehicle-lifters-nabbed-16-two-wheelers-recovered-101627321900590.html
26-07-2021||Gurugram||City forest planned on 200 acres, will be continuation of Aravallis, say officials||A 200-acre urban forest is likely to come up on Aravalli land interspersed between Sikanderpur and Chakkarpur, near the Aravalli Biodiversity Park, officials of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) said, after signing a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with a city-based non-governmental organisation for a period of eight years to develop the forest.Subhash Yadav, head of the urban environment division of GMDA, said, “An MoU has been signed with iamgurgaon NGO for developing the city forest. Last year, encroachments were cleared from this area and since then, it was lying vacant. It was decided to develop the forest here, as it will increase green cover in the city and also help in maintaining the landscape because of its proximity to Aravalli Biodiversity Park.” As part of the project, the NGO aims to convert the area into a ‘true forest’, on the lines of those found in northern Aravallis. Vijay Dhasmana, an eco-restoration practitioner, who helmed the development of the Aravalli Biodiversity Park and will develop this city forest too, said, “The main element is to bring back the forests of Aravalli along with its grasses, plants that are short-lived but have huge medicinal and food value and water plants. With these measures, the objective is to work on eco-restoration of the area.” The site chosen for the city forest is a watershed of a disappeared seasonal stream that flowed into the Sahibi river, a tributary of the Yamuna, where widespread mining took place in the 1990s. The area was later encroached upon by locals, with shanties and a marble market dotting the landscape, leading to further degradation of Aravalli land. Last year, around 3,500 shanties were removed from the area by the authorities. At present, the area is colonised by Prosopis juliflora (vilayati keekar), an alien and invasive plant species, experts said. Dhasmana said some of the interspersed mining pits in the area have also become seasonal and perennial water bodies. Due to this, conservation of water at this spot by holding the soil becomes important, increasing the potential of groundwater recharge to almost two million litres per hectare. This can also help in arresting urban flooding, especially in south Gurugram. Dhasmana said that this project will be different from the Aravalli Biodiversity Park, with “more wilderness area with forest pathways for people to navigate (instead of concrete paths)”. The emphasis will be on the recreation of habitats, which includes trees, shrubs, climbers, herbs, annuals and grasses, he said. “Preliminary observations show that wildlife like neelgai, jungle cats and jackals are already present in that area, but by developing it into a forest in the true sense, there could be a possibility of leopards also visiting the area,” said Dhasmana. At present, a master plan for the project is being developed by the agencies. Officials said that the city forest will have an interpretation centre, native plant nursery, public conveniences (drinking water facility and washrooms), viewing decks at picturesque locations that show the beauty of the area, canopy walk, and walkways over water bodies. A baseline survey, to understand the presence of wildlife and how to proceed with the plantation, will also be carried out within the next three months. However, a final decision is also yet to be taken on fencing, officials said. Areas close to the road will be fenced to ensure there is no further encroachment, but those in continuation with the existing Aravalli forest are likely to not have fences, so that wildlife is not disturbed, said officials. Latika Thukral, a co-founder of iamgurgaon, said, “This forest will not only increase the green cover in the city but once fully restored, will be home to a wide range of rare and important plants of the Aravali landscape. It will also be an important habitat for fauna species. After basic studies of the area, we will start plantation work this monsoon itself.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/city-forest-planned-on-200-acres-will-be-continuation-of-aravallis-say-officials-101627321660705.html
26-07-2021||Noida||UPPCB to inspect functioning of STPs in residential societies||The UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said on Monday that it will soon start carrying out an inspection of sewage treatment plants (STPs) installed at various housing societies in the city. The decision was taken in the wake of several residents falling ill due to alleged water contamination at Mahagunpuram society adjacent to NH-9 in March, officials said. The UPPCB officials said that their focus will primarily be the residential projects with built-up area of 20,000 square metre or above and details of the STPs will also be sought from the Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA). “After the incident at Mahagunpuram, we have decided that UPPCB officials, along with officials from GDA and municipal corporation, will start inspections in order to find out if the STPs are functioning properly and there is no event which can lead to mixing of sewage pipe with water pipeline,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. The UPPCB has identified about 40 such residential projects where STPs are installed. “As per the building by-laws, housing projects having area of 4,000 sqm or above are required to install an STP. As per our estimates, we have about 800 such buildings,” said Asheesh Shivpuri, chief architect and town planner, GDA. Environmentalists said that such checks should be carried out on a regular basis and not just after any incident has happened. “The departments should check on periodic basis if laid down norms are getting followed or not. There has to be monitoring devices installed at the STPs to check if they are functioning properly. If any violations are found, the erring societies should be penalised,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/uppcb-to-inspect-functioning-of-stps-in-residential-societies-101627321299789.html
26-07-2021||Other||Only 19 containment zones in GB Nagar now, lowest since April||Noida With the second wave of Covid-19 infections on the decline, the number of containment zones in Gautam Budh Nagar is now only 19, according to official data till July 25. This is the lowest since April when the infections climbed and at one point, the district had over 300 containment zones.A containment zone is an area within a 25-metre radius of a confirmed infection. In case there are two or more confirmed cases, the radius is increased to 50 metres. Movement of people is highly restricted in these zones.The 19 containment zones in the district include 13 high rise societies across Noida and Greater Noida.“For high-rises, the state government guidelines say that in case of one Covid-19 case, the entire floor will be contained, while the entire tower will be contained if multiple cases are detected,” said a district health department official on condition of anonymity.“The surveillance teams inform the local bodies like the residents welfare associations (RWAs) about positive cases and take their help in tracing and testing people in the community,” said Dr Jevr Ubaid, nodal officer for containment zones at district health department, GB Nagar.The guidelines allow an area to be taken off the containment zone list if no new cases are reported from there for 14 days after the last confirmed report.Despite the low case count — the district has been reporting less than 10 cases a day since June 20 — Gautam Budh Nagar chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma said there is no let-up in testing, tracking and tracing of infected persons.“We have 800 teams surveying 6,000 homes and around 23,000 people per day. On July 23, 74 people were found to be symptomatic who were then tested for Covid-19,” said Sharma.Covid-19 symptoms include fever, dry cough and tiredness. “We are testing around 4,000 samples a day, of which around 1,500 are RT-PCR tests and around 2,500 are antigen tests. The positivity rate (number of tests returning positive) is around 0.06%.”On Monday, Gautam Budh Nagar reported three Covid-19 infections, bringing the active caseload to 36. Cumulative confirmed case count in the district was at 62,688 and the death toll at 466.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/only-19-containment-zones-in-gb-nagar-now-lowest-since-april-101627321119776.html
26-07-2021||Noida||Noida: District hospital begins token system to manage crowd at its vaccination booth||To reduce crowding at its Covid-19 vaccination centre, the Gautam Budh Nagar district hospital in Sector 30 introduced a coloured token system from Monday. Those who showed their confirmed slots booked through the Co-WIN portal were handed a blue coloured token at the entrance of the hospital that specified the date and time of their vaccination, said Dr Sushma Chandra, the hospital’s chief medical superintendent (CMS). “Those with these tokens will be vaccinated before the others in their allotted time slot.”The colour of these tokens will be changed every day to avoid anyone misusing it, she added.Dr Chandra said they vaccinate almost 3,000 people at the hospital every day. “Most of them come without a confirmed slot and that creates a major problem for those who had booked their slots. To avoid a chaos, we’ve decided to introduce this system,” she said. On Monday, the vaccination centre seemed relatively well managed.Subhendu Mishra from Sector 76 said this was his second attempt at getting his vaccination. “Before this, I had booked a slot for last Wednesday. But there was a heavy rush at the hospital and I returned without getting the vaccine shot. Today, I got it done within 15 minutes,” he said. Reena Dutt, a resident in Sector 61 who had received a token, said that she got her jab quickly too. “It was a good experience as the vaccination staff were administering the vaccine doses without any hurry,” she said. Hailing the new system, GB Nagar district magistrate, Suhas LY, said that the system could be introduced in other hospitals also. “At present, other centres do not see much crowd due to the limited stock of vaccines. But if such a situation occurs, this system can be introduced for better crowd management,” he said. According to the Co-WIN portal, till Monday, over 1.5 million people had been administered their doses in the district, of which 1.1 million had got their first dose. On Monday, 10,137 doses were administered at 41 government and 23 private vaccination centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-district-hospital-begins-token-system-to-manage-crowd-at-its-vaccination-booth-101627321059809.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 5 more deaths, 42 new cases reported in Punjab||Punjab recorded five more Covid-related fatalities on Monday that took the death toll to 16,278, while 42 new cases pushed the infection tally to 5,98,840, according to a medical bulletin issued here.Of the new fatalities, three were reported from Tarn Taran and one each from Patiala and Sangrur, it said.The death toll also includes seven deaths which were not reported earlier, according to the bulletin.The number of active cases stands at 637, it said.Of the new cases, Jalandhar reported nine infections, followed by five in Amritsar and three in Pathankot, it said.With 96 recoveries, the number of those cured from the infection has reached 5,81,925, the bulletin said.A total of 1,19,35,633 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. Chandigarh reported four cases, taking the infection tally to 61,931, according to a medical bulletin issued here.The death toll stands at 809, it said, adding the number of active cases was 36.With one patient being discharged after his recovery, the number of those who have been cured from the infection has reached 61,086, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-5-more-deaths-42-new-cases-reported-in-punjab-101627319388197.html
26-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: Police move HC against trial court order which called its probe 'callous and farcical'||The Delhi Police on Monday moved the Delhi high court challenging a trial court order from last week which called its investigation into a 2020 riots case "callous and farcical," according to news agency PTI. In its plea, the police argued that the trial court's order was in "violation of the principles of natural justice."Also Read | Delhi riots case: Court slaps ₹25,000 on police for 'callous and farcical' investigation"The order was passed without giving any opportunity to the DCP to make his submissions. Also, very serious remarks were made against the investigation even prior to the commencement of the trial," the force submitted in its appeal to the high court. The petition, filed through advocates Amit Mahajan and Rajat Nair, also noted that the imposition of a fine on the police was "unwarranted and uncalled for."In his order on July 13, additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav had pulled up the police over "lack of efficacy and fairness" in its investigation in the case and slapped on it a penalty of ₹25,000. The amount, the judge, had directed, was to be recovered from the station house officer (SHO) of Bhajanpura police station, and his supervising officers. The Delhi Police had challenged in the trial court a magisterial court order directing it to register an FIR on the complaint of Mohammad Nasir, who said he lost his left eye after suffering a gunshot injury during the riots which broke out in the Capital's northeast region in February last year. Arguing its case in the trial court, the agency had said that there was no need to file a separate FIR as it had already registered one earlier. It had also said that no evidence was found against the accused who allegedly shot Nasir, as they were not present in Delhi at the time of the incident. Nasir had named six people in his complaint, including former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Naresh Gaur.The trigger for the riots, which lasted for nearly a week, was stone-pelting between supporters of the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and those protesting against it, in Maujpur on February 23. In the ensuing violence, 53 people lost their lives while scores were injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-police-move-hc-against-trial-court-order-which-called-its-probe-callous-and-farcical-101627316998785.html
26-07-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand chief minister moves into ‘jinxed’ house after 6 days of ritual worship||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami moved into his official residence after six days of worship rituals by eight priests on Monday, the fifth chief minister in 20 years to stay in the bungalow in the heart of state capital Dehradun that some of his predecessors considered jinxed.Trivendra Singh Rawat, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) surprise choice for the state’s top post after winning the 2017 state elections, was the last chief minister to live in the official residence. He didn’t complete his term and had to step down in March this year, nine days short of completing four years in office.Some in Uttarakhand’s political circles had linked Trivendra Singh Rawat’s exit to his 2017 decision to move into the bungalow built in a 10-acre plot of prime land by the government at a cost of ₹16 crore. Many recalled how others such as Ramesh Pokhriyal brushed aside the superstitious belief and stayed in CM House had his term cut short. They appear to ignore that others such as BC Khanduri or Trivendra’s successor Tirath Singh Rawat didn’t last long even though they didn’t live in CM House.No one really remembers when the so-called jinx that its occupants will not be able to complete their five-year term took root. But it hasn’t helped that no chief minister of Uttarakhand except for its first, Narain Dutt Tiwari, has been able to hold on to the post for the complete five-year term.When the Congress named Vijay Bahugana as chief minister in March 2012, he went ahead to move into the bungalow. He was replaced by Harish Rawat before he could complete two years.Senior Congress leader Suryakant Dhasmana said Harish Rawat didn’t live in the CM House for this reason and chose to live in Dehradun’s Bijapur area. He did manage to stay in power for three years but with two short spells of central rule.Before Pushkar Singh Dhami stepped into the house with his family, Vastu expert Santosh Khanduri said eight priests had been conducting worship rituals since July 21 “to increase the positive vibrations and lessen the impact of Vastu defects in the house”.Chief minister Dhami first offered prayers at the Shiv Temple on the premises, offered grass to the cows in the cowshed also on the premises and circumnutated around the house before stepping foot, said Santosh Khanduri who was overseeing the rituals.Prof MM Semwal, a political analyst from Garhwal university said from a scientific point of view, one shouldn’t link political developments to such superstitions. “All these major political changes in the state over the years have political reasons. One house cannot affect or bring such changes”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-chief-minister-moves-into-jinxed-house-after-6-days-of-ritual-worship-101627319200340.html
26-07-2021||Other||Puri becomes the first city in country to have ‘drink from tap’ facility||Odisha government on Monday declared Puri as the first city in the country to have city-wide safe drinking tap water that can be used directly for drinking and cooking without further filtration or boiling.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik, who dedicated the ‘Sujal-Drink From Tap Mission’ in Puri, said the city has joined the league of big cities in the world to provide safe drinking water to its residents direct from the tap.“Puri is the first city in the country to implement the Drink from Tap project. The abode of the Lord Jagannath is at the forefront. The metro cities do not have this facility either. Today, Puri has joined the world’s largest cities league, including London, New York, and Singapore,” he said, adding that all families in Puri will receive tap water fit for drinking from today.“Under Drink From Tap-Sujal Mission, people of Puri will be able to fetch water directly from the tap to drink. There is no need for storage or a filter. Tap water will be available 24x7,” said Patnaik.The chief minister said nearly 2 crore tourists visit Puri every year, they will no longer have to carry water bottles with them while in Puri. “The move will now eliminate the usage of 3 crore plastic water bottles. This would mean the city will now be free from nearly 400 tonnes of plastic waste,” he said.The Sujal Mission was launched on October 13 last year to ensure quality tapped drinking water for more than 1.5 million people in more than 15 urban areas. It includes a 24/7 helpline centre with IVRS for grievance redressal, a mobile water testing laboratory and a quick response team for rapid redressal of water supply complaints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/puri-becomes-the-first-city-in-country-to-have-drink-from-tap-facility-101627318420849.html
26-07-2021||Other||Municipal Commissioner requests Rs40 cr for Smart City SPV||PUNE: The municipal commissioner of Pune has put forth before the standing committee a proposal to hand over Rs40 crore to the Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited.A couple of months ago, the civic administration had similarly requested that a sum of Rs47 crore be handed over however the figure was later pared-down to Rs40 crore. At the time, the elected members chose not to discuss the proposal, postponing it instead.As the Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited is a separate special purpose vehicle (SPV), every year, central, state and local bodies provide some share to it to carry out various projects.In another bid, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) also sought permission to increase the entrance fees for 13 gardens in the city. The PMC proposed charges of Rs5 for children, Rs10 for adults and Rs100 for foreign nationals. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, most of the public gardens are closed during evening hours.The standing committee will take a decision on both proposals on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/municipal-commissioner-requests-rs40-cr-for-smart-city-spv-101627316859969.html
26-07-2021||Other||Speed-up rehab for Tangewala Colony residents: PMC writes to SRA||PUNE: With fears of flooding returning due to incessant rain, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has written a letter to the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) requesting speeding-up of the process of rehabilitation of the flood-affected residents of Tangewala Colony.Owing to heavy showers on September 25, 2019, the Ambil Odha - a stream that flows through the Sahakar Nagar neighbourhood – overflowed its banks, causing heavy inundation at Tangewala Colony along with loss of life and property. Ever since, the clamour for rehabilitation of the colony’s residents has grown louder. While plans have been afoot since 1992 and even got underway in 2000, only a few of the residents have been rehabilitated till date even as many others wait for their turn.Following the devastation caused by the 2019 flood, Ajit Pawar, then Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader, instructed the civic administration to speed-up the process of rehabilitating the residents of Tangewala Colony however not much has been accomplished yet. Local corporator Ashwini Kadam clarified, “The plot for the SRA scheme had been identified. Even the SRA had started the process of checking the authorised slums and surveying them. We are hoping that the SRA scheme will start very soon. I had requested the PMC officials and city engineer before the monsoon to instruct SRA to speed-up the process of rehabilitation of these people to avoid future eventualities. Thereafter, PMC wrote the letter to the SRA.”Meanwhile, a source from the SRA confirmed that the rehabilitation process is in the pipeline. The SRA is carrying out the administrative work and will later issue all the permissions,” the source said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/speedup-rehab-for-tangewala-colony-residents-pmc-writes-to-sra-101627316859384.html
26-07-2021||Delhi||Bandaru Dattatreya visits PM Modi, first time after becoming Haryana Governor||After taking over as Haryana Governor on July 16, Bandaru Dattatreya paid a first courtesy call to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the national capital on Monday.As per an official statement, they discussed in detail the developmental and public welfare schemes being run in the state.In this meeting, which lasted for about 20 minutes, the Prime Minister said that schemes related to agricultural development and farmers' welfare should be extended to every needy person so that the farmer of the country becomes more financially strong.He said that the state government should ensure that the schemes related to agricultural development and farmers' welfare are implemented on the ground level.Praising the development taking place in Haryana, the Prime Minister said that Haryana state is Atmanirbhar in various fields, yet employment, business, rural development, health services can be developed by exploring the possibilities of more development.He also said that maximum people in the state should be included in 'Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana' and asserted Corona patients have also been included in this scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bandaru-dattatreya-visits-pm-modi-first-time-after-becoming-haryana-governor-101627315210591.html
26-07-2021||Other||Maha mangrove cover shrinking, conservation necessary to prevent calamities||PUNE: On the occasion of International Mangroves Day on Monday, July 26, Mahesh Shindikar, assistant professor, Biology, Applied Sciences Department, College of Engineering Pune (COEP), stressed on the importance of mangroves and the need to conserve them to prevent coastal devastation.Speaking at the national webinar on “mangrove ecosystems; understanding and conservation of mangroves”, Shindikar explained, “Mangroves are a group of trees and shrubs that live in the coastal intertidal (area of seashore covered at high tide and uncovered at low tide) zone and are important to us because they help stabilise coastline ecosystems and prevent erosion. They also provide natural infrastructure and protection to the nearby populated areas by absorbing storm surge impacts (abnormal rise in water generated by storm) during extreme natural calamities.”A former senior research fellow of the Agharkar Research Institute, Pune and Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR), New Delhi, Shindikar said, “Along the Maharashtra coast, estuaries and creeks are the important habitats that harbour mangrove vegetation. Out of the total 68 sampling sites identified along the Konkan coast; 15 are from the Thane and Mumbai districts, 14 from Raigad, 22 from the Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts with 17 creeks. Unfortunately however, there is very limited space left along the western coast for these mangroves to spread and they are shrinking, thereby not being able to provide sufficient tools of resilience to natural calamities like high tides and cyclones.”Shindikar’s research has found that while the mangroves in Maharashtra were explored for more than a century as part of botanical interest and environmental studies, there is no clear-cut information regarding the number of species, area covered and so on. A majority of the mangrove forests in the state have disappeared due to anthropogenic (caused by human beings and their activities) pressures in recent years. Over the past 25 years, nearly 40% reduction in the mangrove cover of the state has been due to human interference, with habitat conversion and felling of trees being the two major threats to mangroves. The estuary or creek ecosystems in general and the mangrove ecosystems in particular are under tremendous pressure from urbanisation and industrialisation.Shindikar emphasised that the key issue is not just destruction but degradation of mangrove ecosystems through pollution, accumulation of silt, changes in salinity, loss of biodiversity and even the economy for if there are no mangroves, there will be coastal devastation which has led to an estimated loss of $650 billion as stated by a recent study in USA.“It is therefore important that the government focuses on diverse aspects of mangrove ecosystems, the scope for mangrove conservation as business and government policies related to sustainable coastal and mangrove management,” Shindikar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maha-mangrove-cover-shrinking-conservation-necessary-to-prevent-calamities-101627316559350.html
26-07-2021||Other||Pune railway division to the rescue of passengers stuck at Miraj station||PUNE The Pune railway division has come forward to help passengers who are stuck at Miraj railway station since July 24, due to the floods in Kolhapur. Heavy rain across the state has caused due the Central Railway (CR) to cancel or divert all trains going towards Kolhapur. This has stranded hundreds of passengers who were deboarded at Miraj railway station from July 24 onwards. These passengers are staying in the waiting rooms at the railway station and railway staff are providing them with meals and other necessary items. “As heavy rains were on in Sangli and Kolhapur areas, all train operations were cancelled going towards Kolhapur. Even the highways were closed so many passengers got down at the Miraj railway station. And since then, they are staying in the waiting rooms at the railway station. Our staff is providing the passengers with tea, snacks and two meals. This free service to passengers is going on for three days and will continue till the passengers are there,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-railway-division-to-the-rescue-of-passengers-stuck-at-miraj-station-101627316439348.html
26-07-2021||Other||Pavana river still carrying sewage water from broken drains||PUNE With the city witnessing heavy showers, the Pavana river too is overflowing but not just with rainwater. There are a lot of pollutants floating along as well, thanks to leakages in the sewage drainage lines built along the river.Environmental activist Ganesh Bora was among the first to spot sewage drifting along the river. “The monsoon has caused rivers to swell from one bank to the other, and we saw a lot of sewage gliding along. Later while walking along the banks, we saw the broken sewage lines from where drainage water was flowing into the river,” he said.The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), in a survey, identified pollution in the Pavana river and its tributaries flowing about 20km from Dapodi to Ravet. Six major drains namely, Ravet Nala near Ravet STP, Garware Nala Near Bhatnagar, Kalasagar Nala, Chinchwad Nala near SBR 30 MLD STP, Gavade Colony Nala near Manikbag, Chinchwad Station Nala near By Bombay Selection, and the nala near Sandvik were found to be contributing to the pollution.Following the MPCB survey and the 2019-20 Environment Status Report published by the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), the PCMC was issued warning and also served a court order for polluting the Pawana river. Soon after, work began on building an interceptor drainage line to curb the discharge of sewage water into the Pavana river however it is going on at a snail’s pace, defeating the very purpose for which it was undertaken.On his part, Sanjay Kulkarni, environment officer, PCMC, said, “The plan of building an interceptor drainage line is still underway, and has been delayed due to Covid-19 and also due to litigation over land acquisition. But this year we should have the drainage line in place.”Commenting on the issue, Kiran Hasabnis, sub-regional officer, MPCB, said, “It is true that we found that sewage water is indeed flowing into the Pavana river and that there are breaks in the drainage lines. While in some areas, there is still no proper sewage network. The PCMC has a total sewage generation and treatment capacity of 353 MLD but the sewage treatment plant (STP) holds around 312 MLD and treats only 287 MLD of sewage. The difference of 32 MLD is discharged into the river.”Hasabnis however added that the PCMC plans to bridge this gap in sewage treatment by installing a new 210km drainage line under the AMRUT scheme which was to be completed by 2020, and five new STPs with a capacity of 62 MLD proposed to be built at different locations. The Pavana river originates from the Pavana lake near Lonavala and flows a total distance of 60km to meet the Mula river at Sangvi near Pune. Along its journey, the river flows through Kalewadi, Punawale, Chinchwad and Pimpri.It has been reported that the river is severely polluted due to sewage (untreated and treated) and garbage from these cities and their suburbs. The accumulation of silt and discharge of untreated waste are the major causes of pollution in the river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pavana-river-still-carrying-sewage-water-from-broken-drains-101627315959285.html
26-07-2021||Lucknow||Yogi launches MyGovUP portal to connect citizens with state govt policies, services||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday launched the MyGovUP portal to enhance citizens’ communication with the Uttar Pradesh government. With this “innovative effort”, now the citizens can share their opinion on the government’s policy and the government can receive their feedback on programmes of public interest, the chief minister said on the occasion. Mainly, https://up.mygov.in/ is a platform to disseminate the governance schemes and to know the opinion of common citizens on them, said a government statement after the event. Speaking on the occasion, the chief minister said democracy was a system of governance “of the people, for the people and by the people”. Prior to 2014, public participation in government was negligible and there was no place for the feelings and thoughts of the common citizen, he said. But on this day in July 2014, within two months of the formation of the Narendra Modi-led BJP government at the Centre, the platform ‘MyGov’ was launched, he said. The platform launched by the Prime Minister to realise the spirit of democracy through technology played a big role in achieving the goal of good governance in seven years, he added. Praising the team of MyGov, the chief minister said, “During the Covid-19 pandemic, we realised the use of technology that how together we can reach the benefits of the schemes of governance with complete transparency and honesty to crores of people.” With the help of technology, over 80,000 e-pos (point of sale) machines were installed in fair price shops and connected to the government’s portal, he said. In his message, Union minister for communications and electronics Ashwini Vaishnaw said, “MyGov is a step towards digital democracy.” MyGov CEO Abhishek Singh also gave a brief overview of MyGov. Additional chief secretary (information) Navneet Sehgal was also present in the programme that was held virtually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-launches-mygovup-portal-to-connect-citizens-with-state-govt-policies-services-101627315900051.html
26-07-2021||Other||BJP protests Sena MLA’s behaviour on CM’s visit to Chiplun||PUNE The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), on Monday, publicly condemned the behaviour of Shiv Sena MLA Bhaskar Jadhav, after a video of Jadhav scolding a woman in Chiplun went viral. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, on Sunday, visited the flood affected area in Chiplun, and the woman was allegedly pledging for help in front of the CM. On the video, Jadhav can be seen scolding her.BJP city unit president Jagdish Mulik held an agitation against Jadhav at the Alka chowk. Recently, when Jadhav was chairing the assembly, he suspended 12 BJP MLAs. BJP MLA Madhuri Misal also issued a statement demanding action against Jadhav. Misal said that instead of helping the flood-affected people, Jadhav used foul language on them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-protests-sena-mla-s-behaviour-on-cm-s-visit-to-chiplun-101627315779225.html
26-07-2021||Other||Prashant Kishore’s I-PAC members to asked stay at Tripura hotel till Covid-19 test results||At least 23 members of the Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC), led by political strategist Prashant Kishore, have been asked to stay put at a Tripura hotel till the arrival of their Covid-19 test reports, said police.The team arrived in the state last week to assess the potentiality of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) to expand its base in the BJP-IPFT ruled state that will go for assembly polls in 2023.Police said that these people who came from outside the state a few days back were found moving at different places amid the corona curfew. Consequently, the police visited their hotel on Monday and inquired about the purpose of their visit.All of them underwent a Covid-19 test and were asked to stay at their private hotel till they get a clearance from the health department, said a police official from East Agartala Police Station.A person from the I-PAC said the team members were not given any reason for staying inside the hotel except that the order came “from the top”. The person added that the RT PCR tests are suspected to have been so aligned that the visiting team members could board their flights back to Kolkata and do nothing apart from that.However, a state health department official said the team members violated the Covid-19 protocol on their visit to the state by not producing mandatory negative RT-PCR reports.TMC, Tripura unit President Asish Lal Singh termed it as an attack on democracy. “The I-PAC team came here for a survey. The state government has put them under virtual house arrest as they are scared of their survey results. This is not the culture of Tripura and I condemn the incident,” said Singh.The BJP didn’t comment on the issue yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prashant-kishore-s-i-pac-members-to-asked-stay-at-tripura-hotel-till-covid-19-test-results-101627315659850.html
26-07-2021||Other||CM Thackeray’s chopper unable to land in Satara due to poor visibility||PUNE Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was unable to visit the flood-affected areas of Satara district on Monday, as the helicopter he was travelling in was unable to land at the Koyna helipad due to low visibility. The CM then returned to Lohegaon airport in Pune. With the Konkan region and western Maharashtra in the grip of floods and landslides due to heavy rain, the CMhas been visiting these areas since July 24.A statement from the chief minister’s office said, “Though the chief minister was not able to visit the flood-affected area due to low visibility, he then called the Satara district collector and issued instructions, including that there should be no impediments in providing relief materials to the affected people. Also, medical teams must be on the alert considering the ongoing pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cm-thackeray-s-chopper-unable-to-land-in-satara-due-to-poor-visibility-101627315539242.html
26-07-2021||Other||PMC has dispatched 17 water tankers and technical manpower to Kolhapur||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has dispatched 17 water tankers and technical manpower to Kolhapur to aid with water supply for the flood-affected residents of Kolhapur city.With Kolhapur city flooded, water treatment plants and water supply has been disrupted.The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation requested the PMC to help restore water supply.Last year also, as Kolhapur faced floods, PMC helped restore its water supply and repaired the water treatment plants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-has-dispatched-17-water-tankers-and-technical-manpower-to-kolhapur-101627315479354.html
26-07-2021||Other||Crops on 0.2 million hectares damaged in the state||PUNE Incessant rain over a period of five days saw crops spread over 0.2 million hectares damaged, as per information provided by the state agriculture department. The number is expected to go higher as the department is still gathering information.Already, the Kharif crop suffered damage due to the late arrival of the rain, however, things have now become worse with the spells of heavy rainfall.In Pune district, 420 villages and 1,019 farmers have suffered crop damage. The rice crop on 3,910 hectares has been completely damaged, as per the Pune district administration.Due to the heavy downpours, the fertile layer of soil (top layer) has been washed away on 717 hectares of farm land, as per the authorities.Crop damage has been reported from Kolhapur, Sangli, Raigad, Ratnagiri, Palghar, Thane, Parbhani, Nanded, Akola, Washim, Nagpur, Wardha and Konkan. In Kolhapur, crops on 63,420 hectares have been impacted by the heavy rains. In Vidarbha crops on 66,000 hectares, and in Parbhani, crops on 34,000 hectares have been damaged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/crops-on-0-2-million-hectares-damaged-in-the-state-101627315359770.html
26-07-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh’s 24-hour Covid-19 positivity rate falls to 0.01%, says Yogi Adityanath||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday announced that the Covid-19 (24-hour) positivity rate in Uttar Pradesh has now come down to a negligible 0.01%. The tositivity rate is the number of samples that test positive against the total number of samples tested. Yogi Adityanath made the announcement at a Covid-19 review meeting in Lucknow.“With concerted efforts, now 11 districts have no active Covid cases while there are 857 active cases across the state. This situation is similar to what it was on April 18, 2020, the initial days of Covid onset in the state,” he said.He also said, “The state on average is doing between 2.5 lakh and 3 lakh tests each day and the positivity rate is a mere 0.01%. The state has effective control on the second wave of the pandemic and will continue the trace, test, treat and vaccinate policy.”He added that in the last few days no district in the state had reported fresh Covid-19 cases in double digits.While 53 districts did not report any fresh cases, 22 other districts reported single-digit cases.“In the last 24 hours, 2.27 lakh tests were done of which only 33 tested positive and 64 patients have recovered. The recovery rate in the state is 98.6%,” he said.The chief minister said the state had established 6,522 PICU (paediatric intensive care unit) beds and 3,000 NICU (neo-natal ICU) beds so far in preparation for the possible third wave of the pandemic.He also said the vaccination drive in the state was going on well with a total of 4.44 crore doses administered across the state so far.“In July, 1.32 crore doses have been administered so far,” he said.Need to speed up Ayodhya’s integrated development: CMYogi Adityanath said that there was a need to speed up works towards the integrated development of Ayodhya. He asked the officers concerned to ensure inter-departmental coordination for the Ayodhya development works and sort out all land-related issues on priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-s-24-hour-covid-19-positivity-rate-falls-to-0-01-says-yogi-adityanath-101627315179994.html
26-07-2021||Pune||SPPU courses: Chemistry in demand, few takers for languages||Pune: As the new academic year is about to start and students are looking forward to taking admissions for various courses, Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) admission department is also holding entrance examination for its post graduate, undergraduate and diploma courses. Till now, 29,500 online applications have been received for the entrance examination and as usual there is a demand for popular course in Science and Management streams. And some courses and departments are struggling to get admissions. “Currently, students are registering online for various courses offered by SPPU and its deadline is up to July 28. We have received around 29,500 applications, while there is a mixed response to Science and Humanities courses by students. However, language department or courses have got poor response this year. Less number of applications have been received for these department courses for the entrance exams,” said Uttam Chavan, SPPU deputy registrar for the academic admissions department. There are 102 postgraduate courses with various departments in SPPU and 80 courses are of diploma, certificate and undergraduation. “In the Science stream, the maximum demand or entrance applications have come for Chemistry department, followed by Physics and Computer science for this year. Once the deadline is over on July 28, we will check out which department and courses have got less response and then accordingly for those courses open admissions will be done. There will not be any entrance examination held for them,” Chavan said. Usually there is a trend to take admissions for these less-in-demand courses by students who want to study and prepare for competitive exams. They take admission to these courses and on the basis of it they get hostel accomidation in SPPU. So, it is an easy way for students to get hostel facilities and prepare for competitive examination. But this year due to Covid-19 pandemic, the number of such students has drastically gone down affecting the admission process. “There are hundreds of students who come from rural parts of the state and want to get government jobs through competitive examination. But they cannot afford to stay in rented flats, so these students take admission for lesser in demand courses at SPPU and on its basis get hostel admission. But as university hostel is closed since pandemic started, students didn’t appear for such courses in this academic year,” said Kuldeep Ambekar, a student and president of Students Helping Hand organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-courses-chemistry-in-demand-few-takers-for-languages-101627314999830.html
26-07-2021||Other||“Unprecedented” rains triggered floods in Sangli and Kolhapur: Ajit Pawar||PUNE Amid criticism that water management and unauthorised constructions led to flooding last week, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that “unprecedented” rains triggered floods in Sangli and Kolhapur districts in Western Maharashtra. “When heavy rains started after July 22, there was enough storage capacity in dams in the Krishna river basin, but heavy downpours in the pre-catchment areas of dams caused floods downstream,” he said. Pawar described the pre-catchment area of the dam as the area ahead of the dam’s wall. He added that since its construction, the Koyna dam never received such a huge influx of water. “Around 16.5 TMC water was received in one day in the Koyna dam, which has a storage capacity of 100 TMC. There is a place near Koyna called Navja, where 32-inch rainfall was witnessed,” Pawar said after visiting the flood-hit areas. The deputy CM said the collective water storage in dams in the Krishna basin is at 84 per cent this time, compared to 50 per cent storage in the corresponding period last year. “As far as water storage in the dams in the basins of the Krishna and Bhima rivers is concerned, the current collective water storage is 71 per cent against 37 per cent last year,” he said. Pawar said the work to assess losses caused due to floods has still not been completed. “The real picture about the damage caused to crops and farms will emerge after the water recedes. I have instructed the district administration to continue with the assessment of losses at new places,” he added. Speaking about landslides, Pawar said such incidents were reported from the areas that were not prone to landslips. Responding to a query, Pawar said there was good coordination between the Centre and the Maharashtra government in managing the flood situation. “To avoid flooding in future, emphasis will be given on strengthening the flood management system. I have received some suggestions to have SDRF centres in flood-prone districts so that when such a situation arises, these groups can be pressed into action instead of waiting for help from agencies like the NDRF, Army, coastguard, and Navy,” he said. When asked if the current flood situation in western Maharashtra is a “man-made” crisis, Pawar dismissed such a contention saying “unprecedented” rainfall in “pre-catchment” areas of dams was responsible. “The green cover has not reduced in the areas where the landslide and flooding have taken place. It is being talked about that due to the high tree cutting activities, the incidents of landslide The deputy chief minister said a decision on providing relief to the people affected by floods in Maharashtra will be taken in the next couple of days.Pawar on Monday toured various rain-hit villages in Sangli district and used a rescue boat to reach out to flood victims in some areas. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unprecedented-rains-triggered-floods-in-sangli-and-kolhapur-ajit-pawar-101627314999189.html
26-07-2021||Other||Mumbai-Bengaluru highway partially re-opens for traffic||PUNE As the water level of the Panchaganga river receded further, the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway re-opened for traffic, partially, on Monday. According to Kolhapur police officials, one lane of the highway for heavy vehicles coming towards Pune from Kolhapur has been re-opened.A 100-metre stretch near Shiroli is still inundated. Smaller vehicles, according to officials, were being allowed on another lane reserved for vehicles going from Pune to Kolhapur. “We have opened two lanes for traffic at around 5pm. By late evening, we will open additional lanes,” said Shailesh Balkawade, superintendent of police, Kolhapur. Earlier in the morning, the highway was opened for vehicles carrying essential goods.Till Sunday, a 500m stretch near Shiroli in Kolhapur was inundated with water flowing almost 4-5 feet above the highway. There were at least 2000 trucks and 1,000 other private vehicles stranded on the road from both sides: Satara-Kolhapur and Belgaum-Kolhapur. “With the highway being opened, we are now clearing the traffic stuck for three days,” said Balkawade. With long queues of vehicles stuck on the national highway, many had sought shelter in nearby hotels, while private organisations including some NGOs were helping drivers and travellers with food and other necessary items.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbaibengaluru-highway-partially-re-opens-for-traffic-101627314939188.html
26-07-2021||Ranchi||Lawyer killed in broad daylight in Ranchi||In another murder over a land dispute, a practising lawyer was killed by motorcycle-borne assailants in Radgaon area under Tamar police station here on Monday, police said. This is the second such murder in the state capital within a fortnight.Police said the deceased, identified as Manoj Jha, was in his car with his driver around 500m from the busy National Highway-33 connecting Ranchi and Jamshedpur, when five assailants on two bikes opened fire at the lawyer. “The deceased advocate was aged around 50. During initial investigation, it came to light that he was attacked when he was overseeing wall construction on a big plot which was disputed earlier. We have got some leads about people involved in the dispute. We have detained two persons and they are being questioned,” said Naushad Alam, superintendent of police, Ranchi (rural). As per information, the lawyer was getting the work done on behalf of one of his clients, an educational institution, on the 14-acre plot. The assailants overpowered Jha’s driver on gunpoint and pumped several bullets before escaping. Earlier on July 15, a property dealer was killed outside a shopping mall in Ranchi. Police have, however, claimed to have cracked the case with the arrest of 10 accused in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/advocate-killed-in-broad-daylight-in-ranchi-101627314819160.html
26-07-2021||Other||Arrested accused drowns in river, locals protest||PATNAResidents of Punpun on Monday laid siege to the local police station after the mysterious death of a man arrested for theft the previous day.While locals allege that the police killed the accused, Golu Kumar (23), and threw his body into Punpun river, the police have he attempted to escape from their custody and jumped into the river when they chased him and drowned.“On Monday morning, Golu told policemen he wanted to relive himself. As the constables took him towards river Punpun, he cut loose and ran away. When they chased him, he jumped into the river. He could not guage the current and drowned,” said a police officer.Station house officer of Punpun police station, Kundan Kumar, said, “He jumped into river and drowned while trying to escape from the constable’s custody. His body was fished out and sent for autopsy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/arrested-accused-drowns-in-river-locals-protest-101627314761611.html
26-07-2021||Patna||Patna: Two youths killed in separate incidents||Armed assailants killed two youths in separate incidents in Patna district on Monday, police said. Their bodies were sent to Nalanda Medical College Hospital for postmortem examination.The first incident took place after criminals gunned down a 17-year-old youth at Kolhi marg under Gaurichak police station on Monday morning, when he was on way to meet his friend. Following the incident, an irate mob kept the body in front of Gaurichak police station and demanded the arrest of the criminals.In the second incident, armed criminals killed a 23-year-old youth at Pathari Ghat under Alamganj police station. According to the sister of the deceased, the youth, an auto-rickshaw driver, was murdered after he left his house from Chand colony around 9.30am.SHO of Alamganj police station, Sudhir Kumar, said the motive behind the murder is not clear. “Police are investigating the matter,” he said.Earlier on Sunday night, a fish trader was killed at Mushari area under Malsalami police station in Patna. The incident took place when the trader was returning from fish market. Agitated over the incident, angry locals blocked Morcha Road and demanded arrest of the criminals.DSP Amit Sharan said raids are on to trace the criminals. “The reason behind the murder is uncertain,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-two-youths-killed-in-separate-incidents-101627314762214.html
26-07-2021||Patna||PU to prepare data bank for training, placement of students||In a bid to ensure better employment opportunity to its students, Patna University (PU) has geared up to prepare data bank of all final year students for carrying out training and placement drive for them, officials said on Monday.PU’s vice-chancellor Girish Kumar Choudhary said data collection process was on at all constituent colleges. “We have asked all constituent colleges and departments to prepare a list of final year students interested in job placement. Interested students can register themselves by filling online form through the official website www.patnauniversity.ac.in. Data bank will have details of students and their educational qualifications. After collection of data, we will organise necessary skill development programme for students to hone up their professional skills in their respective fields,” the V-C said.PU constituent colleges comprise Magadh Mahila College, Patna Science College, Patna Law College, College of Art and Craft, BN College, Vanijya Mahavidyalaya, Patna Training College and Patna Women’s Training College.Head of placement cell, Ashim Lal Chakraborty, said, “All interested final year undergraduate and postgraduate students are instructed to register themselves latest by August 31.The data bank will help us in assessing how many students are interested in campus placement and their training and skill development will be done. Accordingly, companies and recruiters of various fields will be invited for campus placement.” Meanwhile, Patna University has also initiated process for construction of central research facility and an international hostel on its campus. As per PU, the research facility centre will be constructed on an area of 10,812 square feet at Patna Science College at an estimated cost of ₹48.45 crore. International hostel will be constructed near PU guest house for scholars coming from abroad at an estimated cost of ₹32.95 crore. “Bihar State Educational Infrastructure Development Corporation has started e-tendering process for construction of both projects. We hope to complete the construction work within 15 months,” said a PU official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pu-to-prepare-data-bank-for-training-placement-of-students-101627314761026.html
26-07-2021||Patna||Prof KN Singh new CUSB V-C||Professor Kameshwar Nath Singh assumed the charge as the new Vice-Chancellor (V-C) of Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) on Monday. Outgoing V-C Prof Harish Chandra Singh Rathore, who got nearly one year extension from the Ministry of human resource development, handed over the charge to Singh.Prof Singh is the third V-C of CUSB, which was set up in 2009. He will have a tenure of five years. His appointment was made by the President of India in his capacity as the Visitor of the University. The Union Ministry of Education (MoE) officially communicated the appointment on July 22.In his farewell speech at Vivekananda Lecture Hall Complex here, outgoing V-C Rathore expressed gratitude to the entire University fraternity and lauded their efforts for establishing CUSB as one of the best educational institutions of the region.Before joining CUSB, Prof Singh was the V-C of Uttar Pradesh’s Rajarshi Tandon Open University, Allahabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/prof-kn-singh-new-cusb-vc-101627314760437.html
26-07-2021||Ranchi||J’khand govt moves HC for opening OPD at AIIMS Deoghar, notice to Centre||The Hemant Soren government has moved the Jharkhand high court (HC) with a plea to make the out-patient department (OPD) at the newly set-up All India Institute Of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Deoghar district operational at the earliest.The AIIMS-OPD was earlier scheduled to be virtually inaugurated on June 26 last. However, the event was cancelled days before the scheduled date by the Union health ministry due to “unavoidable circumstances”.Jharkhand advocate general Rajiv Ranjan said the state government has filed the plea, as it was a matter of public health. The HC after hearing the matter on Monday issued a notice to the Centre and AIIMS, seeking their reply on the issue, Ranjan said.Seeking replies from the Centre and AIIMS, the HC has listed the matter for hearing on August 26.“Both the chief minister and the Union health minister had given their consent for the virtual inauguration. However, it was cancelled by the health ministry due to certain reasons. We are of the view that the OPD can be made functional even without a formal inauguration. Opening it will benefit the locals,” said Ranjan.The virtual inauguration and cancellation of the event last month had stirred a controversy, with the ruling JMM and the opposition BJP blaming each other for postponing the inauguration.BJP’s Nishikant Dubey, who is the member of Parliament from Godda, under which AIIMS-Deoghar is located, had earlier accused the district administration of deliberately trying to keep him away from the inauguration event and he was insisting for his physical presence for the event at the hospital.However, citing Covid-19 protocols, the district administration was holding a virtual event, inviting elected representatives through virtual links. The event was, however, later cancelled by Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jkhand-govt-moves-hc-for-opening-opd-at-aiims-deoghar-notice-to-centre-101627314759773.html
26-07-2021||Patna||Elderly Covid patients prone to low sodium level: AIIMS study||Elderly Covid-19 patients, especially those with co-morbidities and showing signs of disorientation, need to be promptly hospitalised and checked for fall in sodium level, or it can prove fatal, according to a scientific research based on patients admitted at All India Institute Of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Patna. Low sodium level or hyponatraemia, which is a common electrolyte abnormality in such patients, if unchecked, may lead to brain oedema and can be fatal, said Dr Utpal Anand, associate professor and head, department of gastrointestinal surgery at AIIMS-Patna. Dr Anand has done a scientific research based on case analysis of 500 elderly Covid-19 patients admitted at AIIMS-Patna. His finding, which forms a case series, has been recently accepted for publication in the Medical Journal Armed Forces India (MJAFI), a PubMed-indexed journal. Dr Anand said that existing medical literature suggests restriction of fluid corrects euvolemic hyponatremia, as low sodium level in Covid-19 is mainly due to Syndrome of Inappropriate Antidiuretic Hormone (SIADH), when excessive secretion of antidiuretic hormone due to stress in Covid-19 patients leads to fall in sodium level. However, in his research, he found that SIADH is not the only cause of hyponatraemia. “Hyponatraemia in Covid-19 can be multi-factorial, due to coexistent abnormalities like diabetes and hypocortisolism, a disorder in which the adrenal glands don’t produce enough hormones. Associated pneumonia, respiratory failure and stress in patients with coronavirus can also lead to hyponatraemia,” said Dr Anand. He also found that roughly 14% of the elderly patients, above 60 years of age, sampled for the research suffered from hyponatraemia. “A proper clinical evaluation and interpretation of laboratory parameters like urine osmolality, plasma osmolality, cortisone level, thyroid hormone level, sugar level and lipid profile are important in management of hyponatraemia associated with Covid-19. This will help to identify multiple contributing factors so that a targeted treatment strategy can be instituted in order to avoid serious consequences,” he added. According to Dr Anand, in cases of alteration in behaviour or consciousness, infected elderly patients should urgently be hospitalised and their serum sodium should be promptly evaluated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/elderly-covid-patients-prone-to-low-sodium-level-aiims-study-101627314759145.html
26-07-2021||Other||Assault on legislators: Congress to seek a debate in Council||PATNAThe Congress will press for a debate in the Legislative Council over assault on legislators by the police during the budget session, member of Legislative Council (MLC) Prem Chandra Mishra said on Monday.“As the unprecedented chaos and subsequent assault on the MLAs on March 23 took place in the legislature premises, members of the Upper House have the right to know about the incident which was a blot on the history of the state legislature.,” Earlier, Mishra participated in the opposition members’ meeting chaired by RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav in the legislature premises. Later, a delegation of the opposition members called on Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha and urged him to ensure a debate on the issue in the House.Mishra said the Speaker had assured to look into the opposition’s demand. In the evening, a religious story-teller (katha vachak) of Vrindavan, Gaurav Krishna Chandra Shastri, formally joined Congress along with his disciples at a simple function held at Sadaquat Ashram in presence of Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha and Congress legislature party (CLP) leader Ajit Sharma.Shastri, who hails from Bhagalpur, claimed to have campaigned for BJP during the last Assembly elections in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assault-on-legislators-congress-to-seek-a-debate-in-council-101627314699095.html
26-07-2021||Bhopal||4 times life imprisonment till death to 3 for abducting, killing Satna twins||A local court in Madhya Pradesh’s Satna district on Monday awarded life imprisonment till death to five persons accused of abducting and killing five-year-old twins in the district in February 2019, said a lawyer.In a high profile case, which kept MP and UP police on toes for 12 days, the six accused kidnapped twins, Priyansh and Shreyansh Rawat, from a school bus at a gunpoint in Chitrakoot on February 12, 2019. The accused have been identified as Raju alias Rakesh Dwivedi, Lucky Singh Tomar, Rohit Dwivedi and Ramkesh Yadav - all residents of Banda district in Uttar Pradesh - Pintoo Yadav, a resident of Hamirpur district in Uttar Pradesh, and Padm Shukla, a resident of Nayagaon, Chitrakoot.Later, the twins’ bodies were recovered from Yamuna river on February 24.Additional district prosecution officer (ADPO), Dharmendra Singh, said, “The main accused, Ramkesh Yadav, was the tutor of the twins and planned the abduction. After receiving a ransom amount of ₹20 lakh, the accused killed the twins as they had seen the tutor.”“Ramkesh Yadav died by suicide in the jail in May 2019 and other accused are lodged in the jail. The police filed a 230-page charge-sheet having enough evidence against them to prove them guilty,” said Singh.“The three accused Padm, Raju and Lucky have been sentenced to life imprisonment till death four times for the kidnapping and murder of both the children and a fine of ₹1.7 lakh. The accused Vikramjit Singh and Apoorva Yadav were found guilty of abduction, criminal conspiracy and arms act and were sentenced double life imprisonment said Hari Krishna Tripathi, media in-charge of prosecution. “Priyansh Rawat and Shreyansh Rawat were abducted by accused Padmakant and Raju from the bus. The accused kept the kids in a rented accommodation about a kilometre away from the school. Raju and Padmakant went to Banda, UP to demand ransom of ₹2 crore from their father Brijesh Rawat. On February 18, they received ₹20 lakh. But the kids had seen Ramkesh Yadav so Padmakant, Raju and Lucky took the children in an SUV to Augasi Ghat district Banda on the Yamuna river and strangulated them to death. They threw the bodies in the river after tying with chains, nets and stones,” said Tripthai Meanwhile, the victims’ father, Brijesh Rawat, expressed dissatisfaction. “I failed. Injustice was done with my innocent kids who were killed for money. I am upset with judgement as these culprits should be hanged till death,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/4-times-life-imprisonment-till-death-to-3-for-abducting-killing-satna-twins-101627313799599.html
26-07-2021||Pune||Bhosari police book man for rape||Pune: The Bhosari police have booked a youth for bringing a girl from Madhya Pradesh to Pune and allegedly raping her. According to the police, the accused identified as Mukesh Ramesh Panya (29), a resident of Dindori in Madhya Pradesh, brought the woman to Bhosari on the pretext of providing her a job and instead incarcerated her in a room and allegedly raped her on a number of occasions and threatened to kill her if she reported the matter to the police. He even broke her mobile phone so that she would not be able to communicate to the family members or the police. Later, the girl managed to escape and went to Dindori and lodged a police complaint after which the MP police transferred investigation to Bhosari police station. Further investigation is on to nab the accused, the police said. Four booked for assaulting hospital staff in Undri Pune: The Kondhwa police have lodged an FIR against four persons for allegeding barging into a private hospital and stealing cash and medicines on Thursday night. The accused assaulted the hospital staff and fled with cash estimated be worth ₹13,000. According to the police, the incident took place around midnight on Thursday when the accused came to Indus Hospital in Undri on the pretext of availing treatment for one of his accomplices. Sardar Patil, inspector incharge, Kondhwa police station, said that the four accused came on a two-wheeler and told the hospital staff that one of their persons had sustained leg injury. While the staffer rushed for equipment to tend the wound, the accused assaulted a compounder and stole the cash, injections and medicines. The complainant identified as Rajabhau Lawate (24), a compounder, who opposed them was hit on the head with a chair while the other staffers were physically assaulted with iron rods. The accused then sped away on their two-wheeler. The victim after being administered first aid treatment rushed to Undri police chowki where an FIR was lodged in the case. Assistant police inspector RS Mohite, the investigation officer in the case, said that the accused have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and will be arrested soon. Youth arrested for posing as ‘don’, physical assault Pune: The Warje Malwadi police have arrested 24-year-old Vaibhav alias Papya Ukare on charges of spreading terror in the area and assaulting a father-son duo to impress upon the area that he was a ‘don’. The incident took place on Sunday at Karvenagar chowk when he assaulted a victim identified as Sanjay alias Suraj Poojari (34), a resident of Karvenagar, with iron rods and also assaulted his father brutally when he tried to intervene. According to the police, the assault took place for no reason as the accused wanted to show his presence in the area and took to violence. PSI JN Holkar said that the accused has been arrested and booked under relevant sections of IPC. Further investigation is on in the case, he said. Kothrud police book 11 for illegal money-lending The Kothrud police have booked eleven persons under the Money Lending Act for demanding Rs85 lakh from a victim, a resident of Sadashiv peth. One of the accused had lent ₹5 lakh to the victim on interest and had already recovered ₹25 lakh from him. Despite the payment, the accused came together and demanded ₹85 lakh as principal amount and threatened to kill him if he failed to cough up the amount. Some of the accused have been identified as Sagar Kalyan Rajput, Jignesha Sagar Rajput, Prabhavati Kalyan Rajput, Rani Marne, Amit Kale, Bhudya and others and the incident took place between 2018 and July 2021. Police said that the victim had taken ₹5 lakh on interest from the moneylenders and the accused were returned ₹25 lakh via GPay and bank transfer forcibly and yet demanded more money from the victim. They also took an undertaking in the form of an affidavit where they made the victim pledge a plot of land in Ambegaon in their name. They also sent goons to recover more money from the victim and his friend, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bhosari-police-book-man-for-rape-101627313739024.html
26-07-2021||Ranchi||28 new cases take Jharkhand's Covid-19 tally to nearly 3,47,000||Jharkhand reported 28 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, which pushed the tally in the state to 3,46,946, a health department bulletin said on Monday.The death toll remained at 5,124 as no new fatality due to the infection was reported during the period, it said.Of the fresh cases, four each were registered in Hazaribag and Koderma, three each in Dhanbad, Jamtara and Simdega and two each in Bokaro, Gumla and Latehar.No new case was reported from Chatra, Deoghar, Garhwa, Giridih, Godda, Gumla, Khunti, Lohardaga, Pakur, Palamu, Saraikela and West Singhbhum.Jharkhand now has 254 active cases, the bulletin said.At least 50 more people were cured of the disease in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 3,41,568, the bulletin said.The recovery rate among coronavirus patients in the state stands at 98.44 per cent.Altogether, 1.13 crore samples have been tested for Covid-19 in the state, including 54,968 since Sunday, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/28-new-cases-take-jharkhand-s-covid-19-tally-to-nearly-347000-101627311359911.html
26-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 39 single-day Covid-19 cases, one death in 24 hours||Delhi’s single-day tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) witnessed a fall on Monday after it reported 39 cases, pushing the caseload to 1,435,949, according to the health department’s bulletin. As many as 80 people recovered and one person succumbed to the viral infection on Monday. With this, the cumulative recoveries went up to 1,410,368 and while the death toll touched 25,044. The active cases came down to 537, the bulletin said.On Sunday, the national capital logged 66 cases and two deaths due to Covid-19, while on Saturday it reported zero deaths —for the second time since the second wave of the pandemic hit Delhi.The low infection count in Delhi on Monday can be attributed to the lesser number of tests conducted during the previous day. As per the health department’s bulletin, only 56,435 tests were conducted in the previous 24 hours of which 45,423 were RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests while the remaining 11,012 were rapid antigen tests.The number of containment zones in Delhi was 305 while the tally of infected patients under home isolation stood at 162 till Monday.Delhi reports 39 new #COVID19 cases, 80 recoveries and one death in the last 24 hoursActive cases: 537Total recoveries: 14,10,368Death toll: 25,044 pic.twitter.com/i6WNT2uzNrMeanwhile, Delhi has administered 9,668,514 people against Covid-19 till now, of which 10,614 were inoculated in the previous 24 hours, the bulletin also said.With the improvement in the situation pertaining to the pandemic, the Delhi government further eased the restrictions in place and allowed buses and metros to operate with full seating capacity. However, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority order prevents passengers from standing inside metro compartments, as of now.After the Delhi government allowed movie theatres and multiplexes to reopen at half their capacity, the cinema halls across the city are undergoing sanitisation before they are opened for audiences. Speaking to news agency ANI on Sunday, JJ Verma, manager at the Delite Cinema Hall, said snacks would not be allowed inside halls and only sealed-packed eatables would be sold from the counter.Meanwhile, YN Singh, who handles the accounts department at the Liberty cinema in Karol Bagh, has decided to screen only big-budget movies that would do well in the box office. “The Delhi government announced this yesterday. It will take time for us to open the cinemas as we neither have any film nor the agreement,” he told ANI on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-39-single-day-covid-19-cases-one-death-in-24-hours-101627311735675.html
26-07-2021||Other||Goa Governor requests Centre for assistance to flood-affected people in state||Goa Governor P S Sreedharan Pillai on Monday requested the Central government to provide assistance to flood-affected people in Goa.Speaking to ANI, he informed more than 5,000 houses have been damaged or destroyed due to heavy rains."I request the Centre to provide assistance to flood-affected people in Goa. As per government sources, more than 5,000 houses have been damaged or destroyed due to heavy rains. The estimated loss is around ₹500 crore," Pillai told ANI.Earlier on July 24, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called him to enquire about the prevailing flood situation in Goa due to incessant rains and assured him of the Centre's full support and assistance to the State.Sawant further said that he spoke to Union Home Minister Amit Shah and briefed him about the widespread damage caused in the State due to incessant rains.Heavy rainfall has wreaked havoc in parts of Goa inundating houses, leaving hundreds stranded, communication lines snapped and rail and road traffic disrupted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-governor-requests-centre-for-assistance-to-flood-affected-people-in-state-101627308148551.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM to meet Nitin Gadkari to seek land relief revision for farmers||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday assured a farmers' delegation that he will soon take up with the Centre their demand for the revision of compensation against land acquired by the NHAI under the 'Bharatmala Pariyojana'.He also directed the financial commissioner revenue (FCR) to immediately issue detailed instructions to the concerned officials not to credit the compensation amount into farmers' bank accounts against their will, according to a government statement issued here.The issue relates to 25,000 hectares of land in 15 districts of the state. The land is under the process of acquisition under the 'Bharatmala Pariyojna'.Multiple expressways, including Delhi-Jammu-Katra, Jamnagar-Amritsar, Ludhiana-Ropar, Bathinda-Dabwali, and Jalandhar and Ludhiana bypass, will be built on this land.Farmers have rejected the "meagre" compensation awarded by the district revenue officers (DROs), who have been designated as the Competent Authority for Land Acquisitions, for their lands acquired by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) under the 'Bharatmala Pariyojana'.The government envisages building 34,800 km of highways at a cost of about ₹5.35 lakh crore under the ambitious 'Bharatmala Pariyojna'.Singh met a delegation of Road Kissan Sangharsh Committee here led by its state president Sukhdev Singh Dhillon, the statement said.During the meeting, the CM assured the farmers' delegation that he will soon meet Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari to raise their demand, it said.He directed his principal secretary to seek an early appointment with Gadkari and asked the director general of police to ensure that farmers' land is not forcibly seized, it added.Singh stressed the need to resolve the issue on priority to the satisfaction of farmers, who have been protesting for the past several months, the statement said.He also directed FCR Ravneet Kaur and Principal Secretary PWD (buildings and roads) Vikas Partap to jointly prepare a comprehensive case, in consultation with the representatives of the committee, to highlight the "glaring discrepancies" in deciding the compensation for the farmers under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, it said.The CM ruled out the possibility of referring such cases for arbitration as it will unnecessarily lead to an inordinate delay in seeking justice for the farmers, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-to-meet-nitin-gadkari-to-seek-land-relief-revision-for-farmers-101627310365823.html
26-07-2021||Pune||PMC issues two tenders for same work in Erandwane-Happy colony||Pune: Even as the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has introduced a system to check duplication of development works and issuance of tender for same work, the Warje-Karvenagar ward office has called two tenders for same work of shredding in ward 13 (C) named Erandwane-Happy colony. The ward office has issued tender notices for 36 new development works, including cement concretisation of internal roads, changing paver block, place signage boards, changing old drainage lines, painting, repairing public toilets, shredding tree branches and dry waste. In the tender notice, ward office mentioned two works of shredding in ward number-13 (C) with an estimated amount of ₹1,77,911 (PMC/ZONE-3/2021-22/Warje-Karvenagar/79) and another tender of ₹1,78,180 (PMC/ZONE-3/2021-22/Warje-Karvenagar/77). In the first week of July, PMC had received complaints of multiple tenders for same work in Bhavani peth ward office. At that time, the administration explained that the work was divided into different parts which included changing drainage pipeline work. The garden department had also issued two tenders for the same work in February 2021. The work included development works in Unity Park located in ward number 27. The civic administration had assured of inquiry, but nothing happened. Kunal Khemnar, PMC additional municipal commissioner, said, “To avoid duplication of development works, we have put in place a system to mention longitude and latitude of work and map or design, photograph of area and name of location detailing the work. Action will be taken against officials for duplication of tenders.” On the Bhavani peth tender, he said, “During the inquiry, there were six works and only one map was attached to each work. The location was same and the work was changing the drainage line. We called ward officials and inspected the documents and found that there was a different budget and the contractor attached to the same design and map of work to each work. It was not the same tenders though the work was the same — change drainage pipeline. The work was divided into six parts.” Civic activist Vivek Velankar said, “It is wastage of public money, manpower and machinery. PMC should adopt checks to avoid such things in future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-issues-two-tenders-for-same-work-in-erandwane-happy-colony-101627310678776.html
26-07-2021||Other||‘Complaints against 20 IAS, IPS officers, 4 booked’: Chhattisgarh govt||Chhattisgarh government, in a reply to a question in the legislative assembly on Monday, said from January 1, 2018, to June 2021, a total of 44 complaints were received against 20 Indian Administrative Officers (IAS) and Indian Police Service (IPS) officer by Chhattisgarh’s Anti-Corruption Bureau and Economic Offence Wing (EOW). Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, in his written reply to a question asked by Congress MLA Satyanarayan Sharma, informed since January 1, 2018, to 30 June 2021, 44 complaints were submitted against 20 officers with ACB and EOW for investigation. “Out of these complaints, six cases were registered against four IPS and IAS officers and three complaints were disposed of after investigation. In the remaining of the complaints, the investigation is still going on,” said the CM. When asked by the Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (JCC) MLA Dharmajeet Singh about the pending investigation against the accused, the CM said that investigation against 334 accused is still pending with the ACB and the EOW. Recently, Senior IPS officer GP Singh was suspended by the state government after the raids of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and the Economic Offence Wing (EOW). Singh was later booked for sedition by Chhattisgarh Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/complaints-against-20-ias-ips-officers-4-booked-chhattisgarh-govt-101627310438737.html
26-07-2021||Bangalore||Yediyurappa's supporters shut down Shikaripura after his resignation||After BS Yediyurappa resigned as Karnataka chief minister on Monday, Shikaripura, his assembly constituency in Shivamogga district, was shut down by his supporters as a mark of protest. Several shops and commercial establishments were closed by the supporters of Yediyurappa, who has won several times from the constituency.Roads wore a deserted look and traders had voluntarily shut down their businesses expressing their sympathy for the leader, a report by news agency ANI showed. Also the BJP supporters staged a demonstration in the town. Slogans were raised in support of the leader and cut-outs of Yediyurappa were put up to express their support. Also, the workers denounced the leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for compelling him to resign before completing the term in office, the report further showed.Also read | 'Karnataka BJP will be washed away in tears': Seer on Yediyurappa's resignationThe demonstrations were carried out even as the chief minister had previously asked his supporters not to indulge in protests. “I am privileged to be a loyal worker of BJP. It is my utmost honour to serve the party with highest standards of ethics & behaviour. I urge everyone to act in accordance with party ethics & not indulge in protests/indiscipline that is disrespectful & embarrassing for the party,” he had tweeted on July 21.In an event to celebrate two years of the formation of his government in Karnataka, the 78-year-old Yediyurappa announced his resignation, putting to rest long ongoing speculations about an impending leadership change in the state.“It has been an honour to have served the state for the past two years. I have decided to resign as the Chief Minister of Karnataka. I am humbled and sincerely thank the people of the state for giving me the opportunity to serve them,” he tweeted, earlier on Monday. He also thanked the BJP’s central leadership for their support.Some ministers within the BJP’s Karnataka unit had earlier expressed their displeasure with Yediyurappa’s leadership which kept adding to the speculations about his removal. However, the party’s leadership, including state in-charge Arun Singh, and state BJP leaders have previously said that the centre was pleased with the state government and no changes were being discussed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/yediyurappas-supporters-shut-down-shikaripura-after-his-resignation-101627307194394.html
26-07-2021||Lucknow||After BSP, SP begins Brahmin outreach ahead of UP assembly elections||The Samajwadi Party said on Monday it will hold a series of meetings with intellectuals ahead of the Uttar Pradesh legislative assembly elections slated for next year. The development is seen as SP’s bid to woo the Brahmins and comes after the Bahujan Samajwadi Party led by Mayawati started a series of ‘prabudh sammelans’ under the leadership of Satish Chandra Mishra, the party’s general secretary who is considered to be the Brahmin face of the political outfit.Senior SP leaders who come from the Prabuddh cell and the Parshuram Peeth met party chief Akhliesh Yadav on Sunday. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister gave a nod to hold a series of meetings, slated to begin from Ballia, starting next month, spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary told news agency PTI.Chaudhary said that unlike the BSP, the SP’s Prabuddh Sabha has been working with the people since last year. Former MLA Santosh Pandey who led the Parshuram Peeth also expressed the desire to hold such a meeting following the approval from the party president. Pandey alleged that Brahmins continue to face harassment and atrocities under the BJP rule, while saying the people need to be made aware that a government led by the SP can only give them justice.Three senior Brahmin leaders, including Mata Prasad Pandey, Manoj Pandey and Sanatan Pandey, will chalk out the party’s strategy during these conferences. The SP also plans to launch tours to connect with the upper caste voters ahead of the upcoming elections.BSP chief Mayawati also announced a campaign from Ayodhya to reach out to the upper caste and Brahmin voters and urged the community not to be misled by the BJP. She had claimed that the people from the upper castes were repenting after voting for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the previous elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/after-bsp-sp-begins-brahmin-outreach-ahead-of-up-assembly-elections-101627306772738.html
26-07-2021||Pune||Taliye search operation called off, 31 missing to be declared dead||The search operation at Taliye landslide site in Maharashtra for those missing was stopped on Monday, the fifth day since the tragedy, after their relatives gave a written consent saying they have lost hope and do not want to undergo any further trauma, officials said. So far, 53 bodies have been retrieved post the incident in which a portion of hillock gave away, burying 82 people living in 42 houses. It was one of the deadliest landslides witnessed during last week’s flood tragedy. “The teams have stopped the search and rescue operation at landslide-hit Taliye village. 31 missing people to be declared dead following due process. The search for these missing people has been called off after seeking the opinion of NDRF, SDRF, TDRF. The relatives of the missing people also demanded the closure of the operations since yesterday,” said Raigad District collector Nidhi Choudhari. “It’s been a painful experience for all of us. We have lost our near and dear ones and to see them in pieces was another traumatic experience,” said a man who lost his five-year-old son. Following the discussion between the administration and the relatives, the operation was called off at 10 am todayEarlier on Saturday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray visited the village and said as landslides proved fatal in many parts of the state, the government would come up with a plan to permanently relocate people living in hilly areas. 12-year-old Akshata, who survived the incident, said she was outside her home when a large slush of mud came down burying the entire village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taliye-search-operation-called-off-31-missing-to-be-declared-dead-101627307740623.html
26-07-2021||Lucknow||‘BKU to intensify farmers’ stir in poll-bound UP, Uttarakhand’: Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Monday gave ample indication of spreading the eight-month-old farmers’ agitation to Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, the two Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states that are scheduled to go to assembly polls early next year.The farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three agricultural laws has been confined largely to the Delhi borders so far.Addressing a press conference in Lucknow with Yogendra Yadav and some other Sanyukt Kisan Morcha leaders, he said that they would now intensify the agitation by launching the ‘Mission UP-Uttarakhand’ and telling people about the governments’ “anti-people policies”.He announced that a farmers’ panchayat would be organised in Muzaffarnagar in western UP on September 5 as a precursor to the intensification of the agitation after eight months of dharna on the Delhi border failed to move the Central government.“We will also convert Lucknow into Delhi by blocking its entry points if our demands are not met,” Tikait warned, reiterating that farmers’ stir would continue till the Centre withdraws the three new farm reform laws.He also said that UP was a state of agitation but it, he alleged, was now being converted into a “police state” much like Gujarat. He also said electricity was free for farmers in seven-eight states but the power tariff was quite high in UP.Replying to a question, Tikait said he had no plans to contest assembly elections and added that farmers were free to support the party they liked.“But farmers will not vote for the BJP because their fight is against this party,” he hastened to add.Yogendra Yadav said that the stir that completed eight months (on Monday) had been able to bring self-respect back to farmers.“Despite the long agitation, the Centre has not paid any heed to our demands. We are here to announce the intensification and extension of our agitation with Mission UP-Uttarakhand,” he said. The stir, he said, would gradually spread across the country.“We will also raise local issues apart from highlighting issues of national importance during the agitation,” Yadav said.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Farmer leaders and the Centre have held several rounds of talks but the impasse remains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bku-to-intensify-farmers-stir-in-poll-bound-up-uttarakhand-tikait-101627305578922.html
26-07-2021||Bhopal||IMD issues orange alert for rainfall in 13 districts of Madhya Pradesh||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday issued an orange alert for Madhya Pradesh, projecting "heavy to very heavy" rainfall in 13 districts across the state, news agency PTI reported quoting a senior meteorologist at IMD's office in state capital Bhopal. This is the fourth consecutive day when an orange alert has been issued for Madhya Pradesh, which has been experiencing rainfall since last Friday, the official said."The orange alert is for heavy to very heavy rainfall and thunderstorms accompanied by lightning at isolated places in Gwalior, Shivpuri, Guna, Ashok Nagar, Datia, Sheopur, Morena, Bhind, Rajgarh, Agar-Malwa, Neemuch, Mandsaur and Tikamgarh," PK Saha, the senior meteorologist, said, adding that rainfall may abate on Tuesday as a low-pressure area over northwest Madhya Pradesh has weakened.Saha, however, also warned that an associated cyclonic circulation over the region still persists. "An east-west trough is running across 25 degrees north latitude. This means that the rain activity might get confined to the state's northwest, including Gwalior and Chambal divisions," the meteorologist further said, also projecting another spell of good rain by the end of the month due to a low-pressure area which is likely to form over the north Bay of Bengal on July 28. Giving statistics on rainfall in Madhya Pradesh in the last 24 hours, Saha added, "Almost the entire state received showers in this period. Jatola in Ratlam district received highest rainfall in the western region, at 260 mm. For the eastern p, the rainfall was highest in Chhatarpur, at 42.4 mm. The 24-hour period ended at 8:30am on Monday."Alerts issued by the IMD are colour-coded, from green to red. A green alert stands for "no warning," while a yellow alert indicates that the authorities should keep themselves updated on the situation. Orange and red alerts, meanwhile, represent "heavy to very heavy" and "extremely heavy" rainfall, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/imd-issues-orange-alert-for-rainfall-in-13-districts-of-madhya-pradesh-101627303494772.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Stone crusher of Baghapurana MLA’s son sealed in Mukerian||The Punjab forest department has sealed the stone crusher of Baghapurana Congress MLA Darshan Singh Brar’s son as it was being run illegally on forest land at Bringli Patan village in Mukerian. The department found that the stone crusher was being run on forest land without clearance under the Forest (Conservation) Act, officials said on Monday. According to records, the Congress MLA’s son, Gurjant Singh Brar, set up the stone crusher on the pretext of generating employment. The forest department’s action came after the Hindustan Times report last week that Brar Stone Crusher, registered in the name of Gurjant Singh Brar, does not have the approval from the central government as under Section 2 of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980. Dasuya divisional forest officer (DFO) Atal Mahajan said, “A team of the department’s staff led by the forest range officer sealed the stone crusher on Friday as it did not have the NOC. Now the firm will not be able to use this unit until it gets clearance under the Act.” Located in delisted forest area According to the affidavit filed by Gurjant and other documents linked to the firm, Brar Stone Crusher is situated on a delisted forest area under Section 4 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA). The delisted forest land can be used only for cultivation and livelihood purposes and that too after approval from the central government under the Forest Conservation Act. However, the firm was found using forest land for non-forest purposes on September 1, 2020. Therefore, the department had imposed a penalty of around ₹6 lakh on the unit. The firm had sought diversion of 0.405 hectares of forest land for the stone crusher in February 2019. But it is yet to get approval. “They have applied for NOC under the FCA, but the case is pending at the higher level,” said the DFO. Gurjant and MLA Darshan Singh Brar did not respond to repeated calls and messages. Earlier, Gurjant had said that the stone crusher was operating according to rules. “We have all mandatory approvals, including forest clearance from the central government as required under Section 2 of the Forest (Conservation) Act to run this stone crusher,” he had said Pending penalty-cum-royalty Besides, the mining department has also imposed royalty of ₹1.56 crore, including a penalty of ₹78 lakh, on the stone crusher for allegedly obtaining 1,30,298 tonnes of minerals illegally. However, the MLA’s son is yet to deposit the amount and challenged the department’s decree of imposing the royalty by filing an appeal before the director of the mining department. Caption: The forest range officer and department officials sealing the stone crusher of Baghapurana Congress MLA Darshan Singh Brar’s son Gurjant Singh Brar in Mukerian on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stone-crusher-of-baghapurana-mla-s-son-sealed-in-mukerian-101627304979241.html
26-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi zoo to be reopened from August ; tickets available online from July 31||The Delhi zoo is set to be reopened for visitors from August 1, more than three months after it had to be shut due to the number of covid-19 cases peaking during the second wave of the pandemic, zoo officials said on Monday. Delhi zoo director Ramesh Kumar Pandey said it will be opened in two shifts as earlier. “We are planning to open the National Zoological Park (Delhi zoo) from August 1. Preparations are on in order to keep things in order. It will be opened in two shifts as earlier. Online booking will open from July 31, a day ahead of the opening,” said Pandey.The morning shift will start from 8am to 12pm while the second shift will be from 1pm to 5pm. “Visitors can buy tickets either through the zoo’s website or at the entry gates using QR codes. This time, we will allow 1,500 entries in each slot, adding up to 3,000 daily visitors,” said a senior official.The zoo was closed on March 18 last year, and remained so for over a year due to the pandemic and bird flu. It finally reopened on April 1 this year, only to be closed again on April 15 as the second wave of the pandemic struck. In April, the zoo allowed only 2,000 daily -- 1,000 in each slot.Pandey said the zoo recorded only 124 animal deaths, the lowest over the last three years, while it remained closed for public in 2020-21. “We have introduced cycles for staff to move around the premises and have asked them not to use (other) two-wheelers or cars. This to keep a healthy environment within the zoo premises,” he said.He added that at present, there are 94 species and 1,162 animals in the zoo. “Soon, we will be increasing the number of species to 100 as part of various exchange programmes that have been pending,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-zoo-to-be-reopened-from-august-tickets-available-online-from-july-31-101627303898930.html
26-07-2021||Dehradun||Leadership rejig in Uttarakhand Cong fuels more differences ahead of 2022 polls||The newly appointed leader of Opposition in Uttarakhand, Pritam Singh, who was former state president of Congress, took charge formally on Monday while new state president Ganesh Godiyal will take charge on Tuesday. However, despite the new appointees taking charge, it seems all is not well in the party ahead of the 2022 elections due to differences among party leaders over the new appointments by party central leadership, observers say. The new appointments were made by party national president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday night which ended the month-long crisis in Uttarakhand Congress over the appointment of the new leader of Opposition after the demise of party senior leader Indira Hridayesh. Under the new appointments, former party MLA Ganesh Godiyal was appointed the party’s new state president while former state unit head Pritam Singh was chosen as the new leader of Opposition in state assembly along with four new working presidents of the state unit - Jeet Ram, Bhuwan Kapri, Tilak Raj Behad and Ranjit Rawat. Former chief minister and party national general secretary Harish Rawat, who is also the Punjab unit in-charge and credited with solving the party’s crisis there, was appointed the president of the 2022 election committee president along with the member of Rajya Sabha Pradeep Tamta as vice president and former minister Dinesh Agrawal as the convenor. Party leader Aryendra Sharma was appointed the state unit’s new treasurer. Ever since the new appointments were made, differences erupted among the leaders of the state unit citing the side-lining of former state president Pritam Singh in the new team by removing him from the position a few months ahead of the next assembly polls. Also, there were differences over the appointment of Aryendra Sharma as the new treasurer of the party as he had fought against the party as an independent candidate in the 2017 elections. Amid the differences, party state in-charge Devendra Yadav would be landing in Dehradun from Delhi along with new state president Godiyal and president of election campaign committee Rawat on Tuesday. He would hold meetings with the newly appointed office-bearers to chalk out a strategy for the 2022 state assembly elections. However, if party insiders are to be believed, his visit would be focused on dousing the fire over differences on new appointments and get the party together for the upcoming assembly elections. A party MLA privy to the developments, on the condition of anonymity, said, “It is obvious that not all are happy in the party after new appointments. Many of the Pritam Singh-led group is unhappy that he has been removed from the post of party state president just months before the elections. On top, Godiyal, who is considered close to Rawat with who Singh’s differences are open, has been made the new party state president.” “This development is significant because Singh has practically lost power in ticket distribution for the polls in which the state president has a major say. With Rawat’s aide as new state president and he himself being the president of the election campaign committee, the ticket distribution would be largely in the hands of Rawat which Singh and his aides can’t tolerate,” said the party leader. On the difference over the appointment of Aryendra Sharma as the new party treasurer, he said that “Party MLA Harish Dhami was largely upset over it as he accused him of indulging in anti-party activities in the 2017 election.” Dhami however, while speaking to media persons, denied any reports of being angry over Sharma’s appointment and said he is “with the party at all fronts.” Political analyst and professor of political science at Garhwal Central University, MM Semwal, on the differences said, “This is always the story in Congress which is its biggest drawback in Uttarakhand.” “The problem is, within Congress, there are many Congress led by various factions. The new team also seems to be the result of that factionalism. It clearly has imprints of Harish Rawat all over it. Being the senior-most and very shrewd politician in Congress, he could have never allowed any leader to have the upper hand in upcoming elections. With the new team, he clearly has the steering wheel,” said Semwal. He said, “Also, he has wide public outreach in the party unlike any other leader in Congress. His elevation in state unit will definitely benefit the party as a whole, but not some leaders in the state unit.” Meanwhile, party state in-charge Devendra Yadav denied any differences in the state unit after new appointments. “The new team is made with a focus on winning the 2022 state assembly elections which we are sure to win. There are no differences whatsoever in the party as we all believe in collective leadership,” said Yadav. On Harish Rawat being the party CM face for 2022 elections after being appointed the election committee president, he refuted any such development and said, “The CM face would be decided only after winning the polls as per the party’s tradition.” Earlier on Monday, after taking charge as the new leader of Opposition in the state legislative assembly, Pritam Singh “expressed gratitude” to all party members for extending their support to him while being the state president and urged them to do the same in the new role. “After the unfortunate demise of the former leader of Opposition and senior party leader Indira Hridayesh, we are now down to 10 MLAs in the House of 70. However, we will put all our efforts into attacking the government on behalf of the people in the assembly sessions and try to play an active Opposition,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/leadership-rejig-in-uttarakhand-cong-fuels-more-differences-ahead-of-2022-polls-101627303238709.html
26-07-2021||Other||Goa, Delhi power ministers face off over free power: ‘Let people decide’||Delhi power minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Satyendar Jain on Monday insisted that his party’s plan for Goa, to provide free electricity up to 300 units if they come to power would be hugely beneficial to the people of the state while taking potshots at the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for spending money on “buying MLAs” instead of people’s welfare. Speaking during a specially organised debate on Goa’s tariff structure versus Delhi’s, Jain said that the announcement will benefit 87% of Goa’s power consumers.“We are promising free electricity up to 300 units per consumer per month whether that works to ₹700- ₹800 or to ₹1,000 to ₹1,200 in Goa, it is what we are promising. You are saying you will not give it free. Let the people decide. Ultimately it is the people who will decide what is best for them,” Jain said.Also Read | ‘Pramod Sawant to be BJP’s face in Goa for 2022’: JP NaddaIn response, Goa power minister Nilesh Cabral accused the Delhi government of “robbing Peter to pay Paul”. “Nothing is free in this world. Whatever they are providing for the people of Delhi is taken from the taxpayers of Delhi and besides they have borrowed crores of rupees,” Cabral said. He also accused the Delhi government of subsidising power rates to benefit private discoms (distribution companies), which continued to rake in profits at the cost of the taxpayer. “In Goa, our tariff structure is different. Here, the Goa government is itself the distributor and we have kept rates low. Our power tariff, no matter how many units one uses, doesn’t go beyond ₹4 per unit for the consumer. In Delhi, if you cross 200 hundred units, even after the subsidy from the government, the rate is higher than what is paid for the same number of units in Goa,” Cabral said. Jain taunted the Goa government for refusing to give uninterrupted power despite being in power in the state for close to 10 years running. “For how long you are going to keep giving excuses? The people of Goa will judge whose plan for Goa is better,” he added. Jain came to Goa to debate with Cabral after throwing down a “challenge” over Goa’s power structure. He said that AAP’s model would involve giving the people of Goa 24*7 free power without interruptions, free electricity to farmers and free power to agriculturists as promised by AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-delhi-power-ministers-face-off-over-free-power-let-people-decide-101627302818681.html
26-07-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 in Delhi: DCW survey identifies 791 women widowed due to virus||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) has identified 791 women who were widowed owing to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in the national capital, and has submitted a report to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government for their rehabilitation. The DCW said it is in the process of identifying more widows.The DCW said it has carried out a social survey of these 791 women in order to assist the Delhi government in the rehabilitation process. The survey was carried out on the grassroots level by the commission through its Mahila Panchayat network, according to news agency PTI.“The past few months have been very difficult for humanity, especially India which was ravaged by the third wave of the Corona pandemic. The entire country came in the grip of the disease and several thousands died. In Delhi too, hundreds of women were widowed and several children became orphans,” the DCW said in a letter to the Delhi government.Also Read| 'Troubling rise' in neurological cases among post-Covid patients: HospitalOf the 791 identified women surveyed, it was found that 774 (97.85%) have children. “Further it was seen that while the majority of women, i.e 384 women have 1-2 children, a large section of them - i.e 360 widows (almost 45.51%) have around 3-5 children. Thirty widows have more than 5 children,” the DCW said in the letter.हमारी महिला पंचायत की टीमों ने दिल्ली के कोने कोने में घूमकर मशक्कत से 791 महिलाओं को चिन्हित किया है जो कोरोना महामारी के दौरान विधवा हुईं। हमने इन सभी महिलाओं का सोशल सर्वे किया है। अधिकतर महिलाओं के पास आय का स्रोत नहीं है, या बेहद गरीब हैं। सरकार को विस्तृत रिपोर्ट सौंपी है। pic.twitter.com/JDKQYBLGBVWhen it comes to the age group, the DCW’s social survey showed that 734 women fall in the age group of 18-60 years and the rest are senior citizens.As many as 721 women are homemakers while the rest are employed as domestic workers, labourers, small business owners, private and government employees, it said.The survey showed that 28.57% widows have no income source and are dependent on their husbands financially while 60.93% of women’s family income at present is ₹15,000 or less every month.It was also found that 597 widows had not been vaccinated against Covid-19 till this survey was carried out.The DCW also said the social survey will increase the access of the identified woman to the benefits of the “Mukhyamantri Covid-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojana,” a social security scheme for families affected by the pandemic.Also Read| Kejriwal launches social security scheme for families affected by Covid-19Launched by the Delhi government on July 6, the scheme provides an ex-gratia of ₹50,000 to families who have lost their loved ones to Covid-19 while an additional pension of ₹2,500 per month will be provided if the deceased was the family’s sole breadwinner.“We got our Mahila Panchayat teams to go door-to-door to identify women who got widowed and were able to identify 791 such women. We are sending a detailed social survey report to the government so that the benefits of the scheme can be passed on to these women. Also, these women should be vaccinated on priority,” DCW Chief Swati Maliwal was quoted as saying by PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-in-delhi-dcw-survey-identifies-791-women-widowed-due-to-virus-101627301761595.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||A book is a mirror, a lamp and a window||In common discourse, there are views that favour reading books and those that disfavour reading them. As far as their popular appeal is concerned, the latter are more imaginative compared to the former. As children, we would get sick of our parent’s constant refrain, “Padhoge likhoge banoge nawab,” to goad us to study. On the other hand, in Hindi cinema there’s no dearth of songs that cock a snook at or deride rote learners. I’m reminded of a song in which a damsel tries to wean her beau away from a book with the plea that it’s more edifying to read faces than books, stating the obvious that books are inanimate and cannot substitute the real world of flesh and blood. There is another song from the blockbuster, Roti Kapda aur Makaan, which questions the whole point of an education that steals your prime without compensating you with a job. Actually, the part of humanity that has no truck with the written word is God’s plenty compared to the minuscule population of bibliophiles. For a normal person, the lure of being out and about is more enticing than the desk-bound pursuit of tomes. As a teacher for whom books are bread and butter, I often ask myself, what after all makes reading worth all the strain in the eye. There is surely nothing pristine or primordial about either books or reading. Sages and seers have attained enlightenment or seen the divine light without the aid of books simply because inquisitiveness, common sense and wisdom predate books. And it’s more common to link genius with lack of education than with its abundance. It’s held that genius is born not made. Even from a historical point of view, books are a relatively recent invention. Ages and ages of human life went by before scripts were developed and books and manuscripts came into existence. Today many may believe that unlettered leaders are a liability but history bears testimony that some of the greatest emperors were not formally educated. On the contrary, today a literate person is often at the receiving end. He or she is a perfect candidate for getting pilloried for trivial mistakes as transgressions of an educated person are less easily tolerated by society. Then what is it that justifies reading and makes it a good investment? One answer could be that it hasn’t got much to do with the origin of books or the question whether wisdom is within or without. Books have no monopoly over knowledge because age, experience and inborn sagacity have an equal claim. Yet, their value lies in the rare property of magical transformation into mirrors, lamps and windows. At different times and depending on how we perceive them, books act as mirrors when they truthfully reflect the realities of our life, lamps when they perform the illuminating function and make old and familiar things appear in a new light and windows which encase everything in the world whether near or far. In this sense, they do not drive a wedge between the animate and inanimate worlds. Rather, they thrive in the annihilation of such divisions. ajayverma71patiala@gmail.com The writer teaches at the Punjabi University Regional Centre in Bathinda||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/a-book-is-a-mirror-a-lamp-and-a-window-101627301618678.html
26-07-2021||Pune||Census finds 104 rare species of trees in Pune city||PUNE The tree count in the city has reached over 47 lakh as the process of tree census is underway amid civic authorities documenting over 104 rare tree species in the city so far.According to the civic officials, 98 per cent of the work of the tree census is complete. Also, the tree census of newly merged villages is likely to begin after the budget approval in February- March next year.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had allocated the tender of tree census to SAAR IT Resources Pvt Ltd in 2016.According to the Environment Status Report (2019-2020) released by PMC, the census of 47,53,670 trees is complete.“These species which are considered rare have been found from all over the city. The process of counting is still underway,” said Yogesh Kute, head geospatial, SAAR IT Resources Pvt Ltd.According to the civic authorities, these 104 trees have been categorised as rare trees because they are less in number.“These trees are classified as rare because only a few would be seen in the city. Trees such as African Mangosteen, Anjani, Dahiwan, Lal Zumbar, Silk floss cotton are not common,” said Ashok Ghorpade, head of PMC’s garden department.He added that the number of extinct tree species could be known only after the census is complete.According to the civic officials, almost all the green cover in the city’s original limits has been documented so far. “Almost 98 per cent of tree census is complete. Rest is pending because of the permission issues in the private properties,” said Ghorpade.Meanwhile, PMC’s boundary has been extended twice after the geo-enabled tree census started in the city.In 2017, the state government merged 11 villages into the PMC limits, while recently, 23 more villages have been merged into civic limits. The number of trees in PMC limits is expected to rise exponentially as the tree census in these newly merged villages has not been done yet.“A fresh tender will be floated for the tree census in these newly merged villages. It will be done after getting the budget approval,” said Ghorpade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/census-finds-104-rare-species-of-trees-in-pune-city-101627300539189.html
26-07-2021||Mumbai||Maha: Search ops called off in landslide-hit Taliye village, 31 declared dead||The hunt for 31 missing individuals in Taliye village, which was wrecked by a major landslide following heavy rains last week, was called off by the Raigad district government on Monday.So far, 53 people have died and five have been injured in the area, while 31 people are still missing and will be confirmed dead after proper process, according to district Collector Nidhi Chaudhari.On Saturday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray paid a visit to the village, saying since landslides had killed people in many parts of the state, the government will devise a strategy to permanently transfer those who live in hilly regions. According to the state government, 71 people died in the rain-soaked Raigad district, while 53 people still missing.The decision to call off the search operation, according to the collector, was made after consulting with the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the state's and neighbouring Thane district's disaster response forces. "The rescue operations have ended officially. We have withdrawn our teams from Taliye. The 31 missing will be declared dead following the due process...relatives of the missing people demanded closure of the operations since yesterday," reported by the collector.Respecting sentiments of the survivors and relatives of the missing people, the operations to search for the 31 missing people have been officially called off, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-search-ops-called-off-in-landslide-hit-taliye-village-31-declared-dead-101627295706282.html
26-07-2021||Other||New rules leave no room for ambiguity on shelf life of pre-packed foods||It has taken the food regulator a very long time to remove the ambiguities in the shelf life information on pre-packed foods and uphold the consumer’s right to information, informed choice and safety. But it has finally happened.From November 17 this year, that imprecise and nebulous term – “Best Before” – that has led to so much of confusion, food wastage and financial loss to consumers, will finally be banished from the packages. And in its place, the more precise term “Date of Expiry” or “Use By” date will denote the accurate shelf life of a food product. In other words, we will no more be throwing away perfectly safe food on the ground that it is past the “Best Before” date.Equally important, the ”Use By” or the “Expiry” date can no more be hidden somewhere on the package where consumers cannot see it. The two important dates that tell consumers how fresh the product is and how long it can be stored and consumed, now need to be grouped together and will have to be printed in a clear, conspicuous and easily discernible manner, using indelible ink.The Food Safety and Standards (Labelling and Display) Regulations, 2020, notified on November 17, 2020, finally corrects the anomalies that existed for decades in the law governing shelf life information, and food businesses are expected to comply with the regulations from November 17 this year. Hopefully, the food regulators across the country will stringently enforce it.The legal requirement for printing of shelf life is not new. Long before the Food Safety and Standards Act , 2006 came into being, the Prevention of Food Adulteration Rules framed under the PFA Act, 1954, mandated that pre-packed foods specify the shelf life. However, the intent of the law was completely lost because of the absence of precision on how the shelf life should be specified.Shelf life information basically comprises two parts – (a) the date of manufacture or packaging that helps consumers buy freshly packed or manufactured food; and (b) the date of expiry that indicates how long the food can be stored and consumed.For an informed decision, these two components of the shelf life should always be together, like you see on medicine packages. But unfortunately, bowing to pressure from food businesses, the authorities never specified in the PFA Rules that these two pieces of information be printed together.Even worse, the rule makers asked the manufacturers to give the “Best before” date and not the “Expiry” date, and even here, instead of asking businesses to print it in the simplest of formats -- the month and the year in numerals -- also gave them the option of indicating that the food is “Best before (number) months” from the date of manufacture.The businesses of course made the most of the slack provisions and the loopholes in the rules. They not only separated the two components of the shelf life information, but also tried their best to conceal the second part of the information by either printing it in minute letters or by hiding it in an obscure corner of the package. Additionally, instead of printing the dates in numerals, most of them chose the “Best before (number) months” from the date of manufacture option.Thus, the rule makers and the businesses together complicated a simple requirement of law . With this format, they denied the crucial shelf life information to all those who could not read English. The rule makers were particularly insensitive to the poor and the illiterate, who were forced to buy only pre-packed edible oil and ground spices because of the prohibition enforced under the PFA Act on their sale in loose form in the 1990s. The ban, meant to prevent adulteration of these commodities, continues under the new law too.When the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006 , a more modern food safety law with a sector regulator , replaced the archaic PFA Act, these lacunae that violated the spirit of the law should have been rectified and consumer rights upheld. But regrettably, the Food Safety and Standards (Packaging and labeling) Regulations, 2011, did not bring about the required changes.Now finally, the new regulations reflect the intent of the law and consumers should ensure that it is enforced strictly without further delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-rules-leave-no-room-for-ambiguity-on-shelf-life-of-pre-packed-foods-101627299697719.html
26-07-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: Monsoon disasters more man-made than natural||Cities and rural areas inundated by flood waters. Landslides. Human casualties. All this is, by now, usual for Maharashtra every monsoon season. This year was no different as most of us saw how Taliye, a hamlet in Raigad, was flattened, as a portion of a hillock gave way burying most houses – and villagers living inside. The heavy rain brought two-thirds of Chiplun, a commercial hub of Ratnagiri on the Mumbai-Goa highway, under water. Next we heard of Mahad, another Konkan town, where Babasaheb Ambedkar had carried out a satyagraha to asserts the rights of Dalits over water in public places. The water flowing through the Vashishti and Savitri rivers ravaged these towns and nearby areas. Unprecedented (60cm) rains within 24 hours in the Mahabaleshwar-Panchgani belt of the Western ghats, contributed to the flood situation in neighbouring Ratnagiri and Raigad districts as the Vashisthi and Savitri rivers originate in the same area. If the rains broke all the records, the disaster unfolding on the ground was partially man-made, as management of water and a flurry of constructions along the riverside – some of it unauthorised – has come under the scanner once again. On Sunday, when chief minister Uddhav Thackeray visited Chiplun, locals were angry because they were not alerted of a possible flood. An early warning, as locals said, would have helped them shift their belongings, some of it washed away, and the rest drenched in water. A large number of constructions along the river, the voluminous release of water from the Kolkewadi dam and torrential rains flooded Chiplun city, and citizens had no prior warning. Once the flood waters recede, a probe will be ordered into the illegal constructions, according to district collector BR Patil. Similar scenes are being witnessed in Kolhapur and Sangli, where most parts are submerged, with a stretch on the Mumbai-Bangaluru national highway still inundated on the third consecutive day. Going by local accounts, the water levels in the Panchaganga and Krishna rivers are higher than 2019, when floods wreaked havoc in these two districts. The only difference this time is there is no major discharge of water from dams on the upstream, while Almatti, located downstream, was also discharging water to avoid any swelling in its backwaters. The answer to frequent flooding in Kolhapur and Sangli perhaps lies in how the flood lines of the Panchganga river there were “redefined” to provide benefits to the construction sector. Post the 2019 flood, Pune-based environmentalist environmentalist Sarang Yadwadkar had accessed some documents of the irrigation department through RTI. The documents showed around 500 hectares along the Panchganga river, which should have been in the flood-affected area (prohibited zone), marked as a residential zone in Kolhapur’s development plan (DP), by “redefining” the flood lines. The irrigation department marks two flood lines - blue and red, demarcating the river area on the floodline. The red line is decided on the maximum water level possibly once in a century and the blue line is for the average maximum flood discharge in 25 years. According to Yadwadkar, the irrigation department issued a circular in 1989 to mark the flood lines for all rivers in Maharashtra, though it was ignored. The government agencies, mostly convenient to the real estate lobby, marked flood levels in place of flood lines. These levels, according to Yadwadkar, were later superimposed on the Development Plan maps of Kolhapur, making it possible for constriction activity near the Panchaganga, Krishna and other rivers. Encroachment on riverbeds always reduces the carrying capacity of floodwaters, something Pune also witnessed during its September 25, 2019 flash floods, when the Ambil Odha turned killer. Heavy rainfall often results in swollen rivers rupturing their banks and floodwater gushing through houses built on the floodplains, leading to major devastation. Even as there was discharge of water from the Radhanagari dam this year, the Panchaganga was swelling in Kolhapur city. Every disaster brings lessons which the government can either learn from, or chose to ignore at its own peril. The price, of course, will be paid by common citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-monsoon-disasters-more-man-made-than-natural-101627296278603.html
26-07-2021||Jaipur||Heavy rains reported at many places in Rajasthan in last 24 hours||Many places in Rajasthan received heavy to extremely heavy rainfall in the past 24 hours, the meteorological department said on Monday.The highest rainfall of 250 mm was recorded in Gagron town of Jhalawar district, it said.Marwar junction in Pali district received 205 mm rainfall, the MeT office said.Some places in Jhalawar, Banswara, Pratapgarh, Bhilwara, Sirohi, Chittorgarh, Dungarpur, Udaipur, Rajsamand and Pali recorded heavy to very heavy rains, it said.The MeT office has predicted heavy rains at isolated places and extremely heavy rains at some places in Kota, Jaipur and Ajmer divisions on Monday.On Tuesday, moderate to heavy rainfall may occur in Bharatpur division with the possibility of heavy rains at one or two places, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/heavy-rains-reported-at-many-places-in-rajasthan-in-last-24-hours-101627294688595.html
26-07-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand govt moves HC to make AIIMS OPD operational||The Hemant Soren government has moved the Jharkhand high court for the outpatients’ department (OPD) at the newly set up All India Institute Of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Deoghar to be made operational at the earliest. A virtual inauguration of the OPD at the new AIIMS building was scheduled for June 26 this year. However, it was cancelled days before the scheduled date by the union health ministry due to “unavoidable circumstances”. Jharkhand advocate general Rajiv Ranjan said the state government filed the plea as it was a matter of public health. The court, after hearing the matter on Monday, issued notices to the Centre and AIIMS seeking their reply on the issue. “Both the chief minister and the union health minister had given their consent for the virtual inauguration. However, it was cancelled by the health ministry for certain reasons. We want to know why the OPD can’t be made functional even without a formal inauguration. Opening it would benefit the locals,” added Ranjan. Also Read | Heavy rain warning for parts of Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and N-W plainsSeeking replies from the Centre and AIIMS, the court has listed the matter for hearing on August 26. The virtual inauguration and cancellation of the event last month courted controversy as the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha and the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which rules the Centre, blamed each other for the postponement of the inauguration. BJP parliamentarian Nishikant Dubey from Godda, where the Deoghar AIIMS is located, accused the district administration of deliberating trying to keep him away from the inauguration event. However, citing Covid protocols, the district administration wanted to hold a virtual event, inviting elected representatives through virtual links. Amid the controversy, the inauguration event was later cancelled by the union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-govt-moves-hc-to-make-aiims-opd-operational-101627294658127.html
26-07-2021||Other||Orissa HC orders issue of notice in decade-old false sedition case||The Orissa high court directed the Odisha government on July 22 to provide the correct addresses of three police officers so they can be served notices regarding a case seeking compensation for false allegations of sedition. The order was uploaded on Saturday night.Hearing a petition by lawyer-activist Pratima Das, who is seeking ₹20 lakh compensation for being falsely charged with sedition in 2008, a division bench of Orissa high court comprising chief justice S Muralidhar and justice BP Routray expressed surprise that although this petition was filed in 2011, it was listed only twice for hearing in the last 10 years--on February 23 and September 6, 2012. Since police officers were named in the case, the high court ordered that the state provide the correct addresses of the officers within four weeks.Also Read | Offline classes in Odisha schools begin amid Covid containment normsDas, 41, a resident of Choudwar, was arrested in August 2008 for her alleged links with Maoists in Odisha and was sent to Alipingala jail of Jagatsinghpur district. While she was in Alipingala jail, police implicated her in another criminal case registered at the Jamankira police station in Sambalpur district and charged her with sedition among other cases. She was chargesheeted in two cases under various grievous charges, including murder, dacoity and sedition. She remained in jail till November 17, 2010, till the courts acquitted her of all charges, including sedition.After her acquittal, she moved the Orissa high court in November 2011 seeking ₹20 lakh compensation and punishment for three police officers and four junior officials for fabricating a case against her, which, she said, caused her mental trauma and public humiliation. The police officers are RK Sharma (additional DG law and order), DS Kuttey (OSD to chief minister) and Sanjay Kumar(IG, Sashastra Seema Bal) while the junior officials are Bichitrananda Samal, Pradeep Kumar Panda, Manas Ranjan Garnaik and Niranjan Mishra.“In neither of the two cases could the prosecution substantiate any of the charges against me, including the allegation of seditious activity. I was branded a Maoist. The charges led to massive personal and professional humiliation for me for two years, three months and five days. My family could never return to normal. Newspapers had a field day branding me as Maoist,” said Das, demanding legal action against all the seven officials.RK Sharma, one of the seven officials named in the case, said he is yet to see the order and would be able to comment only after going through it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/orissa-hc-orders-issue-of-notice-in-decade-old-false-sedition-case-101627289017583.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Day after Himachal landslide, 70 tourists stranded at village on China border||A day after nine tourists were killed when boulders fell on their minibus in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur district, the 23-km stretch from Sangla to Chitkul near the China border has been closed, leaving 70 tourists stranded at Chitkul. “The stretch is prone to shooting stones. We have closed the road for the time-being. Efforts are on to evacuate the stranded tourists. They are safe but their evacuation will depend on the weather,” Kinnaur deputy commissioner Abid Hussain Sadiq said. Also read: Afghan Army chief postpones visit to India because of Taliban offensiveMeanwhile, the bodies of the nine tourists killed in Sunday’s landslide were sent to Delhi on Monday morning. Chitkul is the last inhabited village on the Indo-Tibetan border and is located along the Baspa river. It is the last point in India where one can travel without a permit. Another landslide damaged the road at Mane Demul in Lahaul and Spiti district. “Restoration work is on,” state disaster management authority director Sudesh Mokta said. A flash flood occurred in Tongtogche Nullah near Sangla village. No loss of life or property was reported. State director general of police Sanjay Kundu issued an advisory, asking tourists not to venture near water bodies in the monsoon. He reminded that 156 people have lost their lives due to drowning in the state since 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/day-after-himachal-landslide-70-tourists-stranded-at-village-on-china-border-101627288357288.html
26-07-2021||Other||TN police form teams to nab ‘helicopter brothers’ in financial fraud case||Tamil Nadu’s Thanjavur police has formed multiple teams to search for ‘helicopter brothers’, Mariyur Ramadoss Ganesh and Mariyur Ramadoss Swaminathan, who have been absconding for a week since cases were filed against them for financial fraud.The siblings came to be called helicopter brothers after Ramadoss Ganesh celebrated his son’s first birthday by hiring a chopper and showering rose petals on the child in 2019. “They became famous for often renting helicopters and flying over the town,” said a Thanjavur police inspector.The brothers established three companies -- Victory Finance, Krish Dairy Farms, and Arjun Aviation. They also had political connections after Ganesh joined the Bharatiya Janata Party but the party has now removed him from his post as president in the traders’ wing after reports of cheating surfaced against him.Also Read | Five districts in Tamil Nadu to get rains todayCases were filed against the brothers by two people who claimed they were cheated of the ₹15 crore and ₹25 lakh respectively that they invested in the sibling’s firm. The first case has six accused out of whom Srikanthan (full name not available), a manager of the brothers’ company, was arrested last week. “We arrested him soon after the case was registered. We have formed different teams to search for the main accused (the brothers),” said a senior police official involved in the investigations. “An FIR has been filed under three sections, including 120 (B) and 420 IPC. “It’s a serious offence. We are also investigating a foreign involvement but we cannot confirm it at this point,” he said. Details are not available on the second case yet.The alleged fraud came to light after posters came up all over Kumbakonam town in Thanjavur district over a week ago with a picture of a helicopter, stating that the business run by the helicopter brothers cheated people to the tune of ₹600crore. Police couldn’t confirm the number of people allegedly duped as only people have filed a case so far. The brothers, through agents, collected deposits from the public over a period of two years with a promise of doubling their money in a year. Later, they cited the Covid-19 pandemic for not returning the deposits.“There are more victims in this case. We want them to come forward and file a complaint and we will take legal action. Justice will be done for the two who have already complained,” said the senior official quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tn-police-form-teams-to-nab-helicopter-brothers-in-financial-fraud-case-101627285777219.html
26-07-2021||Jaipur||2 men who looted car of policeman arrested in Rajasthan||Two men, who had looted a car of a police inspector after opening fire on a head constable accompanying him in Sikar recently, were arrested on Sunday from Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer.The accused, Vikram Vishnoi and Somdutt, both residents of Haryana and Punjab, respectively, were held. The looted car was also seized from their possession, police said.The duo had stolen the car from a roadside dhabha where Inspector Narendra Khinchad and Head Constable Manendra were having dinner while on their way to Jaipur from Sikar, on July 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/2-men-who-looted-car-of-policeman-arrested-in-rajasthan-101627284712901.html
26-07-2021||Jaipur||No differences remain, Rajasthan Cabinet rejig soon: Ajay Maken||After a public resolution to the turmoil in its Punjab unit, the Congress appears to have shifted its focus to Rajasthan.Central Congress leaders, tasked with addressing the concerns raised by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and his supporters last year, held a meeting with state party leaders in Jaipur on Sunday, and said they have reached a consensus on the issue of state cabinet expansion but the final decision will be taken by the party high command in Delhi.The meeting, called by the state party chief Govind Singh Dotasra, was attended by 26 legislators, 12 ministers and 28 party office-bearers, according to a state Congress leader who asked not to be named. Among them was Pilot and nine legislators who back him, the person added.Congress general secretary Ajay Maken, who is in charge of Rajasthan for the party, presented a unified front after Sunday’s meeting. “I can say that there is no disagreement or contradiction among the party leaders and they all have left the final decision about the cabinet expansion to the party high command,” he told reporters, adding that the decision of the Delhi leadership will be accepted by all.He did not give a timeline for the cabinet expansion, one of the key demands of the Pilot camp, but party functionaries aware of the mattersaid the announcement may be made next month.Maken and All India Congress Committee general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal arrived in Jaipur from Delhi on Saturday, and held discussions with chief minister Ashok Gehlot at his residence in the state capital the same day.The central leaders on Saturday spoke to the CM about the issues raised by the Pilot camp: cabinet expansion, political appointments in state boards and corporations, and implementation of promises made before the 2018 assembly elections in Rajasthan, said a person familiar with the development.This was the first time since the Pilot camp’s rebellion that the central Congress leaders held such discussions with Gehlot, he added.In July last year, Pilot and 18 MLAs revolted against the chief minister, leading to a 30-day-long turmoil that ended with a compromise formula after the party high command in Delhi was roped in. Pilot was removed as the deputy to the CM, but the party formed a three-member panel comprising Maken, Venugopal and late Congress leader Ahmed Patel to resolve the issues raised by them.Nearly a year on, the Congress’s swift response in mitigating a similar crisis in Punjab — of infighting between the factions led by chief minister Amarinder Singh and newly appointed state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu — reinvigorated the Pilot camp.Since June, Pilot and his supporters have publically demanded that their issues be addressed by the party.In an interview to HT in June, Pilot said: “It has now been 10 months. I was given to understand that there would be swift action by the committee, but now half of the term is done, and those issues haven’t been resolved. It is unfortunate that so many of the party workers who worked and gave their all for getting us the mandate are not being heard.”Last week, the 43-year-old leader said he was in touch with senior Congress leaders and hoped that the required steps will be taken soon. “We are in touch with the high command and I believe that the AICC is going to take necessary steps required to be taken,” he said on Wednesday.Chaksu MLA Ved Prakash Solanki, a Pilot supporter who attended Sunday’s meeting, indicated that the outcome could be positive. “We met Maken and Venugopal, who assured us that the party leadership is looking into the issues, and soon expansion and appointments will be made on merits,” he said.At present, there are 21 members (including the chief minister) in the state cabinet, and nine slots are vacant. Rajasthan can have a maximum of 30 ministers.Maken is set to return to Jaipur later this month and hold individual discussions with Congress MLAs. “I am returning on July 28-29 and will hold a one-to-one dialogue with Congress MLAs over district and block (appointments) as AICC wants to know the feedback of MLAs before taking any decisions. We will also ask them for good names for appointments on boards and corporations,” he said.The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party, however, said a cabinet expansion will not be the solution to Congress’s problems in Rajasthan. The Gehlot government is “going to fall and the cabinet expansion, appointments and organisational posts cannot save them... The posts are limited and expectations of their workers and leaders are high”, said BJP legislator and state spokesperson Ram Lal Sharma.The Congress’s pivot to Rajasthan comes after the party averted a political crisis in Punjab, which goes to the polls early next year. Another panel formed by the party quelled Sidhu’s dissent against CM Amarinder Singh, and coronated the cricketer-turned-politician as the Congress Punjab unit chief last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/no-differences-remain-rajasthan-cabinet-rejig-soon-ajay-maken-101627284439873.html
26-07-2021||Bangalore||BS Yediyurappa announces his resignation as Karnataka chief minister||Putting an end to speculation, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday announced his resignation during a function celebrating the second-year anniversary of his government in Bengaluru. “I have made the decision….I will go the Raj Bhavan, I will submit my resignation,” the 78-year-old said. “I’m not sad. I’m happy. I can’t thank in words Prime Minister Modi, Amit Shah, and (JP) Nadda to let me be chief minister even though I was over 75 years,” he said. The speculation over his resignation began soon after his return from New Delhi on July 17. During his visit, he had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda. Soon after the meeting, he denied the rumours of his resignation; however, two days later, he hinted at a possible change in leadership. Also Read | Karnataka floods: 9 dead, 3 missing in disaster-hit areas, says ministerTalking to reporters on Thursday, he said that he will abide by the decision of the national high command. “Amit Shah and our national president (JP) Nadda have immense faith in me. As you know, no one above the age of 75 years is given any posts or positions by the party. But considering my work, the national leadership has given me the opportunity to be in power till 78. My aim is to strengthen the party and bring our government back to power once again,” Yediyurappa said. Following this statement, several leaders of the Lingayat community had come out in Yediyurappa’s support. The Lingayat community forms around 16-17% of the state’s population and, over decades, has played a pivotal role in the Karnataka state elections. Some leaders in the community had warned the BJP of “consequences” if he is removed from power. Yediyurappa has been chief minister of Karnataka for four terms. He was forced to quit as chief minister in 2011 after serving since 2008 when the Karnataka Lokayukta named him in a report on illegal mining in the state. He was also prosecuted by the Central Bureau of Investigation, but the case was quashed by a sessions court in Bengaluru. He was chief minister for a week in 2007 and for three days in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bs-yediyurappa-announces-his-resignation-as-karnataka-chief-minister-101627282176758.html
26-07-2021||Patna||Doorstep vaccination for elderly a non-starter in Bihar’s Darbhanga||Bihar government’s initiative to vaccinate the elderly, the specially-abled and severely ailing people at their homes by booking of doses through helpline numbers is mired in confusion and has failed to take off, several officials said.A call made to Medical Help Line toll free number (18003456610) in Darbhanga, revealed the confusion. While the center recorded the details of the beneficiary with the promise that the concerned primary health centre (Sadar PHC in this case) will administer the dose, the health manager at Sadar PHC in Darbhanga, Rewati Raman, said he had no knowledge of any programme for doorstep vaccination.“I am not aware about doorstep vaccination for aforesaid target group. So far, I have not received any written or oral instructions from concerned authorities,” he said.However, district immunization officer (DIO) Amrendra Kumar Mishra assured to do the needful in this regard.On the other hand, civil surgeon Sanjiva Kumar Sinha said it was not necessary to issue a written communication when a decision had already been made at the government’s level. “It is assumed [to be] known to all [through] from newspaper (sic). If we get such [a] request from public, it will be fulfilled,” he said.District Programme Manager (health) Vishal Kumar said currently the entire focus of the health department was on vaccinating 216,000 people within the municipal limits of Darbhanga by July 31. Once the department manages to ease the pressure at vaccination centres, the focus will be on door step vaccination, he said.Some district administration officials said that apart from administration of vaccine at all PHCs, a vaccination drive had been launched to cover cent percent population in urban area between July 25 and 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/doorstep-vaccination-for-elderly-a-non-starter-in-bihar-s-darbhang-101627279836660.html
26-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro briefly halts services after mild tremors reported||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) briefly stopped its train services on Monday morning, soon after it began day’s operations, after mild tremors were reported in the national Capital.DMRC officials said that this was done as a precautionary measure.At 8am, DMRC tweeted, “Mild tremors were confirmed around 6.42 AM in the morning. As a standard procedure, trains were run on cautionary speed and stationed at next platform. The services are now running normally.”While the services resumed after a brief interval, it led to long queues outside the Metro stations.Also Read | Delhi Metro, buses to run at full seating capacity from today as more curbs easeMonday is the first working day after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority relaxed restrictions put in place go curb the spread of Covid-19 and allowed the Metro to run at 100% seating capacity. This resulted in an increase in crowds at the stations.Commuters tweeted complaints about the lack of information regarding the services. On Monday morning, long queues were reported outside stations.A commuter tweeted a photograph of a long queue at Palam Metro station, while another tweeted, “People should be informed about the delays at regular intervals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-briefly-halts-services-after-mild-tremors-reported-101627273411291.html
26-07-2021||Patna||Bihar developing Pragbodhi, Buddha meditated here for 6yrs before enlightenment||A statue of Lord Buddha will be installed atop the Dungeshwari hill at Pragbodhi, located 12 kilometres northeast of Mahabodhi temple at Bodh Gaya.Lord Buddha is believed to have meditated for six years at the hill before leaving for Bodh Gaya. The hill top is dotted with seven Buddhist Stupas and the remains of five of these Stupas can still be witnessed there.Halfway to its top, there are three caves, known as Mahakaala caves where Lord Buddha meditated for six years before achieving enlightenment. Hence, the area is known as Pragbodhi. At the site of his meditation at the Mahakaal cave, there still exists an image of Lord Buddha, emaciated after years of fasting and meditation.It’s to mark this incident in the life of Lord Buddha that the state tourism has planned to install his statue atop the hill. Besides, the area around Pragbodhi too is being developed with a cafeteria, souvenir shops and basic amenities for tourists."While Lord Buddha's site of enlightenment has already achieved UNESCO status, there’s the plan to develop his site of meditation. Pragbodhi is now gaining popularity and tourists, especially those from foreign countries make it a point to see Pragbodhi and the Mahakala cave at Dungeshwari hill. But the place needs tourist facilities," Narayan Prasad, Bihar tourism minister said at a meeting held at Gaya on Saturday to review tourism projects related to the twin cities of Gaya and Bodh Gaya.The minister said that Bihar state tourism development corporation (BSTDC), the commercial wing of the state tourism, which has been handling these tourism projects, has been asked to develop world class facilities at Pragbodhi considering the high flow of foreign tourists. “They have also been directed to finish the pending works...before the onset of tourism season in October,” he said.The minister added that a Buddha statue atop the Dungeshwari hill will enhance tourism attractions at Pragbodhi. Besides, a ropeway too has been planned for this hill. “At present, visitors need to walk to the hilltop. Ropeway will make the trip to the hilltop easier and convenient,” he said.An official from the BSTDC, who did not want to get quoted, said the tender for the ropeway at Dungeshwari is yet to be floated by the tourism department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-developing-pragbodhi-buddha-meditated-here-for-6yrs-before-enlightenment-101627267915278.html
26-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Moderate rainfall, cloudy skies likely today, says IMD||Delhi is likely to witness moderate rainfall on Monday morning with cloudy skies throughout the day as per India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 29 degrees Celsius while maximum temperature is predicted to reach 33 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 27.6 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature was 37.3 degrees Celsius – three degrees above normal.The IMD, which got a series of predictions wrong over the arrival of the monsoon in the last month, had issued an orange alert for Monday as well.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 76. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 107, which is in the moderate category. Also Read | Relief from rain likely for Maharashtra today; key highways remain shutAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".Due to the rain, air quality in the national capital is also expected to stay in the satisfactory category this week. On Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “The overall air quality is in the lower end of the Satisfactory category as forecasted. Scattered rainfall activity in Delhi is likely in the next two days and likely to intensify thereafter. Satisfactory to Moderate AQI is forecasted for the next two days. Satisfactory AQI is forecasted on July 27.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-moderate-rainfall-cloudy-skies-likely-today-says-imd-101627267531069.html
26-07-2021||Mumbai||Relief from rain likely for Maharashtra today; key highways shut as Army relief ops on||A respite from heavy torrential downpour is likely on Monday for the flood-hit Maharashtra as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted rainfall at isolated places in the state, accompanied by strong winds. "Heavy rainfall at isolated places has been forecasted by the weather body for central Maharashtra, Coastal Karnataka, Konkan and Goa," a forecast by the IMD for Monday read. The rains will be accompanied by strong winds of 45-55kmph gusting to 60kmph over southwest and central Arabian sea, a forecast read, advising fishermen to not venture into these areas.In the later part of the week, the state can continue to expect relief from the rainfall as the monsoon now travels upwards to Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. The country will witness normal to below normal monsoon conditions this week, the IMD said in its forecast.The reduced downpour will help the rain-battered state to carry out relief operations, crippled last week due to continuous record-breaking rainfall. At least 153 people lost their lives, 64 have been missing and 230,000 people have been displaced in the worst floods Maharashtra has seen in decades.Pummeled by the rains, key state and national highways in Maharashtra remain disconnected from the rest of the country for four consecutive days. The Mumbai-Bengaluru highway, partly submerged near Kolhapur, continued to be shut for vehicular traffic for the third day on Sunday. Kolhapur-Pune, Mumbai-Goa, Kolhapur-Ratnagiri were shut till Sunday evening in patches in Ratnagiri, Kolhapur and Sindhudurg.Nearly 2,000 Karnataka-bound vehicles, including trucks, are stranded on the national highway, the district police told PTI. The highway was shut for traffic since Friday after a part of was submerged due to rising water levels amid incessant rain in the district.Troops of the Indian Army have intensified relief and rescue operations in Sangli, Kohlapur and Ratnagiri districts. More than 80 stranded locals from the flood-affected areas of Bastwad in Kolhapur were rescued on Sunday, a defence release said. The army also set up a Central War Room for coordination between the three services for ongoing flood relief operations in Maharashtra."#OperationVarsha21--A Central War Room has been established at Department of Military Affairs for close coordination between the three Services for ongoing #FloodRelief operations in #Maharashtra," Additional Directorate General of Public Information (ADGPI) of the Indian Army said in a tweet.At least 34 self-contained National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams, deployed to carry out relief operations in the flood-hit state, evacuated 500 stranded persons and rescued 44 people from the affected areas on Sunday.The situation in Maharashtra worsened after torrential downpour over Thursday and Friday triggered the worst floods and landslides in decades in Raigad, Ratnagiri, Palghar, Thane, Sindhudurg, Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara districts. In Sangli, 196,957 people have been evacuated, while in Kolhapur, 145,930 have been taken to safe places and temporary shelters.NDRF and armed forces teams deployed in rescue operations in the eight districts recovered few more bodies from the debris at landslide sites on Sunday, while search operations at a few sites were called off by evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/relief-from-rains-likely-for-maharashtra-today-key-highways-shut-as-army-relief-ops-on-101627258560451.html
26-07-2021||Delhi||For the first time, entire bus fleet operated by DTC declared ‘overage’||The entire fleet of 3,760 buses run by Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) has been officially declared “overage” this year, a first in the history of the state transport utility, which was set up in 1971, according to data accessed and analysed by HT.The data also showed that 99% of the fleet has crossed the technical operational limit for low-floor CNG buses. The DTC categorises a bus as “overage” after a run of more than eight years. As per the procurement contracts under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM), the maximum operational life of a low-floor CNG bus is 12 years or 750,000km, whichever is later.Of the total 3,760 buses, none of them is even as young as 6-8 years. At least 32 of the buses are 8-10 years old, 3,072 are between 10 and 12 years old, and 656 are older than 12 years. The number is alarming considering that the city needs 11,000 buses, according to a government affidavit submitted to the high court in 2018, and that the DTC itself is mandated to have 5,500 buses.Even if the 2,990 cluster buses, which are run by private operators, are included, Delhi’s current state run buses strength goes up to 6,750 only.Delhi transport minister and chairperson of DTC Kailash Gahlot said the issue has been extensively discussed in recent board meetings of the corporation.“Yes, it is true, and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has also expressed concern as our state-run buses are the lifeline of Delhi’s public transport. Our DTC and cluster buses together carry at least one million passengers more than the Delhi Metro every day. So, we planned a revival of the DTC by pumping in 1,300 new buses in the next seven months,” he said.It has been difficult for the DTC to get a successful tender for procurement of buses. Records seen by HT showed that the last time DTC finalised a tender was in 2008, and buses from that tender kept coming in small batches till October, 2011. After that, the DTC floated five tenders between 2013 and 2019, but none of them could be executed either due to unreasonable comprehensive annual maintenance contract (CAMC) or due to lack of enough bidders. It was finally in 2020 that a tender for 1,000 AC low-floor CNG buses was finalised with two bidders getting the contract in 70:30 ratio.However, allegations of irregularities in CAMC has indefinitely delayed the acquisition of 1,000 AC low-floor CNG buses. A probe committee appointed by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal has given a clean chit to the DTC over the tendering and procurement of the buses. The three-member panel, however, recommended floating fresh tenders for its AMC over what it described as “procedural lapses” arising out of a “bona fide decision-making process”.Gahlot said, “The DTC and I personally worked for months to make this tender successful. This was the DTC’s biggest achievement in 12 years as all earlier bus tenders kept failing...We hope that of the 1,300 buses, at least 300 electric buses for which the work order was issued in March this year, is not obstructed. People need more buses and this has been reiterated not just by the Delhi government but also the Supreme Court and high court.”Once the buses attain their shelf life, they are ideally supposed to be scrapped. However, records showed that because new buses are not being added, DTC has been forced to operate all such buses. No buses have been sent to the scrapyard in the current financial year, and only two buses were scrapped in 2020-21. In 2019-20, 80 buses were withdrawn from operations owing to age-related maintenance problems. Between 2011 and 2017, 368 buses were scrapped on an average annually with 2,209 vehicles being withdrawn during this period.But running old buses is pushing up maintenance costs.Vijay Bidhuri, managing director, DTC, said the situation has been so precarious that the corporation urged the state transport authority (STA) to allow its buses to ply till the age of 15 years. “There was no other way but to run them beyond their prescribed age. Fortunately, the STA has now allowed us to operate DTC buses till they attain 15 years. But, this is only a stop-gap arrangement. It has given us 2-3 years maximum to replace our entire fleet. We need to add new buses to DTC’s fleet because our expenditure on maintaining these old buses is also increasing. Even as we are running overaged buses, we cannot compromise on safety and have to keep the buses in their best possible condition, which is an expensive affair,” he said.This age of the DTC buses has also started reflecting on its operational statistics. In 2015-16, the DTC used to operate 33,497 trips every day, which has now come down to about 30,000 trips on an average per day.Annual internal audits by the DTC have also shown that an overaged fleet was a key factor in low productivity. Besides, the number of breakdowns have gone up because the entire fleet is composed of low-floor buses as mandated by the high court and Supreme Court to make public transport more accessible to the disabled. Low-floor buses have lower ground clearance, because of which they are more vulnerable to breakdowns, especially where roads are not in good shape or flooded stretches.Anumita Roychowdhury, CSE’s executive director and in-charge of research and advocacy, said because 100% of DTC’s fleet is “overaged”, the effective increment of Delhi’s bus fleet size has been very small. “Around 700 new buses have been added since 2019 in Delhi, but this is only under the cluster scheme. The DTC continues to operate with old buses, which effectively nullifies the increase in the city’s bus fleet because 56% of it constitutes DTC buses. Clearly, Delhi still needs a lot more buses to match the requirement of 11,000 buses as prescribed in the route rationalisation study by the Delhi government, and also to meet the growing demand,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/for-the-first-time-entire-bus-fleet-operated-by-dtc-declared-overage-101627257675531.html
26-07-2021||Delhi||Silent culinary revolution brews at south Delhi’s Humayunpur village||Every weekend, software engineer Rakesh Taneja’s love for food would take him from old Delhi to well-known restaurants in Gurugram. On Friday evening, however, he was in Humayunpur, a small village in south Delhi, for dinner with his family – his second culinary excursion to the place in the past month.“ We love northeastern food, and right now there is no better place than this village to find it,” says Taneja, sitting inside The Categorical Eat-Pham, a restaurant known for Manipuri cuisine. “ What makes this village different is affordability, variety, and authenticity of food its restaurants offer.”There are many gourmands like Taneja who swear by Humayunpur’s growing reputation as the city’s new food hot spot. The village, near Safdarjung Enclave, has witnessed a slow and silent culinary revolution with over 60 trendy, budget-friendly restaurants and cafes offering Chinese, Korean, Nepalese and North-east Indian cuisine coming up in the last three years, putting Humayunpur on the city’s ever-expanding culinary map.Deepak Dhunger Chhetri, who last year opened his restaurant, Mila’s Mama Kitchen, in the village, describes the place as a “laboratory of young food entrepreneurs”. “Most of them have no previous experience in food business, and they are the people who have transformed this village into a food destination. A decade back, one could see buffaloes roaming the streets here, ” says Chhetri, who is from West Bengal and has lived in the village since 2011.In the 1960s, most agricultural land around the village was acquired by DLF and developed into Safdarjung Enclave, but Humayunpur continued to be a nondescript village. In the early 2000s, migrants from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and southern states began making the village home, prompting the villagers to add additional floors to their houses.By the early 2010s, it began to attract young migrants from North-east India who came to Delhi for jobs and education. By 2015, about 50% of the tenants living in its multi-storey houses were people from the North-east. That is when the first few restaurants opened, catering mostly to the North-eastern community. The big restaurant boom in the village began in 2018 and almost a dozen new restaurants were opened in a few months before the lockdown in the Capital in March 2020.Several of these restaurants in the village are owned by young women from the North-east. “I came to Delhi in 2010 to study, but I always wanted to open a restaurant in the Capital. When I opened my restaurant here three years back, most of my clients were migrants from North-eastern states, but today, a vast majority of them are north Indians,” says Dickey Bhutia, who hails from Kalimpong, and runs a restaurant called LHA Kitchen, which is known for its Tibetan and Nepalese cuisine.Bhutia employs 15 people, three of them hired only this year. “ The business is nearing the pre-pandemic levels now. Except for the parking problem, the place has everything going for it. It is centrally located, the rents are reasonable compared to other urban villages and, most importantly, the landlords here are pretty cooperative. Unlike many other urban villages, I feel at home and safe here. ”Though low compared to other villages, the rents have trebled here in the past five years. On average, the rent for a 700 sq ft commercial space on the ground floor is ₹85,000 a month, which is a third of the rent for a similar space in Hauz Khas village. Most landlords in the village live on the upper floors and have rented out the ground floor. In fact, Humayunpur is one of the many villages in the Capital that are categorised as ‘Lal Dora abadi’. While Lal Dora villages are exempted from the building bylaws and other regulations of municipal or urban development authority and no permission is required for construction in them, the properties sold in these villages cannot be registered. The restaurant boom has not had any major effect on the property prices so far.“Local educated youngsters encouraged their elders to start renting out to commercial establishments like restaurants and boutiques. A majority of the restaurants survived the pandemic as these young villagers understood our situation and waived off the rent during the lockdown on their own,” says Ashok Mutum, co-owner, The Catregoral Eat-Pham. “They ensure that our community and businesses face no trouble here.”Radhika Abrol, a village resident and the local MCD councillor, says that the village attracts not just food lovers but also a lot of filmmakers. “A few short films have been shot here over a couple of years. It is because ours is a tolerant multi-cultural village, a fascinating mix of the urban and the rural. Since the number of restaurants is growing fast, my immediate priority is to set up an Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) here,” says Abrol.“Most restaurants owners are migrants who live in the village. They have flourished here; we do not bother about what they eat, whom they invite home, when they return home. No village in Delhi can match us in terms of tolerance, ” says Rakesh Singh, a local resident.Many like Abu Sarwar Choudhary from Assam, who in 2017 opened Bhansaghar, a restaurant that offers Nepalese cuisine, says that Humayunpur’s culinary journey was disrupted by the pandemic, and about a dozen restaurants shut shop last year. “Many more new restaurants would have opened here if it was not for the pandemic. The footfalls were doubling every year and most restaurants were usually filled to capacity in the evenings”.Last year in March, Deepak Dhunger Chhetri temporarily shut Mila’s Mama Kitchen three days after inaugurating it as the government imposed the lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease. But despite being forced to close again during the second wave this year, he says he has no regrets. “Business will return soon because our reputation has spread far and wide mostly through word of mouth publicity and our aggressive marketing on Instagram. I still believe Humayunpur is the place to be if you are an aspiring restaurateur without deep pockets ” says Chhetri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/silent-culinary-revolution-brews-at-south-delhi-s-humayunpur-village-101627257110510.html
26-07-2021||Noida||Two dead, 1 hurt after falling in Noida sump well||Two men allegedly drowned, and their friend was injured after they entered a sump well, a pit to trap rainwater, to fetch a cricket ball in Sector 6 on Sunday morning. An e-rickshaw driver who tried to help the three men also fell into the 20-foot deep pit after losing consciousness due to “toxic fumes” coming from the sump well, police said.The sump well is part of a sewage treatment plant (STP) of the Noida authority. The incident took place around 6.30am. Officials did not immediately say if the sump well had rainwater or sewage.When asked about the alleged “toxic fumes” coming out of the sump well and the fact that the victims reportedly fell unconscious, Noida authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari said, “We will look into the matter, and conduct a probe if required.”An operator at the plant said that he warned the youngsters against entering the pit, but they did not pay heed to him. He also said that the sump well, which is surrounded by a grille, had about six feet water.“Some men often gather at the nearby ground to play cricket in the morning. Around 6.30am today, their ball fell into the sump well. Three of them came here to fetch it. I asked them not to go near the pit but one of them didn’t listen. He lost consciousness after looking for the ball standing on the edge and fell inside. The two others who rushed to help him also fell inside. I shouted for help,” said Balram Singh, the operator.According to police, an e-rickshaw driver who was passing by rushed to help the operator, but he also fell into the pit after losing consciousness. Soon, locals gathered at the spot and one of them informed police about the incident, police officials said.“After getting information, we called the fire services department and sent a police team to the spot. Our personnel, along with the fire department’s team, wearing oxygen mask and other necessary equipment, pulled the four men out of the sump well,” said Munish Chauhan, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.The victims were rushed to the district hospital in Sector 30 where two of them were declared brought dead, police said. The deceased were identified as Sandeep, 22, and Vishal Kumar Srivastava, 27, residents of Harola village. They worked at a local factory, police said. The injured, Rakesh and Mohammad Ansari, were referred to Delhi for treatment. The police said the bodies have been sent for autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-dead-1-hurt-after-falling-in-noida-sump-well-101627251568706.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Shooting stones hit mini-bus in HP’s Kinnaur, 9 tourists dead||Nine tourists were killed, and three others were injured in multiple landslides near Batseri on the Sangla-Chitkul road in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur district on Sunday.Heavy boulders let loose due to breach on the hilltop rained down on the tempo traveller ( mini-bus) the victims were travelling in. The vehicle, which had 11 passengers, was on its way to Chitkul, a scenic village close to the China occupied Tibetan Autonomous Region.Those killed in the landslide are Pratiksha Sunil Patil, 27, of Maharashtra; Deepa Sharma , 34 of Jaipur; Amogh Bapat, 27, and Satish Katakbar, 34, of Chattisgarh; the driver, Umarav Singh, 42 of New Delhi; Kumar Ulhar Ved Pathak, 37; Anurag Biahni , 32, Maya Devi, Richa Bihani, 25, of Rajasthan.Shiril Oberoi of New Delhi; Naveen Bhardwaj, 37 of Mohali; and Ranjit Singh 45, of Batseri tehsil, who was standing on the road were injured.Batseri panchayat chief Pradeep Negi Pradhan said, “Giant boulders hit the tempo traveller in which the victims were travelling, pushing the vehicle down a 400-feet gorge. Two of the passengers jumped off the vehicle.” “The hilltop is highly prone to rockslide. We have been observing shooting stones from the hilltop for the last two days. Another vehicle was damaged due to shooting stones yesterday, but luckily no one was injured,” he said.Bridge damagedA bridge on Baspa River was also damaged due to the landslides. A video of the incident is doing rounds on social media.Jawans of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, locals from Sangla and Batseri villages and workers from the Jindal Steel Works hydro plant carried out the rescue operations and helped retrieve the bodies. All the victims were taken to the civil hospital in Sangla.“All the bodies have been recovered and a case has been registered,” said Kinnaur superintendent of police Sarju Ram Rana.Kinnaur deputy commissioner Abid Hussain said a travel agency in Delhi had arranged the trip. “We will ask the agency to share the victims’ addresses. Arrangements will be made to hand over the victims’ bodies to their families.”Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who is on a three-day tour to Mandi, condoled the deaths and spoke to the district administration to get a first-hand account of the incident.PM announces ₹2 lakh ex-gratiaPrime Minister Narendra Modi also condoled the deaths and said all arrangements are being made for the treatment of those injured.“It is a very painful incident,” Modi said, announcing ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each for the next of the kin of the deceased and ₹50,000 to the injured from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund.President Ram Nath Kovind said he was deeply saddened by the news of the death of many people in a landslide in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur and expressed his deepest condolences to the bereaved families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shooting-stones-hit-mini-bus-in-hp-s-kinnaur-9-tourists-dead-101627245510721.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Weekend curfew lifted in J&K||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday lifted the weekend curfew from all districts of the Union territory though some restrictions such as night curfew will stay in place.As per the orders issued by state executive committee (SEC) chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta while there will be no weekend curfew in any district, night curfew will remain in force in all the districts from 8pm to 7am.Businesses will be able to stay open during curfew relaxation hours in all 20 districts. The order said that the maximum number of people permitted to attend any indoor or outdoor gathering will be restricted to 25. “Public and private educational institutions are permitted to seek personal attendance of limited vaccinated staff for administrative purposes,” it said.Deputy commissioners have been asked to focus on the positivity rate in their respective medical blocks. There has been a sharp decline in the daily Covid cases and deaths in the UT with the single-day infections falling below 100 and fatalities remaining in single-digits this week. Officials said there has been a significant improvement in terms of total weekly cases, positivity rate, bed occupancy, case fatality rate, vaccination coverage and extent of compliance to Covid-appropriate behaviour. 166 fresh cases, no deaths in J&K No virus-related death was recorded in Jammu and Kashmir while 166 new infections were detected on Sunday. There were 132 cases in Kashmir valley, while the Jammu division saw 34 infections.The active cases dropped to 1,288 as the overall recoveries mounted to 3,14,995 and the recovery rate climbed to 98.23%. So far, the UT has recorded 3,20,657 cases, of which 4,374 people have succumbed.Himachal logs 44 fresh infections
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh hires hi-tech machine to rid Sukhna Lake of weeds||Struggling to clear the Sukhna Lake of the widespread weed growth, the UT administration has, for the first time, put into use an Aquatic Weed Harvesting Machine (AWHM).Over the years, though de-weeding was taken up regularly; it was done manually, which could clean the Sukhna Lake only partially. Now, with AWHM, the administration aims to clean the entire Sukhna Lake area of weeds in one go.“We expect to remove all the weeds from the lake within three months. The machine, hired for three-and-half months at a cost of ₹12 lakh from a Mumbai firm, will help us clear the lake more effectively and that too in one-go. This is the first time, an AWHM is being used in the lake,” said CB Ojha, UT chief engineer.The artificial lake was created in 1958 by damming Sukhna Choe, a seasonal stream coming down from the Shivalik Hills.There is heavy weed infestation in the lake, which has led to its area decreasing from the original 228 hectares to 148 hectares, as per department officials.Aquatic weeds (water-borne grass), such as potamogeton crispus, Hydrilla verticillata and Vallisneria spiralis etc., grow in the Lake and hinder the boating experience for visitors, besides giving it a shabby look.In a bid to conserve the lake, the Punjab and Haryana high court has also repeatedly been directing the UT to check weed growth and take necessary measures to preserve its original character and beauty.“Earlier, manual removal of weeds was a slow process. It took a long time and we were not able to clean the lake properly. Workers involved in the cleaning of the lake also reported getting infections and allergies because of the work. So, it became imperative to remove these water weeds through specialised machinery and equipment,” said Ojha.One of the options was to adopt the Dal Lake model. “After assistance from Jammu and Kashmir Lakes and Waterways Development Authority didn’t materialise for cleaning up the lake with the same technique, the department floated tenders for hiring machines on its own,” he added. What is an aquatic weed harvesterIt is an environmentally friendly method of controlling excessive aquatic plant growth and nuisance vegetation in a water-body like lake. It helps in the removal of submerged, emergent and free-floating vegetation in a lake. “Like a farm harvester, an aquatic weed harvester cuts the vegetation, collecting and storing the weeds on board. Aquatic weed harvesters are fitted with a pick-up conveyor at the forward end of the machine, which can be lowered under water to cut weeds. One horizontal and two vertical cutter bars severe the vegetation as the machine moves forward through the water and when the storage hold becomes full, the weed harvester returns to shore to unload,” said Ojha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-hires-hi-tech-machine-to-rid-sukhna-lake-of-weeds-101627244848929.html
26-07-2021||Delhi||Over 9k children trafficked during pandemic: Report||Dilbar was on his way to Delhi along with 16 other children from West Bengal in August 2020 when some activists spotted them in Bihar and sounded out the authorities about a possible case of child trafficking. When the train stopped at Delhi’s Anand Vihar station, the police and members of a child rights foundation were waiting to rescue them.This wasn’t the young boy’s first trip to Delhi for work. The 11-year-old had worked in a sewing factory for six months before he had to return due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown in March. “My uncle got me a ticket in August,” said Dilbar who has been living in Mukti Ashram, a short-term rehabilitation centre run by Bachan Bachao Andolan for rescued boys in Burari on the outskirts of the national capital Delhi. His uncle faces prosecution under the child labour law.Data compiled by Bachan Bachao Andolan (BBA), the non-profit founded by Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi, indicates that Dilbar is among the 9,000 children who were rescued when they were being trafficked for labour between April 2020 and June 2021 as the Covid-19 pandemic ravaged the country. At 3,183, the largest number of children were rescued in Uttar Pradesh, followed next by Telangana (2,805), Andhra Pradesh (593), Rajasthan (430) and Gujarat (333).Child rights activists, and even the Union home ministry, have warned about a possible increase in instances of child trafficking after the country started emerging from the national lockdown in June and July last year. The BBA had then underscored that there would be greater demand for child labour because factory owners will look to cover their financial losses by employing cheap labour.BBA executive director Dhananjay Tingal said the assessment wasn’t off the mark.“Last time, even when the modes of transport were limited, (still) children continued to be trafficked,” he said, adding that there was a substantial increase in the number of distress calls received by the foundation.To be sure, the foundation started getting SOS messages within weeks of the national lockdown imposed in March 2020. “In many places, the children were left without any food or work.” Experts have pointed out how systems designed to help children failed to keep up with the alarming spread of Covid-19; the economic situation pushed many into destitution.There were also reports of an increase in child abuse and trafficking during the Covid-19 lockdown.Enakshi Ganguly, the co-founder of child right’s organization HAQ, said no one had done a systematic study but there was some evidence to indicate an increase in the vulnerability of children, with a rise in school dropout rates and an increase in child labour.The study by the Campaign Against Child Labour in states of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan shows very clearly that there is an increase in child labour. “They found that it was a combination of not having schools, devices and economic distress that led children to drop out of school and venture into child labour. The connection between child labour and child trafficking is a very thin line. There is no reason to believe not an increase in trafficking. An increase in vulnerability creates a situation where children are bought and sold.”The National Crime Records Bureau hasn’t released official statistics for 2020. The 2019 report, however, counted a 2.8% increase in cases from 2,837 in 2018 to 2,914 in 2019. The total number of persons trafficked in 2019 was 6,616.Tingal said when the lockdown was lifted in August, the foundation did notice a trend of children travelling in trains meant for migrants and even in buses. “The major mode of transport was buses,” he said. “From August to October, there was a sharp increase in the number of children travelling without parents or guardians in these, it was then we realized that they were being trafficked. We rescued nearly 400 children during this period and nearly 100 traffickers were arrested.”It is in this context that the government is expected to again introduce a bill targeted to deal with trafficking during the monsoon session. The draft bill has specific provisions to prosecute traffickers and those who help them such as Dilbar’s uncle. It proposes seven to 10 years of jail and up to ₹5 lakh fine for those convicted. There is also a provision to enable the National Investigation Agency to investigate trafficking cases.Ganguly of HAQ said strengthening social structures was the only way to stop child trafficking rather than more punitive laws and penal reforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-9k-children-trafficked-during-pandemic-report-101627244144138.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Militant killed in gunfight in J&K’s Kulgam||An unidentified militant was killed in an encounter with security forces in Kulgam district in south Kashmir on Sunday.The gunfight started after a joint party of the police and army’s 34 Rashtriya Rifles cordoned Sursano village after receiving specific information about the presence of militants in the area. “During the search operation, terrorists hiding in the orchards started firing indiscriminately on the security forces. The fire was retaliated, leading to an encounter,” a police spokesman said.Police said incriminating materials, including arms and ammunition, were recovered from the body. A case was registered at the Yaripora police station.In another incident, terrorists snatched an AK-47 rifle from a police constable in the Khudwani area of Kulgam district.Security forces recover 3 IEDs in KupwaraThree improvised explosive devices (IEDs) were recovered by security forces in Kupwara district, officials said. The IEDs were recovered during a cordon and search operation in the north Kashmir district, they said. The operation was conducted at Nadarnag Avoora in the district’s Trehgam area. A Bomb Disposal Squad was dispatched to the spot for disposal of the explosive devices, they said.3 terrorists killed in Bandipora were members of LeT: IGP KashmirOn Saturday, three militants were killed in Shokbaba forests in Sumblar of Bandipora district. Kashmir zone inspector general Vijay Kumar said, “Among the three terrorists killed in the Bandipora encounter yesterday, one was Shakir Altaf Baba who had crossed over to Pakistan from Attari-Wagah border in Amritsar in 2018. The three killed were members of Lashkar-e-Taiba.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/militant-killed-in-gunfight-in-j-k-s-kulgam-101627244609056.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Lack of development allegations: Jai Ram hits back at Kaul Singh||Hitting out at former health minister Kaul Singh Thakur who had alleged lack of development in the Darang Vidhan Sabha segment in Mandi, Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said senior ministers should refrain from issuing baseless statements. The CM, who was in Mandi, inaugurated and laid foundation stones of developmental projects worth ₹28.11 crore at Kataula in Darang assembly constituency and announced that an industrial training institute will be opened in the area. Jai Ram said the state government had ensured equitable and balanced development in the state and several schemes had been launched to ensure the welfare of every section of society and every area of the state. “We had only 50 ventilators in the state when the pandemic broke out. Today, we have over 600. India is manufacturing 10 lakh PPE kits while none were being produced last year. The former health minister should be asked what his government had done in the last 50 years,” he said. Saying that bypolls will be held soon, he urged the voters to extend their support. He also announced that Government Middle School, Chhakaryal, will be upgraded to a high school and said ₹20 lakh will be spent on constructing an examination hall at Government Senior Secondary School, Kataula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lack-of-development-allegations-jai-ram-hits-back-at-kaul-singh-101627244430587.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||24x7 water supply project: Chandigarh MC to sign agreement with French firm||For the ambitious project of providing 24/7 water supply across the city, the municipal corporation (MC) is all set to sign an agreement with the French firm, Agence Française de Développement (AFD), on August 20.Before that, however, the AFD is likely to sign another agreement on providing funding to the MC with the Union ministry of finance on August 10.The AFD is planning to provide ₹413 crore to the project in the form of a loan, which is to be repaid in 15 years with a six-year moratorium period. In addition to it, the European Union (EU) is also giving a grant of ₹98 crore to the project.After the signing of the agreement, the Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) will start the tendering process, which is expected to be finished by year-end. The work on the project is planned to start early next year.Facing a lot of criticism for the project, which will cost more than ₹590 crore and will lead to increase in water tariff, the CSCL and the MC will also launch a major awareness campaign to involve resident groups, welfare associations, etc,. on the day of the signing of the agreement.Outreach programme to involve resident groups to be launchedNP Sharma, MC chief engineer-cum-chief executive officer of CSCL, said, “AFD officials, the European Union representatives, Union government officials and political leaders will be invited. On August 20, we will also start an outreach programme for city residents involving different citizen groups, resident welfare associations and other stakeholders.”Presentations, video documentaries and interactive sessions have been planned to spread awareness about the project and allay fears around it. “All the benefits of the projects will be shared with the city residents on the occasion,” said Sharma.Sharma said that in addition to providing 24x7 water supply, the project aims to improve the quality of supply in terms of water pressure: “The water quality in terms of its purity will also be improved; the entire water network will be modernised, energy efficient devices will be used and its capacity expanded. Wastage of water will be sharply reduced.”By 2039-40, 5.2 lakh tonne CO2 emission to go downThe ₹98-crore EU grant mandates environment, health and social aspects be considered. “The project activity will reduce CO2 emissions by 5.2 lakh tonne up to 2039-40. The project qualifies as a ‘climate’ as well as ‘clean technology’ project as the total greenhouse gas emissions shall reach a lower level than the current CO2 emitted by the existing system,” added Sharma.Meanwhile, the ₹160-crore project for 24x7 water supply in Manimajra is already in the implementation stage: ₹70 crore will be spent on capital works and the rest ₹90 crore on maintenance works for the coming 15 years.There are approximately 13,700 water connections in Manimajra which will be covered under the project. Decreasing the non-revenue water (NRW) or leakage from 50% to 15% in this area is the major segment of this project. Besides the pipelines of outer areas, the authority will also lay those inside the houses so as to stop contamination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/24x7-water-supply-project-chandigarh-mc-to-sign-agreement-with-french-firm-101627244369699.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Four in car rob Mohali woman of gold bangles after asking for water||Three women and a man robbed a woman of her gold bangles after forcibly pulling her into their car in Zirakpur on Sunday morning.All three robbers were wearing face masks, the victim, Balwinder Kaur, a resident of Shakti Nagar, Dhakoli, told the police.According to police, the victim stated that she was walking back home after paying obeisance at Bauli Sahib Gurdwara in Dhakoli around 7.30am. A white Maruti Swift, with three women and a male driver, stopped by her side. Waving an empty water bottle from inside the car, one of the women asked Kaur where they could refill it with water as one of them was feeling sick. Considerate of the patient, Kaur stepped closer to the car, when the two women sitting in the back seat pulled her inside the car by her arm. The man drove off and within a few metres, the women pushed Kaur out of the moving car. Trying to make sense of what just happened, Kaur realised her gold bangles, weighing around 30gm, were gone. She immediately informed her husband, Sukhdev Singh, who along with other family members rushed to the spot. Sukhdev said they checked the CCTV footage at nearby shops and informed the police. Dhakoli station house officer (SHO) inspector Depinder Singh Brar said the police had procured the CCTV footage and were investigating the matter. A case has been registered on the victim’s complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-in-car-rob-mohali-woman-of-gold-bangles-after-asking-for-water-101627244368358.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||CAT-3 installation found unviable at Chandigarh airport||The long wait for a CAT-3 instrument landing system (ILS) at the Chandigarh International Airport has ended in authorities finding it unviable.With obstructions in the airfield, installation of the system is not possible, which means cancellation of flights amid heavy fog in the winter will continue.A radio navigation system, ILS provides pilots short-range guidance to land in poor visibility conditions. Over the years, fog and inclement weather have been hitting operations at the Chandigarh airport every winter.An aircraft requires at least 100-metre visibility to land safely. At present, the airport has a CAT-2 system, which works only till as low as 350-metre visibility. The CAT-3 system permits flight operations even when visibility drops to as low as 50 metres.Sanjeev Vashisht, member of the Chandigarh International Airport Advisory Committee, said, “To install CAT-3 ILS, the air force first needs to remove some obstructions. In the present situation, this is not possible.”Ajay Bhardwaj, chief executive officer of the airport, said the remaining work on the CAT-2 system was completed and aircraft will be able to land when visibility was between 350metres and 800 metres. “Upgrade of CAT-1 ILS is 60% completed. It will be ready before winter and will be used when visibility is between 550 metres and 1,200 metres.”While the Airport Authority of India (AAI) controls the functioning of the civil terminal in partnership with Punjab and Haryana, the runway operation and air traffic control is under the Chandigarh Air Force station.Was in the works for two yearsEarlier allowing flight operations only till 6pm, the airport started round-the-clock landings in April 2019, with a wider runway and CAT-2 system in place.Back then, all stakeholders, including the civil aviation ministry, Indian Air Force (IAF) and AAI, had agreed to install the much-needed CAT-3 ILS at the airport to facilitate flight seamless operations.The AAI board of directors even approved allotment of work to Tata Power Strategic Engineering Division, but the agency eventually failed to get permission from the defence ministry.A month before, taking note of a 2015 petition on infrastructural deficiencies at the airport, the Punjab and Haryana high court had also directed the Chief of Defence Staff, departments of civil aviation and military affairs, defence ministry, AAI and other stakeholders to examine and decide on installation of the advanced ILS.The directions had come after the department of military affairs submitted that the installation of CAT-3 ILS will entail demolition and relocation of most of functional infrastructure of a military airfield as well as national air defence assets. This would be detrimental to the operational needs of the IAF, military flying and national air defence, the court was informed. The case remains sub-judice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cat3-installation-found-unviable-at-chandigarh-airport-101627244129664.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Mann Ki Baat: PM appreciates Chandigarh vendor for encouraging residents to get Covid shot||For his initiative on encouraging people to get vaccinated, a city-based street-vendor, Sanjay Rana, who sells chhole bhature in Sector 29, received words of appreciation from Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his radio programme “Mann ki baat” on Sunday.Modi in his broadcast said, “In Chandigarh’s Sector 29, Sanjay Rana ji runs a food stall and sells chhole bhature on cycle. To eat this delicious chhole bhature for free, you will have to show [proof] that you have taken the Covid-19 vaccine on the same day. It is said that for the welfare of the society more than money, the commitment to serve others and a sense of duty are much more required. Our Sanjay brother has proved this right.”Rana, 45, a resident of Ram Darbar, thanked Modi for highlighting his initiative: “It is a great honour for me to be recognised by the PM for this initiative.” Stating that it was his six-year-old niece’s idea, Rana said, “One day, she came to me and suggested we should start offering free meals to encourage people to get vaccinated. I liked the idea very much and immediately started the offer.”A plate of chhole bhature costs ₹40, but Rana said that he offers free meals to 25-30 people every day. “I will continue the offer in the future also, particularly now that my efforts have been recognised.”He said that he now gave more priority to customers who had been vaccinated. “My shop is famous in the whole area by the name of Cycle Wale Cholle Bhature. Many famous people of the city also come to me for it.”Notably, the efforts of Rana in encouraging people to get jabbed first came to public notice after UT administrator VP Singh Badnore tweeted about him. It was then picked up by the local media which reported on Rana’s initiative.Badnore on July 10 had tweeted: “Hats off to the spirit of #Chandigarh hawker! My heart filled with gratitude to see his bit of duty towards his country and the extent of awareness this man has favouring #vaccination and offering free #CholaeBhatura to all those who get vaccinated.”Rana said he has been told by the UT officials that the administrator has also expressed desire to eat his chhole bhature: “I am told he will come tomorrow to have chhole bhature from my stall.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mann-ki-baat-pm-appreciates-chandigarh-vendor-for-encouraging-residents-to-get-covid-shot-101627243828900.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Kargil Vijay Diwas: Tributes paid to Major Sandeep Shankla in Panchkula||On the eve of Kargil Vijay Diwas, Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta paid tributes to Major Sandeep Shankla by laying a wreath at the Sandeep Shankla War Memorial in Sector 2 here on Sunday.The programme was organised by the Indian Ex-Servicemen Movement, Panchkula, and was attended by a number of retired army officers. A two-minute silence was also observed in memory of the martyrs. Major Shankla’s father was also present at the occasion.Speaking on the occasion, Lt Col SS Kalia said that the objective of the Indian Ex-Servicemen Movement was to work for the welfare of the ex-servicemen and for the betterment of the country. He said that this programme was organised every year and rich tributes were paid to the brave soldiers who laid down their lives for the unity and integrity of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kargil-vijay-diwas-tributes-paid-to-major-sandeep-shankla-in-panchkula-101627243648851.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC to allot house, lane numbers in villages on Chandigarh pattern||On the pattern adopted by the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC), the civic body of Mohali is all set to allot house and lane numbers in the villages under its limit.There are six villages under the limit of the MC. The survey regarding the implementation of the project has already been completed and the MC has decided to start from Madanpura village.Talking about the project, deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi said, “We had noticed that houses in villages did not have proper identification or addresses, which makes it difficult for a person coming from outside to locate them. Also, this numbering system will help in the smart city concept in the future. We will start the project from Madanpura village.”Bedi said that at present the house numbering was either based upon the name of the owner or a haphazard manner. The MC will simplify it as it is followed in Chandigarh. “We will also try to give proper lane numbers along with house numbers somewhat on the patterns of Chandigarh.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-to-allot-house-lane-numbers-in-villages-on-chandigarh-pattern-101627243588871.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: PGIMER contractual staff suspend work over mistreatment of three workers||Nearly 700 contractual workers stopped work at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) for several hours on Sunday alleging mistreatment of three workers, who, they claimed, were implicated in a theft case by a junior resident. The contractual workers started gathering around 8am and suspended work in the emergency and other centres of the hospital till about 2.30pm. They also submitted a complaint against the junior resident of the cardiac centre, a constable and an assistant sub-inspector. In a complaint to PGIMER director and Chandigarh senior superintendent of police, the contractual workers submitted that on July 24, three workers, including hospital attendant Virender Kumar and two sanitary attendants named Chinki and Rahul, were working at the cardiac centre.Around 10:30pm, a resident doctor claimed that his mobile phone was missing. He accused the three workers of theft and called the police who took them to the police post. “After a while, the doctor got a message that his phone was lying in a table drawer. He might have kept it there and forgotten. The doctor left the police post, but the workers were kept in police custody and beaten up even after the phone was found,” the complaint stated. It was further stated that the cops didn’t question other staff members posted in the night shift and even made casteist remarks against the workers. PGI contract workers association president Sanjeev Kumar said, “The three were beaten brutally and are admitted at the trauma centre. We have a meeting with the administration, who have assured us that PGIMER will bear the cost of treatment and give them compensation.” He said the union wants action against the doctor and two policemen. Sector 11 station house officer Ranjodh Singh, said, “We have got the medical examination done and are looking into the compliant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-pgimer-contractual-staff-suspend-work-over-mistreatment-of-three-workers-101627243529233.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Uneasy calm in HP Cong after Virbhadra Singh’s death||While the BJP is gunning for the four byelections to be held in Himachal, the Congress is struggling to get its act together after the death of former six-time chief minister Virbhadra Singh – one of the party’s tallest leaders. The veteran leader’s death has not just left a deep void in state politics but has brought the Congress at a crossroads ahead of the 2022 assembly polls. After the 87-year-old scion of the Rampur-Bushahr royal family succumbed to post-Covid complications on July 8, infighting within the party intensified with different groups engaging in a covert struggle to take over the reins. Singh, whose career spanned across six decades, was said to be the party’s binding force, though a small faction remained opposed to him.Leaders vie for top posts While the party’s high command has not indicated that it wants to replace the incumbent state chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore – who was once a loyalist of the deputy leader of the Congress in Rajya Sabha, Anand Sharma, but had later switched sides – it is learnt that Congress legislature party leader Mukesh Agnihotri is keenly vying for the post of Pradesh Congress Committee president, as is Naina Devi legislator Ram Lal Thakur.Former minister Harsh Mahajan who was a close aide of former chief minister Virbhadra Singh, and former urban development minister Sudhir Sharma are also lobbying for the post, while the names of five-time legislator Harshwardhan Chauhan and Congress senior leader Asha Kumari are also doing rounds.A person in the know of the party’s internal affairs, requesting anonymity, has said that the party could appoint Shimla rural legislator Vikramaditya Singh as the working president. Sanjay Dutt, the party’s co-in charge in Himachal Pradesh, has already given his feedback on the state of affairs in Himachal to the high command.Recently, GS Bali, a senior leader from Kangra and former transport minister had created ripples in the party circle by demanding that the next projected chief minister should be from the biggest district of the state.A few legislators including former Pradesh Congress Party chief Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu and senior leader Dhani Ram Shandil are vying for the post of Congress legislature party leader.BJP sprints ahead in campaigningThe party is also lagging behind in its campaign for the byelections, while the Jai Ram Thakur-led government has gone into election mode. Thakur recently visited Jubbal-Kotkhai and announced a sub-divisional office for the Jubbal and Kotkhai . The seat fell vacant after the demise of the former horticulture minister Narinder Bragta. Though the party is yet to officially announce its candidates, it has already projected Narendra’s son Chetan as its candidate. Former chief parliamentary secretary, Rohit Thakur, the grandson of former chief minister Thakur Ram Lal is touring Jubbal-Kotkhai but so far, no senior leaders have shared the dais with him.The party is also weighing its options for the Arki Vidhan Sabha seat that fell vacant after the death of Virbhadra Singh. It is likely that his wife, former Lok Sabha member Pratibha Singh, will contest from the segment. A few local leaders such as Rajendra Singh Thakur, son of former minister Hari Dass, and Mahila Congress chief Jenab Chandel, both from Arki, held closed-door meetings with Pratibha Singh. Virbhadra Singh’s core group is projecting Pratibha Singh as its successor. Congress Chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore has already made it clear that in Arki and Mandi parliamentary seats the party would give preference to Virbhadra Singh’s family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/uneasy-calm-in-hp-cong-after-virbhadra-singh-s-death-101627243228972.html
26-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana schools to reopen today, with precautions||Private schools are all set to open for physical classes from Monday, for the first time this academic session. After being closed due to the pandemic outbreak in March 2020, the schools had reopened in October 2020 for Classes 9 to 12 but were shut again in March 2021 as the cases started to surge with the onset of the second wave. The state government had recently issues directions to reopen all schools in view of the improving situation. Majority of the private schools will start at 7.30 or 7.40 am and will get over by 12.30 or 2pm.Safety strategiesAt several schools, students have been asked to come on alternate days to avoid crowding.Kundan Vidya Mandir School principal Navita Puri said, “We are reopening the school for students of classes 10 to 12. Adequate Covid safety measures have been put in place. Over 80% parents consented to send their wards to school. We are also receiving queries from parents of junior class students regarding reopening of school.”Parents have been asked to pick-and-drop their wards on their own from the school.Harmeet Kaur Waraich, principal of Nankana Sahib Public School, Gill Road, said, “At least 90% parents have agreed to send their wards to school. We have increased the number of rooms to accommodate students and one student will be seated on each bench to maintain social distancing. We will abide by all Covid-19 norms.”Govt schools to open from WednesdayGovernment schools, meanwhile, will reopen for physical classes from Wednesday as the state education department has directed them to hold parent-teacher meetings on July 26 and 27.For parent-teacher meetings, many schools have asked students to report roll-number wise or in alphabetic order and time slots have been allotted accordingly. During the meeting, school teachers will inform parents regarding the performance of their ward in the tests held in July and regarding the preparation for National Achievement survey.Pradeep Sharma, principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Lalton Kalan, said, “During the parent-teacher meet, we will ask parents to submit the consent form and also motivate them to get their ward vaccinated if she/he is 18 years or above. We will also ensure that social distancing is maintained when the school reopens on July 28. Students will be asked to wear masks and if a student is 18 or above and not vaccinated, then she/he will not be allowed to attend physical classes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-schools-to-reopen-today-with-precautions-101627242930614.html
26-07-2021||Other||Ban on plastic bags: Ludhiana industry to raise agitation on July 31||Imposing a ban on plastic bags in the city continues to remain a challenge for the municipal corporation (MC) amid political interference and pressure mounted by the plastic industry.Even as the state government had imposed a complete ban on the use and trade of plastic carry bags in April 2016, the MC has failed to impose it here for the last five years.After mayor Balkar Sandhu announced to ban plastic carry bags from August 1, the plastic manufacturers and traders’ association again announced an agitation against the decision on July 31.Gurdeep Singh Batra, president of Plastic Manufacturers and Traders Association, said, “The matter regarding the announcement of the ban was discussed in the state-level meeting of the association held in the city on Saturday. We have decided to raise an agitation against the decision. Banning plastic carry bags is not a solution to the problem and we have been taking up the matter since 2016. The MC should work on solid waste management and the industry will also support the civic body in the same. Like the union government, the state government should allow plastic carry bags with width up to 50 microns.”“There are 1,800 manufacturers and traders in the state. If the MC bans single-use plastic including, carry bags, the industry will suffer losses of thousands of crores. It will also lead to large-scale unemployment and result in loss to the government as its revenue collection through GST will be affected. The banned bags are also being supplied from other states. How is the government planning to stop them? The government and the MC should review the decision. We, along with our workers and families, will stage a peaceful protest outside the office of MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal in large numbers on July 31,” said Batra.Puneet Makhija, general secretary of Kesar Ganj Plastic Merchant Association, said rather than banning plastic carry bags, the government should install dustbins in the markets and work on managing the waste. Enforcement should be there to prevent the dumping of garbage in the open.One of the MC officials, requesting anonymity, said this will again put pressure on the government ahead of assembly elections, which will further affect the drive.Despite repeated attempts, mayor Balkar Sandhu remained unavailable for comments.Ban on plastic carry bags must save the environment: SeechewalEnvironmentalist and member of NGT monitoring committee Balbir Seechewal said that plastic carry bags need to be banned. “Apart from damaging the environment, the plastic waste also chokes sewer lines and pollutes the water bodies. Directions have been issued to the MC and PPCB to impose the ban, but they have failed to do so. The matter will be raised in the next meeting of the NGT monitoring committee,” he said.MC general house approves resolutionEven as the civic body is struggling to impose a ban on plastic carry bags, the MC general house had approved a resolution to ban single-use plastic in the city during its meeting on July 14. An MC health branch official, requesting anonymity, said the department is yet to finalize the list of items that have to be banned. The resolution has been approved just to complete a formality under the ‘Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge 2021-22, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ban-on-plastic-bags-ludhiana-industry-to-raise-agitation-on-july-31-101627242929597.html
26-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana police postpones intra-city contest as rain hampers preparations||The Ludhiana police have postponed the competition for the best police station and police post, keeping in view the monsoon season. The results are now likely to be declared in the first week of August. Earlier, they were to be announced on July 24.All 29 police stations, 28 posts, and 12 other units are competing to bag the first prize in the competition being conducted by the police department, where they will be judged on various parameters.The officials complained that rain had spoiled their arrangements and asked for more time to prepare for the competition.A police post in charge said, “We had laid carpets from the main gate, but due to the downpour, they have turned filthy.”An SHO said, “We had whitewashed the entire building but, before the paint could dry, the rain ruined it. We need at least one week to repaint it.”The officials conveyed their message to the commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal, who postponed the competition for one more week.The department had announced the competition on January 1, 2020, and had asked the police personnel to prepare for it. But, it was postponed after the Covid lockdown was imposed in March 2020 and public dealing was suspended at police stations.On March 24, 2021, the department had announced the competition again and asked the SHOs, police post, unit in-charges to gear up.The police chief had already started taking rounds of police stations and buildings to evaluate working and preparations.The top-ranked police station will get a reward amount of ₹3 lakh, the second-ranked police station will get ₹1 lakh while the third-ranked police station will get a reward of ₹50,000, besides certificates. Among the police posts, the police post bagging the top three spots will get ₹1 lakh, ₹50,000, and ₹25,000 each. Likewise, among other police units like women cell, Anti Human Trafficking Unit, cyber cell, economic offense unit, traffic wing, Motor Transport Section, Licensing Unit, Summon Units, the first-ranked unit will get a reward of ₹1 lakh, the second-ranked unit will get ₹50,000, and the third-ranked unit will get ₹25,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-police-postpones-intra-city-contest-as-rain-hampers-preparations-101627242869643.html
26-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana woman assaulted by husband, in-laws; FIR lodged||The in-laws of a 25-year-old woman have been booked for allegedly thrashing her while her brother-in-law has been booked for sexual harassment.The woman said that she had got married in August 2020. In April this year, she found out that her husband is a drug addict. She tried to convince him to give up drugs but instead of supporting her, the in-laws started harassing her. Her brother-in-law also touched her inappropriately during a heated argument, the woman told the police.She said that when she complained to her parents, her husband apologised and promised to make amends. However, on May 30, her husband started abusing her again under the influence of drugs. She immediately rang up her parents and also informed the police.Cops reached the spot and asked the husband to visit the police station the next morning. However, before leaving for the police station, her husband allegedly thrashed her and even tried to strangulate her. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sanjeev Kumar, the investigating officer, said a case under Section 354-A (sexual harassment) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the woman’s brother-in-law while the other family members, including the husband, father-in-law, mother-in- law and sister-in-law have been booked under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) and 506 (criminal intimidation). A hunt is on for the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-woman-assaulted-by-husband-in-laws-fir-lodged-101627242868696.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana mulls giving marks to Class 12 students for planting trees||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday announced that his government is toying with the idea of motivating students to plant trees by giving 10 additional marks to Class 12 students in final assessment. Addressing people on the occasion of state-level Van Mahotsav held through video conferencing, Khattar cited the example of Philippines where it is mandatory for every student to plant trees in order to get their graduation degree. Khattar said that in a bid to encourage students to plant trees in Haryana too, a possibility of granting at least 10 additional marks to class 12 students in final assessment is being explored by the education department so as to motivate students to plant more and more trees. Under the Paudhgiri Abhiyan, ₹50 is given as an incentive every six months to the children studying from classes 6 to 12 who take care of their planted sapling for three years. Calling upon the people of state to take “green pledge” by planting at least one tree during their lifetime to increase the green cover, Khattar said protecting the environment has always remained the utmost priority of his government. “This year we have set a target of planting 3 crore saplings. I would urge each one of you to become a part of the state government’s plantation campaign to ensure the betterment of mother earth’s heath,” Khattar said. Quoting “matsya-purana”, the chief minister said: “A pond equals ten wells, a reservoir equals ten ponds, while a son equals ten reservoirs, and a tree equals ten sons.” The chief minister said that the forest area of Haryana should be 20 per cent of the total geographical area because Haryana is a plain state. Being a plain and agricultural state, the notified forest area in Haryana is only 3.52 per cent and the total tree covered area is 3.62 per cent. “Thus our total forest and tree covered area is around 7 per cent. To increase it to 20 per cent, it is very important to plant more and more trees. This is a collective responsibility and keeping this in mind, special schemes are being implemented by forest and education department,” he said. e-Paudhshala mobile app launched On this occasion, Khattar launched citizen-centric e-Paudhshala mobile application for free distribution of plants from government nurseries. He said that all the saplings to be distributed to the panchayats under the Jal Shakti Abhiyan launched by the Prime Minister and the saplings to be distributed under our Paudhgiri Yojana will be distributed through this mobile application. “All citizens and government offices can get saplings from the nursery of the forest department by placing their demand through this app. The mobile application is available on both android and iPhone platforms,” he said. He said that through this application, anyone can check the availability of plants of their choice in the nearest nursery and the app also has a navigation facility to reach the nursery. Citizens can click pictures of plantations and share them with the Haryana forest department through this app. Through this app, the important role and contribution of citizens in making Haryana green will be acknowledged and recorded, Khattar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-mulls-giving-marks-to-class-12-students-for-planting-trees-101627242568655.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Contractual employees protest outside minister Soni’s residence||Contractual employees working under the education department’s Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) on Sunday held a protest outside Punjab medical education and research minister OP Soni’s Amritsar residence over their demand of regularisation. Holding placards criticising what they called the state government’s “anti-employee policies”, hundreds of protesters, including women, handed over a memorandum of their demands to the minister. Earlier, the protesters raising slogans against the state government held a protest march towards the minister’s house. Heavy police force and anti-riot vehicles were deployed outside the minister’s house.“Before coming to power, the Congress had promised to regularise all contractual employees. It has been more than four years but our demand has not been met,” said SSA Non-Teaching Staff (Mid-Day-Meal) Union’s state president Asish Julaha. He said, “In 2018, the state government regularised 8,866 contractual teachers working under the SSA, but the decision on nearly 1,000 non-teaching staff remained pending. We will intensify our struggle if our demand is not met in the coming days.” They lifted their protest only after Soni assured them that their “genuine demand” was being considered by a committee of ministers. Soni said, “The government is already considering their demand which is genuine. We will try to take a decision on it in the next cabinet meeting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/contractual-employees-protest-outside-minister-soni-s-residence-101627242153592.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||PSGPC asks Sidhu to play role in reopening of Kartarpur corridor||The Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) on Sunday sent congratulations to Navjot Singh Sidhu on becoming Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president and urged him to play a role in reopening of the Kartarpur corridor.In a tweet, the gurdwara body said, “The PSGPC extends heartiest congratulations to Mr. Navjot Singh Sidhu on becoming the Congress president of Indian Punjab. This is a proud moment for Sikh community throughout the world. We also urge Mr Sidhu to play role in reopening of the Kartarpur corridor”.Sidhu had hit the headlines in 2018 when he attended Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s swearing-in ceremony when which their army chief Qamar Javed Bajwa told him about efforts to open the corridor. Sidhu had responded by hugging him, drawing flak from a section of people in India, including Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh.At the inaugural ceremony of the corridor on November 9, 2019, he was special guest of the Pakistan government. The pilgrimage through the corridor was suspended by both the countries in March last year due to the Covid outbreak. The suspension still continues from the Indian side as the Centre is yet to take a decision on reopening the corridor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/psgpc-asks-sidhu-to-play-role-in-reopening-of-kartarpur-corridor-101627242152351.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||BBMB incurs ₹100 crore loss due to delay in power unit repair, starts probe||The Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) incurred losses to the tune of ₹100 core due to delay in overhauling work at a 157 megawatt (MW) power generation unit of the Bhakra dam project and has started a probe into the negligence. The board has admitted to have faced a daily loss of ₹70 lakh as the unit number 7 has been non-operational for months. The inquiry was launched at least 10 days ago to ascertain the reasons behind the delay and ensuing losses as the unit was to be restarted on March 3. A private company was given the maintenance work of the unit in October 2020 with a timeframe of six months. It is still not clear as how long will it take to resume the operations, officials said. The Bhakra dam has 10 power generation units. With another unit also under repair, only eight are in functional at present. The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) was keen on restarting the unit owing to peak load season in June. The private company that was given the work order for ₹1.67 crore has maintained that it was unable to make the unit number 7 operational due to some snag in the parts as an entire turbine had to be dismantled twice. “For repair work of the parts, a process to incur additional work cost of ₹30 lakh was initiated, to which the board’s finance department raised objections. It asked the power generation department to complete the work as per the provisions and rates agreed to in the initial tender,” said a BBMB official. Another board official said, “Due to the delay, a penalty of ₹34 lakh penalty imposed on the private company. It is not practically possible to run all 10 generation units as the basic function of the Bhakra dam is to regulate flow of water and power generation depends on the amount of water flowing from the penstocks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bbmb-incurs-rs-100-crore-loss-due-to-delay-in-power-unit-repair-starts-probe-101627242151313.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Renew talks to end impasse on 3 laws: Punjab BJP chief to farmers||Punjab Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Ashwani Sharma on Sunday urged the farmer leaders to resume talks with the central government and end the impasse over the three contentious agriculture laws. Talking to the media before an executive committee meeting of the party in Ludhiana, the three laws have not come into effect despite being passed in both the houses of Parliament. “Therefore, I will urge the representatives of the farmer unions to begin talks so that people protesting at the Delhi borders could return to their homes. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has always been a supporter of farmers and has done a lot of work for the agriculture sector.Interestingly, mediapersons and police personnel were asked to vacate the hall as soon as the meeting began. A party leader said the move was taken to avoid any controversy as matters such as infighting in the state and district units were discussed during the meeting.‘Sidhu’s elevation a diversionary tactic’ Sharma said that elevation of Navjot Singh Sidhu as Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief was a tactic to deviate the attention of people of Punjab from the mis-governance of the Captain Amarinder Singh-led Congress Government.“Illegal mining and drug smuggling are still rampant in the state. The industry is reeling under power cuts and rising electricity tariffs,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/renew-talks-to-end-impasse-on-3-laws-punjab-bjp-chief-to-farmers-101627242089697.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Akal Takht condemns ‘violation’ of maryada during U’khand CM’s gurdwara visit||The Akal Takht on Sunday took a serious note of alleged violation of maryada (decorum) at historic Gurdwara Nanakmatta Sahib in Uttarakhand during chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami’s recent visit to the shrine.The Akal Takht office shared videos, in which pro-BJP slogans are being raised by Dhami’s supporters on the gurdwara premises and women are seen performing folk dance of the state. A photo was also shared in which the head of the local Kar Sewa organisation is seen presenting the CM a silver ‘mukut’ (crown). The highest Sikh temporal seat received complaints against the gurdwara management for violating the maryada. Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said, “It is the shrine management’s responsibility to ensure compliance of maryadaon the premises of the gurdwara.“A thorough investigation will be held into the matter. A three-member committee comprising Akal Takht additional head granthi Giani Malkeet Singh, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) preacher Sarabjit Singh Dhotian and Dharam Parchar wing’s Ajit Singh will visit the gurdwara and necessary action will be taken against the guilty,” he added. Panthic gathering on sacrilege incidents todayOn a call given by Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, a Panthic gathering will be held at the highest Sikh temporal seat on Monday to discuss sacrilege incidents. “The government has failed to check incidents of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib and to ascertain who is behind this conspiracy. To find a solution, discussions will be held by heads of Sikh sects, organisations, seminaries and scholars,” the jathedar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akal-takht-condemns-violation-of-maryada-during-u-khand-cm-s-gurdwara-visit-101627242088406.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers don’t allow OP Chautala to speak at Khatkar toll plaza||Former Haryana chief minister and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) chief Om Prakash Chautala was not allowed to address the farmers at Jind’s Khatkar toll plaza on Sunday. Chautala urged the protesting farmers multiple times to give him mike but Khera Khap president Satbir Pehalwan turned down his request. The 86-year-old INLD leader left the venue in a huff and reached Baddowal toll plaza where he was received well. Khatkar toll plaza falls under the Uchana assembly segment and Baddowal comes under Narwana. The INLD leader had represented both the constituencies in the past and were considered his strongholds. Pehalwan said their stand against political figures was clear from day one of the farm agitation. “Chautala was not an exception for us as he also has political ambitions. We will not allow any leader to speak from our stage. The politicians can extend support but we will not allow them to speak from the main stage. We briefed Chautala about the same but he was mounting pressure to let him address the gathering,” the khera khap president said. Khattar toll plaza falls under Uchana constituency which Chautala had represented before he was convicted in the teachers’ recruitment scam. Now, his grandson Dushyant Chautala, who is deputy chief minister in the BJP-JJP coalition government, represents the constituency. Speaking at Baddowal toll plaza, Chautala said the BJP government will have to repeal three farm laws and the Union government’s countdown has started. “This is not an agitation of farmers and labourers but of all the people. The BJP government had brought these laws to snatch farmers’ land and hand over the same to big businessmen,” he said. After being released from the Tihar jail, the INLD patriarch has been visiting toll plazas in Haryana to extend support to the farmers protesting against the three laws. Farmers deface Khattar, Dushyant pictures After staging a showdown against minister of state Anoop Dhanak, farmers protesting against three farm laws defaced the pictures of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and his deputy Dushyant Chautala on the welcome signboard outside Uklana town in Hisar district.Dhanak, a JJP leader, had reached Uklana at 8.45am on Sunday, nearly an hour and 15 minutes before the scheduled time to take part in a tree plantation programme, but scores of farmers reached there and showed him black flags.Seeing the tense situation, police detained two local farm leaders, Satish Bithmara and Satish Jangra, for some time. In the second incident, farmers protested the visit of BJP leader Sonali Phogat at Kajla village in Hisar’s Agroha. Amid heavy security, she and other BJP workers left the meeting. Meanwhile, farmers held a protest outside the venue of a block-level meeting of the BJP at Salwan village in Karnal on Sunday. A heavy police force was deputed and barricades installed near the venue. The protest remained peaceful and the farmers ended their sit-in after the meeting was over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-don-t-allow-op-chautala-to-speak-at-khatkar-toll-plaza-101627241429846.html
26-07-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh Cong MLA alleges his convoy was ‘attacked’ at behest of minister||A ruling Congress legislator in Chhattisgarh alleged that his convoy was allegedly ‘attacked’ at the behest of state health minister TS Singh Deo in Surguja district.Brihaspat Singh, the MLA from Ramanujganj seat, while talking to reporters on Sunday evening, alleged that his vehicle was attacked by three persons, one of them was a relative of minister Singhdeo.“The reason behind the attack was that he had praised Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel as I also said that Baghel will continue to be the CM of the state due to which Singh Deo had a grudge against me,” said Singh talking to reporters.“... This is very unfortunate that family members of state’s health minister attacked my convoy. If I was in that car, I would have been attacked with guns,” he added.Singh Deo, however, denied the allegations claiming that the people of the state know about him and he has nothing to say more about the allegations.Briefing about the incident, a police official said, “On Saturday evening, the convoy of Singh was heading towards circuit house of Surguja and as soon as the convoy reached near Bangali Chowk, the three accused, who were in an SUV, started driving parallel to follow the vehicle in the convoy and allegedly abused its driver. The two sides entered in a verbal duel following which the accused damaged the windshield of the MLA’s follow vehicle”.Later, based on the complaint of the driver of the vehicle Sudarshan Singh, the accused, identified as Sachin Singh Deo, Dhanno Urao and Sandeep Rajak, were booked and arrested.“The exact cause of the incident was not immediately known, and further probe is underway,” the police officer said.Reacting to the allegations, Singh Deo said sometimes people speak out in emotions and things can be settled after sitting together.The minister was speaking to reporters after attending the party’s legislature meet ahead of the monsoon session,“Things become clear when they are discussed. We will sit together. People of the state know about me and I have nothing more to say on the issue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhattisgarh-cong-mla-alleges-his-convoy-was-attacked-at-behest-of-minister-101627241368413.html
26-07-2021||Other||Wall collapse damages 7 vehicles in Ludhiana’s Books Market parking||At least seven vehicles were damaged after a part of the compound wall of the parking lot in ‘Books Market’, adjoining Chaura Bazaar in old city area, collapsed following light rain on Sunday afternoon. No injuries were reported. After the incident, traders removed their vehicles from the spot.Books Market Traders association president Jaspal Singh Bunty said all traders of the Books Market, Pindi Street, Gur Mandi, Chaura Bazar park their vehicles here. “The compound wall collapsed after a brief spell of rain. We pay ₹1,800 to the parking contractor every month. It is their responsibility to ensure the safety of our vehicles but they failed. We will seek compensation from the contractor for our loss.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wall-collapse-damages-7-vehicles-in-ludhiana-s-books-market-parking-101627241189921.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||May 8 jailbreak: Rewari jail supdt, deputy suspended||Rewari’s Federi jail superintendent Anil Kumar and his deputy Naresh Goyal were placed under suspension after a preliminary investigation by IG (prisons) Jagjit Singh found gross negligence on the part of the prison staff in connection with May 8 jailbreak. Thirteen Covid-infected inmates had escaped after cutting the lock of an iron grill and four of them are still untraced. The facility was dedicated to Covid-infected inmates during the second wave of the pandemic. Rewari police managed to arrest nine escapees. The jail is still under construction and has five barracks, which housed 750 inmates during the second Covid-19 wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/may-8-jailbreak-rewari-jail-supdt-deputy-suspended-101627241188799.html
26-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Sarpanch’s husband goes missing after threatening suicide||The husband of a Congress sarpanch in Macchiwara went missing on Saturday night after sending out a video message in which he threatened to kill himself.In the message that has been received by several people, the man had claimed that he was going to jump into the Sirhind Canal as two villagers, including his cousin and a panchayat member, had duped him of his money. Police, however, have not found his body so far. No FIR has been lodged yet as cops are trying to trace the man.The sarpanch, meanwhile, said that her husband had recently sold a piece of land and received ₹3.25 lakh in lieu of it. As soon as he had received the money, one of his cousins had borrowed it from him, stating that he needed to repay a bank loan. The sarpanch’s husband lent him the money but the cousin reportedly refused to repay it.The sarpanch’s husband had also claimed in the video that the cousin had encroached a part of the panchayat land and forced him to record a statement in his favour in the court.Machhiwara station house officer (SHO), inspector Rajesh Thakur said no one saw the man jumping into the canal. “However, we have launched a search operation,” said the SHO. According to villagers, the sarpanch’s husband is already debit-ridden and had attempted suicide a year ago as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-sarpanch-s-husband-goes-missing-after-threatening-suicide-101627241068573.html
26-07-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Bamiyan boys||When you hear the word Bamiyan, what do you see in your mind’s eye?May be, the Buddhas of Bamiyan.These were two monumental statues of Gautama Buddha, dating from the 6th century and carved into a sandstone cliff in the Bamiyan valley of Afghanistan. In 2001, both statues were destroyed by the Taliban government.Cut to 2021. About a dozen young men are picnicking on the grass, hundreds of miles away from Bamiyan, in a park in central Delhi. They all are natives of that same Bamiyan region, and all have seen the Bamiyan Buddhas. “We have seen the place where the Buddhas used to be,” clarifies one of them.Lots of Afghans have left their homeland for fear of violence, and many have found a home in Delhi—some lanes in Lajpat Nagar and Bhogal could be mistaken for mohallas in Kabul or Kandahar. These young men are some of them; they live in Malviya Nagar. They have been following the news of the Taliban’s looming comeback in Afghanistan. “We are tensed about our relatives and friends,” says one of the men.Sitting in a semicircle, each person appears to be a living embodiment of his own village or town in Afghanistan. Being with them is like being transported into their land. The men gamely agree to reveal where they grew up in Afghanistan (which wasn’t necessarily the Bamiyan region), and what is their dream as they build a new life in Delhi.Salman Rahmani, 20 years old, coming from Shibar village: “I want to be a doctor.”Shams, 22, from Parwan province: “I want to marry… I want to marry a particular girl I have known for some time.”Ahmadi, 20, from Kabul: “I have no ambition.”Raees, 21, from Samangan province: “I want to be an engineer who works with cars.”Khal Padshah, 30, from Turkman village: “I’m not young anymore, but I’m still single. My dream is to get married.”Humayun Muhammadi, 25, from Kaloo village. “I want to be a motivational speaker.”Niyaz Ali, 40, from Wazirabad district: “I have four sons, I have no dreams.”Mustafa Azhar, 24, from Kaloo: “I’m a communist, so I want to be happy and see others happy.”Ziauddian, 26, from Shibar: “I hope to be a football player.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-bamiyan-boys-101627240344016.html
26-07-2021||Lucknow||Samajwadi Party to renew Brahmin outreach, hold conferences from August-end||The Samajwadi Party (SP) will begin its Brahmin conferences from the end of next month and hold the first such prabuddh sammelan (intellectual meet) in Ballia in eastern Uttar Pradesh on August 24, followed by similar events in Mau and Auraiya on August 25 and 26.The plan is part of the party’s effort to renew its Brahmin community outreach programme at a time when its rival political parties the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), too, are ready to play the Brahmin card for the 2022 UP assembly elections. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday formed a five-member committee to plan the Brahmin outreach, issues and strategy, said people in the party aware of the developments.The effort to woo Brahmins (an upper caste) comes days after the BSP held a Brahmin conference in Ayodhya on Friday (July 23).Former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday held a meeting at the SP’s state headquarters in Lucknow with five prominent Brahmin leaders in the party. Senior party leader and former UP assembly speaker Mata Prasad Pandey, former cabinet ministers Abhishek Mishra and Manoj Pandey and former SP MLAs Sanatan Pandey and Santosh Pandey were the five present at the meeting. The leaders at the meeting decided to launch tours and conferences in different parts of the state to connect with the upper caste. The series of conferences will begin on August 24 in Ballia, where Abhishek Mishra recently inaugurated a Parshuram temple under the programme that he launched nearly a year ago with the SP to establish a shrine dedicated to Parshuram in each of the 75 districts of the state.Lord Parshuram was a Brahmin warrior saint who many Brahmins worship.The SP’s Brahmin conferences will attempt to tell people that all communities were taken care of when the Samajwadi Party was in power while they were being harassed under the present government, said a senior party leader.Manoj Pandey, who was the religious endowment minister in the previous Akhilesh government, had launched the Shravan Yatra to facilitate pilgrimages at government expense.While the SP government had declared Parshuram Jayanti a holiday, the present government withdrew it soon after assuming office.The SP will also tell people about the work its government did for the improvement of Sanskrit schools in the state. The party will also highlight the fact that it gave tickets to 42 Brahmins in the 2012 UP assembly elections and 23 of them won.Akhilesh Yadav and Abhishek Mishra both tweeted a picture of Sunday’s meeting.Though Akhilesh captioned it “SP office”, Abhishek tweeted: “Thanks to the national president (Akhilesh Yadav) for giving so much time. We all discussed several important subjects.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/samajwadi-party-to-renew-brahmin-outreach-hold-conferences-from-augustend-101627240348911.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||100-bed portable hospital to be operational soon in Kaithal||Amid the speculation of the third Covid-19 wave, state’s first 100-bed portable hospital is nearing completion in Kaithal. The force behind the ₹2.5-crore project is chief minister’s good governance associate Pankhuri Gupta, who raised funds for the hospital by roping in NGOs, social activists and philanthropists. “The portable hospital project required ₹2.5 crore. I contacted different NGOs for funds, and recently the American India Foundation agreed to provide the required funds and now the hospital is being set up,” Gupta said. The hospital will have an intensive care unit and ventilators to treat critical patients. The IIT Madras-incubated start-up Modulus Housing developed portable hospital units named ‘MediCAB’, initially launched in Wayanad district of Kerala. The unit has a prefabricated modular technology and telescopic frame for easy transportation. According to Gupta, the life of this hospital will be around 15 years and once the Covid-19 subsides, it can be utilised as a normal hospital. Dr Shailender Mamgain, chief medical officer, Kaithal, said the hospital will strengthen the medical infrastructure in the district. He said the staff — a paediatrician, two medical officers and eight staff nurses — to run the hospital will be recruited through the National Health Mission (NHM). If required, a Neonatology Intensive Care Unit (NICU) can be added to the hospital as there is a possibility that the third wave may target the children, Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/100bed-portable-hospital-to-be-operational-soon-in-kaithal-101627240290897.html
26-07-2021||Other||At 59, Ludhiana sees lowest active case count of the year||The district recorded three new Covid-19 cases and no deaths on Sunday. This is for the second time during the second wave that Ludhiana has recorded such a low daily count. Previously, the district had recorded three cases on July 23. On July 22 and July 19, there were four cases each.The active cases dipped to 59, the lowest that the figure has gone this year. Ludhiana has so far logged 87,265 Covid cases, of which 2,093 patients died. As many as 85,113 people successfully defeated the virus.Currently, there is no patient undergoing treatment at any of the government health facilities, while seven patients are being treated at private hospitals of the district.No new mucormycosis (black fungus) case was reported in the district on Sunday. As many as 83 cases of black fungus have been recorded in the district so far, out of which eight people died during treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-59-ludhiana-sees-lowest-active-case-count-of-the-year-101627240289705.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||PO wanted in 10 cases held in Jalandhar||Jalandhar police have arrested a proclaimed offender (PO) wanted in 10 criminal cases, including murder, on Sunday. The accused has been identified as Gurdeep Singh of Buttaran village in Bhogpur area of Jalandhar district. Police said acting on a tip-off, Gurdeep was apprehended by a team led by sub-inspector Pushp Bali near Kartarpur. Gurdeep was declared proclaimed offender by a Jalandhar court, said the police, adding he also confessed to his involvement in the killing of a Phagwara resident, Deepak Heera. Gurdeep and Deepak were jailed in 2016 where they used to have fights over old rivalry. Both were released in 2020 on bail and in July, Gurdeep and its aides killed Deepak near Dhilwan and later set the body afire, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/po-wanted-in-10-cases-held-in-jalandhar-101627240288365.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Post-matric scholarship: SC panel directs Punjab to submit report||The National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) has directed the Punjab chief secretary to submit a fact-finding report in a complaint of non-disbursement of post-matric scholarship to a charitable institute.In a complaint registered with the NCSC this month, principal of Tapacharya Hem Kunwar Rasik Lal Dhariwal Jain Girls College at Raman Mandi town of Bathinda district Gagandeep Kaur charged the state government with non-release of ₹17 lakh since the 2013-14 academic session.Kaur said the audit team of the state education department wrongly calculated the post-matric dues for the period of 2013-2016.“After detecting the anomaly, the college management approached the higher education authorities. A review report confirms the audit shortcoming of calculating the fee. The social justice and empowerment department is not releasing funds saying audit reviews are not accepted. We are running a charitable institute where students from rural areas of Bathinda and adjoining Sirsa district are enrolled. Our financial position has crippled due to delayed payments,” she said.The NCSC has asked the chief secretary to probe the matter and file a reply within 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/postmatric-scholarship-sc-panel-directs-punjab-to-submit-report-101627240170332.html
26-07-2021||Kolkata||Health worker held in Bengal for stealing free vaccines, giving jabs for money||A health worker employed by the West Bengal government was arrested from the Sonarpur area of South 24 Parganas district on Saturday for stealing vials of the Covid-19 vaccine from government stocks and injecting people against payment of sums ranging between ₹200 and 500, officials said. Two vials of Covishield, which is administered free by the state, were recovered from Mithun Mondal, the accused, said Vaibhav Tiwari, superintendent of police, Bauipur police district. “Some police officers posed as consumers and nabbed the accused. The Covishield vials seized from him appear to be genuine but we have sent those for a test. The accused has named some people. We have also found some documents. A probe is on,” Tiwari told the media. Police are trying to find out how many people bought vaccines from Mondal. It has been found that he vaccinated some people at a house in Sonarpur. The arrest came amid a shortage of vaccines in some districts. Mondal was working as a coordinator for the vaccination programme. It is suspected that he stole the vials from a health centre in the Diamond Harbour area of South 24 Parganas. Police officers probing the case said he stole vials from unused stocks and later made entries in the registers, showing the vials as used. As a result, people he vaccinated for money received certificates.“Frauds like these surface because of the mismatch in demand and supply,” said minister Firhad Hakim. Accusing the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC), Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh said, “The Centre is regularly sending vaccines to Bengal. There is a crisis because TMC leaders are selecting the recipients while common people are being deprived.”Mondal’s arrest comes a month after the Kolkata Police arrested Debanjan Deb, the imposter who posed as an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer posted at the Kolkata Municipal Corporation and held at least two vaccination camps for the general public where an antibiotic was allegedly used on a few hundred people. Deb has been charged under several sections of the Indian Penal Code, including Section 307 (attempt to murder). His father is a retired officer of the state excise department. The police seized stamp papers, forged documents of various government departments from Deb’s residence. During interrogation, Deb told the police that he wrote a letter to the Serum Institute of India as well, asking for Covishield vaccines. A 10-member special investigation team (SIT) of the Kolkata Police is probing the case. Deb has so far confessed about two vaccination camps. One was held for students and teachers at City College North in the Bowbazar area while the other was held for local residents of Kasba in south Kolkata. Nobody received any certificate or intimation on their mobile phones. TMC Lok Sabha MP from Jadavpur and popular actress Mimi Chakraborty blew Deb’s cover by informing the police when she felt suspicious after getting a jab at the camp in Kasba.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/health-worker-held-in-bengal-for-stealing-free-vaccines-giving-jabs-for-money-101627240169243.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Mann slams Tomar’s remarks against farmers||Chandigarh Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state president and MP Bhagwant Mann on Sunday objected to Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s remarks calling the farmers’ movement and farmers’ parliament absurd.Accusing the central government leaders of making such frivolous statements, Mann said the laws being imposed in the name of agrarian reforms are nonsensical. “If the government does not give up its attempt to ignore or suppress the protests with dictatorial arrogance, then the farmers’ sansad or the agitation will not be confined to Delhi but will spread across the country,” he said in a statement. Mann said the AAP has been opposed to these three agricultural laws and will continue to do so till these are repealed. “During the monsoon session, I will not miss any opportunity to oppose Prime Minister Narendra Modi, agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, along with all ruling MPs and ministers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mann-slams-tomar-s-remarks-against-farmers-101627239568462.html
26-07-2021||Other||Drug peddler receives bullet injury after trying to snatch police gun in Assam||A group of drug peddlers allegedly attacked police and tried to snatch guns of the officials during a raid in Karimganj district of Assam on Saturday evening, officials said. The police had to fire some bullets in defence which resulted in severe injury in the lower body of one of the peddlers. The man, identified as Kausar Ahmed, is currently under treatment at Silchar Medical College and Hospital. Superintendent of Police Padmanabh Baruah informed that cases will be registered against the person once he recovers from the injuries and gets discharged from the hospital. Baruah informed that the incident took place in Patharkandi area of Karimganj district at around 5:30 pm on Saturday. Acting on a tip-off, police officials from Patherkandi Police Station conducted an operation in the Lakhipur area. “There were four drug peddlers initially who attacked the police officials and later two more joined them. One of them tried to snatch a gun from a police official and in defence, other officials had to open fire at the drug peddler. Rest five peddlers immediately ran away and managed to escape. Police officials recovered 72 grams of suspected brown sugar from one person. There is a possibility that more amount of drugs were available with the peddlers who escaped,” Barua said. Assam chief minister Himanta Bishwa Sharma recently advocated firing against criminals. Recently, there have been several such occasions when the police opened fired at criminals while they were trying to escape from custody or attempting a counter-attack. However, in Barak Valley part of Assam, this is the first such incident after this year’s assembly election. Assam police are on a mission against drugs in the entire state and people are being arrested frequently, especially in Barak Valley which shares a large border with Bangladesh and states like Mizoram, Manipur and Tripura. There is a common tendency of smuggling and according to the police, some international rackets are involved in supplying drugs in Assam. According to police, drugs are sometimes sold in roadside shops and women are also involved in these activities. Several women drug peddlers have also been arrested by police in recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drug-peddler-receives-bullet-injury-after-trying-to-snatch-police-gun-in-assam-101627239509630.html
26-07-2021||Lucknow||Phoolan Devi’s 20th death anniversary: Parties vie to woo Nishad community in Uttar Pradesh||The 20th death anniversary of bandit-turned-politician Phoolan Devi on Sunday sparked a race for the Nishad community votes among the political parties in Uttar Pradesh where assembly elections are due early next year. Phoolan Devi, who belonged to the Nishad community and was elected MP on a Samajwadi Party ticket from Mirzapur in eastern Uttar Pradesh in 1996 and 1999, was shot dead at the gates of her official bungalow in New Delhi on July 25, 2001, when she was a sitting Lok Sabha memberThe supporters of Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) led by Bihar animal husbandry minister Mukesh Sahni organised protests in various districts of Uttar Pradesh after the administration refused to grant permission to the party to install statues of Phoolan Devi in 18 districts of UP. The police detained the supporters of VIP in these 18 districts, including Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Kanpur, Prayagraj and Agra, the party claimed.Terming the police action as a disrespect to Phoolan Devi, VIP’s state unit president Lautan Ram Nishad said the party had decided to launch a statewide protest over the issue.The members of the Nishad, Majhwar, Kewat, Bind, Kashyap and Mallah communities were being harassed by the BJP government, he said. VIP would also launch a movement seeking reservation for the Nishad community in government jobs, he said. The party has also decided to contest the 2022 assembly elections in UP on its own strength, he added.Hitting back at the VIP, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Rajya Sabha member Jai Prakash Nishad said VIP had no support base in Uttar Pradesh but it was trying to create confusion among the Nishad community on Phoolan Devi’s death anniversary.“The members of the Nishad community know that the BJP government led by Yogi Adityanath has launched several welfare schemes for the community,” he said. The BJP created a five-member state fishermen’s cell on July 17 to mobilise the support of Nishads in the assembly election. Jai Prakash Nishad, who has been appointed state convenor of the fishermen cell, said the BJP government constructed a grand park in the name of Nishad Raj at Shringverpur in Prayagraj. The community will support the BJP in the assembly election, he said. In an apparent bid to woo Nishads, Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav unveiled the statue of Nishad community leader Manohar Lal Nishad in Unnao on July 22.Samajwadi Party Rajya Sabha MP Vishambhar Prasad Nishad said since its launch, the SP was fighting for the rights of the backward community.“The Samajwadi Party government not only withdrew cases against Phoolan Devi (in 1994) but also sent her to the Lok Sabha from Mirzapur (in 1996 and 1999). The party ensured a respectable cremation for Phoolan Devi after her killing in Delhi on July 25, 2001. Each year, the party organises programmes on her birth and death anniversaries across the state. To misguide the Nishad community, the BJP leaders are supporting VIP president Mukesh Sahani and Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Aam Dal (NISHAD) party chief Dr Sanjay Nishad. The Samajwadi Party will get the support of the Nishads in the assembly election,” he said.Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) state unit president Bhim Rajbhar said party chief Mayawati launched several schemes for the welfare of the “suppressed communities,” including Nishads, when the BSP was in power in UP.Under the BSP government, they not only got fishery rights but were also allotted agricultural land for their livelihood, he said.An ally of the BJP, Nishad party chief Dr Sanjay Nishad said the supporters of the party organised programmes across the state to mark the 20th death anniversary of Phoolan Devi. “She took up the gun to fight for the rights of the weaker sections in the society. When the Nishad party comes to power in UP, it will set up a women’s self-defence centre in the name of Phoolan Devi. The effort of the rival parties to divide the Nishad community will prove futile as they are united under the banner of the Nishad Party,” he said.Jaalvanshi Morcha national president Gyanendra Nishad said the supporters of the morcha organised a yatra across UP to mobilise the Nishad community. “We also visited Shekhpur Gudha Ka Purwa, native village of Phoolan Devi (in Jalaun district of Uttar Pradesh), to meet her mother Moola Devi. We will launch a movement seeking reservation for the community in government jobs,” he said.Phoolan Devi’s husband Umed Singh, who runs Eklavya Sena, said if Phoolan had belonged to the upper caste, the ruling political party would have installed her statues and constructed temples. “Rather she is abused as a dacoit and bandit queen,” he said.The Eklavya Sena will oppose the use of her name for political gains, he said.A political observer SK Srivastava said the boatmen community (Nishads, Majhwars, Kewats, Binds, Kashyaps and Mallahs) constituted 18% of the OBC votes in UP.Along with organising the death anniversary of Phoolan Devi, the political parties were trying to woo the community whose votes will be decisive in around 160 assembly constituencies in east and Central UP in the 2022 assembly elections, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/phoolan-devi-s-20th-death-anniversary-parties-vie-to-woo-nishad-community-in-up-101627239449493.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Govt insulting farmers, it must repeal agri laws, says Priyanka||After the Centre said it has no record of farmers who have died during the agitation at Delhi’s borders against three agri laws since 2020, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday alleged that the government has been constantly “insulting” the farmers and demanded that it must repeal the legislations.Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar informed Parliament on Friday that the government has no record of farmers who have died during the agitation at Delhi’s borders against three new farm laws since last year.“The BJP government said in Parliament that neither had it made any effort to know farmers’ opinion on the three black agri laws nor does it have any data on how many farmers have died,” Priyanka said.Alleging that the government was looking at the issue from the prism of its “billionaire friends”, the Congress general secretary said this government is “constantly insulting farmers”.She made the remarks in a tweet in Hindi using a Hindi hashtag, which translated to “Take back black farm laws”. Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November last year in protest against the three laws. Out of them, a small group of 200 farmers are now staging a protest at Jantar Mantar in central Delhi after getting special permission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-insulting-farmers-it-must-repeal-agri-laws-says-priyanka-101627239448325.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 6 more deaths, 54 fresh cases||Six more Covid-related fatalities took the death toll to 16,266 in Punjab on Sunday, while 54 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 5,98,794, according to a medical bulletin.Two deaths each were reported from Amritsar and Ferozepur and one each from Fatehgarh Sahib and Hoshiarpur, it said.The number of active cases is 699 in the state. Mohali reported nine cases, followed by eight in Amritsar and seven each in Bathinda and Hoshiarpur, according to the bulletin.With 117 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,81,829, it said.A total of 1,19,12,389 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-6-more-deaths-54-fresh-cases-101627239268825.html
26-07-2021||Chandigarh||Regional parties should form national front for 2024 Lok Sabha polls: Sukhbir||Regional parties should come together and form a national front to take on the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, Shriomani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal said on Sunday.Underlining that issues of farmers are at the core of the SAD ideology, Sukhbir said his party can never compromise on these and, therefore, severed its decades-old alliance with the BJP and moved out of the government at the Centre over three contentious farm laws.“SAD is a farmers’ party and their issues are core of our ideology. Whatever may happen and whatever cost we may have to pay, we wouldn’t let these laws be implemented in Punjab,” Sukhbir told PTI in an interview.In September last year, Sukhbir’s wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal quit as Union minister in protest against the legislations.The protesting farmers claim these laws will do away with the minimum support price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. Over 10 rounds of talks with the government, which has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms, have failed to break the deadlock between the two sides.‘Alliance with BSP permanent’ Talking about the SAD’s new alliance with the Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Badal said the alliance between the two parties is permanent and that the Akali Dal’s story with the BJP was over.On the party’s future course of action, Sukhbir said the SAD is talking to various regional parties so that they all can come on one platform before the 2024 general elections.“There is a need for regional forces to get together. Regional forces are more connected to the ground and have better understanding of the people. We have been talking to various parties. Regional parties should come together and form a front before the 2024 general elections. And I am sure before 2024, this front will emerge as very strong force,” he said.Sukhbir further said it would be a second front rather than a third front as the main opposition Congress is no more a pan-India party. The BJP will be the new front’s main target, he said. ‘Farm laws will be main issue in assembly polls’ In the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab, Sukhbir said farm laws will be the main issue for the SAD. “If the party is voted to power, we will provide government job to a family member of all those farmers who lost their lives during the ongoing protest against the laws. Besides it will provide free education to the children of deceased farmers and pension to the parents of those who died young,” Sukhbir said.He also said the party will bet big on new and young faces and will try to field as many women as possible in the assembly elections slated for early next year.On a question about reports of alleged snooping on politicians, activists and journalists using Pegasus spyware, Sukhbir termed it an attack on democracy and demanded establishment of a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) headed by an opposition MP to probe the matter.“This entire snooping episode is an attack on the Constitution, democracy and rights of the people. It is completely unethical and a JPC should be formed headed by an opposition MP to investigate it,” Sukhbir said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/regional-parties-should-form-national-front-for-2024-lok-sabha-polls-sukhbir-101627239148245.html
26-07-2021||Lucknow||Barring farmers, all in Uttar Pradesh to have smart prepaid meters in next 3 years||Barring farmers, all other electricity consumers in Uttar Pradesh, like in most other states, will necessarily have prepaid smart meters on their premises in next two-three years with the facility of recharging these meters through a mobile phone under the Centre’s new Revamped Distribution Sector Scheme.The Union power ministry has issued the office memorandum to states, explaining the scheme to them in detail and informing them of the terms and conditions required to avail the new initiative having a budgetary outlay of ₹3,03,758 crore. “President’s sanction is conveyed for the implementation of the “Revamped Distribution Sector Scheme—A Reforms-based and Results-linked Scheme” with the objective of improving the quality and reliability of power supply to consumers through a financially sustainable and operationally-efficient distribution sector,” says the Office Memorandum received here by the chief secretary and the UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) chairman offices, among others.The scheme aims to reduce the AT&C losses to pan-India levels of 12-15% and average cost of supply (ACS)-average revenue realization (ARR) gap to zero by 2024-25.In order to attain the key objective of loss reduction in electricity distribution for installation of prepaid smart meters in the mission mode in the first phase in (i) all electricity divisions of AMRUT cities with AT&C losses above 15% (ii) all Union Territories (iii) MSMEs and all other industrial and commercial consumers (iv) all government offices at Block level and above (v) other areas with high losses.“Prepaid smart metering system with communion features are important interventions in reducing distribution losses in the utilities and automatic measurement of energy flows and energy accounting as well as auditing without any human intervention,” Union power secretary Alok Kumar said over phone.States, according to him, and as also given in the Office Memorandum, would be incentivized for deployment of prepaid smart meters by December, 2023 at the rate of 7.5% of the cost per consumer meter worked out for the whole project or ₹450 per consumer meter, whichever lower, would be provided to states for installing meters within the targeted timeline in a mission mode. Moreover, these prepaid smart meters remain connected with advanced information and communication technology (ICT) like artificial intelligence, machine learning and block chain technology making it possible for discom to analyse data scientifically every month and take informed decision on loss reduction, demand forecast etc.The scheme, however, exempts farmers from the requirement of installing prepaid smart meters on electricity connections of their tubewells/pumping sets.“Looking at the scattered nature of agriculture connections and their remoteness from the habitations as well as their proposed solarisation, the smart meters need not be installed on agriculture connections,” clarifies the Office Memorandum.To avail funding under the scheme, discoms are required to prepare an action plan for strengthening their distribution system and improving its performance by way of various reform measures that also include segregation of agriculture feeders for which alone ₹20,000 crore have been earmarked under the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/barring-farmers-all-in-uttar-pradesh-to-have-smart-prepaid-meters-in-next-3-years-101627239096569.html
26-07-2021||Other||‘Pramod Sawant to be BJP’s face in Goa for 2022’: JP Nadda||BJP national president JP Nadda on Sunday concluded a two-day visit to Goa, throwing his weight behind chief minister Pramod Sawant, backing him to lead the party into the 2022 assembly elections.When asked about who will lead the state into the 2022 assembly polls, Nadda said that there was “no scope to think about anyone else.”“Pramod Sawant has done a good job and all-round development has happened under his leadership. We are moving ahead with his leadership. We have an arrangement where the parliamentary board (officially) declares this. I cannot do this. But there is no scope to think about anyone else,” Nadda said.When asked whether the Union Minister of State Shripad Naik, whose name has also been doing the rounds, was in contention, Nadda sidestepped the question and chose to praise the work Naik was doing in Delhi.“He is doing a very good job in Delhi and he is taking care of things... Everybody has interests, but the interest has to be taken care of by the party. He has been assigned a job in Delhi, which he is doing very well,” he said.Naik, who was among the earliest leaders of the BJP and among the four elected as MLAs on a BJP ticket the first time BJP opened its account in the state in 1994, had earlier expressed his willingness to take the reins of the party “if the party were to give him the task” but said he wasn’t hankering for it.Instead, Nadda said, the party has made giant strides from 2017.“I am optimistic as far as the party in Goa is concerned... I can say with joy that the Goa BJP from 2017 has grown ahead in 2021. The party has taken a big leap in the last four and a half years. Structurally, the BJP has become a formidable force. Party office bearers and MLAs are full of confidence and ready to serve people,” Nadda who was addressing a press conference to culminate his two-day visit, said.“A big number joined us from the Congress. They have felt good after joining the BJP and they have assimilated themselves totally and fully. They have praised the functioning of the party. That makes me more optimistic. It has made me more confident,” he said.The BJP, through engineering defections, ‘imported’ thirteen MLAs from the Congress and two from the MGP to bring the party’s tally to 27 in the 40 member house from a mere 13 it was elected with.Addressing possibles fissures within the BJP between the old guard and those recently inducted, Nadda said the party was eager to settle everyone’s desires.“In political parties, leaders may have some desires. Settling those desires is the work of the party, which is a natural process and will continue as a process. We will do that,” he said. Nadda also took potshots at the Congress calling it a ‘rudderless boat’ that lacked direction.“From Delhi to Goa, Congress is a rudderless boat and the sailor does not know which side to sail. So this is the situation with the Congress. It does not know the winds also, where the winds are blowing,” he said.“I am told that the opposition led by Congress has got no issue related to people that they want to raise. Therefore, they raise such issues (snooping). Second, as far as Parliament is concerned, we are ready for all kinds of discussions and we are going for discussions. But Congress, along with the opposition, is so dejected, they are so issueless that they do not know what to do,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pramod-sawant-to-be-bjp-s-face-in-goa-for-2022-jp-nadda-101627238129506.html
26-07-2021||Other||Three murders rock Sitapur||LUCKNOW: Two sensational crimes rocked Sitapur, adjoining the state capital, on Sunday, including the murder of a 35-year-old woman during a robbery and recovery of two bodies from a field. Police said both the incidents were reported under Talgaon police station limits. In the first incident, a group of armed miscreants sneaked into the house of a family in Agarpur village of Talgaon at around 4 am on Sunday. The miscreants attacked the family members with cane and iron rod when they woke up, and also opened fire on facing resistance. Sitapur additional superintendent of police (ASP), South, Rajiv Dixit said a woman identified as Vinita died after suffering bullet injury while her husband Ramhet, his brother Santosh and his wife Anita were injured in the attack with rods. Dixit said some labourers, who had worked in the house, were suspected of leaking information about the family. He said one suspect Desraj had been taken into custody and was being interrogated after registering an FIR of loot, murder and attempt to murder against three unidentified miscreants. The ASP said two bodies of a 35-year-old unidentified man and a 45-year-old woman were recovered from a cane field in Ratnapur Gadi village of Talgaon at around 10 am. He said primary examination of the bodies suggested that they were murdered with a sharp-edged weapon and more than two people were suspected to be involved in the crime. A local informed that the woman’s body was beheaded and her head was found nearly 10 metres away from the body. He said the crime scene clearly showed signs of struggle by the woman, as her torn clothes, slippers and other belongings were found lying scattered around the spot. The man’s body was found nearly 50 metres from the woman’s body, he added. The ASP said a dog squad and a team of forensic experts had been called on the spot to collect evidence and help in cracking the case. Besides, the police were making efforts to ascertain the identities of the two deceased after registering an FIR of double murder, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-murders-rock-sitapur-101627237828196.html
26-07-2021||Other||100-feet high national flags to come up at five places in Delhi before August 15||The Delhi government has shortlisted five locations for setting up national flags on 100-feet high poles by August 15 as part of its larger plan to install 500 flags across the city, said a senior government official on Sunday.The five locations that have been shortlisted are in assembly segments New Delhi, which is represented by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal; deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia’s assembly constituency Patparganj; health minister Satyendar Jain’s constituency Shakur Basti; Kalkaji, represented by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Atishi; and Dwarka represented by AAP’s Vinay Mishra.The senior official, who did not asked to be named, said Sisodia will chair a meeting on the matter on Monday at the Delhi Secretariat. The meeting will also be attended by senior officials of the Public Works Department, a portfolio that comes under Jain.“Circle officials in PWD were asked to identify 500 locations and submit the list to the chief minister’s office. The locations have been identified. Most of them are government schools and parks. The polls will be 100-feet high and the flags will be visible from a long distance. At in the five locations, preliminary work began last week,” said the official.The Delhi government presented its seventh annual budget on March 9, and termed it a “deshbhakti (patriotism) budget”, in view of the nation celebrating 75th Independence Day this year. It announced a range of programmes and measures to evoke patriotism in citizens and Sisodia, who is also the finance minister of Delhi, proposed ₹45 crore for installing the national flag at 500 different locations across Delhi. The government also allocated ₹20 crore for events to be held on themes such as Bhagat Singh and BR Ambedkar.The flag project, however, was delayed in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic, said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/100feet-high-national-flags-to-come-up-at-five-places-in-delhi-before-august-15-101627237769503.html
26-07-2021||Delhi||Cinemas get ready for patrons, bookings to open in a couple of days||Cinema owners in the city on Sunday said they will take a couple of days to get ready for the patrons and open bookings after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) allowed cinema halls and multiplexes to operate from Monday after remaining shut for more than three months under a lockdown enforced in April in view of an unprecedented spike in Covid-19 cases.Staff at several cinemas and multiplexes was cleaning and disinfecting the auditoriums even though ticket counters and online bookings stay shut.“We will open at the earliest as per operational readiness,” said a statement by INOX, which did not elaborate much on future plans.Devang Sampat, CEO, Cinepolis, said the multiplex chain will start opening in the next few days. “We will start opening in 3-4 days . Right now, we are preparing our premises in line with Covid protocols. All our staff has been vaccinated, and we will be following all the rules. Opening with 50% capacity is not a constraint. We would require a ramp up period for the audience to know and for movies to start releasing,” said Sampat.He added that a number of films were lined up for viewers. “There are at least 30 Hollywood films which are ready to release, there are around 40 Bollywood titles and many regional titles,” said Sampat.An executive at another multiplex chain, who asked not be named, said: “The operational costs are too high. We have to be slightly more confident about the footfall. The industry has already faced heavy losses in the past several months. Risks have to be calculated. Even though we are trying our best to start at the earliest.”Cinema halls, multiplexes and auditoriums will be allowed to run with 50% seating capacity, according to the DDMA order issued on Saturday. They have also been directed to ensure social distancing in the common areas, have provisions for hand sanitisation, ensure 100% mask compliance, maintain air conditioning under World Health Organization (WHO) standards, and take other Covid-19 appropriate measures.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department in Safdarjung Hospital, said, “Indoor spaces without much ventilation, such as cinema halls and multiplexes, are high risk areas in terms of transmission of virus. People have to be extremely cautious and the theatre owners must ensure strict adherence to the regulations without any compromise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cinemas-get-ready-for-patrons-bookings-to-open-in-a-couple-of-days-101627237767564.html
26-07-2021||Delhi||More seats on Metro from Monday, but queues unlikely to get shorter||Queues outside Metro stations, which have often stretched for hundreds of metres in the past weeks, are likely to get slightly shorter from Monday with the Delhi Metro allowing passengers to occupy all the seats in each train, as it lifted the 50% cap on seating that was in place to ensure distancing inside coaches.However, standing is still not allowed inside trains, according to the guidelines issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Saturday as part of its phased relaxations of curbs in place to thwart the spread of Covid-19.“In view of the revised guidelines issued by the government yesterday (July 24), wherein, travel in the Delhi Metro has been permitted from existing 50% of its seating capacity to 100% with ‘no standing’ travel from tomorrow (July 26) … DMRC would like to reiterate and make it clear that from Monday, even with these revised guidelines, a maximum 50 passengers per coach are permitted, as against 300 prior to Covid-19,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director at DMRC, in a statement.DDMA on Saturday allowed multiplexes, swimming pools, spas, auditoriums and entertainment parks to open in the Capital from Monday, and lifted seating limits on the Delhi Metro and public buses, effectively relaxing most restrictions after a decline in Covid-19 cases following a deadly fourth wave of infections.The statement added, “Entry to stations therefore [will] continue to be regulated. As a result, though the queues may reduce slightly, but they might still be there outside stations, especially during peak hours owing to the compliance and adherence to the Covid appropriate behaviour inside Metro premises as per government guidelines.”Vikas Yadav, 29, a frequent commuter on the Metro, said he was unsure if the updated Metro guidelines will have any impact on the queues outside stations on working days, especially during the peak hours. “On working days, the situation is certainly more stressful. One has to wait in queues outside stations such as Janpath or Rajiv Chowk for nearly an hour to enter the station in the evening hours. I am not sure if increasing from 50%seating capacity to 100% would make any visible difference in the queues outside metro stations,” said Yadav.Officials said the alternate seating aboard coaches was often violated. As a result, after being shut for a brief period in light of the fourth Covid-19 wave in Delhi in April, when Metro services were permitted to resume in June, authorities decided to regulate footfall inside stations itself to adhere to the 50% capacity rule, a move that led to serpentine queues outside stations.The same 50% cap on seating applied to public buses before the Saturday relaxations as well, but is much more difficult to implement in bus stands, which are unregulated and unguarded, said transport officials. “Buses were crowded even when the seating cap was in place. So, increasing it to 100% will not make any difference in this case. The rule is hardly followed during peak working hours,” said Radheshyam Kumar, a regular commuter on the 740 route connecting Uttam Nagar with Anand Vihar.HT travelled on public buses on several routes criss-crossing east, west, south and north Delhi between Friday and Sunday and witnessed passengers beyond sitting capacity in a few cases on the evening hours of Friday, which was a working day. On weekend days most buses could visibly adhere to the seating capacity rule.“The buses have a driver and a conductor. When seats are full, we have been directed to not open doors. But it gets difficult during working hours when you have a few seats and an open gate at a crowded bus stand. And a large number of people end up boarding the vehicle. There is no practical way to manage it,” said a bus driver who did not wish to be identified.A senior Delhi government official said, “We have come across instances of such violations and have taken the matter into consideration. Civil defence volunteers and home guards will be deployed in the crowded bus stands from Monday to regulate crowds and ensure that the seating capacity rule is adhered to.”(With inputs from Sadia Akhtar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/more-seats-on-metro-from-monday-but-queues-unlikely-to-get-shorter-101627237710008.html
26-07-2021||Delhi||Years after notification, Delhi’s land pooling plan still in limbo||Three years after the land pooling policy was notified, with an aim to develop 95 villages in Delhi in a planned manner, it is yet to be implemented, prompting residents to demand that the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) address their concerns and set a time frame for its speedy execution.The policy, which was notified twice in 2013 and 2018, provides a road map for the planned development of the city’s urban extensions and meet the growing needs for housing. Nearly 1.7 million (17 lakh) dwelling units are proposed to come up in these 95 villages, which were urbanised for this policy in 2017.While hundreds of land owners have registered and agreed to pool over 6,500 hectares, the DDA is yet to operationalise the policy. The land owning agency is in the process of making changes to the policy and the Delhi Development Act, 1957, for its speedy implementation.Village residents say they want the DDA to execute the policy in a timebound manner, do away with the external development charges (EDC) — this has to be paid by land owners for laying infrastructure and developing the area—and address land ownership issues.Bhupender Bazad, president of the master plan committee of the Delhi Dehat Vikas Manch, said, “It’s soon going to be decade since the policy was in the planning stages and it’s about time the DDA took concrete steps to execute it. Recently, we had a meeting with the agency, where it was decided that we will take back our land if the policy is not implemented in the next few months. The DDA should set a time frame and adhere by it.”According to the policy, land owners will have to pay the EDC for infrastructure development, but they are unhappy about this. Landowners say since they are anyway giving 40% of the land for infrastructure services such as parks, roads, social infrastructure, etc., they should not be asked to pay the EDC on top of that.Dharam Singh, a resident of Jhuljhuli village, said, “We are giving 40% of the land for infra development. Why should we pay external development charges as well? The DDA should do away with that clause, as village people don’t have the money to pay the EDC.”A senior DDA official said on condition of anonymity, “EDC is for the development of the area and landowners will be getting back developed land with proper services in place. This will only benefit them in the long run. Moreover, landowners can pay the EDC in five stages.”The consortium (association of land owners) will get 60% of the total pooled land for development, of which 53% will be residential; 5% commercial and 2% for public and semi-public facilities.The villagers also said they should have control of the gram sabha land — kept aside by owners for essential services of the village — and not the DDA.Paras Tyagi, who runs the Centre for Youth Culture and Law and Environment, a public policy research organisation working in the rural and urban villages of Delhi, said, “Under the policy, DDA will get control of the gram sabha land, which actually belongs to the village. Residents want that land to be utilised for the welfare of villagers and projects of the village. While new developments will come up in these urban villages, the DDA should also plan for the development of villages that pooled their land.”Pradeep Dagar, a resident of Dhansa village, said, “Both in land pooling and the green development area policies, the DDA should ensure that the gram sabha land is reserved for the development of the village. The land was given by our families for that reason alone and it essentially belongs to us.”But DDA officials say that is not possible. “Under the policy, we will be planning an entire sector for a stipulated population, which includes the population of the village as well. We will provide infrastructure for villages, where gram sabha land is available, within the sector. It will be an integrated plan,” said the senior DDA official quoted above.Another issue that land owners want the DDA to address is of joint ownership. “In most cases, land is jointly held by multiple members of a family. In case any of the joint owners refuses to participate in land pooling, then the others can’t pool their land. DDA has to bring a provision where individual ownership of land is acknowledged,” said Bazad.Senior DDA officials said the amendments to the land pooling policy will be notified soon. The DDA has also proposed changes in the Delhi Development Act, 1957, for effective implementation of the policy.DDA officials said changes in the Act were needed for making legal provisions. A second senior DDA official said, “There are issues related to land parcels that have not been pooled in sectors where we have reached the percentage of land required to implement the policy. Currently, there is no provision to get control of these land parcels. If this issue is not addressed, development in land pooling sectors can’t happen.”Sabyasachi Das, former planning commission in-charge with the DDA, said, “There are several issues in the land pooling policy that have to be addressed. To get 70% contiguous land parcels (a condition in the policy), which is essential for comprehensive planning, there is a need to amend the Delhi Development Act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/residents-of-95-villages-in-delhi-seek-changes-in-land-pooling-policy-for-its-speedy-execution-101627237708750.html
26-07-2021||Delhi||Govt steps up enforcement at markets; unfair to lay all blame on us, say traders||After several recorded instances of violations of Covid-19 regulations at markets in the city over the last four weeks, the state government has deployed 149 teams to enforce masking and distancing norms in these usually crowded spots.In the last four weeks, at least 30 markets in the city — including Laxmi Nagar market, large parts of Sadar Bazar, Gaffar Market in Karol Bagh, Lajpat Nagar Central Market, Tilak Nagar market and several local markets in Nangloi, Madangir, and Rohini — have been temporarily suspended for violating Covid-19 regulations.Between July 1 and 25, government records showed, at least four containment zones were set up in market areas. Delhi currently has 309 containment zones.“These teams are entrusted with not only imposing fines on people found violating Covid-19 regulations in the markets, but also recording videos and sending inputs every day to the sub-divisional magistrates concerned. On the basis of such inputs, actions such as temporarily shutting down a market – which in itself is an extreme measure – are taken. It cannot be helped. Rules have to be followed to prevent another potential wave of the disease,” said a top official of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).GROUND REPORTOld Delhi’s Meena Bazaar saw a moderate crowd on Sunday. While the portion of the market comprising street vendors were relatively busier than week days, the cloth market wore a largely deserted look. While violation of physical distancing was not very pronounced, mask discipline was quite poor with people not wearing a mask or wearing it below the nose.Rekha Gupta, a resident of Daryaganj, said that she was passing through the area and decided to take a look at the market. “Due to the weekend, the market is a little crowded, it seems. Many people are not wearing masks either. As long as people wear a mask, stepping out should not be a problem. I came for routine shopping but one needs to understand that staying at home is not a solution. But people must wear masks at least,” said Gupta.Tabeer Qureshi, sat alone in his garments shop, as he waited for customers. Qureshi said that violation of physical distancing norms was out of the question since the market was hardly getting visitors. “Very few people are coming to Chandni Chowk these days on weekdays. Among the visitors, many do not wear a mask and shopkeepers cannot force them to wear one. We can only request them to wear a mask. If they don’t listen, we can’t do much.”Ashok Luthra, who owns a jewellery store in south Delhi’s GK I market, said that while physical distancing became a challenge at times, shop keepers reminded visitors about covid protocols. “The market gets crowded at times but we ask people to disperse if such a situation arises. We ask them to leave or come later if the crowd is significant. Masking is not a major issue since most people tend to wear one. If they don’t, we request to wear a mask,’ said Luthra.Shreya Tripathy, 26, researcher, who was at the market to meet a friend, said that it was relatively less crowded than other markets such as CP. “The market seems largely empty. It is definitely not as crowded as other markers such as CP. People are mostly wearing a mask so that’s good,” said Tripathy.On Saturday, HT also visited the Sadar Bazar and Gandhi Nagar markets, which were found to be moderately crowded and people not wearing masks could be spotted now and then.WHAT TRADERS SAY“In the last few weeks, several markets have faced temporary suspension orders. It is unfair to put the entire burden of Covid-19 regulations on market welfare bodies. Local agencies and authorities too have responsibilities in this regard. We will meet the chief secretary soon to discuss the issue,” said Brijesh Goyal, president of chamber of trade and industry -- a collective of market and trader welfare bodies based in Delhi.Nitin Gupta, president of Kamla Nagar market traders’ association, said: It is time the authorities should crack down on illegal encroachment instead of cracking down on market associations. If shop owners are found flouting rules, action should be taken against the particular shops instead of closing an entire market.”“Shop owners are complying with Covid-19 regulations but they cannot do it alone. It has to be done through proper coordination with the police, civic agencies and district authorities. We shall meet the senior officials in this regard on Monday,” said Devraj Baweja, president of Sadar Bazar Traders’ Confederation.Kapil Gandhi, president of New Market welfare association Tilak Nagar, said: “There are encroachment issues in the market. We need better coordination from the authorities instead of such crackdowns.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-govt-steps-up-enforcement-in-delhi-markets-traders-say-unfair-to-lay-all-blame-on-them-101627237708155.html
26-07-2021||Delhi||Path cleared for extension of Delhi’s Barapullah elevated corridor||The Delhi government is in the final stages of acquiring an 8.5-acre land parcel in the Yamuna riverbed which will pave the way for the completion of the extension of the Barapullah elevated road corridor up to Mayur Vihar in east Delhi, senior government officials who are aware of the development said.The extension will provide signal free road access between east Delhi and south Delhi. Currently the Barapullah elevated corridor, known as the Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Setu, connects Sarai Kale Khan in south east Delhi to AIIMS in south Delhi. The road corridor was developed for ferrying athletes during the 2010 Commonwealth Games.The officials said this is the first land acquisition case processed by the Delhi government under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (RFCTLARR) Act, 2013, said two senior Delhi government officials.Almost five years after the government initiated the process to acquire two land parcels for the 790m-long section (500m and 290m) of the elevated corridor between Mayur Vihar and Sarai Kale Khan, the revenue department notified the draft Rehabilitation and Resettlement scheme identifying the beneficiaries last month.The land parcels belong to residents of Nangli Razapur village, located near Sarai Kale Khan ISBT. Villagers say that they have been waiting for compensation for the past five years. Rajbir Tanwar, a resident, said, “We have held several meetings with government officials in the past five years. But till date there is no clarity on when we will get the compensation amount.”A senior south east Delhi district official said, “This is the first case processed under the RFCTLARR Act, 2013, by the government. We recently held a public hearing on the matter and have sent the file for final approval. We have been informed that the PWD department has released part payment to the revenue department for the acquisition process.”Once the final approval is given, it will be sent to Delhi lieutenant governor for approval and declaration of the scheme. “We plan to notify the declaration by September. We will have to acquire the land within one year from the date of declaration,” said the official.Villagers said they want the government to confirm the compensation amount. Bhopal Singh Chauhan, a farmer and village Pradhan, said, “In the meeting, officials didn’t tell us about the compensation amount. Our demand is that the government should pay ₹3 crore per acre.”The compensation amount, the district official said, will be finalised at later stages.Delhi PWD officials said that the ₹1,260 crore-project, which is crucial for addressing traffic congestion on Vikas Marg and Delhi Noida Direct flyway, is more than 80% complete and the remaining work will be completed within one year from the day they get possession of the land.A senior Delhi PWD official said, “Just 18% of the work, mainly related to the two stretches which have to be constructed, on the elevated corridor is left. If we get the land by October this year, it should be complete by December 2022.”Ever since the RFCTLARR Act came into force in 2013, the Delhi government’s land and building department officials said that no land has been acquired till date.A senior official aware of the development said, “As this was the first to be processed, it took some time as we had to appoint a committee to do the Social Impact Assessment and follow all the provisions of the Act. We have 5-6 requests for land acquisition from DMRC and PWD. We are trying to expedite the process so that such delays don’t happen in the future.”Anuj Dayal, executive director corporate communication, DMRC, “Out of these, about 8.71 hectares of permanent land has already been received by us. Deliberations are in progress for the rest of the land requirement. We are not facing any major issue pertaining to land acquisition as yet for phase 4.”Infrastructure and urban planning experts say that the new land acquisition Act has made the process difficult. The DMRC has a direct purchase policy and even the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has provisions in its Act which makes land acquisition faster and easier. Experts say, there is a need to have a direct purchase policy for crucial infrastructure projects.Sarvagya Srivastava, former engineer-in-chief of Delhi PWD, under whose tenure the Barapullah Phase-III project was conceived, said, “There is a need to have a direct purchase policy so that crucial infrastructure projects don’t get delayed,” said Srivastava.He added, “It is due to bureaucratic inefficiency and indifference that such an important project has been stuck, which may lead to cost escalation and inconvenience to the public.”A Delhi government spokesperson did not comment on the matter.The DMRC has a procedure in place to ensure transparency in the acquisition process. Dayal said, “Only in exceptional circumstances, to avoid any delay in the completion of the projects, we enter into direct negotiation with private parties. In Phase 3, the DMRC acquired bare minimum land from private parties through direct negotiation.”The Delhi Development Authority’s Urban Extension Road-II (UER-II) project, which is also referred to as the third ring road, is another case in point. The 79km-long corridor, which will connect four national Highways (NH 1, 2, 8 and 10), was approved by the UTTIPEC, the apex body for approval of traffic and transportation projects in Delhi, in 2016. But the DDA couldn’t start the work due to which it was transferred to the NHAI in 2018 to expedite the process.Sabyasachi Das, former planning commissioner (incharge) at DDA, said, “One of the reasons for the UER-II project being transferred to NHAI was land acquisition on the new approved alignment. NHAI and DMRC both have provisions to expedite the land acquisition process.”Nivit Kumar Yadav, director Industrial pollution unit, at the Centre for Science and Environment, said the Act of 2013 is aimed at protecting the interest of farmers who are directly or indirectly dependent on their land.“The acquisition process is time consuming. It provides for several opportunities to the government to discuss and negotiate with the local community whose land is being acquired. Moreover, to acquire land for crucial infrastructure projects the state government should come up with schemes or policies. Several states such as Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand etc have come up with alternative solutions to acquire land. Land pooling is one such solution which has been used in Andhra Pradesh’s Amravati,” said Yadav, who also looks after the environment impact assessment and land acquisition related matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/path-cleared-for-extension-of-delhi-s-barapullah-elevated-corridor-101627237649349.html
26-07-2021||Pune||Pune hospitals with less than 50 beds to get first stock of vaccine doses||PUNE Smaller hospitals in the district, most in city areas, will finally get a private vaccine stock, this after payments were made in advance. Smaller hospitals have been out of the fray of the Covid-19 vaccination drive in Pune as major hospitals got the vaccine stock in April. Smaller hospitals with less than 50 beds are yet to get their first stock of the vaccine doses. State officials have confirmed that after days of waiting, smaller hospitals would get stock on Monday. Serum Institute of India, the largest manufacturer of Covishield, is located within the city, but hospitals have been waiting for 8-10 days. Dr Sanjay Patil, chairman of the hospital board of India, said, “The smaller hospitals have had to wait for months now since April 1, when the central government first approved and permitted hospitals to vaccinate people. During this time while smaller hospitals waited to get their stock the major hospitals rushed to hoard a large number of vaccines, given that there was a huge demand. This lead to a disparity in vaccine distribution.”Dr Nivedita Oswal, in charge of a private hospital in Hadapsar, listed as one of the beneficiaries to get the vaccines, said, “Firstly, we could not get the vaccine because the PMC delayed giving us approval. During this time, big hospitals hoarded vaccines. Now when the system was updated and it was declared that even smaller hospitals with less than 50 beds could get the vaccine directly from the manufacturer, we are yet to get the vaccine despite making full payment in advance. I run a small 15-bed hospital and we have a huge demand from people to get vaccinated, especially those who are awaiting their second dose. I made the payment directly to the manufacturer on July 17, however, we are yet to receive the vaccine. The Cowin app says that the vaccine has been dispatched days ago.”Dr Suryakant Deokar, immunisation officer, PMC, said, “The PMC no longer supplies vaccines to the private hospitals like it did in the initial months, since now they can directly procure it from the manufacturers. PMC is only involved with providing permissions. However, the supply of vaccine comes from the manufacturer and the state distributes it accordingly.”Dr Jayshree Jadhav, district vaccine store officer said, “Right now we have got 22,500 doses to be distributed to smaller hospitals which were stored at the Aundh hospital. Although we had got the stock earlier, it was yet to be updated on the Cowin app. So we diverted that stock for routine immunisation. However, now it has been updated and so by Sunday evening or Monday, all the hospitals on the list will get their stock.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hospitals-with-less-than-50-beds-to-get-first-stock-of-vaccine-doses-on-monday-101627235909325.html
26-07-2021||Pune||PMC to rent 38 EVs at cost of ₹23.28 cr||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) plans to rent 38 electric vehicles, with drivers, for eight years at the cost of ₹23.28 crore. These vehicles will be used by office bearers and administration. PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar put the proposal before the standing committee, where it will now be discussed. Kumar moved this proposal as an “emergency”, without floating of tenders or inviting expressions of interest. The Energy Efficiency Private Limited company will provide the vehicles to the PMC. After completion of eight years, the company will allow PMC to purchase the vehicles at five per cent of the cost. PMC also adopted a policy to purchase electric buses for public transport. Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said that as per the proposal, the contractor will need to bear all taxes. Recently, the PMC approved an e-bike proposal and approved charging stations at 500 places in the city. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has objected to the setting up of charging stations without all administration procedures being followed. The PMC proposal is in consonance with the state government’s new policy to promote electric vehicles in Maharashtra. The Maharashtra government on July 13 announced its new electric vehicle (EV) policy with the aim of having such vehicles achieve 10 per cent share of total registrations by 2025. The new policy, which has updated the one announced in 2018, was released by additional chief secretary (Transport) Ashish Singh and state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray. Singh had said, “The policy has some ambitious targets. Electric vehicles must comprise at least 10 per cent of total vehicles registered by 2025. We also want to achieve 25 per cent EV share in public transport in Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Aurangabad and Nashik. It includes converting 15 per cent of the MSRTC fleet into EVs by 2025.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-proposal-to-rent-38-evs-with-drivers-for-eight-years-at-cost-of-rs-23-28-cr-101627235908091.html
26-07-2021||Pune||Central Railways (CR) restores train operations including Deccan Express||The Central Railways (CR) restored several train operations that were cancelled, diverted or short-terminated due to landslides over the past few days. On July 22 a major landslide happened in the ghat section of Lonavla, due to which all train operations going through the section were cancelled. While all trains between Pune and Mumbai were cancelled, now after repair works, train operations are back to normal.One of the major trains between the two cities is the Deccan Express, which was back to its normal schedule timings from Sunday. Similarly, several other trains originating, passing through and running on this route started operating normally.The landslide happened at several sections in the ghat area and mud with huge rocks came rolling over the railway tracks. While at some of the spots even the soil under the tracks was washed away, railway traffic was stopped due to broken electricity supply lines.“After the landslide happened, the railways worked on a priority basis to clear the mud and debris from the railway tracks. Still the route was closed for two days and now we are restoring train operations as per earlier normal schedule times,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson.Trains back on track The following trains which were announced earlier as cancelled due to landslides and water logging on Konkan Railways and South-West Railways have been restored:01007 CSMT-Pune special JCO from 25.7.2021 to 27.7.202101008 Pune-CSMT special JCO from 25.7.2021 to 27.7.202101003 Dadar-Sawantwadi special JCO from 25.7.2021 to 27.7.202101004 Sawantwadi-Dadar special JCO from 25.7.2021 to 28.7.202101133 CSMT-Mangaluru special JCO from 25.7.2021 to 27.7.202101134 Mangaluru-CSMT special JCO from 26.7.2021 to 28.7.202101151 CSMT-Madgaon special JCO from 25.7.2021 to 27.7.202101152 Madgaon-CSMT special JCO from 26.7.2021 to 28.7.202101111 CSMT-Madgaon special JCO from 24.7.2021 to 28.7.202101112 Madgaon-CSMT special JCO from 24.7.2021 to 27.7.202101113 CSMT-Madgaon special JCO from 25.7.2021 to 28.7.202101114 Madgaon-CSMT special JCO from 25.7.2021 to 27.7.202101411 CSMT-Kolhapur special JCO from 26.7.2021 to 28.7.202101412 Kolhapur-CSMT special JCO from 25.7.2021 to 27.7.202109578 Jamnagar-Tirunelveli special JCO 23.7.2021||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/central-railways-cr-restores-train-operations-including-deccan-express-101627228946734.html
26-07-2021||Ranchi||Deadly April and May dwarf Jharkhand’s official Covid-19 toll||The total number of deaths registered in the months of April and May in 2021 in several districts of Jharkhand has witnessed a massive spike, as high as six times in some cases, compared to the corresponding period in 2020 when the Covid-19 pandemic first hit the country, rasing questions over the actual coronavirus toll in the state.As per the data accessed under the Right to Information Act from the state’s statistics department, which compiles registered births and deaths, there has been massive surge in the number of total registered deaths in at least 12 of the 24 districts in the state during April and May.Three other districts, which could not provide data for May, also showed a sharp spike in registered deaths in the month of April. At least 14 districts, which provided month-wise data of registered deaths, recorded a spike even in the month of March 2021 as compared to the previous year. Three other districts could not provide month-wise figures of registered deaths while data from other six districts was awaited.Of the 15 districts which provided month-wise figures of both the years, only Giridh district has witnessed a dip in the number of registered deaths during April and May in 2021 as compared to the corresponding period the previous year. However, registered death figures are still higher in the district for both the months than the official Covid-19 death count during the entire year.In other districts which provided month-wise data, the registered deaths in the months of March, April and May in 2021 was at least twice or thrice the figure during the corresponding period in 2020. In some of the districts, the spike in registered deaths during the second wave months was manifold compared to the previous year.Sample this: In Palamu, the total number of registered deaths in March this year is 415 as compared to 66 last year. In April, the district has 201 registered deaths in comparison to 25 last year. In the month of May, the registered deaths in the district soared to 794 this year as compared to 82 last year. The pattern in the district continued in June with 478 registered deaths this year as compared to 224 last year.Major spike has been witnessed in other districts as well, including Jamsedhpur, Dhanbad, Chatra and Latehar. Even tribal-dominated districts such as Dumka and Khunti have seen a surge in the numbers. Latehar district also showed an increasing trend from March to June this year.Though the cause of death in case of registered ones was yet to be provided, these numbers do raise questions about the Covid toll as provided by the health department.As per the data released by the health department, 5,122 people have died due to Covid-19 in the state since the pandemic began. Of these, 3,878 died in April and May this year when the second wave was at its deadliest.Statisticians, however, said while the numbers have witnessed an unusual increase, some other factors also need to be factored in while analysing the figures.“The national lockdown had brought almost everything to standstill in April and May last year. That could be one reason for fewer registered deaths last year. It is important to compare the data of the later months as well because many people apply for death registration late. However, the actual reason for the spike could be ascertained only if the cause of death is established,” said Hriday Kumar, joint secretary in the planning and statistics department.A health department official, while conceding that the number of deaths during the second wave has been higher, said the exact cause of death due to the pandemic could be established only through a “verbal autopsy”.Anil Kumar Singh, civil surgeon of Palamu district, which has recorded worst surge in registered deaths, said a social audit was being done to ascertain the cause of deaths.“The spike is unusually higher and Covid-19 could be one of the reasons. There has been a dip in the accident-related deaths almost everywhere largely due to the lockdown restrictions. We need to see if people also died due to other complications. A social audit is already underway to conduct verbal autopsy to establish the actual cause of deaths, especially due to Covid-19 as the government is planning for some monetary compensation. Things should get clearer once the survey is completed,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/deadly-april-and-may-dwarf-j-khand-s-official-covid-toll-101627139537419.html
