27-07-2021||Other||Yogi for coordination with Invest India to make a trillion dollar economy||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Tuesday that the state government was working on a plan to make UP a trillion dollar economy and would work in coordination with the Invest India to push the state’s economy ahead. He said the state government had worked out an action plan and asked officers to ensure coordination with Invest India’s action plan. Yogi stated this after viewing a presentation made virtually by Invest India about making UP a trillion dollar economy. He said the state government was expeditiously working to make the state a trillion dollar economy in accordance with the wishes of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Uttar Pradesh had emerged as an attractive destination for investment, he said, adding the state government had done exemplary work in the past four and a half years. The CM said this would help in attracting investors and bringing about capital investment in the state. The state government should workout short term and long term schemes for attracting investment, he said. Minister for micro, small and medium enterprise Siddharth Nath Singh said UP was second in ease of doing business ranking and it was also the second biggest economy in terms of GSDP. CEO Invest India Deepak Bagla said Invest India was extending all possible cooperation in making UP a trillion dollar economy. He said Invest India was a non-profit organization working to boost investment. It was working on projects worth ₹37,000 crore in 37 sectors in the state and this would lead to creation of jobs on a large scale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-for-coordination-with-invest-india-to-make-a-trillion-dollar-economy-101627410560728.html
27-07-2021||Other||Meeting peers offline better: 70% first-year IIT-Bombay students||Over 70% first-year students of the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) would have liked meeting their classmates in person instead of the online introductions, conducted owing to the Covid-19 pandemic.A survey of 238 engineering students, who completed their first year in the online mode, was released as part of the Freshers’ Newsletter on Sunday. The survey found that 168 of the respondents said they wanted to meet their peers in person. Around 19% of the respondents said they feared they would not be as good at interpersonal interactions on text, according to the newsletter issued by the first-year students.The IIT-B campus shut down completely on March 28 last year as the Covid-19 pandemic had raged in the city. An early summer vacation was announced on April 1. However, on June 25, the institute declared that the entire autumn semester will be conducted online in the interest of students’ safety. The new batch of engineering students was inducted online. Since then, almost all teaching and academic activities, barring research work, have been held online.In the newsletter, first-year students wrote about their experiences of attending classes and extra-curricular activities online. “First-year students always find it especially tough to navigate through the diverse and eventful world that is the campus at IITB. This is why we have multiple senior support systems to help the students find their place here. A crucial part of this support comes in informal interactions with seniors, something that has not been easy in the online mode. The writers of this article remain hopeful that the online mode will soon come to an end and that the juniors will be inducted into the campus and will begin to ask different questions,” read the newsletter.While the chief editors of Insight, the student magazine that published the newsletter, refused to comment, they have issued their statement along with the newsletter. “This newsletter is an attempt to look back and document some of what you guys [first-year students] uniquely experienced to give some perspective to all the readers, whether they be freshers or seniors. Although it was initially aimed at only the fresher batch, the final content has turned out to be relatable to every student that faced the online semesters and will stand as a fine testament to what all our batches faced in these trying times (sic),” the editors said in the statement.Even as the institute gradually reopens its campus to researchers, engineering students, especially first and second years, will continue to attend classes online. IIT-B’s deputy director S Sudarshan said, “There is no immediate plan for reopening the campus to undergraduate students. However, we will review the situation towards the middle of the semester.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/meeting-peers-offline-better-70-first-year-iit-bombay-students-101627410560117.html
27-07-2021||Other||Engineer arrested for snatching gold ear rings of woman in northeast Delhi||New Delhi: Delhi police on Tuesday said they have arrested a 32-year-old contractual junior engineer working with a power distribution company in Delhi for allegedly snatching a pair of gold earrings from a woman in northeast Delhi’s Mansarovar (MS) Park to arrange money for his birthday party. An motorcycle used in the crime was also recovered from him, the police said. Deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram said on July 23, a snatching incident took place in MS Park. The woman filed a complaint in which she alleged that the snatcher was riding a Bullet bike and snatched her pair of ear rings. A case was registered and the investigating team obtained the footage of more than 30 CCTV cameras installed around the crime scene and the routes that the suspect took. “During analysis of the footage, the team developed some snap shots in which the snatcher was seen with the mask on his face. It was also found that both number plates of the bike were plain white. But on the basis of the footage, the team was sure that the suspect was living in a neighbourhood close to the place where the snatching took place,” said DCP Sathiyasundaram.The investigating team maintained a vigil in Mandoli area to identify, and find the bike used in the crime. On July 25, the police found the bike and apprehended the rider, identified as Mohit Gautam, a resident of Jyoti Nagar. He confessed to the crime during interrogation. “Gautam told us that he works as a junior engineer in a power distribution company in Delhi on contract basis and is also addicted to narcotics. He disclosed that he snatched the gold ear rings of the woman to celebrate his birthday which falls on July 25, as he was running short of funds. His father had refused to celebrate his birthday because of his bad habits. Gautam sold the stolen ear rings to a goldsmith named Surender in Shahdara. We are looking for the goldsmith,” added the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/engineer-arrested-for-snatching-gold-ear-rings-of-woman-in-northeast-delhi-101627410501388.html
27-07-2021||Other||FYJC CET registration for students of other boards from July 28 onwards||PUNE Students willing to appear for the Class 11 Common Entrance Test (CET) will have to register on the official website of the state board. Registration has resumed for students of the state board, while students of other boards will be able to register from Wednesday, July 28 onwards. These students will have to pay examination fees of ₹178, while for state-board students the examination is free. The CET examination is scheduled to be held on August 21.As per guidelines issued by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE), the CET exam is optional and students willing to appear for the exams need to register through a mobile number or email ID. There will be two language options given - English and partly-English. If the student chooses partly-English, then Mathematics, Science and English papers will be in English language, while History, Civics and Geography will have the option of another language. Student need to select the “ward” as per his/her temporary or permanent address. “Once the students complete the registration process, they can see the status on the official website through their registerd mobile number. And if students by any chance cannot complete their registration process, then he/she needs to do the registration process again,” said MSBSHSE secretary Ashok Bhosale.The earlier deadline to register for the CET exams was July 26, but has now been extended till August 2 due to the technical glitches. When filling up the registration form students need to choose the examination centre and accordingly hall ticket will be provided online.Website to registerTo register for the Class 11 CET exams, go to:http://cet.11thadmission.org.in||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fyjc-cet-registration-for-students-of-other-boards-from-july-28-onwards-101627410500089.html
27-07-2021||Other||Pune ring road will have 14 multilevel interchanges, 8 major bridges: MSRDC||PUNE The proposed ring around Pune will have 14 multilevel interchanges and eight major bridges to facilitate smooth traffic. The 173.7 km circular stretch will have 18 viaducts, 17 tunnels, and four roadways over bridges, officials from the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) said on Tuesday. The project will be developed in two phases - east and west - at a cost of Rs. 26,831 crore. It will service 29 villages by connecting highways around the city, and will also regulate pollution levels in the city by diverting heavy vehicular traffic from entering the city to reduce the existing traffic congestion. Officials said the Pune ring road will help to reduce air pollution by at least 25%. According to a recent National Emissions Inventory report, automobile emissions account for 91 per cent of the pollution in Pune’s air. The increased vehicle population in Pune has a significant impact on the infrastructure and traffic situation on inner-city roads, resulting in air and noise pollution in and around the city, especially from outbound vehicles that enter the city. The MSRDC has so far managed to complete the land measurement of over 51% of the total area to be acquired for the western part of the ring road. According to the information given by MSRDC, 695.1099 hectares is to be acquired for the western part of the ring road and the measurement of 351.3024 hectares has been completed so far in 21 villages of a total of 37 affected villages in four tehsils. Also, land acquisition for the Eastern part of the ring road has begun. Officials have started to conduct meetings in the affected villages.“We are positive of completing the land acquisition process in record time. The grievances of the locals are being addressed. Land measurement is an important part of the land acquisition process,” Sandeep Patil, sub-divisional engineer, MSRDC, had said earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-ring-road-will-have-14-multilevel-interchanges-8-major-bridges-msrdc-101627410441145.html
27-07-2021||Other||Online admission process for FYJC to begin from Aug 9||PUNE The centralised online admission process for Class 11 (FYJC) will begin from August 9, across the state in six cities. Initially, the admissions will be done based on the CET exam results and after that, the admission process will be done based on marks of Class 10. This year a quota system will be used for the admission process. Apart from these six cities, offline admissions will be done in rest of the Maharashtra. The six cities are Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Mumbai, Nashik, Amravati and Nagpur.As per an admission-process circular issued by the director of secondary and higher secondary education department on Tuesday, the actual student registration process through login and password will start from August 9. Students need to register on the official website, to generate a login ID and password. Then student needs to fill up personal details in part 1 of the form, pay the fees, and then lock the form. From August 1 to 7, a mock demo registration facility is available on the website, so that students get familiar with the process. “In the first part of the centralised admission process, students need to fill up their personal details. But in the second part of the form which they need to fill after the CET examination is completed, there will be both the options available to students. They can either fill both CET and class 10 marks, or one of them. Preference will be given to the CET marks for junior college admissions, and then for the remaining seats admission will be done on the bases of the Class 10 marks,” said Dinkar Temkar, director of the secondary and higher secondary education department. “Students will be given an option to fill up demo registration forms between August 1 and 7. There will be management, in-house, minority quotas available this year,” added Temkar. Students are worried about the admission process this year. Rishita Mihani, a student, said, “I have applied for the Class 11 CET examination and am preparing for it, as I got less marks in the Class 10 evaluation. There are many unanswered questions and things which need to be cleared by the state board. If we score less in the CET exams, then will our class 10 marks be considered for the admission process?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/online-admission-process-for-fyjc-to-begin-from-aug-9-101627410440047.html
27-07-2021||Other||Fabricator duped of Rs1.24 crore under pretext of oil seal biz||PUNE: A fabricator (56) has lodged a complaint with the cyber cell, stating that unidentified callers cheated him to the tune of Rs1.24 crore between 2018 and 2020 after convincing him to invest in their oil seal and oil products’ business.According to cybercrime officials, unidentified persons called the fabricator on his mobile and informed him about a lucrative business opportunity in oil seal and oil products and that he would reap profits if he invested in the same. They sent him all the details of the business after he sought to know the same and managed to win his confidence. They asked him to deposit Rs1.24 crore, promising to send the discussed products once they got the money. Accordingly, he electronically transferred Rs1.24 crore in three instalments but did not get the promised products in return.The fabricator fell for their bait and was duped, the police said. The police have taken the phone numbers of the unidentified callers and the number of the bank account to which the sum of Rs1.24 was transferred electronically. Investigation into the case is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fabricator-duped-of-rs1-24-crore-under-pretext-of-oil-seal-biz-101627410382556.html
27-07-2021||Other||Stop flood tourism for political credit, say NCP, Sena; BJP hits back||As leaders from the ruling and opposition parties made a beeline to visit flood-affected area and express their sympathies with the affected people, politics over “flood tourism” has heated up. The Shiv Sena on Tuesday said that “political tourism” should not hamper the relief work, while Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar urged politicians in Maharashtra to avoid visiting the flood-affected areas and that only those who are directly related to an affected area should visit it. The statements from the alliance partners came ahead of Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s visit to Chiplun and Taliye, along with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Ashish Shelar, on Tuesday. Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis hit back saying that Koshyari was directed by President Ram Nath Kovind to visit the affected villages. Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that incidents of natural disasters should not become a battle for credit. He said that opposition must not visit such spots and put pressure on the administration. “Globally, wherever such disasters occur, there is no hindrance to the relief work. In Maharashtra, when such incidents happen, there are allegations, counter-allegations and attack on administration; political tours should be stopped, as far as possible... This is not a battle for credit, and if somebody thinks it is, then they are devoid of humanity... I will say this that politicians should exercise restraint [during such times] as their visit cause a hindrance in the relief work,” said Raut. Pawar, while speaking to media at his party headquarters in Mumbai, said, “Visits of the chief minister (CM), deputy CM and leader of Opposition is necessary because their presence gives a sense of comfort to the affected families and hence, they should organise such tours. But nowadays, we are looking at a trend where many people [politicians] choose to visit the affected areas and these visits hamper the relief and rehabilitation operations.” The veteran leader said though he has been holding such visits, he is avoiding it this time as the local administration will have to wait for his tour to conclude, which is likely to affect the relief work. Koshyari in Raigad said that the state and the Central governments will jointly work to rehabilitate the families. “It is an unprecedented disaster. This may be the first incident in Maharashtra where the entire village was washed away. Families have been destroyed. We, including the prime minister (Narendra Modi) are all sad. CM, too, has visited the place. The incident has happened and now both the governments will make joint efforts to rehabilitate those who survived the tragedy and provide them with all the possible help,” said the governor. Pawar said he is hoping that Koshyari’s visit will help in getting more funds from the Centre. “It’s okay if the governor is visiting the flood-ravaged areas. He may help the state in making available more help from the Centre as he has good contacts,” Pawar remarked. On Tuesday, an editorial in Saamana also stated that relief and rehabilitation work can be expedited if such political visits stop. While CM Uddhav Thackeray was sitting in the state secretariat and instructing the administration, Opposition leader in the legislative Council Pravin Darekar and former minister Girish Mahajan attempted to reach Mahad but were stuck due to heavy rains and had to be rescued through boats by authorities, said the editorial. “After CM, Union minister Narayan Rane and Fadnavis reached Taliye village. Now, the governor is also going there. The relief work is underway. While the government authorities are involved in the relief work, such tourism is creating a lot of confusion there,” remarked the editorial on Tuesday. The mouthpiece added that the opposition should not try to gain advantage over the government during a crisis. Fadnavis backed the governor and said, “Yesterday tour the governor told me that he was directed by the President to hold a visit to the areas hit by floods and landslides. To ensure it is a non-political tour, he has also invited one senior legislator from all the four parties (BJP, Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress). I don’t know why others didn’t go with the governor. Shelar is accompanying him and there is nothing wrong in it.” Referring to Fadnavis’s statement that the victims will get the required help from the Centre, the editorial said that his statement was not of a sensible leader. “Should a former CM of the state make a statement that the Centre will help the flood victims? The Union government is supreme for the states and there is no reason to have a different opinion on it. But his stand that they do not recognise the state’s elected government is not in the interest of the state. The state government has not made any complaints against the Centre. Despite this, how appropriate is it for the Opposition to take the stand that they recognise only union government?” asked the editorial. Speaking to reporters on the issue Raut further said, “The state is capable enough but the Union government also has its responsibility towards the states. The state and Centre are coordinating; CM is speaking to the Centre. We are confident that the Centre will provide a package. If it [the package] is less, then leader of Opposition is there, we have Union ministers from Maharashtra, they will take up the issue [of relief package].” Pawar announced that his party, through NCP Welfare Trust, will provide relief aid worth ₹2.5 crore to around 16,000 families affected by the floods. The kits will comprise utensils, cooking materials and bedsheets and medicines. Five ambulances and a team of 250 doctors will also be deployed in the affected districts. Pawar likely to meet West Bengal CM today Pawar said that he is likely to meet All India Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief and West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday in Delhi. “She informed me about her visit to New Delhi and her willingness to meet. I think we are likely to meet tomorrow in Delhi,” Pawar told reporters. He, however, refused to comment on reports related to the alleged Pegasus snooping. “This is not the time and place to say anything else. We will raise the issue at the right place in the Parliament,” the former Union minister said. Uddhav can lead country with patience, patriotism and Hindutvawadi leadership: RautRaut on Tuesday said that Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray is capable of leading the country and will do so one day. Wishing Thackeray on his 61st birthday on Tuesday, Raut said he has been sharing a great rapport with the Sena chief from the past 40-45 years. “He’s a popular CM. People feel that he is a member of their family. Even the country has expectations from Uddhav ji. If in the future the country needs Uddhav ji’s patience, hard core patriotism and Hindutvawadi leadership, he is capable,” said Raut. When asked specifically if Thackeray would could become the PM of the country, Raut answered “Let’s see.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stop-flood-tourism-for-political-credit-say-ncp-sena-bjp-hits-back-101627410381912.html
27-07-2021||Other||Chartered accountant arrested in connection with ₹16.06 crore fraud||PUNE The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Pune Crime Branch has arrested a chartered accountant in connection with a ₹16.06 crore fraud, in which 418 investors have allegedly been duped. The firm where the CA worked, Shivkanya and Shivkanya Investment office in Shukrawar peth, allegedly offered 18-22 per cent returns on share market investments, police said.The accused CA has been identified as Kailas Radhakisan Mundada (42), a resident of Sinhgad road. Earlier, the main accused have been identified as Maheshkumar Bhagwandas Lohia (31), a resident of Sinhgad road, Sunil Purshottam Somani (54), a resident of Bopodi and Gajanan Mahadeo Mane (30), a resident of Parli in Beed.Based on a complaint of a woman investor, the police arrested Lohia and Somani on September 25, 2019, while Mane was arrested on October 3, the same year. Currently, Lohia is in judicial custody and in jail, while Somani and Mane are out on bail. The crime took place between November 2016 and September 2019.The 51-year old complainant stated that she had invested ₹10,00,000 in the scheme which promised 18-22 per cent returns. This investment was made in 2019. She did not receive any returns. She got to know about this investment option from a family member, who knows the owners, as per the complaint.Lohia had credited the complainant’s cheque of ₹10 lakh in the bank account and instead had sent fake profit-loss statements of share trading to her email account. The crime branch arrested Mundada on Tuesday and produced him before a local court which remanded him to custody. According to EOW officials, the CA has accepted an amount of Rs1.10 crore from the main accused and an entry to that effect has emerged in a forensic report. EOW sleuths maintained that he is a practicing CA and some of the investors are his clients. “His entire role in the fraud is being probed in detail,” EOW officials said.A case under Sections 420 (punishment for cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Section 3 of Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID) Act, 1999 has been registered at Khadak police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chartered-accountant-arrested-in-connection-with-rs-16-06-crore-fraud-101627410381237.html
27-07-2021||Other||Youth booked for raping girl he met on social media app||PUNE The Khadki police have registered a case against a youth, 17, on charges of repeatedly raping and molesting a girl, 16, who he met and befriended on social media.Following a complaint lodged by the girl’s mother, the youth was booked under sections 354 and 376 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) 2019 Act. The youth allegedly repeatedly raped and molested the girl between February 26 and July 21 this year on the top floor of Bopodi Road rail crossing toilet, the police said.According to the FIR, the accused, who is a labourer by profession, met the girl on social media and befriended her. The friendship deepened and the boy promised her marriage. Instead of marrying her however, he raped her repeatedly. He recorded a video of them kissing and a video of them singing and released both on social media after which they went viral.At one point, he knocked on the door of the girl’s house and when her mother opened the door, he told her he wanted to meet her sister. When the girl’s mother questioned him, he fled from the spot. Sensing something was amiss, the woman contacted a friend who is a social worker who took the girl into confidence. The girl spilled the beans to her mother’s friend about the videos and that she had been repeatedly raped and molested by the accused after which a case was registered.Shafil Pathan, police inspector (crime) said, “They met on Instagram and eventually got into a relationship. The boy promised the girl marriage but raped her on several occasions instead. The girl’s mother lodged a complaint after which we booked him under relevant sections of the IPC. He will be arrested soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/youth-booked-for-raping-girl-he-met-on-social-media-app-101627410380556.html
27-07-2021||Other||Crowds, traffic congestion at Dagduseth Halwai Ganpati temple send Covid norms for a toss||PUNE A sea of people turned up outside the Dagduseth Halwai Ganpati temple on the occasion of Angarki Sankashti Chaturthi on Tuesday, causing traffic jams near the temple and the surrounding areas. The situation was chaotic for traffic police due to on-going road repair works in the area.People flouted all Covid norms as they were not wearing masks and due to the rush, there was no space for social distancing.This was the second Angarki Sankashti Chaturthi of the year, considered as an auspicious day for rituals. The Shrimant Dagdusheth Halwai Public Ganpati Trust had already issued a circular asking devotees to take e-darshan and a link was shared on social media platforms and on the trust’s website.Temples across the city have not been allowed to open because of the second wave in the city. Even though Covid cases have gone down, administration has not taken any decision on the reopening of the temples.“We had appealed to people to not rush outside the temple. However, people still came in numbers. Traffic police and constables were doing their best to control the rush,” said Ashok Godse, president of the Shrimant Dagdusheth Halwai Public Ganpati Trust.Traffic police officer Atul Shelke said, “ Two lines (from the left and right side of the temple) were made to avoid traffic congestion. The rush went out of control after 11am as vehicle traffic also increased and the number of people coming for worship also increased.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/crowds-traffic-congestion-at-dagduseth-halwai-ganpati-temple-send-covid-norms-for-a-toss-101627410322473.html
27-07-2021||Other||FIR against organiser of Solapur MLA’s sons’ weddings for Covid violation||PUNE: The local police have registered a case against the organiser of the marriage ceremonies of two sons of an MLA (member of legislative assembly) from Solapur district for alleged violation of Covid-19 norms, an official said on Tuesday.The nuptials of the two sons of Rajendra Raut, independent legislator from Barshi town in Solapur, were held at the premises of Laxmi Sopan Agriculture Produce Committee in Barshi on Sunday. Despite official guidelines permitting only 50 people to attend such functions in the state, the two ceremonies held by Raut had over 2,500 people in attendance, according to police officials. That’s not all; most of the guests were seen without masks and flouting social distancing norms, the police said. Some BJP leaders too, including state unit chief Chandrakant Patil, were among the attendees. A case has been registered against one Yogesh Pawar, described by the police as the “organiser” of the ceremonies, under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code, Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act.As per the first information report (FIR) filed in the case, while granting permission to Pawar for the ceremonies, he informed that not more than 50 guests would attend and that all attendees would wear masks and follow social distancing norms.Meanwhile, Dinanath Katkar, a social activist from Barshi, expressed surprise over registration of the case against Pawar instead of the parents of the brides and grooms. “The case has been registered against a person who is not well-known. It should have been registered against the parents of those who got married and who own the premises where the events were held,” he said.According to S D Girigosavi, senior inspector, Barshi city police station, Pawar is one of the directors of the Laxmi Sopan Agriculture Produce Committee, the premises of which were the events’ venue. “Since he had applied for permission and was the organiser of the ceremonies, we registered a case against him. However, we are also considering adding the names of the grooms’ parents after checking the legalities,” he said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fir-against-organiser-of-solapur-mla-s-sons-weddings-for-covid-violation-101627410321627.html
27-07-2021||Other||PMC to hold special vax drive for students going to Delhi for UPSC interviews||PUNE On Wednesday, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will hold a special vaccination drive for students going to Delhi for the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) interviews in August. These students, however, are not eligible for a second shot of the Covid-19 vaccine, if the first shot taken has been taken less than 84 days earlier. This is the mandatory gap between the two doses. At least 100 students are likely to benefit through this vaccination drive, wherein students need to only show their interview letter and do not need an online appointment. An estimated 100 students will be attending their interviews for the UPSC, after clearing their prelims in October 2020, and then the main exam in January 2021, will now go for interviews in August 2021. This year’s prelims exams are likely to be conducted on October 10. Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “This special drive would help students as they would not require the mandatory negative RTPCR test report, as even a one-shot vaccine certificate is enough to enter at airports, as per current rules. It will also help students focus on their studies as they do not need to worry about getting an online booking or waiting in queue. I have instructed the administration to take up this special drive and I appeal to students to get vaccinated.” The drive will be conducted on Wednesday at the Kamla Nehru hospital between 10 am and 5 pm. Students will be required to bring the interview letter and Aadhar card to get registered. UPSC aspirants will also have to wait for their second shot, while those who have got their first shot at least 84 days earlier, can also get their second shot at this drive.Additional commissioner Ravindra Bhiwade said, “The drive would be conducted along with the special drive in place for students and employees who want to travel abroad for study or work. The students are not yet eligible to get the second shot before the 84 days mandatory gap between two doses, but even one shot of the vaccine would make it easier for them to get access to the airport.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-to-hold-special-vax-drive-for-students-going-to-delhi-for-upsc-interviews-101627410320501.html
27-07-2021||Other||PMC orders 200 metric tonnes of ammonium bicarbonate to keep Ganesh fest “green”||PUNE To celebrate an environment-friendly Ganesh festival, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has placed an order for 200 metric tonnes of ammonium bicarbonate, mainly used to dissolve Ganesh idols during immersion. For the last few years, PMC has been distributing ammonium bicarbonate free of cost to citizens. Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “With the help of the National Chemical Laboratory (NCL), PMC used to do this during the Ganesh festival. Citizens have responded well to it”. Last year, PMC purchased 150 metric tonnes of ammonium bicarbonate, but as 23 villages have been merged in the corporation limits the civic body has decided increase its purchase this year.”Scholarships for award winnersTo promote sports in the city, the PMC has decided to give scholarships to Chhatrapati Shivaji award winning sportspersons. The PMC has approved ₹1.27 crore for this. Rasane said, “As per the new sports policy, the civic body will give scholarships to players who have won the state award and are living in Pune city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-orders-200-metric-tonnes-of-ammonium-bicarbonate-to-keep-ganesh-fest-green-101627410321084.html
27-07-2021||Bangalore||BJP, opposition leaders in Karnataka congratulate new chief minister Basavaraj Bommai||Several political leaders on Tuesday wished Basavaraj Bommai, the new chief minister of Karnataka, after he was elected for the state’s top post following a legislature party meeting of the BJP. Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and G Kishan Reddy were appointed by the BJP’s parliamentary board as central observers for the meeting.Bommai is scheduled to take the oath of office at 11am on Wednesday (July 28). He thanked the state’s legislators, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP president JP Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah upon his election.Taking to Twitter, many leaders within the BJP and from the opposition parties wished the new chief minister. BS Yediyurappa, the outgoing CM, in his message said “I am confident you will lead Karnataka in the path of development and fulfil the aspirations of people of the state.”Congratulations to Shri @BSBommai on being elected as the new Chief Minister of Karnataka. I am confident you will lead Karnataka in the path of development and fulfill the aspirations of people of the state.Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan tweeted, “Heartiest congratulations to Shri @BSBommai on being elected as the new Chief Minister of Karnataka. A unanimous choice, he was elected as the leader of the legislative party of @BJP4Karnataka in the presence of Shri @BSYBJP (Yediyurappa), Shri @ArunSinghbjp & other senior party functionaries.”“The @BJP4Karnataka Legislative Party Has Unanimously Elected Sri @BSBommai Avaru As Its Leader & The Next Chief Minister Of Karnataka, In The Presence Of Senior Central & State Leadership, This Evening, In Bengaluru. My Heartiest Congratulations To Sri Bommai,” Kishan Reddy tweeted.Piyush Goyal also wished Bommai on his new role. “I am confident that his rich experience will steer the state forward on the path of growth & development,” Goyal said.BJP’s Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh wished Bommai for his unanimous election in the BJP legislature party meeting. “Many congratulations and best wishes to him on being unanimously elected as the leader of the legislature party,” Singh tweeted.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, too, congratulated Bommai. “Heartiest congratulations to Shri @BSBommai Ji on being elected as the leader of the legislative party of @BJP4Karnataka. I am confident that under the guidance of Shri @narendramodi and your leadership, the state will continue to achieve new heights in development and growth,” Chouhan tweeted.Heartiest congratulations to Shri @BSBommai Ji on being elected as the leader of the legislative party of @BJP4Karnataka. I am confident that under the guidance of Shri @narendramodi and your leadership, the state will continue to achieve new heights in development and growth.Among state leaders, BJP’s CT Ravi said “Heartiest Congratulations to my dear friend and @BJP4Karnataka leader Sri @BSBommai on being elevated as Chief Minister of Karnataka. A soft spoken & hard working Karyakarta, His vast experience as an Administrator will immensely benefit our State. My best wishes to Sri Bommai.”National general secretary of BJP BL Santhosh said “Congratulations Sri @BSBommai on being elected as the legislative party leader of @BJP4Karnataka & CM Elect . A seasoned politician & an old hand at administration, he will take the state to new heights in development.”From the opposition, state Congress leaders DK Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah and former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy of the Janata Dal (Secular) wished the CM-elect on his new role.“Congratulations to Sri @BSBommai for being selected as the next Chief Minister of Karnataka. Congress party and the state hopes that the focus will be back on governance now,” tweeted Shivakumar.Congratulations to Sri @BSBommai for being selected as the next Chief Minister of Karnataka. Congress party and the state hopes that the focus will be back on governance now.Siddaramaiah said, “Heartily congratulations to newly selected @CMofKarnataka Shri. @BSBommai We will be looking forward to clean & honest government.”Heartily congratulations to newly selected @CMofKarnataka Shri. @BSBommai.We will be looking forward to clean & honest government. pic.twitter.com/bfqtnNGHxMKumaraswamy in his message said, “I expect you to offer relief to the State, which is caught in the whirlpool of problems. You have knowledge about irrigation matters. I believe you will pay attention to the injustice being caused to the State on issues like dam construction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bjp-opposition-leaders-in-karnataka-congratulate-karnataka-chief-minister-basavaraj-bommai-101627409045202.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||Only 3 containment zones in Mumbai; 60 buildings sealed||As the city is reporting a drop in the number of cases, the data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) shows there are only three containment zones in the city at Kandivli, Chembur and Bhandup. Moreover, 60 buildings and 1,730 floors are completely sealed in the city. A containment zone covers areas of slums and chawls. As of July 25, in the three active containment zones in the city, there is a population of 25,000, 19,000 in the 60 sealed buildings in the city and 218,000 in over 1,700 sealed floors. This is the lowest number of containment zones and sealed buildings in a long time in the city, said civic officials. During the peak of the second wave in the city in the second week of April 2021, when around 10,000 cases were being reported, the city had 80 active containment zones, 800 sealed buildings and more than 9,000 active sealed floors, where a population of around two million was residing with several restrictions. However, with the number of cases starting to fall from April-end, the number of containment zones, sealed buildings and sealed floors also has gone down. Currently, 64,000 citizens are under home quarantine, compared to over 610,000 during the peak of the second wave. Dr Mangala Gomare, chief of the BMC’s public health department, said, “The containment zones and sealed buildings are going down as the cases are also going down. We have to continue testing, tracing and taking precautions. We can breathe easily once we say that 70% of the city’s population is fully vaccinated. Currently, we can say that around 50% of the total population in the city has taken at least one dose.” On Monday, 297 cases were reported, the lowest number since April 2020. Of the over 17,600 beds in dedicated Covid centres and hospitals, only 2,755 are occupied. Further, the weekly growth rate in the city on an average is 0.05% and the doubling rate is 1,025 days, according to the civic data. Meanwhile, on Tuesday, the city reported 344 cases, five deaths, taking the city’s tally to 734,759 and toll to 15,850. The city’s mortality rate is 2.15% and recovery rate is 96.59% with 709,753 recoveries. There are 6,783 active cases in the city. On Tuesday, 28,058 tests were reported resulting in a daily positivity rate of 1.24%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/only-3-containment-zones-in-mumbai-60-buildings-sealed-101627409480570.html
27-07-2021||Other||Rahul’s tractor march: Police trace vehicle owner, register FIR||New Delhi: The tractor that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi drove to Parliament along with other party MPs in protest against the three farm laws on Monday belongs to a person in Haryana’s Sonepat, the Delhi Police’s internal inquiry into the alleged security breach has found, senior police officers aware of the matter said on Tuesday. They also said that the container truck in which the tractor was brought to Lutyens’ Delhi was also from Sonepat.A senior officer confirmed on Tuesday that an FIR has been filed in the case but did not divulge under what sections the case has been filed or who has been named in the report. “Through the tractor’s engine and chassis number, its ownership was established in the name of one Ajay from Sonepat. The registered owner of the container truck is Surender, who is also from Sonepat. A separate notice will be served to both of them, seeking their explanation on who booked the vehicles and on whose directions the tractor was delivered at the Rajya Sabha MP’s office,” a senior police officer said, asking not to be identified.During the enquiry, the officers said, it emerged that the container truck loaded with the tractor had started from Sonepat, with the occupants of the vehicle -- investigators didn’t made it clear how many people were in the truck -- using a permission letter allegedly issued by Congress Rajya Sabha MP, Dr Amee Yajnik, to enter the Lutyens’ zone, where no heavy commercial vehicle is allowed unless it has obtained permission from the police department.“The occupants of the container truck produced the permission letter when they were stopped by the police personnel in central Delhi and claimed the truck contained the MP’s household stuff that were being moved to her new address in Lutyens’ zone. Since they showed the MP’s permission letter, the police personnel did not check the vehicle or stop it,” said another senior police officer associated with the inquiry, requesting not to be named.Even as police are trying to find out if the MP’s letter was genuine or forged, Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said, “It has nothing to do with Dr Amee Yajnik who is actually from Gujarat and is new in Delhi. It was I who organised the tractor from Haryana. I have already offered the Delhi Police to take action against me in the matter.”Police are also trying to ascertain the exact routes the vehicle took to reach the restricted zone.Investigators have not yet located the container truck though the tractor was seized on Monday morning after Wayanad MP Gandhi, who drove the vehicle allegedly from the office of KTS Tulsi, another Rajya Sabha MP, was stopped by police personnel 70-80 metres away from the Parliament.Ten Congress leaders, including Surjewala and Youth Congress chief Srinivas BV, were detained and taken to the Mandir Marg police station even as Gandhi walked inside the Parliament. The detained leaders were released late in the afternoon.Another police officer said that the tractor was driven for 1.5-km -- reportedly from Tulsi’s office to the Parliament -- allegedly without a registration number plate.On police’s allegations that the tractor was kept at his office, Tulsi on Monday said that he was unaware of all the details because he was out of Delhi. “But if it has happened, I am proud of it. While the whole country is aghast over the manner with which the farmers of this country are being treated, this (tractor rally) will draw the attention of the central government. The Congress party is actually doing a great job. Everyone should put their heads together to resolve this (farmers) issue. It’s a matter of life and death for the farmers,” said Tulsi.On Monday, police officers said that the internal inquiry was launched to look into the security breach in the wake of the ongoing farmers’ protest at the Jantar Mantar, the monsoon session of Parliament and the Independence Day, for which nearly 5,000 personnel have been deployed in central Delhi.The objective of the inquiry is to also look into the failure of the police to prevent the entry of a tractor in central Delhi without prior permission by the authorities. Tractors have been barred from entering central Delhi, especially Lutyens’ zone, since September last year when a tractor was set on fire at the India Gate by some Punjab Youth Congress workers to mark their protest against the three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rahuls-tractor-march-police-trace-vehicle-owner-register-fir-101627409481231.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 2 more cases of Delta Plus Covid variant; 1 of them is fully vaccinated||Two more cases of Delta Plus variant have been identified in Mumbai, which takes the total number to three in the city and 23 in the state. Both the patients were women healthcare workers, one of whom was fully vaccinated while the other was not vaccinated, said officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The Delta Plus (AY.1) is a mutation of the highly transmissible Delta variant of Sars-CoV-2 (B.1.617.2) and detected in the state during the second wave. The Union Health Ministry categorised the Delta-plus variant of Covid-19, as a ‘variant of concern’. Swab samples of the healthcare workers were sent for genome sequencing to Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB) in the first week of July after they contracted the infection in June. One is 28-year-old who was diagnosed with Covid-19 on June 28 after she had fever and headache. She hasn’t taken a single dose of Covid-19 vaccine. The second fully vaccinated patient aged 57 tested positive on June 29, but was asymptomatic. As per the BMC, she had taken both the doses of Covishield. “Both the patients were hospitalised, but didn’t require any oxygen on admission. They have completely recovered without any health complications,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC, adding that both didn’t have a travel history. “As samples of their f four close contacts came positive for Covid-19, we sent their samples too for genome sequencing. Their results are awaited,” said Dr Gomare. Genome sequencing is an exercise to study the changes in the structure of the virus over time. A combination of changes in the ribonucleic acid of the virus can give birth to a new variant. In April, the state signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with CSIR-IGIB to undertake genome sequencing of 4,000 positive swab samples. A civic health official said identification of the variants in the city is likely to increase further as the BMC is in the process of starting genome sequencing at its affiliated Kasturba Gandhi Hospital from next month. The main machine for genome sequencing will arrive in the city next week which will help conduct more tests and timely delivery of reports. “We have sorted out the problems with the transportation of the US-made machine. It will reach the city this week and we will be able to start genome sequencing at Kasturba Hospital by the first week of August,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC. In June, the union health ministry announced that 48 patients were identified with the Delta Plus variant in the country, of which Maharashtra led the chart with 21 cases. The patients were from Ratnagiri, Jalgaon, Thane, and one each from Mumbai, Palghar and Sindhudurg districts. A total of nine patients were identified from Ratnagiri, the highest in the state. The health department has been instructed by the government to send around 3,000 samples for genome sequencing. More samples have been collected from the districts that recorded ‘Delta plus’ variants of the coronavirus considering the variant is more transmissible. But so far, the state health department has not observed any spike in Covid-19 cases from the pockets where it was reported in May in the state. “We have sent 177 samples for genome sequencing. So far, we haven’t been informed about any positive case of Delta plus from the laboratory,” said Dr Sanghamitra Gawde, civil surgeon from the district. “Also, the positivity rate which was 17.32% between May 26-June 1 has dropped to 6.1% in the last seven days,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-2-more-cases-of-delta-plus-covid-variant-1-of-them-is-fully-vaccinated-101627409479970.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||60-69 age group worst-hit in both Covid waves: Mumbai civic body data||An analysis of mortality data has shown that senior citizens in the 60-69 age group were the worst hit by Covid-19 during both the waves in Mumbai. Most experts consider the period between March and December 2020 broadly as the first wave, even as the number of cases sharply declined by November. Mumbai recorded over 293,436 cases and over 11,116 deaths during this period. The city is currently experiencing a receding second wave. During the period between January and July 15 this year, the city has recorded 48% more cases (436,359), however, the number of deaths dropped to 4,551. Of the 11,159 deaths analysed by the civic body between March and December last year, nearly 3,177 or 28% deaths were in the 60-69 age group. Even as the absolute number of deaths decline this year, the trend has remained the same. Of the 4,490 deaths analysed between January and July 15 (the second wave), 1,142 or 25% were among the 60-69 age group. This age group falls under the high-risk category. Medical experts say age and presence of co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and obesity, among others, have been linked to severe forms of Covid-19. “The high mortality is the result of high risks carried by senior citizens or those with underlying ailments,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force. “A lot of thought is being given to reducing deaths in this category. The push to speed up vaccinations and introduction of monoclonal antibody cocktail drug are some of the measures aimed at reducing the mortality in the high-risk category,” he said. Mumbai’s death numbers indicate the second wave was handled in a better way by the civic administration. Mumbai’s Case Fatality Ratio (CFR) – the proportion of deaths among identified confirmed cases – stood at around 1% in the second wave, while Maharashtra’s CFR was at 1.8%. “Mumbai saw a lot of deaths during the April-May period last year, when the medical fraternity knew little about the infection and its management,” said Dr Avinash Supe, head of the Covid-19 death audit committee. “The average of city’s deaths is definitely better during the second wave, despite more cases,” he said. Another important trend seen in BMC’s age-wise death analysis is the drop in the number of deaths among children. The civic body recorded 18 deaths in the 0-9 age group and 35 deaths in the 10-19 age group between March and December 2020. Between January and July 15, these numbers dropped to zero and five, respectively. One must note the civic data is constantly under reconciliation and there is often a mismatch between the BMC and state government’s numbers. For example, even as the 0-9 age group shows zero deaths, some hospitals have recorded deaths in this group, which may be under review and yet to be reconciled. The civic-run BYL Nair Hospital has recorded three infant deaths and the SRCC Children’s hospital has recorded one death this year. The BMC’s mortality data may present a positive picture, but the true impact of the pandemic can be analysed only by considering the all-cause mortality and the excess deaths in the city. In 2018, the city recorded 88,892 deaths due to all causes, according to the statistics updated on the BMC website. The number rose by 2.6% to 91,223 in 2019. In 2020, the year when the pandemic hit Mumbai, its all-cause death toll jumped by 23% to 111,942. Taking into account an average of 3% yearly rise in deaths and adding the Covid-19 toll (11,116 deaths) to it, Mumbai has recorded at least 5,000 excess deaths in 2020. “It is hard to say that all excess deaths are due to Covid-19, but one must not simply attribute these deaths as non-Covid,” said Soumitra Ghosh, associate professor at the Centre for Health Policy, Planning and Management, Tata Institute of Social Sciences. “A deeper analysis of this data is needed. Ideally, the government authorities should commission an institution to study this,” he said. The stringent lockdown, mainly during the first wave, made it difficult for many to access hospitals. Elective procedures and treatment for existing ailments were delayed which led to severe health implications in patients. Experts also point that accident-related deaths came down substantially during the lockdown. “It is important to analyse the cause of excess deaths to come closer to reality. These deaths cannot be ignored,” said Ghosh. The stringent lockdown, mainly during the first wave, made it difficult for many to access hospitals. Elective procedures and treatment for existing ailments were delayed which led to severe health implications in patients. Experts also point that accident-related deaths came down substantially during the lockdown. “It is important to analyse the cause of excess deaths to come closer to reality. These deaths cannot be ignored,” said Ghosh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/6069-age-group-worst-hit-in-both-covid-waves-mumbai-civic-body-data-101627409420620.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Contractor gets BMC notice for delay in work on 16 oxygen plants||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday said that it has issued a notice to the contractor, warning of penalty for allegedly delaying the work of setting up oxygen plants in the city, amid the anticipation of the third Covid-19 wave.The BMC has warned of a penalty to the contractor, in case of failing to complete work on time. The civic body has planned to set up 16 oxygen plants at nine locations in the city at the cost of around ₹90 crore that will generate an estimated 43 metric tons of oxygen daily, on the site.The nine locations where 16 plants will be set up includes nine civic-run hospitals wherein two plants at BYL Nair Hospital, two at Cooper Hospital, one at Bhabha Hospital, one at VN Desai Hospital, two at Shatabdi Hospital in Kandivli, three at KEM Hospital, two plants at GTB Hospital, two plants at LTMG Hospital and one at Kasturba Hospital. These plants will work on the pressure swing adsorption (PSA) technology.For this, the BMC had appointed Highway Construction Company last month and handed over to them the above sites between June 16 and June 25, 2021, giving them a month to complete the work. However, civic body officials said they have issued a notice as the contractor has not completed the work on time.P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC confirmed issuing a notice to the contractor. In the notice, the BMC has said, “Considering the work progress sites, the period of completion .i.e. 30 days was already expired. You are hereby instructed to complete the work immediately without fail, otherwise, a penalty will be levied to you, as per terms and conditions of the tender.”Romin Chedda from Highway Construction Company said, “It is not a notice but I have received a letter from the BMC. The majority of work at all the sites is completed and I will hand over the plants soon in the coming days to the BMC.”Meanwhile, the BMC is also in the process of setting up its own oxygen bottling plant to fill jumbo cylinders in the city at Mahul at the cost of ₹21 crore. This plant will fill around 1,500 oxygen cylinders with a capacity of 7.1 cubic meters daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-contractor-gets-bmc-notice-for-delay-in-work-on-16-oxygen-plants-101627409299915.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees dip in active cases; records 6,258 new Covid cases||The number of Covid-19 active patients is now on a decline in Maharashtra. On Tuesday, the number of active patients was 82,082, while the state recorded 6,258 Covid-19 new cases.On Monday, the active cases had dropped to 88,729 from 94,985 on Sunday. Similarly last week, the active cases on July 19 dropped to 96,375 from 1,03,486 on July 18.On Tuesday, Mumbai clocked 344 new Covid-19 cases with 5 deaths. The case tally in Mumbai has reached 734,759, while the toll stands at 15,850. There were 181,593 tests done on Tuesday and 12,645 recoveries.The state’s case tally has now reached 6,276,057. The death toll has now reached 1,31,859, with Pune leading with 18,395 deaths followed by Mumbai with 15,850 and Thane with 10,997 deaths.There are currently 82,082 active patients across the state of which Pune tops with 15,344 patients followed by Thane with 9,510 active patients and Kolhapur with 8,749.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor, government of Maharashtra on Covid-19 management, said, “The active cases are directly related to the decline in the number of new cases,” said Dr Salunkhe. He says Pune has maximum active cases as it gets a lot of patients from its vicinity.Ishwar Gilada, secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild said numbers are still a matter of concern. “Majority of the active cases are from Pune Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, Solapur and Ahmednagar districts and there seems to be no respite in sight. The overall tally will continue to be high till this is reined in,” Gilada said.Meanwhile, 5,68,575 vaccine doses were administered on Tuesday, taking the total to 42,325,437.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-dip-in-active-cases-records-6-258-new-covid-cases-101627409240941.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||Road accidents in Mumbai up by 15%: Data||Road accidents in the city have increased by 15% during the past six months, as compared to the number of accidents during the corresponding period last year. Deaths due to accidents in the state have increased by 22% between January and June 2021, as compared to last year.As per statistics compiled by the Maharashtra Highway Police, Nashik tops in deaths by accident, while Mumbai tops in people injured in accidents. However, the police said that the number of accident cases as compared to pre-Covid levels is 37% less in the city and 20% less in the state.As per statistics, for the period of January to June 2021, there were around 14,245 accident cases reported in the state. In the same period, 6,708 accidental death were reported, while 10,879 people were injured.“Mumbai contributed around 6.7% cases, with 956 accidents, 131 deaths and 809 people reported injured,” said a police officer from the state Highway Police department. From January to June 2020, the city had seen around 809 accident cases, in which around 141 people had died and around 822 people were injured.However, the accident cases last year were less due to strict Covid-19 lockdown.Most numbers of the fatalities in accidents happened in Nashik Rural jurisdiction with around 454 deaths, followed by Pune Rural with 418 deaths. Ahmednagar reported 367 deaths, Jalgaon 267, Solapur 255, Satara 243 and Nagpur 242 deaths.“We have been continuously working on the factors and studying them to reduce the number of accidents, most importantly fatalities. We have identified several black spots and are working on them to correct the problems. We are making people aware of over-speeding, which is a major cause of accidents. Due to the pandemic, we can’t concentrate on drunk driving, which is another major problem. At several spots we have studied that people drive on the wrong side which is one of the important reasons for accidents,” said Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay, additional director general of police, traffic, Maharashtra.Upadhyay said they have also trained 1,000 locals, like garage owners, toll booth staff, puncture shop owners and even some dhaba staffers as Mrityunjay Doot’s, to provide immediate relief and medical attention to accident victims.If we compare the accident cases with 2019 figures, there are 20% fewer accident cases, 5% fewer deaths on roads and 30% less injured people.In a normal year like 2019, there were around 32,925 accident cases in the state, 12,788 deaths and 28,628 injured people due to accidents, said Upadhyay.Accident cases have decreased in cities like Buldhana, Palghar and Thane.“This year due to several restrictions and local trains still being closed for people, they tend to come out for work via their private vehicles. Several mail express trains have been cancelled. Those wanting to travel outstation can’t travel without reservations. Hence, more people are using their private vehicles, leading to more accidents. The government needs to concentrate more on improving public transport, especially making special bus lanes for government buses and increasing their frequency,” said Ashok Datar a transport expert from the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/road-accidents-in-mumbai-up-by-15-data-101627409179917.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||Sachin Tendulkar comes to medical student’s aid||Nineteen-year-old Dipti Vishvasrao, a resident of Zarye village in Ratnagiri district, is on the course to become the first woman doctor from her village. Even though Vishvasrao has been a brilliant student, her goal has never been too easy. Despite her modest means, with the support of her farmer father and homemaker mother, she worked hard for the examinations. During the lockdown, Vishvasrao would travel a kilometre everyday, as her village is remotely located, so she could get a network connection to be able to continue her studies online. Her hard work paid rich dividends as she performed exceptionally well in her board examinations, and also successfully cleared the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) to secure admission in the Government Medical College at Akola. But financial constraints were creating hurdles for Vishvasrao. She was unable to afford the expenses for the medical college. While her relatives contributed to the fees, she was still short of funds for the hostel and other expenses. However, legendary cricketer Sachin Tendulkar, through his foundation, along with officials of Seva Sahyog Foundation (SSF), ensured that the required funds were arranged within a short span of time. Tendulkar, through his foundation and Vidyarthi Vikas Yojna (VVY) – a project of SSF – has helped several such beneficiaries. Their project works towards providing financial support to students from the underprivileged section of society to pursue higher education. It also provides support to schools in remote areas to upgrade their educational infrastructure. Over the past 12 years, SSF has supported 833 students across four states and 24 districts. After receiving the aid, Vishvasrao in a video message said, “I am thankful to Sachin Tendulkar Foundation for awarding me the scholarship. The scholarship has lightened my financial burden which allows me to focus more on my studies. My lifelong dream of becoming a doctor is now becoming a reality at Government Medical College, Akola. I promise I will work hard and one day I will be able to help other brilliant students for fulfilling their dreams just as the Foundation helped me.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachin-tendulkar-comes-to-medical-student-s-aid-101627409120513.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||CR to introduce Vistadome coach in other Mumbai-Pune trains||After receiving an overwhelming response from passengers travelling in the 44-seater Vistadome coach on Deccan Express, running between Mumbai and Pune, the Central Railway is now planning to introduce a similar coach in other trains on this route. The glass-roofed Vistadome coach has wide window panes and seats that rotate to 360 degrees to provide passengers with a better sightseeing experience.The Vistadome coach that was introduced in June, has an occupancy of more than 95% in one month. The coach has been completely booked for 12 days in June.“The response from the passengers travelling between the two cities has been overwhelming. The coach has been full-on many days. We are planning to introduce more Vistadome coaches in other outstation trains on the route,” said a senior Central Railway official.The Mumbai-Pune Deccan Express with the Vistadome coach halts at Dadar, Thane, Kalyan, Neral, Lonavala, Talegaon, Khadki and Shivaji Nagar railway stations.The coach has wide window panes, and seats that rotate to 360 degrees to provide passengers with a better sightseeing experience.The coach also has 12 LCD television screens for entertainment, a mini-fridge, automatic sliding compartment doors, an oven, juicer grinder and toilets fitted with ceramic tiles.Earlier, the coach was introduced on the Mumbai-Goa railway route in 2017 for passengers to get a view of the Western Ghat in the Jan Shatabdi Express.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cr-to-introduce-vistadome-coach-in-other-mumbai-pune-trains-101627409060615.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||SIT to probe two FIRs linked to Param Bir Singh: Mumbai Police||Mumbai Police have formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the two first information reports (FIR) linked to former Mumbai Police commissioner (CP) Param Bir Singh and others.The SIT will probe two FIRs, one of which is registered at the Marine Drive police station against Singh, a crime branch deputy commissioner of police (DCP) and five other policemen, by a Bhayander-based builder Shyamsunder Agrawal alleging ₹15 crore extortion by Singh and his subordinate officers.The other is the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) case registered by the Juhu police against Agrawal for his alleged links with the underworld gangster Chhota Shakeel. Agrawal had alleged that based on this false case, Singh and his subordinates extorted money from him at the behest of his former business partner Sanjay Punamiya, who is presently in the custody of Marine Drive police.“A DCP rank officer would head the SIT and an assistant commissioner of police (ACP) rank officer would be the chief investigation officer of the two cases linked to Singh,” said a senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer.Since senior police officers and some powerful and influential people are linked to the case, an SIT would ensure a transparent, fair and time-bound investigation. The SIT will directly report to CP Mumbai Hemant Nagrale and joint CP, law and order, Vishwas Nangre Patil, another police officer said.Singh is facing three FIRs; one is of Marine Drive police station, while two FIRs are being investigated by the Thane police.In Marine Drive police’s FIR the complainant Agrawal, 57, claimed that he had done several real estate projects in Borivli, Bhayander and Gorai between 2016 and 2011, in partnership with Punamiya, but due to complications, conflicts and profit-sharing disputes, the two ended their partnership in 2011. He alleged that Punamiya has been registering false cases against Agrawal since then and has filed 18 cases against him in Mumbai and Thane. Agrawal has cleared his name in 14 of these cases. According to the FIR, on February 17, 2021, registered against Agrawal at Juhu police station on the complaint of Punamiya who alleged that Agrawal threatened him for extortion at the behest of gangster Chhota Shakeel between November 2016 to December 2020. Later in March 2021, MCOCA sections were invoked in the case. A few days later Mumbai crime branch unit 9 officers raided Agrawal’s Bhayander and Vile Parle residences. Based on this case of Juhu police, Agrawal’s nephew Shubham was threatened by Punamiya, Jain and other accused at Punamiya’s Fort office demanding ₹15.5 crore and share in some properties in Gorai and Mira-Bhayander. They allegedly threatened to put Agrawal behind bars for five years under MCOCA charges if the demands were not fulfilled. The accused also forcefully took Shubham’s signature and threatened the complainant with a narcotics case. Shubham, meanwhile, recorded the conversation that took place in this meeting on his phone and presented it before the police as evidence. Based on the audio clip and some monetary transaction records, the Marine Drive police registered the case, sources said. Agrawal, in his complaint, claimed that he had paid ₹15 crore to Punamiya through cheque and ₹50 lakh in cash. He also allegedly paid hefty amounts to crime branch police officers to help him get out of the criminal case.He further added that Punamiya continued to harass him for the remaining payment of ₹11 crore from the previous settlement deed, in which, Singh was also involved. Following this, he approached the police. Now the SIT will thoroughly probe the Marine Drive extortion case against Singh and the MCOCA case of the Juhu police, which Agrawal claims, is a false case filed to implicate him.Besides three FIRs, Singh is already facing multiple enquiries after he was shunted out from the post of Mumbai Police chief in March this year for improper handling of the Antilia bomb scare case. Maharashtra criminal investigation department (CID) is probing multiple allegations against Singh on the complaint of cricket bookie Sonu Jalan and other two alleging extortion at the hands of Singh and his subordinates while Singh was heading the Thane police. CID has submitted their enquiry report to DGP Sanjay Pandey and, sources said that another extortion FIR may be registered against Singh soon. The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) has also initiated an open inquiry against Singh pertaining to corruption allegations made against him by police inspector Anup Dange. The ACB has issued a Look Out Circular (LoC) against Jeetu Navlani, an accused in the complaint filed by Dange and a friend of Singh. The 1988 batch IPS officer Singh, was earlier booked in an Atrocities Act case in April this year on the complaint of a serving inspector from Akola police.The third FIR against Singh is registered under charges of extortion and kidnapping at the Kopri police station in Thane last week.Singh is presently in his hometown in Chandigarh and is on leave owing to some health conditions. He has not responded to allegations made against him in multiple complaints. Singh, after his removal as police commissioner, on March 20, 2021, wrote an explosive letter to the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray claiming state’s home minister Anil Deshmukh had instructed controversial crime branch officer API Sachin Vaze (now dismissed) and other Mumbai police officers to extort monthly ₹100 crore from the 1750 bars, pubs, hookah parlours and other establishments in Mumbai.Based on this allegation first Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and then the Enforcement Directorate (ED) launched investigations against Deshmukh on charges of corruption and money laundering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sit-to-probe-two-firs-linked-to-param-bir-singh-mumbai-police-101627409059897.html
27-07-2021||Lucknow||NCP to tie up with SP for UP assembly polls||: The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) will contest the 2022 assembly election in Uttar Pradesh in alliance with the Samajwadi Party.Addressing a press conference, NCP national general secretary KK Sharma and state unit president Uma Shankar Yadav said NCP chief Sharad Pawar met Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav at Delhi to seal the alliance pact.The decision over seat sharing will be taken later, the NCP leaders said.The aim of the NCP-SP alliance is to defeat the ruling Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) in the 2022 assembly election.Terming the BJP government insensitive, the NCP leaders said it failed to fulfill the aspirations of the people.The BJP government was trying to hide the deaths due to oxygen crisis during the Covid second wave. The youths, farmers, traders and labourers are being exploited under the BJP government, the NCP leaders said.“NCP chief and the SP chief have also talked on phone to discuss the alliance for the assembly election. Both the parties will organise rallies across Uttar Pradesh to highlight the anti-people policies of the BJP government. The alliance will also raise the farmer issues and increase in the prices of essential commodities,” the NCP leaders said.Pawar has called upon the like-minded political parties to join hand to defeat the BJP in the assembly election in Uttar Pradesh. Talks are being held with other opposition parties to form a united front against the BJP in Uttar Pradesh.Akhilesh has also said the SP will form alliance with the smaller political parties active in UP and other like-minded parties for the 2022 assembly election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ncp-to-tie-up-with-sp-for-up-assembly-polls-101627408459880.html
27-07-2021||Gurugram||More rains predicted even as city receives lower rainfall than Delhi||The city is likely to get heavy rain on Wednesday, with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issuing a “yellow alert” and asking authorities to be prepared.A weather warning bulletin issued by the IMD’s meteorological centre in Chandigarh predicted a “heavy rain with thunderstorm or lightning” at isolated places in Gurugram on Wednesday.On Tuesday, when 18.6mm of rainfall was recorded, the city witnessed a slight drop in temperature. The city recorded a maximum temperature of 30 degrees Celsius (°C), which was four degrees below the normal and a minimum temperature of 25.4°C, which was one degree below normal. According to the weekly forecast, the minimum temperature in Gurugram over the next three days is likely to be around 25°C, while the maximum temperature will be around 29-31°C.Meanwhile, despite heavy rain all over Delhi-NCR, rain in Gurugram was comparatively lower. From Monday 8:30am till Tuesday 5:30pm, Palam observatory in Delhi received 127.4mm of rainfall, while in the same period, Gurugram recorded 18.6mm, according to IMD.“Rain in Gurugram and nearby areas is likely to intensify on Wednesday, as per predictions of heavy rain. We cannot pinpoint any cause for why rainfall recorded in Gurugram is lesser compared to Delhi, but the city is getting sufficient rain,” said an official from IMD Chandigarh.Independent experts analysing weather patterns, however, said that the difference could be because of the positioning of the part-time observatory of Gurugram.Navdeep Dahiya, a Rohtak-based meteorologist, said that rainfall distribution on the radar of IMD shows that areas adjoining east Gurugram, like Palam and Ayanagar, have received over 50mm of rainfall, while other parts have received lower rainfall.“The recently started part-time observatory of IMD is situated in west Gurugram (exact location not disclosed by IMD Chandigarh), so there will be a difference in the rainfall data recorded. As the IMD radar shows, distribution was more near the eastern side. The rainfall data being recorded now is not able to capture the data from the eastern side, which covers areas close to Palam,” said Dahiya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/more-rains-predicted-even-as-city-receives-lower-rainfall-than-delhi-101627408403380.html
27-07-2021||Gurugram||Five years since Gurujam, agencies meant to resolve city’s rain mess are adding to its woes||On July 28, 2016, Gurugram received just 52mm of rain. While that was not much when compared to other rain days — like the 19th of this month when the city received 185mm of rain — it was enough to bring Gurugram to its knees; enough to overwhelm a skeletal drainage network; enough to cause the infamous “Gurujam” when commuters were stuck on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway for nearly two days; enough to flood all arterial roads, enough to inundate houses, and enough to wash away the moniker of “Millennium City”.In its aftermath, plan after plan was made by the Haryana government to make Gurugram “rain ready”, to carry away rainwater from the highways and busy intersections, to ensure that the city never got inundated that badly again. Five years on, all those plans have come to naught. On July 19, 185mm of rain left the city battered yet again; four underpasses were flooded, low-lying homes and offices were inundated, and multiple road cave-ins were reported from across the city.In 2016, the main stormwater drain, the Badshahpur drain, overflowed near Hero Honda Chowk and the severe waterlogging had a domino effect. The arterial roads were soon clogged and they took on knee-deep water. Many commuters had no option but to abandon their vehicles on the roadside and complete their journey on foot.In the aftermath of the severe flooding, the Haryana government identified three main solutions to the problem. The widening of the Badshahpur drain at Khandsa village; the construction of a parallel drain to reduce the carrying capacity of the overfilled Badshahpur drain; and the formation of a new agency to end the multiplicity of agencies and streamline work through proper coordination.The three solutions are either still on paper, under construction or have resulted in minimal impact.While the construction of a parallel drain next to the Badshahpur drain, to reduce its carrying capacity, remains on paper, the widening of the Badshahpur drain is currently underway. The formation of a new agency, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), has failed to evoke any change in the workings of the city and has only compounded the prevailing issues.GMDA’s chief engineer, Pardeep Kumar, said since 2018, when the GMDA started its drainage operations, the number of citywide critical points has consistently reduced each year. According to him, this reflects the “on-ground success”.“Recently, the construction of check dams and cleaning of creeks led to minimal waterlogging on Golf Course Road, even when the rest of the city was underwater following the heavy rain. We are aiming to replicate such localised success measures across the city and ensure that all plans formulated to fix the city’s drainage issues, post-Gurujam, are completed,” said Kumar.The deputy commissioner of Gurugram, Yash Garg, said since ”Gurujam”, the administration has carried out preparations, both preventive as well as long-term, to stem waterlogging.“Prior to this monsoon, 113 points were identified across the city, where counter waterlogging measures were initiated. Along with taking preventative measures, the administration is also working with all public bodies to set up infrastructure and revive the natural drainage channels to fix the city’s drainage issues,” said Garg.Experts called on the authorities to come up with a comprehensive citywide plan to combat waterlogging.“The biggest problem with Gurugram is that drainage solutions so far have been done according to residential pockets rather a citywide comprehensive one. In Gurugram, drainage has been fixed according to individual needs of the developer colonies, townships, Huda colonies, societies and condominiums. Instead, a master drainage plan needs to be made, one that creates natural rainwater holding structures, and subsequently, addresses localised drainage issues,” said Sanjukkta Bhaduri, professor of urban planning and dean research at the School of Planning and Architecture, Delhi. Widening of Badshahpur drainIn the immediate aftermath of ‘Gurujam’, a 600m stretch of the Badshahpur drain at Khandsa village, where the width of the 27km stormwater drain reduced from 30 metres to a mere 10 metres. The Badshahpur drain carries nearly 70% of Gurugram’s rainwater and this reduction in width was identified as the main cause for the flooding of the expressway in 2016.The drain water overflowed onto National Highway-48 (NH-48) and areas near Hero Honda Chowk, completely cutting that area off from the rest of the city.In the three years that followed, the government acquired from villagers most of the land required for widening the drain. However, a 33m stretch of Khandsa village, where the carrying capacity of the Badshahpur drain reduces from 2,300 cusecs to 800 cusecs, remained stuck in litigation and could be acquired only this May, after the GMDA invoked the Disaster Management Act, 2005.The GMDA started widening that portion last month but by then, the monsoon reached the city. So the construction of a retention wall will not happen only after September.“The 33m stretch was acquired only by end-May and the widening work started immediately. Due to the monsoon, work had to be halted indefinitely. A retaining wall that will ensure the drain water does not overflow onto the highway will be built in September, after the rains subside,” said Pradeep Kumar, chief engineer, GMDA.Parallel drainThe Badshahpur drain has a limited capacity, as evidenced from the spell of heavy rain on July 19, when the drain was filled to the brim in four hours. With the rain continuing for over 15 hours that day, the administration cautioned residents to brace for waterlogging, unless the drains water level recedes.However, the construction of a parallel drain continues to remain on paper. The latest development in this regard took place last December when GMDA officials said they have formulated a plan to build the drain in collaboration with the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).According to the plan, a culvert will link the Badshahpur drain at Vatika Chowk with the new drain that will flow along the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) and Dwarka Expressway.The project, estimated to cost ₹50 crore, will carry the extra run-off from the Badshahpur drain up to Choma village, thereby reducing the load on the main drain by 40-45%, said officials.Kumar said the authority will construct the parallel drain from Vatika Chowk till the cloverleaf on NH-48, near Central Peripheral Road (CPR), from where the NHAI will construct the remaining portion. “Due to Covid-19, cost of construction materials has increased by 15-20%. Hence, the DNIT [detailed notice inviting tender] had to be revised. We will be floating tenders for this project by September and construction will start soon after,” he said.Ineffective nodal authorityAfter the ”Gurujam”, the Haryana government decided to form a new public authority that will serve bring about better coordination among various public bodies, end multiplicity, and fast-track major development projects, without having to wait for a nod from Chandigarh.A year later, the GMDA came into being. But four years on, the GMDA is riddled with problems of its own that have only added to the city’s civic mess.The main problem affecting the functioning of GMDA is its skewed revenue model, which has left it struggling for funds, thereby stalling development projects. The main source of GMDA’s revenue is the funds it receives from the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP), Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), and Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) — the very agencies it was formed to govern. This has affected key infra projects, including drainage.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in January announced that the GMDA is running at a ₹300 crore loss. Since its formation, the main source of its revenue has been the external development charges (EDC) receipts from the DTCP, amounting to around ₹250 crore a year, which is equivalent to the amount the MCG rakes in from property taxes.“On paper, the concept of GMDA makes complete sense in regards to clarity in communication and helming a joint effort for large-scale projects such as drainage augmentation and cleaning. The biggest problem, however, is GMDA’s financial model. For want of funds, it is heavily reliant on other public bodies, which gives those agencies leverage to do things their own way,” said a senior GMDA official, asking not to be named.According to the GMDA’s working structure, it has multiple divisions such as infra 1 and infra 2, with the former largely looking after roads and the latter looking after drains, leading to multiple positions, where one would suffice. Realising this, last September, then GMDA chief executive officer (CEO) VS Kundu formulated a think tank to bridge the communication gap between departments.The GMDA has also faced multiple issues of jurisdiction with various departments such as NHAI, MCG, DTCP, and HSVP, which have resulted in confusion and stalled progress on major projects.As for drainage, the MCG and GMDA formed separate drainage committees to identify reasons and solutions to the city’s waterlogging mess after the rains on August 19 and 20 last year, when seven underpasses were flooded and the city’s most high-profile stretch, the Golf Course Road, had gone underwater.Due to lack of communication, the MCG and GMDA committees worked separately for nearly two months before realising that they were working on the same objective and subsequently, formed a joint committee for the task.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/five-years-since-gurujam-agencies-meant-to-resolve-city-s-rain-mess-are-adding-to-its-woes-101627408402181.html
27-07-2021||Gurugram||Agencies given week to fix waterlogging problems||While reviewing waterlogging issues in the city, deputy commissioner Yash Garg on Tuesday gave officials a week to resolve issues at key points in the city. Referring to heavy waterlogging witnessed last week, Garg said, “In the first rain of this season itself, some places got waterlogged, which should not have happened.” He sought a report from all the officers concerned and directed the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to take steps. While reviewing the area-wise points, officials from GMDA and MCG informed Garg cited damage to the master drain because of the Basai flyover construction as the reason for waterlogging. Till the master drain is repaired, trenchless pipes will have to be laid from under the cemented roads before the flyover. Garg directed the GMDA to carry out the drain work and the MCG to install a pump by making a sump to the south of cemented roads. MCG officials said that a kachha drain has been dug to extract rainwater from Sector 9 and the sewerage line was cleaned by installing a super sucker machine. The issue of waterlogging in Sector-15 Part-2 was also raised in the meeting, to which, GMDA officials said that all the water from the Signature Tower side fills this sector through the national highway. It was suggested that the culverts of the highway be closed and to connect the surface drains of the highway with one of the main drains of GMDA. Garg directed the officials of GMDA and NHAI to jointly see where the surface drain can be connected and to solve problems in Sector 31, Signature Tower, Rajiv Chowk and Sector 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/agencies-given-week-to-fix-waterlogging-problems-101627408400488.html
27-07-2021||Gurugram||Four-hour rain spell leaves Gurugram waterlogged||A four-hour spell of around 19mm of rainfall early Tuesday left several main roads and low-lying residential areas inundated. However, the underpasses remained largely unaffected this time.A spell of rainfall from around 5.30am till around 9am led to waterlogging at Kanhai Chowk, Ram Chowk in Udyog Vihar, Gold Souk Mall, Bilaspur Chowk, Shyam Chowk Jwala Meel T-point, Mayfield Garden, Galleria Market and Pasco signal. Officials said that the rainwater receded through stormwater drains at most places once the rain stopped.Officials of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) said that underpasses, four of which were shut last Tuesday after heavy rain, were not flooded this time as the amount of rainfall was lower.From 8.30am on Monday to 8.30am on Tuesday, Gurugram received 18.6mm of rainfall, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), while trace rainfall, at scattered locations, was recorded between 8.30am and 5.30pm on Tuesday. Trace is an amount of rainfall that is greater than zero but too little to be measured.“Today (Tuesday), we observed that there was more rain in newer sectors than the older parts of the city, but as the rain was for a short span, the water cleared out within two hours at most places. So, there was no major problem reported. Unlike last week, none of the underpasses was waterlogged this time; there was standing water till the time it rained but the water drained out on its own after it stopped raining,” a senior official of the infrastructure-II division of GMDA said.On Tuesday, residents took to social media to raise concerns over waterlogging at Golf Course Road, where the GMDA had claimed to have resolved the issue by building check dams in the Aravallis. Waterlogging was reported for around two hours from Suncity, Ansal Chowk, sectors 54 and 55, and the Golf Course Road.Pradeep Kumar, the chief engineer of infrastructure-II division of GMDA, said, “We learnt that there was an issue reported from Suncity area on Tuesday, but this is not because of water from the Aravallis reaching the road and flooding it. It is because the drains in the region have not been connected to the master drain of GMDA by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram. However, as many officials were busy with the chief minister’s visit to the city on Tuesday, we will get it examined to find out what could be the cause.”Waterlogging was also reported from Sector 29, where chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar was present to attend an event. “In Sector 29, around 100-200 metres from where the chief minister was attending the programme, there is a manhole connected to our master sewer line, but it was overflowing on Tuesday as the whole line was carrying excessive water. The situation was managed, but we will check why there was an overflow, whether it was due to lack of cleaning,” said Kumar.Around 1,000 traffic police personnel were also deployed on roads, but there was no major jam was reported. Around 25-30 cranes and tractors were also deployed at key waterlogging points of Medanta Road, Subhash Chowk and Jwala Meel T-point.Officials from GMDA said that the Jwala Meel T-point was waterlogged as the master drain was already flowing at full capacity and the level of the road is slightly lower than that of the drain.Sanjeev Kumar, the assistant commissioner of police (traffic), said, “Initially, waterlogging was reported from six to seven areas in the city, but traffic personnel were deployed at all places on time. Traffic jam was not reported from any part of the city and there was smooth movement mostly. Water had entered an underpass in Subhash Chowk due to slope, but it drained out on its own.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fourhour-rain-spell-leaves-gurugram-waterlogged-101627408340593.html
27-07-2021||Lucknow||Success of Brahmin conferences has left oppn worried: Maya||: Elated over the success of Brahmin conference organised in various districts, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati said the participation of large number of people in the Prabuddh Class conference was a proof that the community had faith in the BSP.In a series of tweets, the BSP chief thanked the Brahmin community for support to the conference that was launched at Ayodhya on July 23 by party national general secretary and Rajya Sabha MP Satish Chandra Mishra with the ‘darshan’ of Ram Lalla.“The conference is in progress and had also been successfully organised in Ambedkar Nagar and Prayagraj. The success of the conference has alarmed the rival parties, and many have lost their sleep. They are using various tactics to stop the Brahmin conference. The people should be alert of their ploy,” she said.A BSP leader said the party’s decision to invoke social engineering formula of Dalit-Brahmin alliance had forced the Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) and the Samajwadi Party (SP) to redraw the election campaign strategy.To woo the Brahmin community, the SP has announced to launch Prabuddh Class conference at Ballia on August 24. The SP has formed a committee of the five senior leaders coming from Brahmin community to mobilize the community. The BSP plans to take the fight for the Brahmin community to the stronghold of SP and the Brahmin conference will be organised in Azamgarh, Etawah, Mainpuri, Firozabad and Etah, he said.The BJP has also directed the Brahmin community leaders to organise meetings in the Brahmin-dominated areas across the state.On Monday, Rashtriya Jagruk Mahasabha, an outfit of the saffron brigade, organised Brahmin-Bhumihar-Tyagi conference at Ghaziabad.BJP state unit vice-president and MLC AK Sharma, who is considered close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the chief guest in the programme.Asha Sharma, mayor, Ghaziabad, Sunil Sharma, BJP MLA from Shahibabad seat, Ajit Pal Tyagi, BJP MLA from Muradnagar assembly seat and other senior leaders belonging to Brahmin and Bhumihar community attended the conference.Sharma called upon the community members to support the BJP in the 2022 assembly election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/success-of-brahmin-conferences-has-left-oppn-worried-maya-101627408279823.html
27-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees sharp spike of 77 new Covid-19 cases; tally climbs to 1,436,026||The national capital’s single-day tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) saw a spike on Tuesday after 77 new cases were recorded, taking the caseload to 1,436,026, according to the health department’s bulletin. Two people died and 42 patients recovered from the viral disease in the said period, taking the cumulative count of deaths and recoveries to 25,046 and 1,410,410, respectively. The active cases have climbed to 570.On Monday, Delhi reported 39 cases while on Sunday 66 people were detected Covid-19 positive.A total of 70,248 samples were tested in the previous 24 hours of which 45,645 were RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and the remaining 24,603 rapid antigen tests.🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 27th July 2021🏥 #DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/cQbBCdkyhcDelhi has vaccinated 9,725,896 eligible beneficiaries against Covid-19 till now of which 57,382 were inoculated in the past 24 hours, the health department’s bulletin said.On Tuesday, the national capital had a stock of 644,230 vaccine doses of which 439,870 were from Serum Institute’s Covishield and 204,360 of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, data shared by the Delhi government showed. The doses will be out of stock in three days. Covishield and Covaxin are administered at the government run vaccination centres, the data also showed and 94,398 doses can be administered on a daily basis.Amid an acute shortage of vaccines, the government last week issued an order to reserve Covishield jabs for only those beneficiaries who were due to take the second dose. The order is valid till July 31 and applies to all government vaccination centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-sharp-spike-of-77-new-covid-19-cases-tally-climbs-to-1436026-101627401360305.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara University faculty, students’ artwork makes it to Tokyo Olympics||The artwork of seven artists associated with Chitkara University, including PhD scholars, bachelor of fine arts students and faculty members, was selected for the virtual art show, Olympia.The works will be exhibited during the 2021 Tokyo Olympics. The art show’s reel video will be displayed at Tokyo Olympics Memorial Gallery, Chuo-ku, in Japan, from July 23 to August 8. Of the 52 participants, seven are from Chitkara University.Piyush Anand and Diksha Raghav from BFA, painting, painted ‘The Winner’ and ‘Moods of Glory’, respectively, in mixed media.Alisha Sharma, a PhD research scholar (art and design), painted ‘Olympic’ using watercolour. Abhijit Kumar Mohanty and Rakesh Kumar Chaudhary, also PhD research scholars (art and design), made ‘Light of Hope’ and ‘Running for Glory’ using the digital medium.From the faculty, Arjun Kumar Singh painted ‘The Runner’ using charcoal as the medium. Chitkara Design School dean professor Ranjan Kumar Mallik’s creation ‘Me & My Olympic 2021’ was also selected. It was made on the digital medium. “The artworks are a humble contribution from Chitkara University to motivate athletes who will be participating in the Olympics,” he said.Congratulating the artists, Dr Madhu Chitkara, pro-chancellor, Chitkara University, said, “Our students and faculty have made us proud with their magnificent achievement. Chitkara University has a vision to support creativity and boost innovation. We like to encourage our students as well as the faculty to explore their full potential, while providing them the best global opportunities. I would like to extend my congratulations to the artists who made their mark on this international platform.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chitkara-university-faculty-students-artwork-makes-it-to-tokyo-olympics-101627407801240.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Close aide of gangster Ravi Pujari arrested||The anti-extortion cell (AEC) of the Mumbai Police on Tuesday arrested a notorious criminal and a close aide of gangster Ravi Pujari and allegedly seized two pistols and 15 live cartridges from him. The arrested accused identified as Sadique Bengali, 44, was also arrested for the 2007 firing at film-maker Mahesh Bhatt. However, he was acquitted in the case. Police said Bengali was allegedly involved in over 10 serious offences registered in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Pune. Following a tip-off, officers of the AEC laid a trap at Air Force Road in Cotton Green (East) area and intercepted Bengali. During search police purportedly found two pistols and 15 live rounds from his possession.Bengali revealed that he brought the weapons to sell them to someone, as he required money. He is a sharpshooter and is attached to Pujari’s gang for more than a decade. He was arrested in a murder case of Devidas Chaugale, a brother of a former Navi Mumbai corporator, said a crime branch officer. Earlier, in 2018, an officer of unit 9 had arrested him with four pistols and 29 live rounds from the Santacruz area. He brought weapons from Uttar Pradesh, but he has not revealed the exact area and name of the supplier, added officer. He was produced in court and remanded in police custody till July 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-close-aide-of-gangster-ravi-pujari-arrested-101627407739755.html
27-07-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh ATS arrests Bangladeshi, Myanmar residents trafficking Rohingya women||: The anti-terrorist squad (ATS) of Uttar Pradesh (UP) on Tuesday arrested a Bangladeshi national and two persons from Myanmar, who they claimed were involved in trafficking of women and children from their countries into India.The arrests were made from the Delhi-bound Brahmputra train at Ghaziabad and two women from Myanmar whom the accused intended to take to Delhi were also rescued, top police officials said. Additional director general of police (law and order) Prashant Kumar said, “The accused were intercepted while they were travelling in a train to Delhi. They had planned to take the two women to Delhi but were detained at Ghaziabad railway station. They have confessed their involvement in human trafficking and have been arrested.”Kumar said for their arrest, over 30 officers of the state Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) launched an operation for over 36 hours.The accused were identified as Noor Muhammad, a native of Bangladesh who was presently living in Tripura along with Rehmatullah, a native of Myanmar who was residing in Jammu. Shabi-ur-Rehman alias Shabiullah, the third accused, is also a native of Myanmar, Kumar said.The two teenaged women from Myanmar who were rescued from the accused were handed over to shelter home in Lucknow that functions under state women and child commission.ATS officials said the women would also be interrogated. ATS officials claimed that the accused trafficked Rohingya men, women and children into the country and settled them in the national capital region (NCR). The accused charged money from Rohingyas and harassed them, officials said.“The accused smuggled Rohingyas into the country through Indo-Bangladesh or Indo Myanmar border in Tripura. We gathered that in some cases they even sold these Rohingyas to other gangs involved in illegal activities in India,” the officer said.ATS has lodged an FIR under various sections of IPC including fraud, forgery and criminal conspiracy against the accused and has applied for their custody remand.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-ats-arrests-bangladeshi-myanmar-residents-trafficking-rohingya-women-101627407559761.html
27-07-2021||Indore||2 die, 1 ill after liquor party in Indore; 'suspected poisoning', say police||At least two persons lost their lives while a third fell seriously ill in Madhya Pradesh's Indore, in what the city police described on Tuesday as a case of suspected poisoning. Speaking to media, Indore Superintendent of Police (SP) Mahesh Chandra Jain said the three were part of a group of friends which attended a liquor party at a city bar last week."A group of seven friends consumed liquor and had dinner at a licensed bar in the Chhota Bangarda area till late night on Friday. However, on Saturday, one of them, a 30-year-old man, passed away and a day later, another man, also 30 years of age, too, died," Jain told the media. The officer further said that in the autopsy report of the second youth, doctors mentioned "suspected poisoning" as the cause of death.Jain, however, cautioned "it is not right to reach any conclusion now," adding that even if true, it is yet to be ascertained whether the deceased died due to spurious liquor or consumed some toxic food during the party. "Samples of liquor and food items have been collected from the outlet and sent for laboratory examination," he said.The condition of a third member of the group, meanwhile, is "very serious," a friend said, adding that doctors have said he has shown symptoms of consuming spurious liquor. Speaking on the issue, assistant excise commissioner Rajnarayan Soni said a detailed probe is being conducted into the incident. "Around 100 others consumed alochol and ate food at the same outlet that night. However, nobody else has so far complained of any health-related complications," Soni said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/2-die-1-ill-after-liquor-party-in-indore-suspected-poisoning-say-police-101627403946812.html
27-07-2021||Other||Pune district reports 961 new Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths in 24 hours||PUNE Pune district, on Tuesday, reported 961 new Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths in 24 hours. This takes the progressive count to 1.084 million, of which 1.050 million have recovered.The death toll stands at 18,666 deaths and 15,344 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw 56,266 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 549 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 325,529. With five deaths reported the death toll went up to 6,191. Pune city reported 222 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the progressive count to 502,758. With two deaths reported on Tuesday, the toll stands at 8,871. PCMC reported 190 new Covid-19 cases, with which the progressive count went up to 256,536. With four more deaths reported the toll stands at 3,333.Pune also saw 56,266 vaccinations on the day as per the CoWin dashboard on Tuesday. Totally 6,033,813 vaccines have been administered, including 4,550,309 first dose and 1,483,504 second doses. A total of 473 vaccination sites conducted vaccinations on the day, of which 330 were government sites and 143 private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reports-961-new-covid-19-cases-and-11-deaths-in-24-hours-101627405759601.html
27-07-2021||Other||Civic activist wants officers, contractors held accountable for potholes||PUNE Civic activist Vivek Velankar has demanded that action be taken against officers of the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) and contractors, over the potholes in the city.In a letter to the municipal commissioner, Velankar blamed the administration and contractors for the potholes. He said, “We wrote the letter before the monsoon and warned about potholes as the repair work was shabby. A few years ago PMC framed guidelines for road works, including repairing potholes. Despite that the officers neglected the work.”Velankar alleged that now the civic body will repair the potholes “hurriedly in the rainy season”, and within a month it will need to carry out the same work again. “It is a waste of tax payers money,” he said. Pothole politicsPotholes are been an election campaign issue for a few years now. The NCP had come to power on the issue, and earlier, the Congress used to dominate city elections, but potholes on city roads was an issue that, looking back, may have cost them in Pune. With the BJP in power now, potholes will once again figure prominently in the election agenda for the civic polls, expected later in the year.The Congress party, getting warmed up, held an agitation in Pune on Wednesday on the pothole issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civic-activist-wants-officers-contractors-held-accountable-for-potholes-101627404139466.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra's single-day Covid tally sees spike with 6,258 cases; fresh fatalities increase by 254||Maharashtra recorded 6,258 new cases of coronavirus (Covid-19) on Tuesday, taking the state-wide tally to 6,276,057. In the past 24 hours, 254 number of people succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 1,31,859, while 12,645 number of people made a full recovery, according to the health department's bulletin.Tuesday's tally marks an increase from the 4,877 cases the state had recorded on Monday and a slight decrease from the 6,843 cases it had recorded on Sunday. The capital city of Mumbai reported 344 new cases, an increase from the 297 cases it had recorded just a day before. The number of fatalities went down after 5 number of deaths were recorded on Tuesday.The number of tests conducted in the past 24 hours went up after 181,593 number of tests were conducted on Tuesday, compared to the 148,138 tests conducted on Monday. The state has conducted a total of 47,176,715 tests since the pandemic struck last year.Nashik recorded 95 new cases of coronavirus on Tuesday , taking the total number of cases in the district to 402,137, reported news agency PTI. It also recorded three deaths and 118 recoveries in the 24-hour-span, which saw the death toll and total number of recoveries rise to 8,501 and 392,409, respectively.Maharashtra reached a celebratory milestone on Monday after the state successfully inoculated 10 million citizens with both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, becoming the first Indian state to do so. “Maharashtra has once again achieved an important milestone. We have till now administered first doses to 31,666,958 people. Today [Monday], in this vaccination drive, we managed to reach the figure of vaccinating more than one crore (10 million) people with two doses,” said Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary, public health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-single-day-covid-tally-sees-spike-with-6-258-cases-fresh-fatalities-increase-by-254-101627397935430.html
27-07-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Cong state prez, legislative party begin consultations as central leadership seeks report||With party legislators under scanner amid allegations of horse trading, political activity in the Jharkhand Congress gathered pace on Tuesday with state president and legislature party leader beginning consultations with party legislators over the allegations, party sources aware of the developments said. While the state leadership of the ruling JMM and the opposition BJP have come out in open pitting trading charges against each other over recent arrest of three persons by the Jharkhand police for allegedly hatching conspiracy to destabilise the Hemant Soren government and buy out Congress legislators, the state leadership of the latter has largely remained mum over the entire episode. Sources said the development has further set a sense of unease in the already faction-ridden Jharkhand Congress. While the two Congress MLAs, whose names appeared in media reports as potential targets, have dismissed the allegations, few other MLAs have come out in defence of these legislators. Jamtara legislator Irfan Ansari, one of the legislators whose name figured in media reports, has accused rivals in the party of allegedly trying to frame him. With party legislators being under scanner, the central leadership has sought a report on the issue. Sources said state president and CLP leader could also leave for New Delhi in next few days.“The fact that this entire case is based on information provided by a Congress legislator makes it more complicated. The state president and the CLP have started discussion with party legislators and other senior leaders. On Wednesday, all ministers and MLAs are expected to be in the state capital for a rally. An informal meeting is possible after that rally,” a party legislator said. When contacted, Jharkhand Congress in-charge RPN Singh refused to comment on the entire episode. “I don’t think it would be prudent to comment on the issue as of now, as police are yet to come out with exact details of the case,” Singh told HT from New Delhi. Congress legislature party (CLP) leader Alamgir Alam said he consults party legislators whenever required. “We keep holding consultations. Yes, certain issues have cropped up now, but I would like to assure that the Congress party is intact and there is no threat to the government,” said Alam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-cong-state-prez-legislative-party-begin-consultations-as-central-leadership-seeks-report-101627403599448.html
27-07-2021||Other||12 minors rescued from business establishments in E Champaran||A joint team of labour department and East Champaran police on Tuesday rescued 12 minor children from separate commercial establishments in East Champaran. Acting on a tip off, the team raided separate locations at Chakiya and rescued nine children from commercial establishments, whereas three children were rescued during raid at a bus stand area in Motihari. “In all, 12 children were rescued and they have been sent to children’s home in Motihari. Their medical check-up id being done to rule out possibilities of Covid 19,” said Rakesh Ranjan, district labour superintendent. A department official said all the children belong to East Champaran. “During preliminary investigation, we found out that these children were forced to do menial works for past many months,” the official said. When contacted, Dhiraj Kumar, assistant director of district Child Protection unit, confirmed arrival of 12 children at children’s home in Motihari. “These children have been restored to children’s home following direction of child welfare committee (CWC). They will stay here till further orders,” Kumar said. Police is yet to register a case in this connection. “No arrests have been made so far,” said the labour superintendent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/12-minors-rescued-from-business-establishments-in-e-champaran-101627403539390.html
27-07-2021||Patna||Bihar: 8 IAS officers reshuffled||The Bihar government on Tuesday evening transferred eight Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officers and appointed new directors for primary and secondary education.According to the notification issued by the general administration department, 2007-batch IAS officer Manoj Kumar, currently posted as special secretary (health), has been made director of secondary education. Amrendra Kumar Singh, special secretary, Industry department, has been made the new director of primary education.Dr Ranjit Kumar Singh, earlier posted as director, primary education, has been made director, Panchayati Raj.Sanjay Kumar Singh has replaced Manoj Kumar in the health department. He has also been given additional charge of executive director, Bihar AIDS control society, and state health committee.Special secretary, education, Giriwar Dayal Singh, has been shifted to youth welfare and sports directorate as a director replacing Dr Sanjay Sinha, who transferred to sugarcane industries department.Munger municipal commissioner Shrikant Shastri has been made the state project director. Dilip Kumar, who was with GAD on deputation, has been made special secretary, industry department, while Sunni Sinha has been made new additional secretary in transport department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-8-ias-officers-reshuffled-101627403479330.html
27-07-2021||Patna||Patna HC seeks details of vaccination, health infra||The Patna High Court has directed Principal Secretary (Health), Government of Bihar, to file a supplementary affidavit focusing broadly on two aspects i.e. vaccination and availability of health infrastructure at the district/sub-divisional level generally and for dealing with Covid-19.Responding to the affidavit filed by the additional chief secretary, department of health, Pratyaya Amrit, the bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar said that “with the government substantially relaxing the condition of lockdown, it has resulted into the people/general populace letting off their guard by not wearing masks and maintaining social distancing at public places.”“It is here, we find that the role of media becomes imperative in sensitizing the people of the need to continue to maintain their hand, respiratory and social hygiene, most significantly maintaining social distancing at public places. The significant role played by the media can certainly help in preventing the pain, suffering and anguish of the people in Bihar during the anticipated third wave of Covid-19,” the bench said.The affidavit stated that 71% of the urban population of the state stands vaccinated. “But then it is conspicuously silent about the eligible population falling within the rural area,” the judges observed in their order, dated July 27, describing the affidavit as “vague”.“No doubt, much work has been done by the state in sensitizing the people, cautioning them of taking all precautions for adhering to the advisories issued by the experts and the state, more specifically about hand, respiratory and social hygiene. However, we find the affidavit on the issue of vaccination to be vague, as much as it does not specify the number of persons eligible to be vaccinated, more specifically in the rural areas. Also, whether a sufficient number of doses of vaccines are available with the Government or not? If not so, then as to whether a request for enhanced quota for allotment stands made to the Union of India or not?” the bench added.The court wanted to know if the speed of vaccination needed to be further increased. “We also find that though the government has put in place enhanced systems for testing, for some reason the number of tests conducted on the daily basis is just 75,000(approx). In April/May 2021, the testing had gone up to almost 1.25 lakh, but why this sudden drop in testing is not clear from the affidavit. However, what is heartening to note is that the positivity rate for July 2021 stands reduced to almost 0.05% (average),” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-hc-seeks-details-of-vaccination-health-infra-101627403419361.html
27-07-2021||Patna||Bihar: Council orders House probe into Paras hospital||A five-member committee of Bihar’s Legislative Council would probe allegations of medical negligence and exorbitant charges for treatment against the management of a leading private hospital in the state capital, Paras HMRI hospital.Working chairman of Legislative Council Awadhesh Narayan Singh ordered the probe by a House panel in reply to a zero hour question by JD(U) member Sanjeev Shaym Singh, who alleged that a 17-year-old youth, Ayush Ranjan, admitted in the hospital with symptoms of fever, died on Monday due to alleged negligence of doctors and other staff. Ranjan was the only son of a functionary of panchayati raj institution of Karakat in Rohtas district.Rising above party lines, members supported Sanjeev Shyam Singh and urged the chair to be take note of the incident, which they said had become common at private hospitals that generally indulged in fleecing the unsuspecting people. Sanjay Singh, Neeraj Kumar, Sanjeev Kumar Singh, Ghulam Gaus (all of JD-U), Nawal Kishore Yadav of BJP and Ram Chandra Purbe of RJD sought an inquiry into the allegations.Officials at the Council secretariat, however, said it wasn’t a various serious development. “Appointment of the committee members would be notified by the Council secretariat later. The inquiry committee announced during the Budget session to probe allegations of commercial use of the Bihar Vidyapeeth, founded by Mahatma Gandhi, has not yet been constituted,” said a senior official wishing anonymity. When contacted, Dr Asif Rahman, medical superintendent of Paras hospital, said, “We provide unmatched healthcare services to all our patients. We regret the passing away of the patient whom we tried to provide the best possible service too. A multidisciplinary team of doctors along with the ICU team treated the patient. There has been no lapse from our side. As a responsible healthcare provider of the state, we will cooperate in making the process of investigation smoother.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/biharcouncil-orders-house-probe-into-paras-hospital-101627403360024.html
27-07-2021||Patna||Child care leave to women teachers in varsities on the table, says Bihar education minister||Bihar’s education minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary on Tuesday told the state Assembly that the government will soon take a favourable decision of granting child care leave for women teachers in universities across the state, as is applicable for women officials in the state government. “We are studying the matter. A favourable decision will be taken soon and applied to all universities,” the minister said while replying to a short notice question raised by BJP member Janak Singh. In 2015, the state government had made a provision to grant 730 days of child care leave for women employees. The maternity leave was also extended to 180 days in 2015 for women staff in the state government. Both maternity leave and child care leave could be availed by women employees for two children in their entire career. Meanwhile, the state Assembly witnessed uproarious scenes when ruling and opposition members cornered the government over non-creation of management committees in high schools, alleging that principals at the government educational institutions were not keen to form the committees. Many members also alleged that lack of managing committees at the schools was one major reason why there was financial impropriety and decisions pertaining to purchase of school furniture and other equipments were being taken arbitrarily. The education minister tried to assure the members that corrective steps would be taken. Intervening in the matter, Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha gave a ruling that managing committees in all schools should be formed within a month. Replying to another question, education minister Chaudhary refuted allegations levelled by the leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav that scholarship of ₹50,000 for girls doing graduation under Mukhyamantri Kanya Utthan Yojana was not reaching beneficiaries. The minister said the government had given scholarships to 16,802 eligible beneficiaries against total applications of 17,311 in 2018-19 and to 51900 beneficiaries in 2019-20. “Yes, in 2020-21, there has been some delay in giving scholarships because of the disruptions due to the Covid-19 pandemic. But the government is committed to giving scholarships to all eligible beneficiaries and we are fast- tracking the process,” the minister said. Yadav also took potshots at the state government over the recent Niti Aayog report in which the state had been ranked low in the education sector. He said the government was doing little to improve the educational standard in the state, which prompted the education minister to assert that the state had made big strides in the education sector and improved the standard qualitatively as compared to previous times.“We are also pressing for changing the system of ranking of states under various parameters by the Niti Aayog. The developed states and under developed states cannot be ranked on the same parameters,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/child-care-leave-to-women-teachers-in-varsities-on-the-table-says-bihar-education-minister-101627403359336.html
27-07-2021||Patna||Oppn to boycott rest of monsoon session: Tejashwi||Bihar’s leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Tuesday announced that the opposition members will boycott rest of the monsoon session of the state legislature since there was no favourable response from the state government on their demand for action against officials responsible for manhandling of opposition members on March 23 during budget session.The five-day monsoon session, which began on July 26, ends on July 30. “We had demanded from the Speaker that a debate should be held inside the Assembly on the March 23 episode when opposition members were brutally assaulted. But today, our demand for debate was rejected. All GA members will boycott the House sittings in the ongoing monsoon session. We feel there is no point in going to the House which is being treated as some people’s fiefdom,” Yadav told reporters outside the Assembly soon after opposition members staged a walkout in the post-lunch session.On March 23, Opposition members were staging a protest against Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021, when police were called to assist marshals to forcibly evict them. Some RJD and Congress members alleged they were brutally assaulted by policemen. Earlier on Tuesday, during the pre-lunch session in the state Assembly, Tejashwi Yadav had demanded a debate on the March 23 and said the suspension of two policemen was not enough. “How could police beat up MLAs inside the House? On whose orders was it done?” he said. Parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary, in his reply, said that the March 23 incident was unprecedented and Supreme Court had recently made strong observations over legislators indulging in unruly behaviour inside assemblies. The minister urged the Speaker to look at the video footage of the ruckus inside the Assembly on March 23 and take necessary action against police as well legislators. Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha said the March 23 episode, when members indulged in turning tables and jostling to demonstrate dissent, was unprecedented but nothing new as such unruly behaviour had happened in the past in the state assembly and in Parliament. “Whenever such unruly behaviour has happened in the Bihar Assembly, action has been taken against erring legislators based on motion brought by the government. For instance, on August 6, 2015, Jyoti Rashmi was suspended from the house and committees on a motion brought by the government. On August 2, 2010, 71 legislators were suspended on a motion by the government,” the Speaker said. Sinha said the March 23 episode was a manifestation of heightened impulsive behaviour for which some strict action was required to control the situation. “The incident has been referred to ethics committee while a high-level committee has been formed by the state police to look into conduct of policemen. Two policemen have been suspended. We will get the reports soon,” the Speaker said. Opposition members immediately rushed to the well of the House to demand more action. The protests continued in post lunch session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/oppn-to-boycott-rest-of-monsoon-session-tejashwi-101627403239319.html
27-07-2021||Patna||Illegal sand mining: Two IPS officers among 17 suspended in Bihar||In a major crackdown on illegal sand mining in Bihar, 17 officials, including two Indian Police Service (IPS) officers, were suspended Tuesday, according to two separate notifications issued by the state’s general administration department and the home department. The two IPS officers suspended are former Aurangabad superintendent of police (SP) Sudhir Kumar Podika and former Bhojpur SP Rakesh Kumar Dubey. Others police officers suspended are subdivisional police officer (Dehri) Sunil Kumar Singh, Paliganj deputy SP Tanvir Ahmad, Sadar DSP (Aurangabad) Anup Kumar, DSP (Ara) Pankaj Rawat and DSP (Dehri) Sanjay Kumar.The suspended administrative officials are Koilwar circle officer Anup Kumar, Paliganj circle officer Rakesh Kumar and Barun circle officer Basant Ray, besides a motor vehicle inspector and six officials ff mines and geology department.Sand mining in Bihar is banned since May 1, 2021, when the company that had won mining rights for major quarries fled the scene, citing losses. However, illegal sand mining remains a thriving business in major riverine areas, officials said. On July 9, state’s home department wrote to Bihar Police’s Economic Offences Unit (EoU), requesting a probe against the suspect government officials. In its probe, officials said, EoU found that the mining mafia has started sophisticated technology to carry out their illegal operations. During a recent crackdown in Sone river in Patna district, police seized high-tech boats fitted with dredging equipment.EOU has also started gathering details of assets allegedly amassed by over 42 officers, including the 17 who has been suspended on Tuesday, with the connivance of illegal sand mining mafia in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/illegal-sand-mining-two-ips-officers-among-17-suspended-in-bihar-101627403179521.html
27-07-2021||Other||After floods, government moots building flyovers on Mumbai-Bengaluru national highway||PUNE As a stretch of the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway was inundated for three days, bringing vehicular movement to halt, the state government plans to ask the National Highway Authority of India to build flyovers on the highway route. Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, on Tuesday, said he will speak to Union minister Nitin Gadkari about the possibility of building flyovers on the Mumbai-Bengaluru national highway stretch passing through Kolhapur, for uninterrupted vehicular movement during flooding. Pawar was in Kolhapur to assess the flood situation in the district, which witnessed heavy rains last week. He also called for strict action against encroachments on natural water bodies flowing into the Panchganga river. The Mumbai-Bengaluru national highway was reopened for vehicular traffic near Kolhapur on Monday, after remaining shut for four days due to water-logging. The highway stretch near the western Maharashtra district was closed for traffic on Thursday due to which around 2,000 Karnataka-bound vehicles, including trucks and small cars, remained stranded. Pawar said he would talk to Gadkari about the possibility of building flyovers on stretches of the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway near Kolhapur where flooding takes place. “I will talk to Gadkari saheb. The national highway should always be open for vehicular traffic. I will talk to Gadkari saheb about the possibility of building flyovers at different stretches in the district so that vehicular traffic on the (Mumbai) Pune-Bengaluru highway is not interrupted in case of flooding,” he said. Pawar also said a lot of people have blamed constructions and encroachments on nullahs and drains for flooding in Kolhapur city and elsewhere in the district. “I have given instructions to the Kolhapur civic and district administration to take stringent action against such encroachments and remove them from the natural course of the water bodies. If officials show laxity in taking action against such structures, action will be taken against them also,” the NCP leader said. He also said generally flooding in Sangli and Kolhapur is attributed to the Almatti dam in neighbouring Karnataka. “However, a committee formed during the previous (BJP-led) state government concluded that flooding was not taking place due to the Almatti dam,” Pawar said. He further said the state government is planning to form an expert committee that will suggest long-term measures to deal with and minimise the danger of landslides. He also said in view of certain orders from courts and environment department, sand mining auctions did not take place in Kolhapur. “The possibility of increase in sand and silt on the Panchganga river bed in Kolhapur can be checked. We can check if we can lift the silt and sand and increase the flowing capacity of the river,” he said. Such measures were being taken up as part of the national river rejuvenation programme, he added. (with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-floods-government-moots-building-flyovers-on-mumbai-bengaluru-national-highway-101627402931318.html
27-07-2021||Patna||Bihar illegal sand mining nexus: 17 officers including 2 SPs, 4 DSPs suspended||Two Indian Police Service (IPS) officers, four deputy superintendents of police (DSP) rank officers besides four Bihar Administrative Service officers (BAS) were among 17 officials suspended on Tuesday for aiding and abetting illegal sand mining mafias in four districts of the state and they were asked to report to their respective headquarters, a notification by the state home department and general administration department (GAD) said.Former Aurangabad SP Sudhir Kumar Podika, Bhojpur SP Rakesh Kumar Dubey, sub-divisional officer (Dehri) Sunil Kumar Singh, Paliganj DSP Tanvir Ahmad, Sadar DSP (Aurangabad) Anup Kumar, DSP (Ara) Pankaj Rawat and DSP (Dehri) Sanjay Kumar, Koilwar circle officer (CO) Anup Kumar, Paliganj CO Rakesh Kumar and Barun CO Basant Ray have all been suspended with immediate effect.According to the notification the police officers have been attached with police headquarters while BAS officers have been attached to the divisional commissioner office in Patna. All the suspended officers will face departmental proceedings. Officials in the general administrative department said on condition of anonymity that a motor vehicle inspector (MVI) along with six officers of mines and geology department were also suspended allegedly for aiding and abetting the illegal sand mining mafia.The officials said that the illegal mining business was thriving in Bihar since many law enforcement officials had turned mute spectators due to pressure from a politically backed strong illegal mining lobby. They said mostly a customary show of action was made through police raids, which rarely led to any arrests. And if someone did get arrested, no inquiry would follow.Bihar home department, on July 9, had expressed concern over the illegal mining in Bihar and asked the economic offence unit (EoU) to conduct a detailed probe against suspicious government officers, several of whom were found to be complicit by the probe.The EoU found that the mining mafia used sophisticated technology to carry out their operation. Recently, during a crackdown at an illegal sand mining and smuggling site at Patna’s Sone River, police seized high-tech boats fitted with dredging equipment.Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has repeated on multiple occasions that his government has “zero tolerance towards crime and corruption in the state” and has called out the police department from crime and corruption in its ranks.The EOU has begun a preliminary inquiry in disproportionate assets allegedly amassed by 42 government officers, including the 17, who were suspended on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-illegal-sand-mining-nexus-17-officers-including-2-sps-4-dsps-suspended-101627402391832.html
27-07-2021||Pune||Southern Army commander pays homage to Kargil War heroes||Pune: Headquarters Southern Command on Monday celebrated Kargil Vijay Diwas commemorating the Indian Armed Forces victory over Pakistan in 1999. Kargil Vijay Diwas is celebrated on July 26 in remembrance for those who fought bravely at the icy heights with valour, defeating the enemy. Lt Gen JS Nain, General-Officer-Commanding-in-Chief (GOC-in-C) Southern Army, in a solemn wreath laying ceremony held at the National War memorial, paid tribute to the bravehearts of Kargil War. Maj Gen Hukkur AK (retd), the senior most veteran from Pune, also laid wreath and paid homage to the Kargil War heroes. A weeklong celebration activities were organised across all military stations in Southern Command wherein Gallantry Award winners, veterans and Veer Naaris were felicitated during various events. “Kargil veterans are a source of inspiration to all of us in the Armed Forces and the nation. Their supreme sacrifice and service can never be forgotten,” said the Army Commander. He felicitated the veterans present at the National War Memorial. During his interaction he gave assurance to all the veterans that the Indian Army is moving very strongly in the right directions as set by them and is absolutely committed and ready for any eventuality. The ceremony was conducted keeping strict Covid protocols with limited attendance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/southern-army-commander-pays-homage-to-kargil-war-heroes-101627400471067.html
27-07-2021||Delhi||Exorbitant interest rates cannot be charged by online lending platforms: HC||The Delhi High Court Tuesday said online lending platforms offering short-term personal loans through mobile apps cannot be allowed to charge exorbitant interest and processing fees and asked the Centre and RBI to look into the issue.An expert body is required to look into the issue, the high court said, added that it expects that the Centre and RBI will come out with some solution by the next date of hearing, August 27.“Rate of interest should not be exorbitant. Just look at the difficulties. An expert body is required. If you people are so slow in taking action, we will do it with our order with the help of an expert committee,” a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said.The bench further said, “This much of exorbitant rate of interest and processing fees cannot be allowed.”The court was hearing a PIL seeking regulation of online lending platforms offering short-term personal loans at exorbitant interest rates through mobile apps, and allegedly humiliating and harassing people in case of delay in repayment.During the hearing, Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma and central government standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia said the government will look into the issue and sought some time for it.Advocate Ramesh Babu MR, representing RBI, said the Reserve Bank of India regulates banks and non-banking finance companies and it does not regulate online lending platform and that the central government has the power to do so.He further said a committee has already been constituted which has to give its report and sought time to place on record the report and an additional affidavit.The petition has been filed by Telangana-based Dharanidhar Karimojji, who works as a freelancer in digital marketing, claiming there are more than 300 mobile applications which provide instant loans ranging from ₹1,500 to ₹30,000 for 7 to 15 days.However, these money lending platforms deduct almost 35 per cent to 45 per cent of the loan as platform fees, service charges or processing fees and only transfer the remaining money to the borrower's bank accounts, the petition has said.Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for Karimojji, told the court that these entities pose a menace as they charge exorbitant interests rates of 1 per cent or more per day and in the event of non-payment of delay in repayment of the loaned amount, they call up everyone on the borrower's contact list to humiliate and harass them into making payments.He said the prayer is to stop charging exorbitant rate of interest from borrowers and added that the RBI is fully aware of the problem but no action has been taken.During the hearing, the court appreciated the petitioner for filing a “nice petition” and said this is one of the finest petitions and is genuinely filed for the welfare of people.The high court, in January, had earlier issued notices and sought responses of the Centre and the Finance Ministry on the petition which has claimed that such lending platforms charge exorbitant interests on the loans given by them.The plea has said that even the RBI has issued a press note cautioning the general public about these platforms.It has sought directions to the ministry and RBI "to regulate and control working of online digital lenders doing business through mobile app or any other platform" and stop them from charging exorbitant interest on loan from borrowers.The plea has also sought directions to the ministry and RBI to stop the harassment of the borrowers from recovery agents, fix a maximum rate of interest chargeable by the online digital lenders and to set up a grievance redressal mechanism in every state to resolve the problems faced by borrowers within a specific time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/exorbitant-interest-rates-cannot-be-charged-by-online-lending-platforms-hc-101627393109268.html
27-07-2021||Patna||Bihar to receive widespread rain till July 31||Heavy rain occurred in northern parts of the state while light to moderate rain lashed central and western parts during the past 24 hours, said officials of Patna Meteorological Centre on Tuesday.Meteorological conditions have become favourable for heavy rain in the state for the next four days, said weathermen.As per the daily bulletin issued, Forbesganj received 120mm rain, Kishanganj 110mm, Singhwshwar 100mm, Motihari 70mm, Hasanpur and Sabour 60mm each. The state capital Patna recorded 4 mm rain between 8:30 am to 5:30 pm while Vaishali 20mm, Banka 14mm and Valmikinagar 10mm in the daytime.According to the five-day forecast, widespread to fairly widespread rain is likely over the state till July 31. The MeT has also issued an orange-colour warning for Sheikhpura, Nawada and Jamui for Wednesday. Amit Sinha, “As per current numerical model and radar observation, a low-pressure area has formed over north Bay of Bengal which is also associated with cyclonic circulation. The weather system is likely to gradually shift westwards across West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar in the next three to four days. Under the influence, the state is expected to experience widespread rain for the next four days. Meteorological conditions are favourable for thunderstorm and lightning activities.”As per India Meteorological Department, Bihar has received around 200 mm rain which is a 33% deficit than normal. The state recorded a 111% surplus in June.“The state has received 561.6 mm rain between June 1 to July 27, which accounts 19% surplus rain this monsoon season”, Sinha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-to-receive-widespread-rain-till-july-31-101627393750268.html
27-07-2021||Other||Action against service provider if needy don’t get ambulance service, says Yogi||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/action-against-service-provider-if-needy-don-t-get-ambulance-service-says-yogi-101627390453138.html
27-07-2021||Bangalore||‘Another 1 or 2 days’: Karnataka minister R Ashoka on time required to elect new CM||Karnataka revenue minister R Ashoka on Tuesday said that the new chief minister of the state would be selected within a day or two. “Another one or two days, 48 hours,” news agency ANI quoted Ashoka as saying.The minister further said that the decision of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) high command will be followed in the selection process of the chief minister. “Everybody is an aspirant, everybody wants to be CM. But there is only one CM. That is why we will follow [the] party high command's decision,” Ashoka added.Following the resignation of BS Yediyurappa on Monday, BJP’s general secretary and Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh said that the candidate for the top post in the state would be selected following a legislature party meeting in Bengaluru, as per the directions of the party’s parliamentary board.Also read | As BSY quits, buzz over his successor gains momentumUnion ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and G Kishan Reddy, who were appointed as the central observers for the discussion, also arrived at Bengaluru to attend the meeting at a private hotel, scheduled for later on Tuesday evening.“Whatever will be the decision of our party's parliamentary board, its direction regarding the name of the leader will be finalised at the legislature party meeting,” Arun Singh said earlier on Tuesday.Singh also praised the Yediyurappa government for its work and said that the party would continue to benefit from the veteran leader’s experience. “Yediyurappa has resigned. His government has worked excellently in Karnataka in the last two years and has worked for every section and sector. His experience will be utilised in the party organisation and the government. The party will continue to benefit from his experience,” Singh added.Yediyurappa announced his decision to resign from office during an event to mark the completion of two years of his government. While the veteran leader said that he had not made any recommendations for his successor, there are several names that are being speculated for the state’s top post. However, the BJP’s state unit had said that it will accept the central leadership’s decision on the next chief minister.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/another-1-or-2-days-karnataka-minister-r-ashoka-on-time-required-to-elect-new-cm-101627389139395.html
27-07-2021||Patna||Bihar assembly passes 4 Bills via voice vote as Opposition walks out||The Bihar legislative assembly on Tuesday passed four Bills via voice vote without any debate after the Opposition staged a walkout. The Opposition wanted a debate on police action against legislators on March 23 this year during the Budget Session over a discussion on the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021.As soon as the House assembled for the second half of the day, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Lalit Prasad Yadav demanded a debate over the police action in March. Other Opposition members also joined him and stood up. As Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha asked the members to allow the House to function as per rules and continued with the listed business, the Opposition trooped into the well, shouting slogans. They then staged a walkout.Moving the Bihar Panchayati Raj (Amendment) Bill, 2021, Panchayati Raj minister Samrat Choudhary said the government had to come up with an ordinance to maintain the continuity in third-tier governance, as the old Act had fixed the tenure of elected representatives to five years and it could not be extended. “This calls for a new mechanism of advisory committees with the same set of people at the helm; hence the amendment,” he added. Also Read | Healthcare workers in Bihar’s Buxar report 94.1% seropositivitySenior minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav said it was the Nitish Kumar’s government way of respecting the elected representatives, contrary to the Opposition chorus. “All the elected representatives in the panchayati raj institutions will continue in the advisory committees till fresh elections are held,” he added. Education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary moved the Aryabhatta Knowledge University (Amendment) Bill, 2021, necessitated due to the government’s plan to create separate universities for engineering and medical education. “The objective behind setting up Aryabhatta Knowledge University in 2009 was to encourage studies and research in non-conventional subjects and new frontiers of knowledge. There is a plan to have 12 different subjects, which are related to Bihar’s needs and have great significance globally. In three or four subjects like nano technology, river studies, climate change, etc. things have already moved ahead, while new subjects will be added. The procedure of appointment of vice-chancellor has also been changed to ensure that experts in different fields will join the university,” he added.The third Bill was the Bihar Health Sciences University Bill, 2021, moved by health minister Mangal Pandey. Pandey said it was needed in view of the growing needs and rapid expansion in the field of medical education and allied fields. The minister accepted the three amendments moved by the members of the treasury benches. One of them was to keep the deemed universities put of the ambit of the Bill, as they were governed by separate guidelines.Also Read | Prof KN Singh is new CUSB V-CBihar arts and culture minister Alok Ranjan moved a Bill for the proposed sports university, which will headquartered in Rajgir and encourage sporting activities and training. “Bihar has become the sixth state in the country to set up a separate sports university. It will not only provide training to aspiring sportsmen within state, but it will also provide job opportunities to them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-assembly-passes-4-bills-via-voice-vote-as-opposition-walks-out-101627389490586.html
27-07-2021||Delhi||'File affidavit on Covid-19 vaccination of inmates': HC directs Delhi government||The Delhi high court on Tuesday sought information from the Delhi government over its ongoing vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for inmates of various prisons in the city, asking it to file an affidavit detailing its plan to vaccinate them with the second dose of Covid-19 vaccines.A high court bench, which took up two separate pleas seeking vaccination of prisoners who were out on bail or parole before they surrender, gave the Capital's Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government time to file a fresh affidavit on how the vaccination program is going on in jails for prisoners, including both undertrials and convicts, as well as those who have been sent there recently. The 2-judge bench, comprising chief justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh, further directed the government to explain how periodic medical check-up is conducted on the inmates.Appearing for the Delhi government, standing counsel Santosh Kumar Tripathi submitted he will file a fresh affidavit on the number of prisoners in jails who have already been administered shots. The bench then listed the matter for hearing on September 16.Of the two petitions, one has been filed by a woman convict seeking vaccination for all prisoners, particularly those above 60 years of age, as well as for the jail staff and security persons. The second plea has been jointly moved by four lawyers who have urged the court to direct the Delhi government to arrange for inoculation of all prisoners who were out on bail.The petitioners have sought vaccination for inmates on the grounds that since Delhi's jails accommodate more prisoners than their capacity, and with more prisoners scheduled to surrender in the coming days, space may not be available for 14-day quarantine of those who test positive. According to the two petitions, there were 16,396 inmates in three jails in Delhi as of January of 14; the jails, however, together have a capacity of 10,026, the pleas said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/file-affidavit-on-covid-19-vaccination-of-inmates-hc-directs-delhi-government-101627385504340.html
27-07-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Inclusive partnerships to ensure cities pass the “climate tests”||PUNE Climate change is taking its toll with intense rainfall and urban floods in Kolhapur, Mumbai and parts of Pune, as well as heat waves in Europe and northern America. What should cities do to reduce their contribution to climate change and adapt better to the impacts? A webinar last week with a conversation between Maharashtra environment minister Aditya Thackeray and renowned industry leader Jamshyd Godrej, and board members of the Shakti Sustainable Energy Foundation, New Delhi, had several interesting pointers. The minister reiterated the need for a focus on cities and climate change, noting that cities contribute greatly to the problem and also hold important solutions. He opined that the biggest hurdle for human development is now climate change. Maharashtra spent over Rs39,000 crore in compensation for climate change-induced calamities last year. The state’s Environment department is now looking to update its climate change action plan. It also aims to promote the participation of five cities from Maharashtra in a global initiative called the Race to Net Zero. A focus on green buildings is needed. Maharashtra should make it mandatory for new buildings to be green and to retrofit the existing buildings, Jamshyd Godrej suggested. Discussions with architects, urban planners and the construction industry would help give this a fillip. In my view, an essential step is for the state to mandate the adoption of the Energy Conservation Building Code that has been prepared by the Bureau of Energy Efficiency. Carlos Moreno, a French-Colombian scientist has proposed the idea of the “15-minute city”, which envisions that people in a city should be able to meet most of their needs within a short walk or bicycle ride from their home. Minister Aditya Thackeray suggested that our cities could adapt the concept as “15 minutes with public transport” – this was music to the ears. Plantations with native trees, creating urban thickets, using even small spaces like traffic islands, and along highways, are of course always a welcome action. Vegetation can help reduce the urban heat-island effect, as well as trap atmospheric carbon. The minister mentioned how cities elsewhere apply a “climate test” for government decisions, to check whether and how any proposed initiative or project helps in climate mitigation and adaptation. As mentioned in this column some weeks ago, matching the mandatory functions of the municipal government to the Sustainable Development Goals can be a good way to start. The need for partnerships is clear. The pandemic has seen many such entities coming together for relief work and healthcare. Similar community spiritedness is needed for climate action. Schools, colleges, corporates, residential groups, voluntary organisations, and local governments do need to work together for greening, improving walkability of neighbourhoods, enhancing recycling, water harvesting and conservation initiatives. The pandemic also showed us the need for inclusivity with the realisation of how integral migrants are to the city. Climate action too needs inclusive approaches, within the city, as well as with regions and states that support the functioning of cities. Recognizing the interdependence of states like Maharashtra and Bihar, governments and other actors should create programmes for communication, learning and cooperation. Better solutions must be developed in cities for migrant families, especially in distress situations, for living and work conditions, and to access education and healthcare, in discussion with them. Converting these inspirational deliberations into actual projects and partnerships is essential, with a sense of urgency. Sanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education. She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-inclusive-partnerships-to-ensure-cities-pass-the-climate-tests-101627386310891.html
27-07-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to give ₹50k to those clearing UPSC, state PSC prelims||Uttarakhand government will be giving a ₹50,000 financial assistance to those clearing the preliminary examination of Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), Uttarakhand Public Service Commission, Combined Defence Services (CDS) and National Defence Academy.The decision was taken during a Cabinet meeting in Dehradun on Tuesday during which 11 proposals were discussed. Cabinet minister and government spokesperson Subodh Uniyal later told media, “The financial assistance to those passing the preliminary examination will help them in preparation for the mains examination.” “The decision was made after we noticed that very few from Uttarakhand are able to crack the UPSC mains after passing its preliminary examination. This assistance will help them in better preparation,” said Uniyal. Also Read | Doctors, other Covid warriors to get monetary incentive: Uttarakhand CMAs far as those clearing state PSC are concerned, 100 aspirants will be handpicked for the aid. “A mechanism would be developed to choose those 100,” said the minister. He added that ₹50,000 were earlier given those who cleared CDS and NDA, but now, the amount will be “given after passing the written examination for better preparation for the interview”. Uniyal also spoke about the decision to open schools for class 6-12 from August 1. “An SOP will be released by the school education department on the same,” he said. Among other important decisions, the minister said the government has formed a four-member committee under retired IAS officer Indu Pandey on the issues of “disparity in salaries in various departments”. “The committee has been given three months to complete and submit their report,” said Uniyal who added that a meeting of the sub-committee on grade pay issue of police personnel would be held on Tuesday evening. Meanwhile, the government also appointed the Airports Authority of India (AAI) as a consultant for the new greenfield airport project proposed in Pant Nagar. “AAI has been appointed as a consultant in the project with a condition that it has to submit a detailed project report on the airport within six months,” said Uniyal. “The Cabinet decided to hold the monsoon session of the state assembly from August 23-27 in Dehradun while adhering to Covid-19 guidelines,” said Uniyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-to-give-rs-50k-to-those-clearing-upsc-state-psc-prelims-101627384569898.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Newborn boy abandoned on roof in rain in Jagadhri||Hours after his birth in a dingy toilet, a baby boy was abandoned by his mother on the terrace in Jagadhri town on a rainy Monday morning. The infant is struggling for survival at Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh. Exposed to the elements, the infant’s cries caught the attention of neighbours, and he was rushed to a local hospital in Yamunanagar district from where he was referred to PGIMER. Also read: Covid: Vaccination for kids likely to begin next month, says health ministerThe infant’s mother was traced to the civil hospital in Jagadhri, officials said on Tuesday. The matter came to light when the woman, who is a migrant from Bihar, was taken to the hospital and doctors found that she had given birth on Monday. In the meantime, the local authorities were informed about baby by neighbours and the woman accepted that she had left the child on the roof after giving birth to him alone in the toilet. Dr Anju Bajpai, the district coordinator of Childline, an NGO that operates a 24-hour helpline for children in distress, said that the young woman’s parents are migrant labourers, and she was visiting her maternal grandmother’s house on Sunday. “We went to the spot and were told that she had been frequently going to the toilet on Monday. She told her relatives that she had diarrhoea. Her parents say she is 19 years old, but we are investigating,” Dr Bajpai said. Yamunanagar Childline has received at least eight such complaints in July alone where minor girls are found to be six-eight months pregnant without their parents knowing about their pregnancy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/newborn-boy-abandoned-on-roof-in-rain-in-jagadhri-101627381149581.html
27-07-2021||Bhopal||MP govt responsible for Ujjain temple’s stampede-like situation, says Congress||Congress leaders attacked BJP-led Madhya Pradesh government for mismanagement for a stampede-like situation at Mahakaleshwar temple on the first day of the auspicious month of Sawan this Monday. The situation allegedly got out of control due to VIP visits to the temple.Controlling the crowd became an issue when over 30,000 devotees arrived at the temple, one of 12 Jyotirlingas in India, while the district administration had made arrangements for 3,500 devotees only as per Covid-19 protocol, said a temple management official. This happened hours before chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan reached the temple for puja. Later, former chief minister Uma Bharti also offered prayers at the temple. Some videos of the stampede-like situation went viral on social media. “The situation went out of control at gates 3 and 4 of the temple. Several devotees were seen pushing and jostling. Many of them fell down and were injured. Even police and temple security personnel could not control the crowd for a few minutes. Later, district and temple administration decided to allow the devotees inside the temple,” said a temple priest. Congress MLA Kunal Chaudhary said, “Devotees from across the nation visit the temple to offer prayers. Despite knowing this, the district administration didn’t make any arrangements. Had an untoward incident occurred yesterday, who would be responsible for that? BJP leaders.” “The state government wants to contain the spread or check it? The videos are horrifying and we all can see people falling on each other, inviting infection. The state government put the life of devotees at stake due to mismanagement,” said MP Congress Committee spokesperson JP Dhanopia. While admitting the crowd did go out of control at gates 3,4, Ujjain district collector Ashish Singh said no one was injured in the incident. “Within 10-15 minutes, the security officials and police controlled the situation. We have issued clear instructions that more than 50 people will not be allowed on the temple’s premises at a given time to maintain Covid protocol but devotees overlooked it,” he said. “We will block all the connecting roads and will deploy police at the temple for better crowd control from next Monday,” he added. Higher education minister and BJP MLA from Ujjain Mohan Yadav said, “The district administration might have failed to plan properly and estimate the footfall. But the situation will be under control from the next week as we are changing our plan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-govt-responsible-for-ujjain-temple-s-stampede-like-situation-says-congress-101627377669599.html
27-07-2021||Other||Massive search ops continue in north Kashmir for militants who fled during encounter||A massive search operation is on in the dense forests of north Kashmir’s Bandipore district to trace militants who are believed to have fled after an encounter with security forces on Sunday.While three militants were killed on Sunday, the forces are looking for more of them in the area as they suspect some escaped during the operation.Among the three killed during the encounter, one has been identified by the police as one Shakir Altaf. They said he had gone to Pakistan in 2018 on a passport via Wagah border, according to Inspector General of Police, Kashmir Range, Vijay Kumar.Also Read | 430 civilians stranded during gunfight rescued from Kashmir’s Aharbal: PoliceAccording to police, troopers of two units of Rashtriya Rifiles, para troopers and navy’s marcos are currently involved in the search operation. One army soldier sustained injuries in the operation.Shokbaba forest in the Sumblar belt of the district, where the encounter took place, has been used by militants as a transit point in the past.Sources told Hindustan Times that a group of militants, including Shakir, managed to infiltrate the Valley recently via Gurez sector in Bandipore.However, neither Director General of Police Dilbagh Singh nor Inspector General of Police, Kashmir Range, Vijay Kumar confirmed or denied that the militants killed in the Bandipore encounter were fresh infiltrators.So far, 81 militants have been killed in Kashmir since January this year. Most of them were killed in south Kashmir’s four districts - Shopian, Pulwama, Anantnag and Kulgam. This year, neither police nor army reported any major infiltration via Line of Control in north Kashmir after India and Pakistan agreed to a ceasefire in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/massive-search-ops-continue-in-north-kashmir-for-militants-who-fled-during-encounter-101627377249114.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||Sena slams political tourism as BJP leaders visit flood-hit areas of Maharashtra||Shiv Sena on Tuesday said that “political tourism” should not hamper relief work in flood-, and landslide-hit regions of Maharashtra. This comes amid visits of Opposition leaders to flood and landslide hit areas and now, governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari is set to visit Chiplun and Taliye along with BJP leader Ashish Shelar. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Tuesday added that such tourism should stop to expedite relief and rehabilitation work. Sena leader Sanjay Raut said Opposition must not visit such spots and pressure the administration. “Globally, wherever such a disaster occurs, there should not be any hindrance to the relief work. In Maharashtra when such incidents happen, allegations, counter-allegations, attack on administration, political tours should be stopped, as far as possible... This is not a battle for credit, and if somebody thinks it is, then they are devoid of humanity... politicians should exercise restraint [during such times] as their visit hinders relief work,” said Raut.The editorial also stated that relief and rehabilitation work can be expedited if such political visits stop. While chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was sitting in the state secretariat and was instructing the administration, Pravin Darekar, Opposition Leader in the Legislative Council and former minister Girish Mahajan attempted to reach Mahad but were stuck due to heavy rains and had to be rescued through boats by authorities, it said. “After CM, Union minister Narayan Rane and [Opposition leader in Assembly] Devendra Fadnavis reached the Taliye village. Now, the Maharashtra governor is also going there. The relief work is underway there. While the government authorities are involved in the relief work, such tourism is creating a lot of chaos,” it said.Referring to Fadnavis’s statement that victims will get the required help from the Centre, the editorial asked, “Should a former chief minister say that the Centre will help the flood victims? The Union government is supreme for the states and there is no reason to have a different opinion on it. But his stand that they do not recognise the state’s elected government is not in the interest of the state. The state government has not made any complaints against the Centre. Despite this, how appropriate is it for the Opposition to take the stand that they recognise only the Union government?” asked the editorial.Speaking to reporters on the issue, Raut added, “The state government is capable enough, but the Union government also has its responsibility towards the states. The state and Centre are coordinating; the CM is personally speaking to the Centre. We are confident that the Centre will provide a [relief] package. And if it is less, then Leader of Opposition is there, we have Union ministers from Maharashtra, they will take up the issue [of relief package].”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sena-slams-political-tourism-as-bjp-leaders-visit-flood-hit-areas-of-maharashtra-101627375508817.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi singer Sippy Gill gets notice from animal welfare board||The Animal Welfare Board of India has issued a show-cause notice to Punjabi singer Sandeep Singh, popular as Sippy Gill, for using animals in shooting videos of his songs, Babbar Sher and 12 Dia 12, without taking the no objection certificate (NOC) from the AWBI. The AWBI secretary, Dr SK Dutta, has directed Gill, a resident of Rauli village in Moga district, to submit a written explanation within seven days of the receipt of the notice. Also read: MBAs, LLMs queue up for constable’s job; 4,358 posts, 1 lakh apply and countingThe notice was issued after Pandit Rao Dharennavar, an assistant professor at Government College, Chandigarh, informed the AWBI about the violation of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act by the singer. “It is submitted that in the video, a horse has been promoted and shown as a medium of entertainment, which is as offence under Section 11 (1) of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and also, the animals have been shown in the video without pre-shoot permission on NOC from the board in violation of the Performing Animals (Registration) Rules,” the board said. Dharenavar said, “This is common practice in the Punjabi music industry. Nobody bothers to adhere to the law, and they don’t take permission to film animals in music videos. My motive is to send a message to everyone that they have to follow the law and take the NOC under rules.” A board official said, “It is mandatory to take permission from the board to shoot animals in the video. A sum of ₹25,000 per application is to be deposited with the board for this purpose. The permission is necessary to ensure that no animal is harmed and depicted in an inhuman manner during the making or in videos.” When contacted, Gill’s manager Narinder Singh said, “Sippy is not available for comment on this issue as he is busy elsewhere.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabi-singer-sippy-gill-gets-notice-from-animal-welfare-board-101627375148935.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Pregnant women need bail, not jail: Himachal high court||Observing that every pregnant woman deserves dignity, the Himachal Pradesh high court has allowed the anticipatory bail petition of an accused booked under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The single judge bench of Justice Anoop Chitkara held that pregnant women deserve bail not jail. “What is so urgent to execute the sentence? Heavens will not fall if the incarceration is postponed. Courts must restore the due and sacrosanct freedom of women in motherhood pro tanto (to that extent). Even when offences are grave and accusations severe, they still deserve temporary bail or suspension of sentence, extending to a year after delivery,” observed Justice Chitkara. Also read: Traffic restored on landslide-hit Chandigarh-Manali highwayThe petitioner’s husband and mother-in-law were arrested after the recovery of 259g of heroin and 713g of tablets containing Tramadol from their house at Damtal in Kangra district on November 29, 2020. The petitioner is accused of conspiring with her husband in the drug trade. During the recent hearing, the court observed that nutritious food in jail may ensure physical health but cannot substitute the stress that confined spaces might cause. “Giving birth in jail can be a cause of tremendous trauma. What difference will it make to the State and society if the incarceration is postponed?” said the court. The petitioner had filed a bail petition before the court of special judge, Kangra, which was dismissed on January 19, 2021. The court held that Section 37 of the NDPS Act implies that the accused should satisfy its twin conditions and come out clean. “The evidence collected by the investigator is legally insufficient to deny bail to the other accused in the absence of any other incriminating evidence or allegations, further mellowed down by the criminal history of her husband. Thus, the petitioner has satisfied the first condition. To meet the second, stringent conditions would suffice,” the court said. On this ground alone, instead of limited period bail, she has satisfied the rigours of Section 37 of the NDPS Act. Thus, the petitioner makes a case for release on bail during the trial, the judge held. The possibility of the accused influencing the investigation, tampering with evidence, intimidating witnesses, and the likelihood of fleeing justice, can be taken care of by imposing elaborative and stringent conditions, the court said. The court ordered the petitioner to furnish a personal bond of ₹10,000 and surety bond of ₹25,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pregnant-women-need-bail-not-jail-himachal-high-court-101627374608677.html
27-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Saket Metro station closed due to waterlogging||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) closed the entry to Saket Metro station on Tuesday afternoon due to waterlogging at the underground station after incessant rainfall in several parts of the Capital.While the station has been closed for commuters, DMRC officials said that operations on the Yellow line (Samaypur Badli -HUDA city centre) have not been affected.DMRC tweeted, “Service Update Trains are currently not stopping at Saket Metro station. Entry/exit gates have been closed due to waterlogging. Services otherwise normal on entire Yellow Line.”Also Read | Covid-19 Unlock: Queues persist in Delhi Metro after eased seating normsThe closing of the station led to chaos outside the gates. Several commuters posted photographs of the situation outside the Metro station. There was massive waterlogging reported in the area outside the station as well.DMRC officials said that no other station on the Yellow Line is closed as of now. It will take some time before entry and exit will be allowed at the station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-saket-metro-station-closed-due-to-waterlogging-101627374549218.html
27-07-2021||Delhi||Heavy rains cause waterlogging, brings vehicles to a standstill in Delhi||Even as incessant rains brought respite from the heat in the national capital, several parts of Delhi witnessed heavy waterlogging, which affected vehicular movement.Traffic movement was affected due to waterlogging in South Delhi's Alaknanda area.Roads in the Delhi Cantonment area also witnessed waterlogging in the national capital this morning.At Ullan Batar Marg in the Palam area of Delhi, rainwater entered a moving bus of Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC).Other areas where waterlogging affected vehicular movement included Mathura Road, Pragati Maidan, Dhaula Kuan and Moti Bagh.Autos were stuck and cars were partially submerged on waterlogged roads near Delhi's Pragati Maidan.Vehicular movement was affected at Moti Bagh Flyover as well.Vehicles made their way through inundated roads while a bus stand was seen partially submerged on Mathura road.Thunderstorms with moderate to heavy intensity rain would continue to occur over many places of South-West Delhi, New-Delhi (Lodi road), East-Delhi, Shahdara, Preet Vihar, Central Delhi, NE-Delhi, South Delhi, Southwest-Delhi, Gurugram, Manesar, said the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD).The rains brought much-needed relief to Delhiites from the sultry weather that troubled the national capital with maximum temperature recorded at 33.1 degrees Celsius on Monday and 37.3 degrees Celsius on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/heavy-rains-cause-waterlogging-brings-vehicles-to-a-standstill-in-delhi-101627373198688.html
27-07-2021||Other||Assam MP asks Mizoram to apologise for clashes at border||Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national general secretary Dilip Saikia on Tuesday asked Mizoram to apologise over the clashes triggered by its border dispute with Assam on Monday that left five Assamese policemen dead.“What Mizoram police along with local people did yesterday (Monday) is strongly condemnable. I condemn this barbaric attack on the Assamese people and police. This type of incident will demoralise the spirit of Indian nationalism,” said Saikia, who is a Member of Parliament from Assam.Also Read | Assam accuses Mizoram of breaching status quo on borderHe added the border dispute is decades old and the violence is the first such incident. Saikia claimed some people “are dancing and rejoicing the violence” and called it demoralising without elaborating. He asked the state governments to sit together and find an amicable solution. “There is a need for a comprehensive action plan to find a solution (to the dispute),” he said. He added Assam has border disputes also with Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, and Nagaland. “The Interstate issues should be solved...”Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana has accused Assam Police of entering his state’s territory, damaging vehicles, and indulging in arson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-mp-asks-mizoram-to-apologise-for-clashes-at-border-101627372808690.html
27-07-2021||Bangalore||BJP legislative party to meet today to decide on Karnataka's next CM||A day after BS Yediyurappa stepped down as Karnataka chief minister, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party's legislative party is set to meet and finalise the name of the state's next CM.The meeting will see Union minister of education Dharmendra Pradhan and minister of development of northeastern region of India G Kishen Reddy in attendance as observers, according to people aware of the developments.Senior party leaders told HT that list of probables for the chief minister's post includes contenders like Union minister Pralhad Joshi, BJP national general secretary CT Ravi, national organising secretary BL Santhosh and assembly speaker Vishveshwar Hegde Kageri. Joshi, Santosh and Kageri are Brahmins; Ravi, the MLA from Chikkamagaluru, is a Vokkaliga, Karnataka’s second-largest community concentrated in southern Karnataka, where the party is trying to make inroads.Names like mining minister Murugesh Nirani, industries minister Jagadish Shettar and MLAs Arvind Bellad and Basanagouda Patil Yatnal have also surfaced if the party plans to give Yediyurappa's seat to another leader from the dominant Veerashaiva-Lingayat community, which has not taken the exit of Yediyurappa kindly.A politically unlucky Yediyurappa resigned as the chief minister of Karnataka on Monday, bringing the rife speculations of turbulence in BJP's state unit to an end, almost a year before the southern state is set to witness Assembly elections.The 78-year-old made the announcement in an emotional speech at an event celebrating two years in power before submitting his resignation to governor Thawarchand Gehlot. The four-time chief minister, who battled criticism and public attacks from within his party and cabinet over the past three months, said he quit “voluntarily” and thanked the BJP.“I’m not sad. I’m happy. I can’t thank in words PM Modi, Amit Shah, and JP Nadda to let me be the chief minister even though I was over 75 years,” said Yediyurappa. “There is no question of political retirement for any reason, I’m with the karyakartas and the people.”A Lingayat strongman, Yediyurappa is credited with having built the BJP from the grassroots in the 2000s and leading the party to its first victory in a southern state in 2008. He has pan-state appeal and nurtured the Lingayats -- comprising roughly 16% of Karnataka’s population -- as a reliable vote bank for the BJP. Even in his last days in office, he rallied support from influential Lingayat seers and mutts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bjp-legislative-party-to-meet-today-to-discuss-names-of-karnataka-s-new-cm-101627370915836.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||Raj Kundra sent to judicial custody for 14 days in porn case||A local court in Mumbai on Tuesday sent Raj Kundra, actor Shilpa Shetty's husband, and his IT head Ryan Thorpe to judicial custody for 14 days in the pornography racket case, news agency ANI reported. Raj Kundra was arrested by the Mumbai Police on July 19 along with 10 others on charges related to the alleged production of pornographic films.A metropolitan magistrate court sent the 45-year-old businessman sent police custody last week till Tuesday in connection with the alleged pornography racket. Kundra’s police custody, which got over July 23, was extended by the court till July 27.Raj Kundra, called the key conspirator by the Mumbai Police, has been charged with cheating and for obscene and indecent advertisements and displays under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), The police have also used sections of the IT Act and Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act against Kundra.Also read | Shilpa broke down, argued with Raj during raid at home in porn case: reportANI reported citing officials that Kundra was anticipating his arrest after the property cell of the Mumbai Police's crime branch arrested nine people in the connection with the pornography racket case in March. Kundra had a 'Plan B' ready to escape the investigation into the case, the officials also said.Also read | Raj Kundra may now face charges of money laundering, foreign exchange violation"Kundra had changed his phone in March so that no data can be recovered. When crime branch officials asked him about his old phone, he told them he threw it away. Police believe that the old phone contains many important pieces of evidence and is looking for it," ANI quoted an official as saying.The Bombay High Court will also hear Raj Kundra's plea challenging his police custody and seeking bail. Kundra's petition in the Bombay High Court will come up for hearing after it is numbered and its circulation is granted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raj-kundra-sent-to-judicial-custody-for-14-days-in-porn-case-101627370606533.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||PM Modi wishes Thackeray on birthday; no celebration for Maharashtra CM||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who decided to not celebrate his 61st birthday on Tuesday due to floods in some districts of Maharashtra and the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, is expected to spend a low-key day amid official engagements. The Shiv Sena chief received birthday wishes from various leaders from across party lines. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also greeted Thackeray.This is the second birthday since Thackeray took over the reins of the state that he has spent in a low-key manner.On Tuesday, PM Modi tweeted, “Birthday greetings to Maharashtra CM Shri Uddhav Thackeray Ji. May he be blessed with a long and healthy life. @OfficeofUT.”Also Read | Rainfall likely in Maharashtra for next 3 days; death toll rises to 192West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Telugu Desam Party chief N Chandrababu Naidu, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis wished Thackeray on Twitter. Union ministers Nitin Gadkari and Dharmendra Pradhan also greeted Thackeray.Thackeray had appealed to his followers and party members to not celebrate his birthday as a spate of disasters including landslides and floods have killed over 120 people in parts of western Maharashtra and the Konkan region of the state. He appealed to the people to contribute to the CM Relief Fund for rehabilitation of people in flood-affected areas.A statement from the Chief Minister’s Office said, “Nature has unleashed its fury over Konkan and western Maharashtra. Many people have died due to floods, many families have been affected. Maharashtra is mourning this calamity. Although July 27 is the birthday of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, he has decided not to celebrate it due to these calamities.”To celebrate the party chief’s birthday, the Shiv Sena is engaged in relief activities in flood-affected areas of Raigad, Ratnagiri, Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli. The party is sending relief materials including food grains, food packets, water bottles, blankets, etc. to the affected areas in the Konkan region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pm-modi-wishes-thackeray-on-birthday-no-celebration-for-maharashtra-cm-101627370590013.html
27-07-2021||Patna||Bihar varsity campus has sand trucks parked, DM says no inconvenience to anyone||The JP University in Bihar’s Chhapra, named after Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan, and its connecting road have turned into a parking lot for sand-laden trucks and tractors. From Dighwara to Chhapra NH-19, hundreds of trucks and tractors are parked on either side of the road and at times, business is also carried out in the middle of the road, leaving barely enough space for traffic.Students, university staff and locals say they have complained about it but Saran district administration is yet to take action. Raja Ram Paswan, a driver from Gorakhpur in UP, claimed that he, along with others, was detained in the university premises for not paying penalty on being caught for overloading. “We are here for the past eight days. We cook under the parked vehicle and sleep right there,” he said. Also Read | Healthcare workers in Bihar’s Buxar report 94.1% seropositivityThe police personnel deployed at the university gate said he was positioned there by the order of the district administration. “Overloaded vehicles coming from Dighwara and Doriganj areas of Saran besides Bhojpur district are stopped and made to park in the university campus till they pay the penalty,” one of them said. Saran district magistrate Dr Nilesh Ramchandra Deore said heavy vehicles were parked on only one stretch from the main gate to the building for want of another alternative but it was not causing inconvenience to anyone. “We are looking for another parking lot even if it requires rent. From May 1 till date, ₹11 crore has been collected through penalty and 90 FIRs have been lodged. The government earns ₹12 crore revenue from sand annually,” he added. JPU registrar Dr Ravi Prakash Babloo said vice-chancellor Faruque Ali has raised the issue with the police, suggesting that they use the area behind the university building for parking of heavy vehicles. River activist Jitendra Kumar alleged that sand mafia enjoys the support of politicians and police. “Illegal sand mining takes place in rivers across the state in broad daylight and in full knowledge of authorities,” he said.Sand mining was banned for three months from July 1 to September 30 last year in the state as per the order of the National Green Tribunal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/trucks-parked-on-bihar-university-campus-101627368590643.html
27-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi receives season’s heaviest rainfall, waterlogging reported on major stretches||Delhi received the season’s heaviest rainfall on Tuesday morning, recording 100mm rain over just three hours, leading to massive waterlogging on key stretches including underpasses and below flyovers. The waterlogging resulted in traffic snarls during the morning rush hours. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), between 5.30am and 8.30am, the Safdarjung observatory, the official marker for Delhi’s weather, recorded 100mm rainfall --- the most rain received this monsoon in a day. The Palam weather station received 60.6mm rainfall between 5.30am and 8.30am. Also Read | Widespread, heavy rain in most parts of northwest India till July 30: IMDAccording to the Delhi traffic police, major stretches were inundated with early morning showers and traffic had to be diverted. These include Mehrauli-Badarpur Road, Pul Prehladpur, Dhaula Kuan, near India Gate, Vikas Marg, Qutub Minar metro station (towards 100ft carriageway), from Tamil Sangam Marg to RK Puram, Hyatt Regency - RK Puram, Okhla Mandi, Zakhira and Lakshmi Nagar,among others. “Traffic coming from Badarpur towards Mehrauli had to be diverted to Mathura Road because of waterlogging at the Pul Prehladpur underpass,” said a senior official. Many vehicles including state-run buses reportedly broke down and got stuck, which also held up traffic movement in some areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-receives-season-s-heaviest-rainfall-waterlogging-reported-on-major-stretches-101627362469828.html
27-07-2021||Delhi||Noodle love: Adapting global flavours||The content that we consume for entertainment can affect our eating habits too! Surprised? Don’t be. According to a new survey by market research firm Euromonitor, the popularity of Korean series and K-pop music has led to a rise in the consumption of Korean food in India. “With the Korean wave blowing in India, interest and demand for various Korean foods are growing, ramyun being the most popular,” says Junghun Yoo, a chef from Korean Culture Centre India, Dalgrak.The history of Korean ramyun dates back to 1963, when it emerged as a cheap filler food during the post-Korean war age, says chef, Rani Lee from Seoul restaurant. “Ramyun, the Korean word for instant noodles is based on traditional Japanese cuisine. It often comes in cup or packet form. One of the major reasons behind ramyun’s popularity is the fact that it is easy to make and quick to eat,” says Lee.Japanese style ramens are called ramen, while the Korean variant is called ramyun. Though there is more difference than just the name, many noodle lovers prefer to try both depending on their craving. “Japanese ramen is more subtle in flavour as compared to Korean ramen as it has a stronger taste, and is generally spicy,” says chef Kazuhiro Koizumi from The Westin Gurgaon.Both ramen and ramyun come in variety of flavours, and it’s the usage of different elements that give them their unique taste. “Sauce (tare), soup, toppings, noodles and oil – the harmony and balance of these five elements makes a perfect ramyun,” says Tushar Alagh, a consultant with Mensho Tokyo, while adding that ramen on the other hand is more diverse and can even be prepared using desi ingredients. “We serve spicy lamb ramen which has a sesame minced lamb, rich chicken broth, carrots, eggplant and kasturi methi. This gives the whole Japanese bowl of ramen, a pop of Indian flavours,” he says.These noodles are known for their versatility also. “There’s a ramen for almost every pallet.Variety of noodles, various types of broths and toppings can be used,” says chef Ritesh Tulsian. And there are ways to make it healthy too. Just replace wheat noodles with buckwheat noodles, mung bean noodles or rice noodles and add veggies to it. “Consider adding some broccoli to your ramen for a boost of vitamin C and healthy fibre, or maybe some chopped carrots for an added dose of vitamin A and vitamin C. You can add veggies raw, steamed or cook them in the broth itself while heating the noodles,” says Koizumi.When it comes to seasoning, freshest of ingredients are used to complement flavours of the ramen bowl. “The ingredients depend on the type of ramen you are making, some of the toppings are scallions, edamame (beans), ajitama (soft boiled egg marinated in soy), garlic (fried or raw), chopped onions (fried or raw), bok choy , among others. You can even add caviar and lobster to a ramen if you like,” suggests Alagh.RecipeTantamenIngredients 30ml - Sesame paste 40ml- Soy sauce 10ml- sesame oil 20ml- Chilli Oil (add red chillies and chilli powder to some oil and cook on low. Once it starts to bubble, turn off - strain - use)1 Tsp- Red and Green chilli (if you want your ramen to be a little spicy)300ml- Vegetable stock (Boil green onions, carrots, celery, whole garlic, whole ginger with water_ 100g- Ramen noodles 1 Ajitama (soft boiled egg) (boil the egg for exactly 6min and 30 sec and then add in ice water - crack - put in soy- use)Toppings:Scallions, Red Onions, Garlic, Fried onions, Cilantro, Mixed nuts and Ajitama Method:Boil pot of water to make the noodlesHeat up veg stock and make sure it boils.While that’s heating up, add sesame paste, soy sauce, sesame oil, chilli oil and chilies in a bowl.Once Veg stock is boiling hot, add it to the bowl and use a hand blender to emulsify and mix the broth properly.After add the noodles in the bowl with broth and mix it well.Add your toppings and enjoyAuthor tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/noodle-love-adapting-global-flavours-101627361991862.html
27-07-2021||Delhi||The other side of honey||Known as one of nature’s greatest healers, honey has been used as a home remedy for many years. And with the onset of a pandemic, it has become a favourite for natural therapy, like many other organic products. “I highly recommend honey in my daily diet. I have been consuming honey from a long time now and its been a routine. I highly recommend honey to my clients unless they are diabetic or are prone to any allergy,” says Hasti Singh, fitness coach from Hasti Transformations.While it is often used as a substitute for sweeteners, one should be aware of its risks too. The first step to understanding honey and its properties better is identifying an unadulterated batch of the product. “It is a combination of fructose and glucose. Glucose tends to freeze in cold and dry environments, or when kept in the refrigerator. It is the most basic characteristic of pure and raw honey. Pure raw honey also contains pollens and has a slightly thick inconsistent texture,” says Prriti Paayal, who sources honey from the Himalayas for her range of organic products, Ishwarii. While the pandemic popularised the consumption of honey further, believing that it will not harm even in excess is a myth. “It has extra calories than table sugar. Excess consumption might affect blood sugar levels and weight gain,” says Rakshita Mehra, dietician. According to ayurvedic texts, 30-35 grams of honey should be taken during the day and 25-30 grams at night, informs Preeti Seth, nutritionist. “Do not take honey in large quantities at once. Take one teaspoon of honey two or three times a day. Honey is best consumed with hot tea or milk. When you consume honey, keep it in your mouth for some time and do not swallow it immediately. Over and excess of honey can upset your stomach,” adds Seth. Honey is also known for its therapeutic role in the prevention and treatment of many diseases due to its anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties. But, it is not for everyone. “Honey is unsafe for infants and young children under 12 months of age due to the chance of botulism poisoning. Also, honey should not be consumed by people with pollen allergies,” advises Garima Goyal, dietician.Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/the-other-side-of-honey-101627361831063.html
27-07-2021||Patna||Healthcare workers in Bihar’s Buxar report 94.1% seropositivity||Healthcare workers in Bihar’s Buxar district have reported the highest-- 94.1%--seropositivity or prevalence of antibodies against Covid-19 compared to 83.8% in the general population, according to the fourth serological survey conducted across the state’s six districts in June.The Indian Council of Medical Research shared the data with Bihar on July 23.The healthcare workers reported between 90% to 93% seropositivity compared to between 77.1% to 65.3% among the general population in Begusarai, Arwal, Madhubani, Muzaffarpur, and Purnia. The cumulative seropositivity among them was 91.45% as against 72.93% in the general population in the six districts.Also Read | India sees less than 30k new infections since March 16, positivity rate at 1.73%The difference in the seropositivity was much higher this time as compared to the earlier serological survey. “The difference in the two categories was hardly 2-4% during the third serological survey last December. HCWs (health care workers) had marginally higher seropositivity as compared to Bihar’s cumulative seropositivity of 22.41% among the general population in the state’s six sample districts,” said an official.Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences director Prabhat Kumar Singh said the difference in seropositivity is higher this time because HCWs were vaccinated first. “They have had increased exposure to Covid-19 patients during the second wave of the pandemic.. as a result, many of our healthcare workers were infected, leading to the formation of natural antibodies,” he said. “Seropositivity of 91.45% is very good for healthcare workers. Their vaccination coverage has also been good. This means most health care workers are protected either through vaccination or after infection. Given the sample size and area covered, seropositivity of 73% among general population indicates that Bihar is moving closer towards developing herd immunity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/healthcare-workers-in-bihar-s-buxar-report-94-1-seropositivity-101627361330246.html
27-07-2021||Lucknow||UP gives interest-free loans to women SHGs to buy vehicles, generate income||The UP government is providing interest-free loans to women’s self-help groups (SHGs) in rural areas for the purchase of four- and three-wheelers to generate employment under the Aajeevika Grameen Express Yojana (AGEY). “The target is to provide 400 vehicles – goods/passenger carriers, mini four-wheelers and e-rickshaws. SHGs across the state have already purchased 265 vehicles under the scheme,” said Bhanu Chandra Goswami, managing director, Uttar Pradesh State Rural Livelihood Mission (UPSRLM).Many SHGs are using these vehicles to earn by ferrying food under the government’s nutrition mission.UPSRLM has been awarded a gold medal for this scheme, a government spokesperson said. So far, nearly ₹18 crore has been given to members of selected SHGs under AGEY. Under the scheme, a maximum of ₹6.5 lakh without any interest can be provided for a four-wheel vehicle and a maximum of ₹1.5 lakh for an e-rickshaw.A beneficiary is mandated to return the loan amount in 72 instalments in six years and it is up to her to drive the vehicle herself or hire a driver.The scheme gets extended to another SHG member once a beneficiary returns the loan amount. To be eligible for the scheme, it is necessary that the member of the group has been associated with the mission for at least two years and has taken the benefit of other principal funds from the mission.Goswami said the scheme has been implemented in 73 blocks of 34 districts of the state and this year, vehicles will be distributed in 120 blocks of 50 districts.“Rural areas benefit from AGEY in numerous ways. It provides employment to the women of SHGs. It also increases the average income by at least ₹8,000 per month. Moreover, under the plan, those routes and tasks are selected where there is a need for such vehicles. So it provides mobility. Loans are given for at least eight-seater vehicles such as Winger, Bolero, Tata Magic, Omni etc,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-gives-interest-free-loans-to-women-shgs-to-buy-vehicles-generate-income-101627359104355.html
27-07-2021||Lucknow||Lack of junior engineers in UP sub stations affects power supply||Lucknow’s electricity supply is hit due to a shortage of staff and technical manpower at nearly half of the power substations in Uttar Pradesh’s capital. The response time to attend any complaint lodged by a consumer is longer than usual because some of these power substations don’t even have a full-time junior engineer (JE). At many substations, contractors are running the show, according to officials of the Lucknow Electricity Supply Administration (LESA).They said that over 60 substations of the 140 in Lucknow don’t have a full-time junior engineer, which means that around 50 junior engineers are overseeing more than two substations each.Also Read | Trillion-dollar economy goal: 13 months on, Uttar Pradesh still weighing its options“There are only 79 junior engineers working in various substations of LESA,” said an office-bearer of Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited JE Association. “JEs are soft targets for everyone but they are supposed to work 24X7. They are supposed to attend to every fault in the lines, inside the power substation, ensure proper collection of bills etc. Can you imagine there are some junior engineers who are looking after supply of more than three sub stations? Despite that, JEs are suspended for every little thing that goes wrong,” the office-bearer added.Meanwhile, chief engineer (Cis Gomti zone) Madhukar Verma said, “We are aware of this problem and officials are trying to fill the vacant posts . I have also written to the officials concerned about the need for junior engineers in the department for better power supply.”“All our engineers are working overtime to ensure uninterrupted power supply in the city. They are the ones who are always under stress. If there is a power failure, a JE has to give an explanation,” Verma added.However, Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidyut Upbhokta Parishad chairman Avadhesh Varma said, “According to the data available, there is shortage of more than 1,050 junior engineers and other technical manpower in Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited. We have written a number of times for the appointment of junior engineers in the past.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lack-of-junior-engineers-in-up-sub-stations-affects-power-supply-101627358804411.html
27-07-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee to meet PM Narendra Modi today||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who has been in Delhi since Monday, is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday at 4pm. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief is also likely to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday. “Banerjee is scheduled to meet Modi today [Tuesday] at 4pm. She is also scheduled to meet some senior Congress leaders, including Kamal Nath and Anand Sharma. On Wednesday, she is likely to meet Sonia Gandhi,” said a senior TMC leader. The TMC leader also said that this would be the first proper meeting between Modi and Banerjee after the party returned to power in West Bengal for the third consecutive time. The two leaders had met for a brief 15 minutes in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas when Modi held a review meeting. Banerjee just handed over a report of the damage inflicted by the cyclone. The Centre-state relations took a nosedive after the Centre recalled Alapan Bandyopadhyay, then chief secretary of the state, for skipping the PM’s review meeting. Also Read | Lawyers protest Calcutta HC chief justice’s decision to reassign case“Banerjee could raise a range of issues, starting from hike in fuel prices, shortage in supply of vaccines and the Central funds that are due,” said a TMC leader. Tuesday’s meeting between Modi and Banerjee is being held at a time when the Parliament is rocked by the Pegasus surveillanceware issue and the sessions are being adjourned repeatedly. On Monday, West Bengal ordered an inquiry into the Pegasus issue, becoming the first state to do so. “West Bengal is suffering from multiple issues, including post-poll violence, fake vaccines and imposters. She has gone to Delhi to take a break and relax. I heard that she is also going to meet the PM. May be she wants the PM’s help as she is not being able to run the government. They also need to make a pact with the Congress for 2024,” Dilip Ghosh, Bharatiya Janata Party president in West Bengal, told media persons. With the monsoon session going on, Banerjee is also likely to visit the Parliament and is expected to meet several political leaders during her stay in the national Capital. The list may include Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. “I will also try to meet the President. Several political leaders have requested that they want to meet me. I will try to adjust and accommodate as far as possible in two to three days,” Banerjee had earlier said. This meeting with heads of political parties becomes all the more important because Banerjee is keen to see the TMC play a decisive role in the next Lok Sabha polls. On July 21, when the TMC was observing Martyr’s Day, the party’s flagship programme, leaders of regional parties assembled at the Constitution Club of India in New Delhi to listen to Banerjee’s speech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-to-meet-pm-narendra-modi-today-101627358324654.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||Rainfall likely in Maharashtra for next 3 days; death toll rises to 192||Maharashtra, which has been battered by landslides and floods, will continue to see rainfall in some areas for the next three days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. "Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls very likely over Konkan and Goa, ghat areas of Madhya Maharashtra during the next 3 days and increase to isolated heavy to very heavy falls over the region from 29th July," the IMD forecast read.The Konkan and western districts in the state have witnessed heavy rainfall since last week, which triggered floods and landslides in several villages. According to official data, 890 villages in nine districts were affected and more than 229,000 people have been evacuated from affected areas.The death toll in the state pummeled by days of heavy rainfall rose to 192, with at least 100 people still missing. Till Monday, with 71 deaths, Raigad district has reported the maximum fatalities, while 41 people have died in Satara, 21 in Ratnagiri, 12 in Thane, seven in Kolhapur, four in Mumbai and two each in Sindhudurg, Pune, Wardha and Akola, the state government said in a release.Rescue teams have recovered 53 bodies from the site of the landslide in Taliye village and five people were reported injured till Monday, Raigad district collector Nidhi Chaudhari said. The 31 people still missing will be declared dead following due process, she said.The village, in Mahad taluka of Raigad district, was flattened out after a portion of a hillock collapsed after heavy rainfall burying several houses last Thursday.The operations to search for the 31 missing people have been officially called off, Chaudhari said, respecting the sentiments of the survivors and relatives of the missing people.Inter-state travel has been restored in some areas as the Mumbai-Bengaluru national highway reopened for vehicular traffic near Kolhapur in Maharashtra on Monday after remaining shut for the last four days due to water-logging caused by heavy rains and floods in adjoining areas, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rainfall-likely-in-maharashtra-for-next-3-days-death-toll-rises-to-192-101627352204382.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||Pornography case: Bombay high court to hear Raj Kundra’s bail plea today||The Bombay high court will hear on Tuesday the petition filed by actor Shilpa Shetty’s husband Raj Kundra, challenging is police custody and seeking bail. On July 20, a metropolitan magistrate court remanded Kundra to police custody in connection with the alleged pornography racket.The police sought remand on the grounds of suspicion that Kundra may have used the money earned in the pornography racket for online betting and hence, they needed to interrogate him with regards to the financial transaction between him and two banks.Kundra’s police custody which expired on July 23 was extended by a metropolitan magistrate till July 27. Kundra’s petition, filed through Parinam Law Associates, pointed out that after the alleged incident of creating and publishing pornographic content came to light, a number of people were arrested in connection with the case and later released on bail. The petition states that crime branch officials visited his office on July 19 and after conducting a search, called him to their Byculla office on the pretext of recording his statement. However, he was arrested when he reached there. Referring to the arrest, the petition states that the mode in which he was arrested violated the procedure laid down under Section 41A of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) which mandates that the police have to issue a proper notice to the accused before arresting him. The petition states that as the law was violated, an application was made before the magistrate court opposing his detention. However when the remand application of the police came up before the magistrate, he did not consider Kundra’s application and granted remand till July 23. The petition adds that while there are clear orders of the Supreme Court against arresting and detaining persons against whom offences are registered with punishment of less than seven years in light of the Covid situation, the magistrate remanded him to custody. Kundra’s petition states that as the cumulative punishment for the offences that he has been booked for is less than seven years, the magistrate had erred in allowing his police remand and hence the remand order should be quashed and he should be released. The petition will come up for hearing after it is numbered and its circulation is granted. On July 20, Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale said through a statement that Kundra and 10 other people were arrested for their alleged involvement in the creation of porn films and publishing them through mobile apps. Nagrale said there was sufficient evidence that Kundra may be the key conspirator and there was sufficient evidence regarding that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pornography-case-bombay-high-court-to-hear-raj-kundra-s-bail-plea-today-101627356464224.html
27-07-2021||Other||Assam accuses Mizoram of breaching status quo on border||Assam hit out at Mizoram late on Monday for breaching agreements, status quo, and said the Mizoram Police used light machine guns (LMGs) in the clashes that left five Assamese police personnel dead hours earlier along the border between the two states. At least 50 policemen and civilians were also injured in clashes.Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana earlier accused Assam Police of entering his state’s territory.In response, an Assam government statement said, “In another breach of existing agreements and the existing status quo, Mizoram began constructing a road towards Rengti Basti in Assam, destroying the Inner Line Reserve Forest in Lailapur area. Simultaneously, the Mizoram side also set up a new armed camp on a hillock next to the camp of the neutral force, CRPF (Central Reserve Police Force), in the same vicinity.”Also Read | Assam, Mizoram CMs spar on Twitter over border clashes; Amit Shah intervenesIt added a team of Assam’s administrative and police officers visited the area on Monday morning to urge the Mizoram side not to “disturb the status quo” in an attempt to resolve matters.“However, they were surrounded and attacked by a mob of miscreants from the Mizoram side, which was visibly supported by the Mizoram Police. The aggressive behaviour and posture of this mob along with the fact that they were brandishing weapons and wearing helmets is clearly seen in all available video footage.”The statement added the mob threw stones on the Assamese team and destroyed three vehicles. “... the Mizoram Police simultaneously fired tear gas shells on the delegation,” it said. The statement added a police officer was injured. It added when discussions were underway, firing started from the Mizoram side.“Even while SP (superintendent of police), Kolasib (Mizoram) was in talks with the Assam officers, the Mizoram Police opened fire on the Assam officials and civilians, who had by then gathered there, from two dominating high features with automatic weapons including LMGs.”The statement said Assam is committed to maintaining cordial relations and requested Mizoram to restrain its people and police personnel from “indulging in wanton violence” and work towards restoring peace.Lalchamliana earlier accused 200 Assam police personnel of damaging vehicles and arson. “Upon learning of the arson committed by Assam Police, residents of Vairengte town, Kolasib district proceeded to the site to inquire. These unarmed civilians were assaulted by Assam Police by lathi charging them and firing tear gas, thereby causing injuries to several civilians.”Lalchamliana said the confrontation continued and a volley of tear gas canisters and grenades were launched at Mizoram Police followed by firing from the Assam side. “Mizoram Police responded spontaneously by firing back at Assam Police.”The clashes came two days after chief ministers of the two states discussed the border dispute in presence of Union home minister Amit Shah in Shillong.Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga and his Assam counterpart, Himanta Biswa Sarma, blamed each other for the border clashes. Shah later spoke to the two and the two states agreed to maintain the status quo.Mizoram was a part of Assam till 1972 when it was granted union territory status. It was granted statehood in 1987 and it has since been seeking delineation of the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-accuses-mizoram-of-breaching-status-quo-on-border-101627356044057.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||Raj Kundra anticipated arrest in alleged porn case, changed phone: Report||Raj Kundra was anticipating his arrest after the Mumbai Police arrested nine people in connection with the pornography racket case in March, news agency ANI has reported citing people familiar with the matter. Kundra had also readied a 'Plan B' to dodge investigation in the pornography case, the people cited by ANI said.The 45-year-old businessman also changed his phone in March so that data from the device could not be recovered, the people cited by ANI said. "When crime branch officials asked him about his old phone, he told them he threw it away," ANI quoted an official as saying. "Police believe that the old phone contains many important pieces of evidence and is looking for it."ANI also said that Mumbai Police's crime branch has appointed a financial auditor to probe the money trail of Raj Kundra and Shilpa Shetty and their alleged involvement in the pornography racket case."In the investigation, the crime branch has found transactions worth crores were done from the joint account of Shilpa Shetty and Raj Kundra. The crime branch suspects that the earnings from Hotshots and Bolly Fame apps used to come into this account," officials told ANI.Mumbai Police are also investigating whether the money earned from the apps was being invested in bitcoins.Also read | Gujarat trader files cheating plaint against Raj Kundra’s firmRaj Kundra was arrested by the Mumbai Police late on July 19 along with 10 other people on charges related to the alleged creation of pornographic films. Kundra has been named as the "key conspirator" by the Mumbai Police and charged him under Sections 420 (cheating), 34 (common intention), 292 and 293 (related to obscene and indecent advertisements and displays) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with other sections of the IT Act and the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act.The police custody of Raj Kundra and Ryan Thorpe will end on Tuesday, and ANI reported citing people familiar with the development as saying that the crime branch will seek an extension in the court.Also read | Raj Kundra may now face charges of money laundering, foreign exchange violationThe Bombay High Court will hear Raj Kundra's plea challenging his police custody and seeking bail on Tuesday in connection with the pornography racket case.Kundra may also face charges of money laundering and violating foreign exchange rules with the Enforcement Directorate (ED) likely to register cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA).(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raj-kundra-anticipated-arrest-in-alleged-porn-case-changed-phone-report-101627354657708.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||At 61, Maharashtra CM Uddhav braces for challenges||In 2019, Uddhav Thackeray, who turns 61 today, was termed an accidental chief minister and perceived as a dynast in politics. However, in the past one-and-a-half years, the Maharashtra CM has come out of the shadows of his charismatic father Bal Thackeray as the Shiv Sena chief, and created his own identity as the CM.As he completes 20 months in office, Thackeray has earned appreciation over handling the Covid situation better than some other states, headed a tricky alliance of three parties that come from different ideological backgrounds without losing its control and has been dealing with Central government led by a party which has not forgiven him for ditching its alliance to form a government with its political rivals.Political analysts pointed out that Thackeray began to reshape his party since 2014, when he got fought the Assembly polls solo against the BJP amid the ‘Modi wave’. In chalking out his party’s path for survival, Thackeray created his distinct voice and identity in state politics. In 2019, he chose to snap ties with the BJP and formed an alliance with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress, something his father would have never done. Further, he took up the job of chief minister, again something which his father chose to never do.Four months into his chief ministership, Thackeray was facing a health crisis. With no administrative experience at any level, Thackeray surrounded himself with the right advisors and set up teams of health experts. His handling of the pandemic in Maharashtra – the most-affected state in India – has earned him the acceptance, although there has also been criticism of the high number of Covid cases in the state.Surendra Jondhale, political analyst, said Thackeray never emulated his father or tried to match up to his cousin Raj Thackeray, who has charisma and ability to captivate people with fiery speeches similar to the Sena patriarch. “Thackeray did not have the charisma, nor did he try to copy his father. He remained true to his nature and it has paid off. He is popular due to his state addresses. People consider him as their family member,” he said.Political analyst Hemant Desai said, “Had he followed Bal Thackeray’s policies, he would have not snapped alliance with the BJP and formed an alliance with the Congress-NCP.”Jondhale said Thackeray senior “lacked pragmatism”. “Bal Thackeray’s pragmatism was restricted to political opportunism. But Thackeray has displayed realistic approach in taking his party forward.”Thackeray, who was questioned over his ability to lead the state as he did not have any administrative experience, has managed to largely contain two waves of Covid infections. Jondhale said he has learnt the ropes of administration, while Desai said, “These challenges – Covid, cyclones and floods – became his shield to counter political opponents.”Politically, Thackeray has also managed to keep the ‘unnatural’ alliance going well, but not without its share of squabbling. Maharashtra Congress leadership has created unease within the MVA after state unit chief Nana Patole said the Congress will go solo in local polls as well as the state elections. The CM took up the matter with Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Thackeray has the backing and guidance of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, who has emerged as troubleshooter for the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi in its time of crisis.However, Thackeray has ensured that he doesn’t seem like a ceremonial CM, acting merely on the direction of Pawar to keep the government intact. Despite pressure from alliance partners and opposition to ease the restrictions to curb the spread of Covid-19, Thackeray is seen to be cautious in his approach to give relaxations, including allowing general public to use local trains in Mumbai, opening malls and multiplexes, etc, even as many other states have relaxed the restrictions.He is maintaining a balance in his attacks on the Centre. Even when he joined hands with the Congress-NCP, he maintained cordial relations with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which helped him secure a seat in the Maharashtra Legislative Council to keep his chief ministership unhindered. The attacks are, however, diverted through Sena mouthpiece Saamana.The Sena that had the charisma of Bal Thackeray, who fashioned himself as the messiah of Marathi-speaking people, has found a new mascot in Thackeray to take the legacy forward.A senior Sena leader said, “Ever since he was chosen to lead the Shiv Sena in the early 2000s, people within the party, political opponents, the media, etc. all painted him incapable of taking the Shiv Sena forward. It was said he was no match to Balasaheb’s oratory, he is not as aggressive as Raj [who was still with Sena till 2005]. But Uddhav ji proved everybody wrong. Under his leadership, we have grown and we will continue to grow. Balasaheb and our party’s core identity – Hindutva and Marathi agenda-- are the roots of our large tree; our branches are now spreading under Uddhav ji’s leadership as the CM and Sena chief,” the leader said, requesting anonymity.Amid the praise, his style of functioning has been questioned and criticised from various quarters. Thackeray is known to start his meetings post noon and for limited hours. Party insiders said that Thackeray has an elaborate ritual in the morning of yoga and exercise which he does not sacrifice. The opposition has been critical of the CM saying he operates out of Varsha, the official residence of CM. He is also criticised of not going to Mantralaya or have any visits to review Covid handling. However, Thackeray has made some visits in Pune and north Maharashtra to see the handling of the pandemic. Following the cyclone and flooding, he visited Konkan region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-61-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-braces-for-challenges-101627354628293.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra first state to inoculate 10mn with both doses of Covid vaccine||Maharashtra on Monday became the first Indian state to administer both does of Covid-19 vaccine to 10 million citizens. The state, on Monday, recorded 4,877 fresh infections, even as its tally of fully vaccinated citizens reached 10,099,524. The total number of doses administered in state has touched 41,766,482.“Maharashtra has once again achieved an important milestone. We have till now administered first doses to 31,666,958 people. Today [Monday], in this vaccination drive, we managed to reach the figure of vaccinating more than one crore (10 million) people with two doses,” said Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary, public health, Maharashtra. Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic, said vaccination is the only solution to counter the Covid-19 pandemic.Also Read | 2.7-3.3 million Covid-19 deaths in India: Study“We need to use the carrot-and-stick approach and encourage more people to vaccinate themselves,” said Dr Mandot. “People who are fully vaccinated should be given relaxations like permission to travel in trains or conducting their businesses,” he added. The state has been asking for a monthly quota of 30 million from the Central government to vaccinate as many citizens as possible. The Maharashtra legislature even passed a resolution recently demanding 30 million doses every month on the plea that it has the infrastructure to undertake this feat. State health minister Rajesh Tope said that maximum vaccinations will be an effective tool to fight the impending third wave of the pandemic.Mumbai, on Monday, recorded 297 new cases and eight deaths, with the toll reaching 15,845. The total number of Covid-19 cases is now 6,269,799. There were 148,138 tests administered on Monday, while the number of recoveries were 11,077.The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 88,729, while the total number of deaths has now reached 131,605. Pune tops the list in Maharashtra with 15,550 active patients, followed by Thane with 11,321 active patients. The death toll in Maharashtra has now reached 131,605, with Pune leading with 18,384 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-first-state-to-inoculate-10mn-with-both-doses-of-covid-vaccine-101627354246077.html
27-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Early morning showers bring relief from humidity||After a hot and humid weekend, Delhi received rainfall early Tuesday morning. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued an orange alert for Tuesday predicting “moderate to heavy” showers that may cause waterlogging in low-lying areas and result in traffic snarls. According to MeT officials, by 5am on Tuesday, the Palam weather station had recorded 7.4mm of rain. “Rainfall started early on Tuesday morning in most parts of Delhi-NCR,” said a senior official. An orange alert is issued when there is a forecast of rain and thundershowers along with heavy rainfall in isolated pockets accompanied with gusty winds measuring 30-40kmph.On Tuesday, the minimum temperature was 28.3 degrees Celsius, a notch above the season’s normal.Also Read | IMD red alert for these states today, extremely heavy rainfall forecastIndependent forecasters also said that Delhi is likely to get good rainfall on July 27-28. However, more frequent spells of rainfall are likely in August, as La Nina conditions are likely to develop during this time, which may result in increased rainfall activity all over Southeast Asia.Monsoon hit Delhi on July 13. “Between June 1 and July 26, Delhi has a surplus rainfall of 11%,” said Mahesh Palawat, Skymet, a private forecaster. Also, he added, that La Nina (a global phenomenon) conditions are likely to prevail over the region in mid-August. “La Nina conditions are good for southwest monsoon and may result in increased rainfall all over Southeast Asia including Delhi-NCR,” said Palawat. According to IMD, the official monsoon season lasts from June 1 to September 30.IMD officials said that La Nina does have a positive impact on rainfall all over the region, but Delhi anyway gets more rainfall during August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-early-morning-showers-bring-relief-from-humidity-101627353583862.html
27-07-2021||Delhi||Rain hits parts of Delhi, temperature dips to 29 degrees Celsius||Several parts of Delhi received rainfall on Tuesday morning, bringing the temperature down to 29 degree Celsius in a relief from sultry weather conditions. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted that a thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain is likely in many parts of Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan. "Thunderstorms with moderate to heavy intensity rain would occur over many places of South-west Delhi, New-Delhi (IGI Airport, Dwarka, Palam), Central Delhi, South-Delhi, Southwest-Delhi, Gurugram, Manesar, Sohna, Bhiwadi, Bawal, Rewari, Manesar (Haryana) and light to moderate intensity over isolated places of Narnaul, Panipat, Nuh, karnal, Safidon, (Haryana), Tizara, Alwar, Jhunjhunu, Rajgarh, Deeeg, Nagar, Khairthal, Mehndipur, Mahwa, Lachmanngarh, Nadbai (Rajasthan) and adjoining areas during the next 2 hours." IMD posted on Twitter at 5.26am.Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 33.1 degrees Celsius on Monday and 37.3 degrees Celsius on Sunday – three degrees above normal. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 27.6 degrees Celsius.IMD said that due to the rain, air quality in the national capital is also expected to stay in the satisfactory category this week.“The overall air quality is in the lower end of the Satisfactory category as forecasted,” the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), said on Sunday. "Scattered rainfall activity in Delhi is likely in the next two days and likely to intensify thereafter. Satisfactory to Moderate AQI is forecasted for the next two days. Satisfactory AQI is forecasted on July 27," it added.An Air Quality Index (AQI) between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rain-hits-parts-of-delhi-temperature-dips-to-29-degrees-celsius-101627347809411.html
27-07-2021||Delhi||Man suffers multiple fractures after falling off cab, being run over by SUV||A 31-year-old man suffered multiple fractures to his legs and shoulders after falling off a cab he partially boarded and being run over by an SUV in Sector 56 last Friday night, the police said. He was dragged for about a kilometre by the cab driver, the police said, adding that he underwent multiple surgeries in a city hospital over the weekend.The victim, identified as Arpit Yadav, works as a project manager with an IT company in Noida and was in Gurugram for work. His statement was recorded on Sunday in the hospital, following which the drivers of the cab and the SUV were booked under sections 279 (rash driving) and 338 (endangering life) of the Indian Penal Code.The incident took place outside a restaurant in Sector 56 when Yadav was boarding a cab, booked through cab aggregator service Uber, to reach a hotel in Sector 25 where he was staying.“Around 11pm, I booked a cab for my hotel. The cab driver arrived and asked me for my drop location. I had opened the door and was about to board the car when the driver started to drive away saying he could not drop me. I was dragged for around a kilometre but he did not stop and I fell on the road. A speeding Pajero SUV ran over me,” Yadav said.As of Monday evening, only the cab driver was traced.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said, “Crime teams are investigating the case and have identified the Uber driver, but he is yet to be arrested. The other driver, who was behind the wheels of the Pajero, is not identified but they are scanning CCTV footage and the SUV will be identified soon.”Amit Kumar, station house officer of Sector 56 police station, said that they are investigating the identity of both the drivers and are scanning CCTV footage from the area of the incident. “The victim has undergone surgeries and is out of danger. A case could not be registered earlier as he was not fit to give a statement. We are questioning a few people who were at the spot,” he said.Yadav said that he was heading back to his lodging after meeting a few friends for dinner when the incident took place. His friends informed the police control room, after which a police team reached the hospital.Yadav alleged that the driver of the SUV was drunk and was driving in reverse. “I was screaming in pain but he did not pay any heed to it. My friends who were running behind me shouted at him to stop but he ran over me three times and fled the spot,” he said.A police officer said they suspect that the cab driver tried to drive away, without realising that Yadav was halfway in, but later fled the spot.A spokesperson for Uber, the cab aggregator app used by Yadav, said, “Safety is a top priority at Uber. This is an unfortunate incident and we have removed the driver’s access to the Uber app following the rider’s complaint. We stand ready to assist the law enforcement authorities in their investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-suffers-multiple-fractures-after-falling-off-cab-being-run-over-by-suv-101627339601553.html
27-07-2021||Delhi||Second coming: Delhi works to resurrect 22 native plant species||The Peelu or the Toothbrush tree was a common sight in Delhi four decades ago. The bushy tree, which grows to a height of around 8-10 feet with scabrous and cracked branches, would be used as an alternative to modern-day toothbrushes and its small red fruits were a favourite among animals and birds. But years of focus on ornamental trees that look good but are not native to Delhi, the march of invasive species, and the pressures of population and development have taken their toll. It is among at least 22 native species of trees that are on the verge of disappearing from the Capital’s landscape according to forest department officials.But a five-month old nursery in Delhi’s only wildlife sanctuary could change that.Delhi’s forest department is working with the Bombay Natural History Society to resurrect at least 22 native plant species that are on the verge of disappearing from Delhi’s landscape, senior officials said.Sohail Madan, centre manager of BNHS at Delhi’s Asola Bhati Wildlife Sanctuary said that the efforts to “bring back Delhi’s native trees” first started around five years ago with the Delhi seed bank project. But the initiative acquired fresh momentum in March when the Delhi forest department inaugurated a nursery inside the sanctuary, which is managed by BNHS.The endangered native tree varieties will be grown in the nursery, and once ready, planted in the sanctuary itself. The species include Adusa (Malabar Nut), Barna (Three-leaf Caper), Bistendu (Bombay Ebony), Dhau (Axle Wood Tree), Goya Khair (Sickle Bush), Gangeti (White Crossberry), Guggal (Indian Bdellium), Gunja (Indian Ash Tree), Inderjao (Indrajao), Indrokh (Roundleaf Axlewood), Jaal (Large Toothbrush Tree), Jungli Moringa (Konkan Moringa) and Kankera (Red Spike Thorn).“All this started when we were working on creating butterfly parks in the city. To help increase the number of butterflies you have to plant a lot of native plant species so that they can feed on them. If you get a plant from say South America, the butterfly will not be able to identify it. So, when we started off with it, we realised that the availability of native plant species was a big problem,” Madan explained.He said that over the past few months, the nursery has become home to around 100 plant species, including at least 22 that were once native to the national capital, but which are rarely seen now.Pradip Krishen, author and tree expert, said that native trees are not only easy to grow and maintain, it also contributes towards improving a city’s ecology. Some of the trees that are on the forest department’s list have also been featured in Krishen’s book, ‘Trees of Delhi’, a guide to over 250 native tree species of Delhi.“It is very important, especially in a city like Delhi, to plant the right varieties of trees. Over the years, our greening agencies have strayed away from natives and only focused on foreign, pretty-looking varieties. That needs to change, and in some areas, it is changing,” Krishen said.Amit Anand, deputy conservator forests (south division), added that the department is trying to create a seed bank for these plants in Asola.“Considering that there is a shortage of such plants here, the seeds were procured from neighbouring states with similar soil make and landscape, where these plants were available in abundance. Once these saplings attain a certain height, we can plant them in the sanctuary. This is being done to ensure that there is a high chance of their survival. Compared to young saplings, if plants have attained a certain height, it is easier for them to survive,” Anand explained.He said that if successful, these saplings can be made available in other government nurseries in the city.Officials said that years of apathy and mindless plantation drives have resulted in these native species reaching the verge of disappearance. For decades, road-owning agencies in Delhi focused on ornamental plants to line roads, parks and other public places, decreasing the number of natives.Other reasons for their reducing numbers are over-exploitation for traditional and medicinal uses and invasive species such as Vilaiti Kikar or mesquite.“This project has a long-term vision. In a few more years we will have a deep database on all such types of trees and we will be able to regenerate the genetic stock from the native Aravalli. These varieties are native and will not require much care and beyond a point, will start multiplying,” Madan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/second-coming-delhi-works-to-resurrect-22-native-plant-species-101627338416994.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to get 2.17 lakh vaccine doses in August||The central government on Monday allocated 2,17,200 vaccine doses for Chandigarh for the month of August, which the UT health department feels would be enough to vaccinate the city’s eligible population with at least the first dose by mid-August.Of the total, around 1,69,160 vaccine doses will be given to the government sector for free inoculation while private hospitals in the city can purchase up to 48,040 doses in the coming month.According to the latest electoral list, around 7.1 lakh people are eligible to be jabbed in Chandigarh of which 83% have so far, received the first dose while 25% have been fully vaccinated. The UT health department aims to vaccinate the entire eligible population, with at least the first dose, by August 15. For the remaining days of July, the UT health department is left with 57,250 doses in government vaccination centres. Besides, private hospitals are having a total of 36,740 doses with them, for paid inoculation. On an average, the city is vaccinating 9,000 to 10,000 beneficiaries every day, with the count crossing the 10,000-mark on some days.If it goes with the same pace, the UT health department may fall short of doses in the last couple of days in July.2.27 lakh doses administered in July From July 1 to July 26, the UT health department administered 2,27,553 vaccine doses, including the first and second doses, to eligible beneficiaries. Initially, the central government had allocated only two lakh doses for Chandigarh for the month of July, of which 50,000 were meant to be used in private hospitals.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, director health services, Chandigarh, said, “The Centre regularly reviews the vaccination figures, and sends a fresh stock as soon as vaccine availability starts to go down. We have enough vaccine doses available in government and private hospitals and a fresh stock will be received soon. The vaccines will be enough to meet the vaccination target in the set deadline.”Door-to-door vaccination picking up paceDr Kang further added that the UT health department has got two more mini-buses, which are going to be converted into vaccination buses to enter Chandigarh’s colonies.“People often feel hesitant to enter ambulances for inoculation. To provide better facilities to public, we had converted two AC-buses into vaccination buses and now, two more mini-buses will be used for the same purpose. We are vaccinating around 1,000 people daily as part of the door-to-door vaccination drive,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-to-get-2-17-lakh-vaccine-doses-in-august-101627333241657.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Golf Club institutes trophy in memory of legendry sprinter Milkha Singh||The Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC) has instituted a golf trophy in memory of legendry sprinter Milkha Singh.One of India’s greatest track athletes, Milkha, who won four gold medals in Asian Games and once in the Commonwealth Games, was an avid and passionate golf player. After retiring from athletics, he played golf regularly, mostly at the Chandigarh Golf Club.Milkha died of post Covid complications on June 19 at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh.On the constitution of the trophy in Milkha’s memory, CGC president Ravibir Singh Grewal said “It will be a club-organised tournament. Milkha Singh was an integral part of the club; he used to play here almost every day. He was a national legend. We have instituted the trophy to honour his memory and long association with the club.”The club plans to have it as an annual event. “We are planning to organise the event in the second week of August this year. Tournament details will be finalised soon.”Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, who has agreed to be part of the event and present the trophy, said, “Milkha Singh loved the sport and had been playing golf regularly for the last 40 years.”Keeping the legacy alive Welcoming CGC’s decision, Milkha’s son and professional golfer Jeev Milkha Singh, said, “It is a very proud moment for the Milkha family that Chandigarh Golf Club is honouring him. We are grateful to the Club and the committee for keeping the legacy of Milkha Singh alive.”“After he retired from athletics, his passion was golf. He used to play for fun. It was the best exercise for him and kept him going. He used to be with his friends and was the happiest at the golf course. He had a great four-ball play with RS Mann, Randeep Nabha, Alamgir and others. There were five to six people with whom he used to play regularly. He had a great love for the game,” said Jeev. With several national and international golf trophies under his belt, Jeev remembers, “Dad gave tips all the time. In fact, mom and dad used to watch all golf tournaments on television. They used to talk and discuss with me also. It was one of the finest topics in our house.”They used to play golf at the Chandigarh Golf Club but on days when it was closed, they would go to Panchkula or Chandimandir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-golf-club-institutes-trophy-in-memory-of-legendry-sprinter-milkha-singh-101627333061677.html
27-07-2021||Other||Nine new Covid cases, no deaths in Chandigarh tricity area||The tricity recorded nine Covid-19 cases and zero deaths on Monday. The UT contributed four new cases to the tally while Panchkula, which had zero cases on Sunday, detected two new cases in the last 24 hours. Mohali had three new infections, as per the health bulletin. In Chandigarh, the new infections were found in Sector 38 and Hallomajra while the ones in Panchkula emerged from Kalka and Kot. Of the three cases in Mohali, one surfaced from Mohali city while two were from Kharar. Currently, Mohali has the highest count of active cases, 43, followed by Chandigarh with 36 infected patients while Panchkula is now left with just four cases. In Chandigarh, it is for the 21st consecutive day that no virus deaths have been reported. Mohali and Panchkula, which have recorded eight and two deaths respectively this month, saw one death each last Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nine-new-covid-cases-no-deaths-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101627332581657.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University senate polls: Multi-cornered contest expected in college constituencies||The election of the two constituencies of technical and professional colleges in Panjab University (PU) senate is throwing up prospects of a multi-cornered contest with candidates being fielded by different groups.The polling for PU senate will start on August 3 with the constituencies of principals and staff of technical and professional colleges. Over 100 candidates are in fray from eight constituencies for the election of 47 members to the PU senate; three members from each constituency will be elected.The members of various groups have fielded their candidates independently in both the constituencies. While five candidates are in fray from the constituency of principals of technical and professional colleges, which has 52 voters, four are contesting from the constituency of staff of technical and professional colleges, which has 789 voters.Among the members from the principals’ constituency is Neetu Ohri, the principal of Guru Nanak College of Education in Gopalpur, Ludhiana, who is aligned with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) group.Sandeep Kataria, who is the principal of Saint Sahara College of Education at Sri Muktsar Sahib, has been fielded by Navdeep Goyal’s group. Savita Kansal, who is the principal of Brahmrishi Yoga Training College, Sector 19A, Chandigarh, has also been fielded by Navdeep Goyal.Kataria said, “I am getting a good response from the voters and they want to see new and young faces. The focus will be on the upliftment of education colleges and their staff.”The other candidates include former senator Sarabjit Kaur, principal of Guru Ram Das BEd College in Fazilka, who has been fielded by Gurdeep Sharma; and Tarlok Bandhu, principal of Khalsa College of Education, Sri Muktsar Sahib, has been fielded by Sangha group.Candidates from staff of technical, professional collegesThe candidates contesting from the constituency of staff of technical and professional colleges include former senator Gurmit Singh, who is assistant professor at Malwa Central College of Education for Women, Ludhiana. Gurmit Singh, who is associated with Sangha group, said, “The issues related to education colleges and their faculty will be on my priority list.”Other candidates include former senator Neeru Malik, assistant professor at Dev Samaj College of Education, Chandigarh; Suresh Kumar, a professor at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh; and Vipul Kumar Narang, professor at Kenway College of Education, Abohar.The senate is a 91-member apex governing body of PU. While 36 members are nominated by the chancellor, two are nominated from the Punjab assembly, six are ex-officio members and the remaining 47 are elected.Campaigning picks up paceAfter witnessing a slow start last week, campaigning has now started to pick up pace with candidates holding meetings and approaching voters on social media.“Candidates have started canvassing actively now. Uncertainty has ebbed and candidates are preparing for polls,” said Rabinder Nath Sharma, who is contesting from the registered graduates’ constituency.“Due to delays in scheduling polls, enthusiasm among candidates and voters was low, but more candidates have started canvassing now,” said a candidate, who is contesting as a professor of PU teaching departments.Also, with the second Covid wave having dissipated, candidates are even meeting physically apart from social media outreach.This is the third time that senate polls have been rescheduled since last year. It was initially scheduled for August last year, but was postponed amid the pandemic. The second date was set for April 26, 2021, but the polls were again postponed in view of the second wave.On August 3, polling will begin with the constituencies of principals and staff of technical and professional colleges. Voting for faculties will be held last on August 23. Over 100 candidates are in fray from eight constituencies for the election of 47 members to the PU senate.Two-cornered contest expectedThe senate polls are set to be a two-cornered contest between the alliance of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) group and DAV group, against the alliance of Navdeep Goyal and Ashok Goyal. The Goyal group had a majority in the previous senate and syndicate; both Ashok and Navdeep are contesting from faculties, which will contribute six members to the senate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-senate-polls-multi-cornered-contest-expected-in-college-constituencies-101627332404058.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Estate Office ready to auction residential, commercial, institutional plots||With the long stalemate between the UT Estate Office (EO) and the UT engineering department over clearing of vegetation from vacant EO plots finally getting resolved, the decks have been cleared for EO to auction residential, commercial and institutional properties.“We are planning to auction around 10 residential properties. In addition, there will be commercial and institutional sites on offer,” said Manish Lohan, assistant estate officer.Last year, the Estate Office had planned to auction properties in December, but there was heavy vegetation in the plots. The EO had then written to the horticulture wing of the engineering department to clear trees and shrubs from the plots so that these could be offered free of all types of encumbrances.In response, the horticulture wing had asked the EO to plant trees in lieu of the trees cut. For every tree cut, the EO had to plant four trees on its own land in some other location, the horticulture wing had stated.Meanwhile, the EO officials reportedly contended that the department did not have vacant land of its own except for residential or commercial plots located in the various developed sectors of the city.After nearly 10 months of the back and forth, the UT engineering department decided to clear the vegetation. CB Ojha, UT chief engineer, said, “We got the approval to cut the trees recently and we have started the removal of vegetation.”Last auction had fetched doubleThe department had conducted its last auction in November 2019 when all of the residential properties on offer were sold, even though there were no takers for commercial and industrial plots. The department had generated a revenue close to ₹44 crore from the auction of 11 residential properties with a total reserve price of ₹27 crore.A 1,014-square-yard (about 2 kanal) plot in Sector 33 had fetched ₹15.3 crore against a reserve price of ₹7.53 crore. All residential properties were in the southern sectors: a built-up house on a 4-marla plot in Sector 32-A went for ₹1.68 crore against a reserve price of ₹1 crore; remaining plots, priced between ₹1.25 crore and ₹7.53 crore, were in Sectors 33, 35, 37, 38, and 40.Recently, the Chandigarh Housing Board auction of residential freehold dwelling units had also received a positive response indicating an upward trend in the city’s real estate market.“The auction of properties is a crucial revenue generation option for the administration. Last year, after expenditure cuts were imposed by the Centre on administration spending, it was emphasised that all UT departments should improve their revenues. But, while the CHB could successfully auction its properties, the estate office has been stuck up in red-tapism,” said a UT official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-estate-office-ready-to-auction-residential-commercial-institutional-plots-101627332402849.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Heavy police deployment, barricading leave Sector-48 residents harried||Several residents of Sector 48 were left harried amid heavy police deployment and barricading off parts of the sector as city mayor Ravi Kant Sharma inaugurated a dedicated water supply line to Kendriya Vihar Society here.Still jittery after the attack on Sharma and senior BJP leader Sanjay Tandon on July 17, the UT police even locked the gates of some societies in the area, complained the residents.Local Congress leader and president of the resident welfare association of Universal Enclave, Sector 48, Devinder Gupta, claimed, “The main gate of the society was locked by the police and they even took away the key. The gate was finally opened more than two hours later.”“This is a dictatorial act by the police. I had to request SSP Kuldeep Chahal, who ordered the SHO to open the gates of the societies and let residents move about,” said another Congress leader Sandeep Bhardwaj, who is also a resident of the sector.Due to the barricading, residents had to take a detour to reach their homes. “Maids in our society said they couldn’t come as police had blocked the roads,” said a resident of Universal Society, who didn’t wish to be named.Police not taking any chancesAs many as 200 cops from the entire sub-division were deployed on Monday to ensure that no law and order situation arises. Though no shops were closed, the venue was completely cordoned off.After the July 17 attack, allegedly by anti-farm laws protesters, the police were not taking any chances, ensuring heavy deployment at functions involving the mayor or Sanjay Tandon.Even earlier on July 20, a section of Kajheri village was cordoned off for securing an event attended by the mayor. Similarly on July 19, when Sharma visited Sector 45 to inaugurate a couple of civic projects, the road starting from the Government Model School of Sector 45, right next to the traffic light-point of Sector 44/45, was blocked and barricaded by the Chandigarh Police and even the shops in the area were closed.The UT police on July 24, too, had deployed around 900 personnel for preventing any law and order situation during four functions attended by senior BJP leader Sanjay Tandon at a government school in Khuda Ali Sher village, at the government school in Sector 40A, in Sector 29, and at Daria village.“We had closed unauthorised entry to the area in the wake of the programme. The movement of residents was allowed through another gate to ensure no untoward incident is reported,” said the station house officer of Sector 49, Surinder Singh.The police had diverted traffic and even blocked the entry from the side of the Motor Market, where the mayor’s vehicle was attacked on July 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-heavy-police-deployment-barricading-leave-sector-48-residents-harried-101627332401725.html
27-07-2021||Other||Mohali MC begins levelling of dumping site in Industrial Area||The Mohali municipal corporation on Monday began the initiative of making the city garbage free with the levelling of the dumping ground at Industrial Area in Phase 8B.The garbage lying in the area will also be segregated. City mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu said the civic body would spend ₹4.35 crore on the work.The area around the ​dumping ground is not only surrounded by industries but also has some residential areas. The mayor said that the people had demanded that the dumping ground be shifted elsewhere, complaining of foul smell, sometimes a fire, and it being an eyesore.The mayor said that the contractor allotted the work will also segregate the garbage with machines throughout the year and the remaining debris and soil will be filled in the low-lying area.The mayor added that at the same time the infrastructure in the industrial Area was being strengthened and the entire area would be cleared of weeds and the roads would be repaired/constructed wherever needed.The president of the Mohali Industries Association, Yogesh Sagar, thanked the mayor for helping solve the huge problem of dumping ground in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-mc-begins-levelling-of-dumping-site-in-industrial-area-101627332344055.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||50% fee waived off for Classes 9, 10 in govt schools of Chandigarh||The UT education department has decided to waive off 50% of the fee for government school students in classes 9 and 10 for the academic session 2021-22.The decision was taken to help students and their families who have been affected by the economic slowdown caused by Covid-19. “In view of the second wave of Covid-19, Chandigarh administration has decided to waive off 50% of the annual and monthly fee of students studying in Classes 9 and 10 in government schools as a one-time measure during the session 2021-22,” reads the order issued by the education department.Last year too, the department had waived off the fee for these classes, in wake of the pandemic. For students up to Class 8, no fee is charged as mandated under the Right to Education Act, 2009, which makes it the responsibility of the state to provide compulsory and free education for students till the age of 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/50-fee-waived-off-for-classes-9-10-in-govt-schools-of-chandigarh-101627332342856.html
27-07-2021||Other||Namesake grabs dead man’s land in Zirakpur||Zirakpur naib tehsildar Puneet Bansal on Monday cancelled a registry after it emerged that a namesake had grabbed a dead man’s property and sold it to a third party. The land that measures 240 yards was originally registered in the name of, Ajaib Singh, a 75-year-old man, but a 26-year-old man with the same name forged an Aadhaar Card and other identification documents and sold the land to Gurmeet Kaur , a resident of Rahil Empire Society, Peermuchalla. The deal was made through Sukhjinder Singh Sodhi, a property dealer, Bansal said. The plot, which is situated in Akali Kaur Singh Colony on Patiala Road was sold to Gurmeet on July 7. Bansal said, “We immediately cancelled the mutation and questioned Gurmeet Kaur, the current owner, after the rightful owner’s brother-in-law approached us. Gurmeet, however, failed to produce documentary evidence of the purchase. The land was sold for ₹40 lakh.” Bansal recommended that an FIR be registered against the accused Ajaib, Gurmeet, Sodhi and the advocate who attested the documents. Zirakpur police station house officer (SHO) inspector Omkar Singh Brar said the matter will be investigated before lodging an FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/namesake-grabs-dead-man-s-land-in-zirakpur-101627332341708.html
27-07-2021||Other||SIT formed to probe ‘real estate mafia’ in Mohali||Ten days after registering cases against 48 builders for raising illegal colonies in Kharar and Balongi areas, Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh on Monday constituted a special investigating team (SIT) under superintendent of police (rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal to look into the matter. Grewal is to submit a report within 15 days.On July 11, Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari had raised the issue of ‘real estate mafia’ in the district and assured that he would take up the matter with chief minister Amarinder Singh, following which Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) had swung into action and asked the SSP to register FIRs against erring builders.On July 15, police had registered a case against 48 builders, who had developed unauthorised residential colonies at Jhampur, Badmajra and Behlolpur villages of Kharar area. The case was registered under Section 36(1) of the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act (PAPRA). There are around 15 illegal colonies that have come up without the permission of GMADA. No change of land use (CLU) has been carried out here and most of these colonies have come up on agricultural land.SSP Satinder Singh said, “We will not tolerate any illegal activity by any builder. We have formed a SIT, and on the basis of its report, strict action will be taken against the erring builders.” Apart from Grewal, the SIT will have two DSPs — Manjeet Singh and Joginder Pal Singh—as its members.While raising the issue with GMADA, MP Tewari said people are losing their hard-earned money to such builders. A senior official of GMADA said, “We conduct anti-encroachment drives regularly and have demolished several structures. In most cases, it was found that the builders offer land at low rates, due to which people from low-income groups get interested in the scheme. They pay ₹5 to 7 lakh to the builder for a 100 square yard plot and build their houses on it, and ultimately get caught in the nexus.”Committee was formed last year tooIn October last year, Mohali deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan constituted a five-member committee to redress the grievances of the public against promoters/builders for non-provision of basic amenities. The committee was headed by Mohali additional deputy commissioner (general) and had a superintendent of police (designated by the SSP), GMADA additional chief administrator, and municipal commissioner/EOs as its members. The assistant commissioner (grievances) was the member secretary. The committee, however, could not meet due to the prevailing pandemic situation.Stating that various real-estate projects of residential and commercial nature have come up over the last few years in the district, the DC urged residents to come forward and lodge complaints against erring builders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sit-formed-to-probe-real-estate-mafia-in-mohali-101627331981755.html
27-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Parents reluctant to send wards to school||Even though the government schools in the city are all set to reopen for offline classes from July 28, parents of 70% of the students of Classes 10 to 12 are not yet ready to send them to school. The parents expressed their reluctance during the parent-teacher meetings organised by the government schools on Monday. The principals stated that many parents are not ready to send their children to school, fearing that their wards may catch the infection as none of them are vaccinated. Parents said that during the second Covid wave, many people lost their near and dear ones, and the third wave is expected in September, so they want their children to attend classes online from the safety of their homes.During the PTMs, parents reached schools with their wards during the time slots allotted to them. At many government schools, only those who were wearing masks were given entry. In the meeting, school teachers informed the parents about the performance of their children in the tests that were held in July, and their preparation for the National Achievement Survey. Many teachers said that a majority of the students had started working amid the Covid-19 pandemic to support their families financially and now are unwilling to attend offline classes.Navdeep Romana, principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Multipurpose, said, “We had asked the parents to submit written consent for offline classes. Only 40% of them have shown willingness to send their children to attend the same. We have also asked the parents to ensure that their wards wear masks and attend the classes as per the schedule sent to them by their respective class teachers.”At Government Senior Secondary School, Gill (Girls), only 50% of parents turned up to attend the PTM on Monday.Smriti Bhargav, the principal, said, “Parents are reluctant to send their wards to school. Many of them have refused to sign the consent form. During the parent-teacher meeting, I informed the parents that we are taking all safety precautions in the school and that the students should be motivated to revise concepts daily to improve their performance in the upcoming exams.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-parents-reluctant-to-send-wards-to-school-101627331261441.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||It’s back to school for 60% Class 10-12 students in Ludhiana||After four months of wearing a deserted look, campuses across the district came back to life as masked and socially-distanced students were seen milling around campuses in private schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education and Punjab School Education Board on Monday. Approximately 60% students opted to take offlineclasses with their parents’ permission. In some schools, only half the strength opted for in-person classes, while in some the attendence hovered around 70%. The remaining students continued to attend classes virtually. Among the schools that reopened were BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar; Kundan Vidya Mandir School, Civil Lines; Nankana Sahib Public School, Gill Road; Guru Nanak International Public School, Model Town; BCM Senior Secondary School, Basant Avenue, Dugri; MGM Public School, Springdale Senior Secondary School; SDP Senior Secondary School, Huzari Road; and AVM Senior Secondary School. Social distancing ensured Banners at the gates not only welcomed the students back but also illustrated best practices such as use of hand sanitiser, wearing masks, and maintaining social distance on the school premises.Students’ temperatures were checked at the entrance and circles had been drawn to ensure students followed distancing norms. With around 75%students returning to school, BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, called students in two shifts. Principal Paramjit Kaur said, “Students will attend offline classes for two days a week and will continue with online classes for four days. Students have been asked to report in two shifts and all Covid-norms are being followed on the school premises.”Students will start writing again: Principal Meanwhile, around 70% students turned up on the first day of school after four months at Nankana Sahib Public School. At Guru Nanak International Public School offline and online classes took place simultaneously. Principal Gurmant Kaur Gill said, “Over 50% students attended offline classes for five hours.”Around 60% students volunteered for in-person classes at AVM Senior Secondary School. Anand Singh said, “I have counselled students and asked them to be regular in class. Due to virtual classes, students do not write as much, offline classes will ensure that they learn and write all their concepts. Vaccinated students attended offlineclasses at PCTEAt Punjab College of Technical Education, vaccinated students and staff attended offline classes. Students were directed to wear masks and maintain social distancing on college premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/its-back-to-school-for-60-class-10-12-students-in-ludhiana-101627331201652.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Not just Covid, also be wary of chikungunya in Ludhiana||The chikungunya virus that had been dormant in the region for three years has resurfaced with a 24-year-old man from Ambedkar Colony in Model Town found suffering from the mosquito-borne viral infection.After being treated at a charitable hospital in Model Town for 15 days, the patient was referred to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, where he was diagnosed with chikungunya. Three years ago, 11 cases of the viral disease had been reported in the district in 2017, which was significantly lower than the 248 cases detected in 2016. The district has already reported five cases of dengue, which is also spread by mosquitoes.The civil surgeon, Dr Kiran Ahluwalia, said, “Anti-larvae teams surveyed nearly 30 houses in the vicinity of the patient’s house. Besides, mosquito breeding was checked at 60 houses. Announcements were made on loudspeakers and pamphlets were distributed to sensitise people about the prevention of dengue and chikungunya.Meeting the new challenge Health officials say dealing with the triple threat of dengue, chikungunya and Covid poses major challenge for the department. “This challenge can be tackled with people’s cooperation,” said Dr Ahluwalia, after meeting with senior medical officers to brief them about the situation. She asked the staff of primary health centres, community health centres and urban primary health centres to raise awareness among the masses regarding prevention of diseases such as dengue and chikungunya, which florish during the monsoon. Posters with precautionary measures and symptoms to beware of will be put up at health centres. The symptoms of chikungunya and are quite similar. At 2, Ludhiana logs lowest single-day cases 
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Buddha nullah pollution: Trial of Focal Point CETP begins next week||With the state power department providing 1,600KW power connections, the Focal Point common effluent treatment plant is expected to become functional by August 15. The 40 million-litres-per-day (MLD) capacity treatment plant will be made functional in a phased manner. Trials are expected to begin next week. Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) officials and representatives of the dyeing industry inspected the ongoing work on Monday.The project to setup the plant was completed last year, however, the project hit a snag after the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) failed to provide a power connection, saying that the project will overload the power substation. While reviewing the projects initiated to clean the Buddha Nullah, a seasonal rivulet that passes through Punjab’s most populous district, Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan had directed officials to ensure that the CETPs in the city were working by July 31. Focal Point special purpose vehicle (SPV) director Rahul Verma said the power connection had been provided three days ago. “The CETP sewer line, through which industrial waste will be dumped in the CETP, was damaged when the government contractor was laying an interceptor line along the nullah. It is being repaired. The industry will supply 5 MLD waste to the plant through tankers for the trials,” said Verma. Plant will reduce load on STPsPPCB superintending engineer Gurbakhsish Singh Gill said efforts were being made to make the plant functional at the earliest as it will reduce the load on MC sewer lines and sewer treatment plants. The project had been kicked off in 2014. However, several deadlines whizzed past before it could be completed. The project cost ₹80 crore, of which ₹18 crore was provided by the state government and the Centre in form of a subsidy, while ₹62 crore was spent by the industry. Three CETPs are being set up in the city with the capacity of 15, 40 and 50 MLD for treating waste produced by the dyeing industry on Bahadurke Road, Tajpur Road and the Focal Point area, respectively. The CETP at Bahadurke Road started working last year.Test reports of Tajpur Road CETP awaitedPSPCL chief engineer Bhupinder Khosla said test reports regarding the plant and machinery installed is awaited from the Tajpur Road dyeing industry. A transformer also has to be installed for the 50 MLD plant.An office bearer of the Tajpur Road SPV, Bobby Jindal, said it is expected that the reports will be received within a week and trials will begin after getting a power connection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/buddha-nullah-pollution-trial-of-focal-point-cetp-begins-next-week-101627330301596.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||11 IAS, 43 PCS officer shifted in Punjab||The Punjab government on Monday appointed IAS officer Alok Shekhar as principal secretary, health and family planning, along with the additional charge of principal secretary, medical education and research. Shekhar will replace Hussan Lal, who has been given the posting as principal secretary, investment promotion, with the additional charge of principal secretary, industries and commerce, and principal secretary, information technology. In all, the government shifted 11 IAS officers and 43 PCS officers. Other IAS officers who were transferred include Sumer Singh Gurjar, appointed as commissioner for persons with disabilities; Ravinder Kumar Kaushik as managing director, Punsup, in addition to commissioner, Faridkot division; Daljit Sngh Mangat as secretary, planning, in addition to commissioner, Ferozpur division; and Dilraj Singh as secretary, revenue and rehabilitation. Bhupinder Singh-II was shifted as director, social justice, empowerment and minorities; Sandeep Kumar as additional deputy commissioner (urban development), Ludhiana, also given charge as additional chief administrator, Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority; and Aaditya Dachalwal will join as additional commissioner, municipal corporation, Ludhiana. Sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) of Dera Baba Nanak and Kharar were also transferred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/11-ias-43-pcs-officer-shifted-in-punjab-101627330187251.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Our world has come crashing down, say kin of Ludhiana road mishap victims||The dream of achieving professional excellence, studying in Canada or settling in Italy also crashed when the car of three youngsters went careening down the Sidhwan Canal on Sunday. A pall of gloom descended over the civil hospital on Monday as the families of the three victims — Pahulpreet Bains, 18; and Prabhjot Singh Lubana, 19; and Trisha Saini, 21, collected the bodies of their dead children and loaded them into ambulances to take them home for the last time. The bereaved families said their children’s life had been cut short before they had a chance to really live. All three youngsters had concrete plans for their future and were working hard to make their dreams come true. Trisha’s father Brijesh Saini of Delhi, said chills run down his spine when he thinks how her mother would react on seeing her daughter’s dead body. “They would talk on the phone everyday. Trisha wanted to be a scientist. She had come to Ludhiana one-and-a-half months ago for an internship at ICAR-Central Institute of Post-Harvest Engineering and Technology (CIPHET). She was career oriented and very hardworking.” Pahulpreet had just celebrated his 18th birthday last month. His father, subedar Jatinder Singh who is deputed in Jammu and Kashmir, said “Pahulpreet Singh and Prabhjot Singh were childhood friends. Pahulpreet wanted to pursue further studies in Canada, for which he was taking coaching to clear IELTS after appearing for his Class 12 exams.”Pahulpreet had parked his car at the house of one of their relatives in Kapurthala and had come to Ludhiana with Prabhjot in his Maruti Suzuki Swift.Prabhjot was preparing to go to Italy, where his father and brother are already settled. Joginder Singh, the grandfather of 19-year-old Prabhjot said his grandson was waiting for his Class 12 result. “His visa had arrived and his mother was about to go to Italy next month.”Joginder added that they had bought the Maruti Suzuki Swift car two months ago. “On Sunday morning, Prabhjot had left the house saying he was going to shop with Pahulpreet. His father and brother are trying to reach Gurdaspur for the cremation. They are facing problems due to Covid restrictions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/our-world-has-come-crashing-down-say-kin-of-ludhiana-road-mishap-victims-101627330061496.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Judicial order for voice sample does not violate right to privacy: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has ruled that judicial order compelling a person to give voice sample does not violate right to privacy. The high court bench of justice Avneesh Jhingan upheld the additional sessions judge, SBS Nagar, decision of allowing the Vigilance Bureau to take voice samples of two accused for comparing with their recorded calls. The matter in court had been brought by two people working at Banga tehsil office. The accused, both typists, were allegedly collecting money for getting the sale deeds registered from the tehsildar and other revenue officials, vigilance bureau had told the court, adding that after taking approval, mobile phones used by the petitioners were tapped and later a case registered against them. The VB then sought permission from the trial court to take voice samples for comparison, which was allowed. This decision of the trial court was challenged in the high court, arguing that it was in violation of Article 20(3) of the Constitution of India and infringes the right of privacy. Article 20(3) of the Constitution states that no person can be compelled to be a witness against himself. The high court observed that voice samples in a sense resemble fingerprints and handwriting. “The samples are collected after having permission in accordance with the law. The sample taken itself would not be an evidence, rather they are for comparing the evidence already collected,” the court said, adding that the infringement of the fundamental right to privacy cannot be raised to create a bubble to scuttle the investigation, nullifying the evidence collected by merely denying that the voice of the tapped phone calls is not of the petitioners and there being no comparables. “With the advancement of technology, the modes of communication are changing. To keep pace with the change, new technology is required to be used for collecting and comparing evidence. One method being tapping of communication devices but after compliance with the procedure laid down. It is in that context that taking of voice samples is necessitated,” the bench further observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/judicial-order-for-voice-sample-does-not-violate-right-to-privacy-hc-101627329761434.html
27-07-2021||Other||Police to attach Career Group owners’ properties worth ₹254 crore||LUCKNOW Properties worth ₹254 crore of the owners of Career Group of institutes will be attached under the provisions of UP Gangster and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986, the Lucknow police said on Monday. Azmat Ali and his son Iqbal, who own these properties, were wanted in cases of attempt to murder, fraud and criminal trespass on government land. The properties to be attached include medical and dental colleges, hostels, a convent college, vacant plots, savings in bank accounts and high-end vehicles, said officials. In terms of value, this would be one of the biggest attachments of property in a single case by the UP Police. The value was said to be higher than the attached properties of mafia-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, said cops. The medical and dental colleges attached would be handed over to the health department for operation while the education department would take over the functioning of other educational institutes, they said. “The accused Azmat Ali and his son Iqbal are wanted in various cases lodged in Lucknow. They built educational institutes and other structures from the money earned through criminal activities. As per the directions of the state government, we have attached their property worth ₹2.5 billion to disband the financial backing of their criminal network,” said DK Thakur, commissioner of police, Lucknow. As per a press statement issued by the police, Azmat Ali was the head of an organised crime gang involved in various anti-social activities, including encroachment of government land. Criminal cases under various sections of the IPC had been lodged against Ali since 2000. A case under sections of the UP Gangster and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986 was lodged against Azmat Ali earlier this year at Madiaon police station. Iqbal Ali was also booked on similar charges last year at the same police station. The recent action was part of the investigations in the cases against the father- son duo who were absconding. According to the press statement, the duo built the colleges and other properties to put up a clean façade over there criminal empire. The institutes and trusts were also used by the accused to channelise the money earned from illegal sources, reads the press statement. Neither Azmat Ali nor his son Iqbal could be reached for a comment on the police action. Reporter: Chandan Kumar7088775544 BOX Properties worth ₹1,574cr attached in 4 yrs In the last four years, properties of gangsters worth ₹1574 cr had been attached in Uttar Pradesh till July 19, 2021. In this period, the maximum property attachments (worth ₹202 cr) were done in Varanasi zone in 420 cases.The Lucknow police on Monday attached properties worth 254 crore in a single case, making it the biggest attachment in terms of value. Over 13,700 cases under Gangster Act have been lodged under the present government and over 43,000 accused arrested in connection with these cases, as per information provided by the office of additional chief secretary, home, Avnish Kumar Awasthi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-to-attach-career-group-owners-properties-worth-rs-254-crore-101627329640701.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Illegal arms business: MP’s Sikligar community under police gaze||Police in Punjab and Madhya Pradesh, in recent months, have arrested many members of the Sikligar Sikh community for manufacturing and providing arms and ammunition to anti-social elements, including gangsters in Punjab and even Maoists. Traditionally ironsmiths, the community that once earned praises and were called ‘patriots’ for providing weapons to the army of Tenth Sikh Guru Gobind Singh has gone astray since. A section of the community honed their skills and shifted from making farm tools and sharp-edged weapons to firearms, said police officers of Punjab and Madhya Pradesh (MP). Punjab director general of police Dinkar Gupta said MP has emerged as a hub of illegal firearms as in the past seven months, at least six people of the Sikligar community, settled in four districts of MP, have been arrested for supplying arms to criminals in Punjab. “In January, police arrested two Sikligar members from Khargone for supplying illegal .32 calibre country-made pistols and they informed that the kingpin of the gang was in contact with one Akashdeep Singh, the prime accused in the drone module busted by Punjab police in 2019,” said the DGP. Not only Punjab, but the MP Police, which recently arrested 10 sympathisers and suppliers of illegal weapons to Maoists, found magazine of AK 47 made by Sikligars from the house of one of the accused, Ghanshyam from Gondia in Maharashtra. Some of the Sikligars are wanted in more than six states. According to MP police, a section of Sikligars living in at least 40 villages of Khargone, Khandwa, Barwani, Burhanpur and Dhar districts manufacture illegal arms. “Earlier, they used traditional methods to make weapons but now they have set up lathe machines to make automatic guns. Not only in manufacturing, they have adopted technology in marketing the weapons through WhatsApp and YouTube channels. Despite regular raids, they are not ready to give up this work,” said HN Mishra, inspector general (IG) of police, Indore division. In July first week, Punjab Police arrested two brothers — Sweety Singh and Sumer Singh — from Umrethi village of Barwani for running a Youtube channel (Azad Group Munger) where they showcased guns and fixed deals. “This is a new modus operandi which we have seen for selling weapons,” said Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh, SSP, Kapurthala. Members from the community say the families ignored for years and many of them have also been implicated wrongly in criminal cases. There are about 35,000 Sikligars in Madhya Pradesh, according to the community leaders. They used to live in Punjab and Rajasthan initially, but after the Independence, arms manufacturing was declared illegal and many of them shifted to western Madhya Pradesh near the Narmada river for farming. “But they didn’t get the promised land and jobs. They were not able to live a respectful life,” said Gyani Dileep Singh, head of MP Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee. MP Sikligar community vice-president Jitender Singh said, “I won’t deny the fact that some Sikligars have chosen the wrong path and in at least 40 villages, the illegal weapon business has flourished. The youth are mostly uneducated and have no land for farming. They can’t start a business as banks don’t give them loans.” “More than 400 people are either in jail or facing charges under the Arms Act. This is the fact which we are not shying away from accepting, but the reasons behind this should also be discussed,” he added. In 2003, then MP chief minister Uma Bharti promised to help the community through education and skill development, but nothing happened. MP home minister Narottam Mishra said, “We won’t allow anyone to malign the image of MP. It is a social problem and we have been making efforts to bring them in the mainstream for years. Now, we are doing strict planning to address this issue once and for all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illegal-arms-business-mp-s-sikligar-community-under-police-gaze-101627329521505.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||ED arrests prime accused in 2015 Bank of Baroda loan fraud case||The enforcement directorate (ED) on Monday arrested Vikram Seth, the prime accused in the 2015 Bank of Baroda loan fraud case registered in Chandigarh, from Phagwara, a top official of the agency said. The ED had taken over the probe after the CBI registered an FIR against Vikram Seth and his family members under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) at its zonal office in Jalandhar. The case was being investigated by ED assistant director Jagwinderpal Singh.The ED said the CBI investigations revealed that Seth, in connivance with other accused and officials of Bank of Baroda, fraudulently got sanctioned 19 loans totalling ₹21.31 crore and the money was routed through various accounts of associated firms through a web of transactions. “Investigations revealed that Seth had invested the loan money in acquiring immovable assets in the name of his family members, including wife, son, brother and brother’s wife,” the ED said. These family did not have any legitimate source of income to acquire any such immovable assets, the ED said. In May 2020, The ED attached 42 immovable and seven movable properties worth ₹18.5 crore belonging to Seth and his family members in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh. The attached assets consisted of 20 residential plots, six industrial plots, one house, three tracts of agricultural land, two brick kilns and 10 commercial plots located in Phagwara and Banga of Punjab, and Una district of Himachal Pradesh. The seven movable assets attached included three luxury vehicles worth ₹33 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ed-arrests-prime-accused-in-2015-bank-of-baroda-loan-fraud-case-101627329282578.html
27-07-2021||Dehradun||Doctors, other Covid warriors to get monetary incentive: Uttarakhand CM||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government on Monday announced an encouragement incentive of ₹10,000 each for 5,000 doctors who served during the Covid-19 pandemic, in a package of ₹205.17 crore.The announcement was made by chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami during an event to felicitate Covid warriors at CM House in Dehradun on Monday in which he also announced monetary incentives for ASHA and Anganwadi workers. Announcing the incentives Dhami said, “During the Covid-19 pandemic, the officials of the health department, doctors, paramedic staff, class 4 employees and other health staffers served the people round the clock which was really commendable. It is not possible to monetarily compensate their service, but even the government has decided to provide them incentives under a package of ₹205.17 crore for the health department.” “Under this, 5,000 doctors who served during the pandemic across the state would be provided with an incentive of ₹10,000. Similarly, 12,624 ASHA workers would be given an incentive of ₹2,000 each for the next five months and 33,824 Anganwadi workers would be given an incentive of ₹2,000 each for the next five months,” said Dhami. He also informed that 10,000 employees of Group C and D in the health department would be given an incentive of ₹3,000. “About 1,120 ASHA workers would also be given computer tablets. To further improve the health services, the government would also provide ₹70cr each for medical colleges in Haridwar and Pithoragarh. In all, about 3.73 lakh beneficiaries would be benefitted with a package of ₹205.17 crore,” said Dhami. The chief minister also announced the government will distribute ayurvedic medicines to boost immunity to 1.90lakh people while another 1.21 lakh will get homoeopathic medicine to improve their immunity level.Later during the event, Uttarakhand health minister Dhan Singh Rawat said the state will “complete vaccination of its residents by December this year.” According to state health department data, 42,26,546 people have taken the first dose of the Covid vaccine while 13,41,349 people have taken both doses.Uttarakhand allows political and social eventsEarlier during the day, the state government allowed political and social events to be held with prior permission from officials concerned while extending the existing Covid restrictions for seven more days from July 27 till August 2.Cabinet minister and government spokesperson Subodh Uniyal said: “The government after a meeting on Monday evening, has decided to extend the Covid curfew for seven more days but with more relaxations under which now political and social events can be held but with prior permission of officials concerned.” “Apart from this, salons and spas can also operate in the state. Also, the government and private offices which were earlier allowed to operate with 50% capacity, can now operate at full capacity. Training institutes, which were earlier shut down due to the Covid-19 pandemic, will also be opened in the state,” said Uniyal. The state government earlier allowed shopping malls, restaurants, eateries and stadiums to operate at 50% capacity. However, schools, colleges and other educational institutions are still not allowed to open. Uttarakhand has reported 341778 Covid-19 cases till Monday of which 327766 people were treated. The state has recorded 7,359 deaths. There are only 638 active Covid cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/doctors-other-covid-warriors-to-get-monetary-incentive-uttarakhand-cm-101627329281414.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Speeding claims lives of 2 bike-borne persons in separate mishaps in Ludhiana||Speeding vehicles mowed down two bike-borne persons, including a woman, in separate incidents on Sunday. In the first case, a 26-year-old pillion rider, Harjinder Kaur of Hamidpura village, died after a speeding truck rammed into the bike she and her husband were riding on the national highway near Ladhowal. The victims were on the way to Aulakh village. Her husband, Sukhdev Singh, also sustained injuries. The driver of the truck escaped leaving the vehicle behind. A case was registered under the Indian penal code. In the second case, a 30-year-old man was killed after a speeding Toyota Innova hit his bike near Pakhowal Chowk. The victim was identified as Vikas Kaundal. The victim’s friend, Sachin, who was also on the bike has suffered injuries. The driver of the car, Kunal Manocha of Mohar Singh Nagar, has been arrested. Assistant sub-inspector Pardeep Singh, who is investigating the case, said the two were on their way to Bhai Bala Chowk from Feroze Gandhi Market when they were hit by the speeding vehicle. Onlookers rushed both the men to the hospital, where Vikas succumbed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/speeding-claims-lives-of-2-bike-borne-persons-in-separate-mishaps-inludhiana-101627329221206.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu asks defunct party cells to chalk out roadmap for revival||Newly appointed Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday asked the heads of party’s frontal organisations and various cells of the state unit to come back within 15 days with a roadmap for their revival ahead of the assembly polls early next year. Sidhu, who, along with four working presidents, held the first meeting with the heads of frontal organisations and chairpersons of all 35 departments and cells of the state Congress, asked them to outline the work they can do at grassroots levels and details of important issues that needed to be addressed before the state elections. “We have been asked to put all this in bullet points and then one-on-one meetings will be held for revival of the defunct set-ups for reaching out to people of different segments,” two party leaders present in the meeting said. The state president, who took charge of his assignment on Friday, gave these directions after some of them complained that their cells and departments were ignored and rendered defunct in the past four-and-a-half years. “The common grouse of several of them was that they had worked really hard before the state elections (2017) but then people from other parties were given positions or adjusted after the Congress formed the government. The state chief assured them that the hard work put in by them will not be ignored,” one of the persons quoted above said, pointing out that the meeting did not have any agenda. The marathon meeting at Punjab Congress Bhawan here lasted more than five hours and was attended by working presidents Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny Bandala, Kuljit Nagra and Pawan Goyal, Punjab Youth Congress chief Brinder Singh Dhillon, Punjab Mahila Congress president Mamta Dutta and National Students Union of India state president Akshay Sharma, among others. The state chief and four working presidents were appointed by Congress president Sonia Gandhi on July 18 after a two-month-long tussle in the Punjab unit that saw Sidhu and chief minister Capt Amarinder publicly hurl accusations at each other. A party statement on the meeting said that Sidhu had detailed discussions with working presidents about rebuilding the organisation and strengthening the party further at the grassroots level. They also discussed with heads of all departments and cells of PPCC their working and steps needed for their revival, it added. Besides stressing on his “Jitega Punjab” mission and “Punjab model”, the new state chief also asked the party leaders about the perception among people about him, said sources. Gilzian said that at least one of them would be present at the party headquarters daily to meet party leaders and workers. Another suggestion discussed at the meeting was to visit the religious deras for their blessings, but no schedule has been firmed up. Sidhu also met the office staff of Punjab Congress Bhawan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-asks-defunct-party-cells-to-chalk-out-roadmap-for-revival-101627329041623.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Four of family feared dead as car falls into Chenab||A couple and their two sons are feared dead after their car plunged into Chenab in Ramban district on Monday. Ramban district police chief PD Nitya said, “As per the information, a Swift Dzire (JK-02CM-7664) being driven by Rakesh Kumar of Paloura in Jammu along with his wife Asha Rani and two sons Sachit Bhagat and Mehul Bhagat, who were travelling from Srinagar to Jammu, met with an accident near Mehar in Ramban.” “According to the eyewitnesses, the driver suddenly lost control and couldn’t stop the car from going down into the hill into Chenab river at Mehar. Search and rescue operations are underway by police, quick reaction team and UT’s disaster response force. However, till now there is no clue of the passengers,” she added. Eyewitnesses said the driver lost control when he bent down to pick up something while driving. 1 dead, 12 hurt in Ramban collisionMeanwhile, one person was killed and 12 others injured in a collision between a truck and a tempo traveller at Chamalwas in Ramban district on Monday morning. “A truck driven by Kabir Ahmed Khan of Baramulla lost control and hit a tempo traveller head on. The accident resulted in injuries to the labourers travelling in the tempo. They were heading to Srinagar. The labourers hailed from Bijnore,” said a police officer. A 37-year-old man identified as Sajid Ahmed, son of Qayoom, who was referred to Anantnag government hospital, later succumbed to his injuries. The injured were also shifted to GMC in Anantnag.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-of-family-feared-dead-as-car-falls-into-chenab-101627328984103.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||MeT dept issues red warning for four Himachal districts||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday issued a heavy rain warning in Himachal Pradesh. The local weather department has issued an orange alert for nine districts of the state, while four districts — Kangra, Mandi Bilaspur and Sirmaur — have been issued red warning for July 28. Director, IMD, Himachal Pradesh, Surender Paul, said the orange alert during these two to three days has been issued for Chamba, Kangra, Mandi, Hamirpur, Bilaspur, Una, Solan, Sirmaur and Shimla.He said certain parts of these districts may receive heavy to very heavy rainfall during the next three days. He said poor visibility conditions will continue for the next few days. He said Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti and Chamba will also receive rain and the low-lying areas have been put on alert, especially in the region of Sutlej, Beas and Ravi basin. Shimla remained engulfed in a thick blanket of fog and the low visibility slowed down the traffic movement in the town. Paul said there are chances of heavy rain in the region in the next 48 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/met-dept-issues-red-warning-for-four-himachal-districts-101627328982589.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||102 Covid cases, 1 death reported in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir on Monday recorded one Covid-related death and logged 102 fresh infections.There were 82 cases in Kashmir while the Jammu division saw 20 infections and a single death.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 189 with active positive cases dropping to 1,200.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 364 followed by Jammu district with 138 infections.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,15,184 prompting the recovery rate to climb to 98.26%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,20,759 and the death toll stands at 4,375.Officials said that 53,806 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT. Himachal logs 139 fresh Covid infectionsHimachal recorded 139 fresh Covid cases on Monday, taking the state’s tally to 2,05,200 while the death toll mounted to 3,500 after two patients died of the infection. Of the new cases, 34 were reported in Mandi, 33 in Chamba, 19 in Shimla, 18 in Kangra, 14 in Bilaspur, seven in Kullu, five in Hamirpur, three in Sirmaur, two each in Kinnaur and Una and one each in Lahaul-Spiti and Solan. Recoveries reached 2,00,824 after 120 people recuperated while there are 858 active cases in the state. Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 46,271 cases followed by Mandi (27,752), Shimla (25,606), Solan (22,380), Sirmaur (15,362), Hamirpur (14,516), Una (13,414), Bilaspur (12,875), Chamba (11,921), Kullu (9,057), Kinnaur (3,299) and Lahaul-Spiti (2,747).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/102-covid-cases-1-death-reported-in-jk-101627328981421.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure NHAI doesn’t acquire farmers’ land forcibly for road projects: Amarinder to DGP||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday directed director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta to ensure that the farmers’ land is not acquired by force by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) under the ‘Bharatmala Pariyojana’ if the landowners find the compensation amount offered to them inadequate. Amarinder assured a farmers’ delegation that he would soon meet Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari demanding revision in compensation for land. The farmers have rejected the meagre compensation awarded by the district revenue officers who have been designated as competent authority for land acquisitions (CALA). After meeting a delegation of the Road Kissan Sangarsh Committee in Chandigarh, the CM asked the financial commissioner (revenue) to issue detailed instructions not to credit the compensation amount into the accounts of farmers against their will. He also directed the director general of police (DGP) to ensure that the farmers’ land is not seized forcibly. The issue relates to 25,000 acre land in 15 districts across the state. The land is under process of acquisition for the project covering multiple expressways, viz. the Delhi- Amritsar-Katra, Ludhiana-Ropar, Bathinda-Dabwali, besides Jalandhar and Ludhiana bypass. The Road Kissan Sangarsh Committee delegation was led by state president Sukhdev Singh Dhillon. The CM directed his principal secretary to seek early appointment with Gadkari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ensure-nhai-doesn-t-acquire-farmers-land-forcibly-for-road-projects-amarinder-to-dgp-101627328921786.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-SIT head questions exclusion of dera chief’s name from new challan on Bargari sacrilege||Former inspector general of police (IGP) Ranbir Singh Khatra, who previously led the special investigation team (SIT) probing the Bargari sacrilege incident, on Monday questioned the incumbent SIT for allegedly excluding the name of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in the chargesheet that it filed in court recently. Addressing a meeting of representatives of Sikh organisations and intellectuals called by Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh to discuss the sacrilege issue, Khatra said, “If it was a conspiracy, then who was the conspirator? The name of the dera chief was in the FIR number 63 registered for theft of Guru Granth Sahib’s holy saroop. The SIT has now submitted the challan in the FIR number 117 (pasting of derogatory posters) and 128 (scattering of pages of the holy saroop at Bargari village) and did not include the name of the sect head in list of the accused, even as the three FIRs are interlinked as per the court,” “I had nabbed the ones who executed the conspiracy. Now, the question is who will nab the conspirator,” he added.On a clarification given by the present SIT chief SPS Parmar (IGP) that the investigation is still underway, Khatra said, “It will be good if they are doing so”.He also targeted Moga-based brothers Rupinder Singh and Jaswinder Singh who were arrested on charges of the sacrilege in 2015, but released later, for their role in the episode.On the pending interrogation of the dera chief, the former DIG endorsed the version of the new SIT, saying there is no use of quizzing him until the dera’s three national committee members, who are key accused in this case, are arrested. “If we take the dera chief on remand without arresting the three wanted men, it will be a waste of time and as per rules we will not be able to secure his custody for the second time.” Giani Harpreet Singh and Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Jagir Kaur also addressed the meeting. A resolution was also passed on checking frequent sacrilege incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exsit-head-questions-exclusion-of-dera-chief-s-name-from-new-challan-on-bargari-sacrilege-101627328863688.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Make joint push for repeal of farm laws: Sukhbir Badal to opposition parties||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday appealed to all opposition parties to jointly demand the repeal of the three contentious agriculture laws, saying the central government wanted to divert attention from the farmers’ movement. The Akali MPs, including Sukhbir, Harsimrat Kaur Badal and Rajya Sabha members Balwinder Singh Bhundar and Naresh Gujral, continued their protest outside Parliament, raising slogans against the three laws. Speaking to the media, the SAD chief said the SAD-BSP alliance had followed a pro-farmer agenda from the first day of the Parliament session and would continue to raise this issue for the remaining period. “We are committed to ensure justice for farmers of Punjab and other parts of the country. We also appeal to other political parties to unite to ensure the cause of the ‘annadaata’ is not weakened in any way,” he said. He condemned alleged attempts being made by the Centre to portray the farmers in a poor light by creating an impression that it was ready to hold talks but the unions were not coming forward for the same. He added, “It is strange as to why the Union government wants discussion on the farm laws which were completely rejected by the farmers of the country. The government is showing insensitivity towards the sufferings of the farmers by feigning ignorance about the human tragedy unfolding at the Delhi borders. More than 550 farmers have lost their lives participating in the ‘kisan andolan’.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/make-joint-push-for-repeal-of-farm-laws-sukhbir-badal-to-opposition-parties-101627328862736.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Admissions suspended, Punjabi varsity’s Mehraj campus to start new courses from next session||The Punjabi University administration has decided to roll out a new set of job-oriented programmes from the next session at the College of Engineering and Management (CoEM), its neighbourhood campus at Bathinda’s Mehraj village, after having suspended admissions in all courses this year. Prof Pushpinder Singh Gill, dean, external centres, said the Mehraj campus is likely to have a new post of director for an efficient administration. “A university panel found that the courses offered at CoEM were obsolete that had fewer takers for the past several years. Poor choice of academic courses led to a dismal response from students in southern Punjab. The management courses were discontinued within 2-3 years of starting the campus. Moreover, the centre administration was found inefficient that affected the academic environment,” said Gill.Campus in-charge Lakhwinder Singh Rakhra did not respond to phone calls and text messages. The campus was started in 2005 by then Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government to provide better opportunities in the academically backward south Malwa belt. The panchayat of Mehraj, the ancestral place of Amarinder Singh, donated about 25-acre land to build the campus. The CoEM was offering 11 courses, including a master’s in computer application, two BTech programmes, three diplomas, BSc and lateral admissions in various courses.The campus has 17 faculty members, including 12 regular teachers.A faculty member said more than half of the 60 BTech seats remained vacant for the last several years. “Computer applications was the only sought after programme in which 30 seats each for a post-graduate degree and a diploma course were filled,” he added.Prof Gill said the new courses will be decided to meet the aspirations of students from southern Punjab. “The infrastructure of CoEM will be utilised for better academic programmes that open job opportunities for students. The faculty will be adjusted at Tapasavi Puran Dass Malwa College, the university’s constituent college, at the campus in adjoining Rampura Phul subdivision, and other institutes,” said Gill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/admissions-suspended-punjabi-varsity-s-mehraj-campus-to-start-new-courses-from-next-session-101627328861293.html
27-07-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: In search of Basant Lok past||It’s a small space but it doesn’t matter. You are stepping inside Delhi’s most eclectic bookstore. Here’s the owner poring over The New York Review of Books. Walk straight, reach the end and look left—loads of travel books. If you are into contemporary fiction, turn to the rotating shelf near the glass door. The poetry section lies… well, today it’s all a rubble of bricks if you peer through the shuttered grills. Fact & Fiction shut down years ago.Certain places can be revered not for what they have, but for what they had. That’s what makes an excursion to Basant Lok market so poignant. It is filled with the ghosts of its much-loved landmarks, whose existences, until some years ago, were taken for granted.Today, as the coronavirus pandemic deeply cuts through our lives and sensibilities, making the immediate past look profoundly distant, the older losses that unfolded a few years ago have turned into legends of an extraordinary past. This gives Basant Lok market the patina of a fairy tale.The area’s signature landmark is Priya cinema. No queue of cinema-goers waiting to enter the hulky edifice (theatres and multiplexes in the Capital reopened after 3 months with 50% occupancy from Monday).The broad passage that connected the market’s two plazas was dotted with a series of snack joints serving super-spicy momos and thukpas—you needed a napkin to wipe your nose continuously. They’re all gone. Metal benches lie where they stood.This market was also the site of India’s first TGIF—it is history. The country’s first McDonald’s opened here as well, and still exists. But the Om Book Shop, tucked near the burger place, is gone. It had steep stairs leading to a spacious basement stacked with thousands of books. The guard at the bottom of the stairs would always ask you to leave your bag with him.But back to Fact & Fiction. Bookseller Ajit Vikram Singh wouldn’t smile as you entered. He had the reputation of not being particularly friendly. “Most of my differences happen with customers who ill-treat the books,” he once explained. “A bookshop requires a certain amount of sanctity, and sometimes I have people rushing in with dripping ice cream cones.” His presence lingers on in Basant Lok.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-in-search-of-basant-lok-past-101627328675990.html
27-07-2021||Other||Covid test mandatory for inbound tourists, says Lucknow admn||LUCKNOW As part of ‘test, track and treat’ policy to combat the virus, the district administration ordered mandatory Covid tests for inbound tourists, especially those coming from abroad or from states affected by the Delta Plus variant including Goa, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Maharashtra, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh. “We have constituted teams to keep a check on inbound tourists and those coming from affected states,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate. Special teams comprising officials of the health department had been deployed at the airport, railway and bus stations to keep a check on tourists and to get the Covid tests done. Teams had also been deployed at toll plazas to keep a check on passengers heading towards the state capital by road, he said. The administration was also going to start target sampling at all crowd-prone places like passenger transit points including institutes, banks and government offices etc. This was part of the exercise in wake of the anticipated third wave of Covid, said officials.The DM directed officials to carry out a study on the reasons that led to infection in hot spot areas identified in the first and second waves of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-test-mandatory-for-inbound-tourists-says-lucknow-admn-101627328320554.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||3 young lives snuffed out in Ludhiana: Advocate held for reckless driving, death by negligence||A day after three student were killed when their vehicle, a Maruti Suzuki Swift, fell into the Sidhwan Canal near Raghunath Enclave on the South City Road, police arrested an advocate for driving recklessly and causing the youngsters’ death on Monday. The accused, Parveen Jindal, was driving the Hyundai i-20 that allegedly took a sudden turn and caused the accident. The lone survivor, Rahul of Gurdaspur, said he had come to Ludhiana with his friends Pahulpreet Bains, 18; and Prabhjot Singh Lubana, 19; to meet their friend Trisha Saini, 21, in Ludhiana on Sunday. They were going to drop her at her paying guest accommodation “when a Hyundai i-20 took a sudden turn, leading to our car hitting it from the rear and plunging into the canal.”Rahul, who is pursuing graduation, managed to swim out of the canal. Tiksha was interning at a hospital in the city and was putting up at a paying guest accommodation. Rahul is pursuing graduation, while Prabhjot and Pahulpreet were awaiting their Class-12 results. Prabhjot was at the wheel. Some passers-by rescued the victims and rushed them to the nearest hospital, where doctors declared them brought dead. An FIR has been lodged under Sections 279 (reckless driving), 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of ₹50) of the Indian Penal Code.ASI Baljinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said that with the help of CCTV footage the police have traced the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-young-lives-snuffed-out-in-ludhiana-advocate-held-for-reckless-driving-death-by-negligence-101627328201832.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||Nehru’s weakness was he wanted to be messenger of peace, says Maharashtra governor Koshyari||Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Monday criticised former Prime Minister the late Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru saying his policies weakened the country. Except for the tenure of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the security of the country was neglected by previous governments, Koshyari said, at an event organized to celebrate the 22nd anniversary of ‘Kargil Vijay Diwas’ at Raj Bhavan.“I admire Pandit (Jawaharlal) Nehru, but he had the biggest weakness. He wanted to become a messenger of peace and release pigeons. His contribution towards the country is huge, but due to this weakness, the nation has become too weak and remained in the same position for a long period,” Koshyari remarked.He then alleged all successive governments at the Centre, led by the Congress, were weak and scared of pressure over national security. “Except for of Vajpayeeji’s (Atal Bihar Vajpayee) tenure, the focus of the previous governments towards national security was minimal. I remember Vajpayeeji conducted a nuclear test in 1998, which could have been conducted 20 years ago as our scientists were ready, but the previous governments were afraid of conducting the test. Many countries such as the United States, United Kingdom etc. imposed a ban after the test was conducted in 1998, but Vajpayeeji trusted the people of our country,” the governor claimed.The Congress slammed the governor, saying his comments are unfortunate and a distortion of reality. “Being a proponent of peace doesn’t mean being weak. If that is the case then former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who took Sada-e-Sarhad bus to Lahore (Pakistan), former deputy Prime Minister Lal Krishna Advani, who visited the mausoleum of Muhammad Ali Jinnah, founder of Pakistan, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who reached Lahore in an unscheduled visit to greet then Pakistan prime minister Nawaz Sharif will also be called as weak,” said Ashok Chavan, state public works minister.He further said many institutions were merged under the leadership of Pandit Nehru after the country got independence. “Pandit Nehru also marked the beginning of the dream of a modern, scientific India. His contribution in building the infrastructure and deciding the foreign policy of the country under very adverse conditions is unforgettable,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nehrus-weakness-was-he-wanted-to-be-messenger-of-peace-says-maharashtra-governor-koshyari-101627327300453.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra constitutes a task force for smooth functioning of industries||Following the instructions of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, the Maharashtra government on Monday set up a task force to ensure smooth functioning of industrial units in the state without compromising the preventive measures for Covid-19. Headed by the state industries minister Subhash Desai, the task force will meet every fortnight or once a month based on necessity. It is expected to prepare an emergency response to the pandemic, a medium-term action plan, coordinate for relief operations including availability of vaccines, quarantine centres, testing centres, oxygen, meals for employees, etc. It will also have to ensure compliance by the industry of health protocols, augmenting healthcare capabilities and any other matter that needs urgent attention. Chief secretary Sitaram Kunte will be the vice-chairman of the 30-member task force along with secretaries from other departments concerned such as the CMO, industries and health. Uday Kotak, ex-president, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and MD and CEO, Kotak Mahindra Bank, will be the lead member, while some of the prominent names who have been appointed as members of the task force. They are are Sanjiv Bajaj, president designate, CII and chairman & MD, Bajaj Finserv Ltd; B. Thiagarajan, MD, Blue Star Ltd, Dr Naushad Forbes Co-Chairman, Forbes Marshall; Baba Kalyani, MD, Bharat Forge Ltd; Ashok Hinduja, chairman, Hinduja Group; Sajjan Jindal, chairman, JSW Steel; SN Subrahmanyan CEO, Larsen & Toubro; Dr Anish Shah MD & CEO, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd; Ajay Piramal, chairman, Piramal Group; Banmali Agrawala, president, Infrastructure, Defence & Aerospace, Tata Sons Ltd; Harsh Goenka, chairman, RPG Industries Ltd; Nikhil Meswani, executive director, Reliance Industries Ltd; Niranjan Hiranandani, co-founder & MD, Hiranandani Group and Neel Raheja CEO and K Raheja Corporation, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-constitutes-a-task-force-for-smooth-functioning-of-industries-101627327301045.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra grants Rs1.93 crore for fire safety measures at Bhandara hosp||Months after a fire at the Bhandara district hospital in Nagpur killed 10 babies in the sick newborn care unit (SNCU), the state health department has granted ₹1.93 crore for fire safety measures at the hospital. In January, a baby warmer caught fire due to a short-circuit, which spread to the whole outborn section at the hospital’s SNCU, where 17 newborns were admitted. Seven babies were rescued. Following the incident, several loopholes in the fire safety measures were identified during the inspection at the hospital. Some fire extinguishers were found expired, the emergency fire alarms were dysfunctional and the electric wiring of the hospital was faulty, among others. “The hospital didn’t even have luminous fire exit signs in case of a fire. Also, fire exits in many departments were either locked or turned into store rooms for unused furniture and machines. After inspection, we submitted a complete report to the public health department with the requirement amendments,” said a senior officer from the Nagpur health department. “We have accorded administrative approval and work will be done soon through the state PWD with the state budget. A government resolution (GR) regarding the same has been issued recently,” said Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary (health), government of Maharashtra. Additionally, the state has also granted ₹96.19 lakh for procuring essential equipment for the SNCU. “This amount was granted in January as all the equipment got destroyed in the fire. The process of repair is still underway,” said the officer. Following the incident, several officers, including district civil surgeon Dr Pramod Khandate, on-duty medical officer of the hospital Dr Archana Meshram, and nurse in-charge Jyoti Bharaskar were suspended. While additional civil surgeon Dr Sunita Bade was transferred, the contract of paediatrician Dr Stuti Ambade and two staff nurses – Smita Sanjay Ambil Duke and Shubhangi Sathavane – of the hospital were terminated. Although health activists have welcomed the move of the state government in revamping fire safety measures at the hospital, they criticised the officers for their negligence. “This is the story of all government hospitals, especially in rural areas. The hospitals run on skeletal staff and there is no mechanism to implement fire safety rules. The electric wires keep hanging from the roof, fire extinguishers are expired. In fact, staffers aren’t even trained how to handle fire extinguishers or rescue patients in case of a fire accident,” said Dr Ravikant Singh, founder of the non-government NGO—Doctors for you.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-grants-rs1-93-crore-for-fire-safety-measures-at-bhandara-hosp-101627327180375.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: CET registration process for FYJC seats starts; no glitch reported||First-year junior college (FYJC) aspirants were finally relieved as many were able to complete the registration process for the optional common entrance test (CET), which has been left optional for Class 10 students. State board students will be given preference over others at the time of admissions to FYJC colleges. A week after solving technical issues that had been plaguing the registration website, the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) managed to smoothly launch https://cet.11thadmission.org.in/ on Monday at 3pm. “The site is working very smoothly, and we haven’t received a single complaint ever since the registration process commenced at 3pm on Monday. In order to control the flow of students, we have requested only state board students to finish registration on Monday and Tuesday. Wednesday onwards, all non-state board students can start the registration process,” said an official from MSBSHSE. He added that nearly 140,000 students who had already completed the registration process last week need not opt for registration again. Originally, registration for the optional CET exam for admissions to FYJC colleges was scheduled to take place between July 20 and Monday. As per the new schedule, students can complete the process of registration till August 2. This year, Class 10 board exams across several school education boards had to be scrapped due to rising Covid-19 cases. Results for the Class 10 batch were given out based on students’ performance in Class 9 and Class 10. While the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) results were announced on July 16, the Council of Indian Secondary Certificate Examinations (CISCE) announced ICSE results on July 24. According to the circular released by the state board earlier this month, an optional CET exam based solely on SSC syllabus and consisting of multiple-choice questions (MCQs) for 100 marks will be conducted offline on August 21 from 11am to 1pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cet-registration-process-for-fyjc-seats-starts-no-glitch-reported-101627327120437.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||Maha floods toll now 192; Taliye search called off||The death toll in the flood-ravaged coastal districts and western Maharashtra rose to 192 after the recovery of 40 more bodies from multiple landslide sites in the past 24 hours. The number of people who have been evacuated to safer places touched 375,178 after shifting a few thousand citizens in Sangli and Kolhapur on Sunday. The state cabinet is on Wednesday expected to take a call on a special package to the flood-affected people, which includes widening the scope of relief norms. Thirty-one more deaths were reported in Raigad after a few more bodies were recovered from the landslide site in Taliye village on Monday, taking the toll in the district to 95. Also, the search operation for the 31 people missing in Taliye was called off on Monday, officials said. Raigad district collector Nidhi Chaudhari said that those still missing will be declared dead following due process. The Konkan and western districts in Maharashtra have witnessed heavy rainfall since last week, triggering unprecedented floods and landslides.Meanwhile, the toll in Satara touched 45, while 21 deaths were reported in Ratnagiri. Thane (12); Kolhapur (7); Mumbai (4); and Sindhudurg, Pune, Wardha, Akola (2 each), too, reported rain-related fatalities since July 22Among 25 people still missing from eight flood-hit districts, 14 are in Ratnagiri with most of them said to have been trapped in a landslide in Porase in Khed tehsil. Thane, Satara and Pune have four, three and two people yet to be traced. Barring Porase in Khed, Ratnagiri and Jor in Satara, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) rescue teams have called off their operations after possibility of their tracing faded. The NDRF and armed forces have started withdrawing the rescue teams from flood-affected areas as water in almost all districts have receded. An NDRF official said 12 of 34 companies are being withdrawn. “As proposed by the local administration in consultation with the state government, 12 companies are being withdrawn. The remaining 22 teams on field will undertake restoration work in the respective districts. Barring two locations — Jor in Satara and Posare in Khed, Ratnagiri —rescue operations have been called off. The remaining companies, too, will be withdrawn gradually,” the official said. Sunil Thorave, resident deputy collector, Satara, said except for the landslide site of Jor, all other rescue operations at six landslides have been called off. “A 10-month-old girl is missing from Ambeghar landslide location, while two others are missing from Jor. In consultation with the villagers that reported landslides, operations have been called off as almost all missing people have been traced. The situation in the district has come to normal with the water level in all rivers coming down below their warning level. Barring a few roads in Mahabaleshwar, all state and district highways have been opened up for the traffic,” he said. Around 290 state and district roads in flood-affected districts have been completely shut down, while vehicular traffic on 469 roads has been affected. 140 bridges in Konkan and western Maharashtra are still submerged. Public works department minister Ashok Chavan has asked his department to assess the losses and take steps to ensure that the roads are opened at the earliest.More than 3.10 lakh households in flood affected districts are still without electricity owing to the damage caused to the infrastructure. 960,00 households in 1,927 villages and towns suffered power outage since Thursday. 67 sub stations, 474 electricity lines and 14,737 transmitters had damaged in the flooding and downpour. Of them, more than 70% have been restored, according to a statement by the office of energy minister Nitin Raut. A total of 375,178 people have been evacuated to the safer places in eight districts. 206,619 people in Sangli, 150,365 in Kolhapur, 7,530 in Satara have been taken to either shelters or homes of their relatives. Though the water level in major rivers in Konkan and western Maharashtra has receded below the warning level, Panchganga in Kolhapur is still flowing above its danger level. The water level of Panchganga at Rajaram weir dropped to 48.3 ft from more than 54 ft two days ago, against its danger level of 43. NH-4 national highway between Pune and Kolhapur was opened on Monday, after closure for four days, for the essential services like fuel, gas supply and healthcare services. State government is expected to take a call on a special package for the flood-affected areas by widening the scope of the set National Disaster Response Fund norms. The government is considering to add a few more categories, including small-time traders, labourers to extend the compensation. Before the cabinet, chief minister Thackeray has convened a meeting with deputy chief and finance minister Ajit Pawar on Tuesday. The decision over the widening of the relief package is expected to be taken during the meeting.“The norms for the compensation for the losses of housing structures, belongings and crops were changed during Nisarg and Taukte cyclones in last two years. On the same lines, the ex-gratia amount will be increased for the flood-affected people in Konkan and Western Maharashtra. The previous Fadnavis government had also added a few more factors by announcing compensation to the traders and rent for the people who have lost their roof until the new houses were build. The package is likely to have these additions too,” said an official from Mantralaya.During a review meeting on Monday, CM Thackeray asked the respective departments to repair the roads on a war footing so that the traffic is resumed, clean up flooded areas to avoid epidemic diseases and restore supply of the drinking water. The water supply in 17 villaes in Ratnagiri and 20 in Sindhudurg has been affected, while 746 water supply schemes have sustained damages. The district authorities have deployed 459 medical teams in 496 affected villages for the medical help at doorsteps. District authorities have also been directed to complete the assessment of the losses at the earliest. The assessment is expected to take at least 10 days, though the preliminary estimates are expected to be submitted in next few days. The water resources department has been directed to install Real Time Decision Support system on 26 river basins in Konkan for the early alarms of the flooding. Seven of such systems will be installed in next three months. The state has also planned floodwalls for the towns like Chiplun which has river flowing from middle of the habitat. Similarly, the CM has also asked the relief and rehabilitation department for setting up the centres of State Disaster Response Force in every district. The respective departments also have been directed to expedite the process of the landslide affected villages. “The construction of the houses will be done by Mhada and other government agencies with the funding from CSR of corporate houses, central government schemes like PM Awas Yojana. Departments have also been told to identify more such landslide-prone villages and habitats in rural and urban parts and chalk out plans for their rehabilitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-floods-toll-now-192-taliye-search-called-off-101627327060433.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 10 million citizens fully vaccinated against Covid||Maharashtra on Monday became the first Indian state to administer both Covid-19 jabs to 10 million citizens. The state on Monday recorded 4,877 fresh infections, even as its tally of fully vaccinated citizens reached 10,099,524. The total number of doses administered in state has touched 41,766,482.“Maharashtra has once again achieved an important milestone. We have till now administered first doses to 31,666,958 people. Today [Monday], in this vaccination drive, we managed to reach the figure of vaccinating more than one crore (10 million) people with two doses,” said Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary, public health, Maharashtra. Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic, said vaccination is the only solution to counter the Covid-19 pandemic. “We need to use the carrot-and-stick approach and encourage more people to vaccinate themselves,” said Dr Mandot. “People who are fully vaccinated should be given relaxations like allowing to travel in trains or conducting their businesses,” he added. The state has been asking for a monthly quota of 30 million from the Central government to vaccinate maximum citizens. The Maharashtra legislature even recently passed a resolution recently demanding 30 million doses every month on the plea that it has the infrastructure to undertake this feat. State health minister Rajesh Tope has pleaded that maximum vaccinations will be an effective tool to fight the impending third wave.Mumbai on Monday recorded 297 new cases with eight deaths with its toll reaching 15,845. The total number of Covid-19 patients right from the outbreak last year has now reached 6,269,799. There were 148,138 tests done on Monday, while the number of recoveries clocked 11,077.The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 88,729, while the total number of deaths right from the Covid-19 outbreak has now reached 131,605. There are currently 88,729 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 15,550 patients, followed by Thane with 11,321 active patients. The toll has now reached 131,605 with Pune leading with 18,384 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 15,845.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-10-million-citizens-fully-vaccinated-against-covid-101627326880402.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||BEST sends rescue team to Mahad||Following the directives of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) has sent a team to rescue people in flood-affected Mahad. The team, comprising seven members, a towing vehicle equipped with medicines, inflated tyres and spare materials, left for Mahad from Vadala bus depot at 11am on Sunday and reached Mahad at 7.30pm.The team will work alongside the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and Mahad collector to rescue people.“The squad team is equipped with special skills and trained in rescuing people. Continuous communication is being done between staff and the disaster management department,” said a senior BEST official.As the state witnessed torrential rains last week, floods were reported in different areas across the state. The flood-affected districts include Thane, Sangli, Kolhapur, Satara, Pune, Ratnagiri and Raigad.Meanwhile, Mumbai guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray held a meeting with BMC, Mhada and the collector on Monday and directed Mhada to construct retaining walls wherever necessary to avoid loss of life due to landslides. The collector’s office has been asked to release the required funds. A Vikramgadh-based educational and social welfare outfit rushed five truckloads of dry rations, medicines, blankets to Chiplun in Ratnagiri district which has been affected by flooding. Earlier, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) also sent 100 officials and workers to flood-affected Mahad-Poladpur region.Nearly 90,000 people have been evacuated from seven districts in the relief and rescue operations started by the Maharashtra government. The government also has roped in the Indian Army and Navy to assist in ongoing rescue operations in flood-hit areas.Inputs from Ram Parmar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/best-sends-rescue-team-to-mahad-101627326460359.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai resident among nine killed in Himachal landslide||A Mumbai resident is among the nine people who were killed in a landslide at Sangla-Chitkul area in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh. The tourists were killed when a boulder fell on their tempo during a landslide on Sunday afternoon, said Kinnaur police. The police said among two of the 11 travellers survived as they were thrown out of the vehicle when it turned turtle.“Eleven people were travelling and were to visit Spiti Valley and Kalpa, a small village in the Sutlej River Valley. When they reached Chitkula and were travelling towards Sangla, a boulder fell on their vehicle due to landslide and the vehicle was thrown 300 metres into a deep valley,” said Mohan Thakur, station house officer, Sangla police station. The body of the city resident, Kumar Ulhas Vedpathak, 37, is set to be brought to the city on Tuesday, which is also his birthday, but his relatives are still struggling with the process. Kumar’s mother Kamini, his wife Aarti, his 11-year-old daughter Yashika and six-year-old daughter Stuti have still not been told about is death.“Vedpathak, a resident of Mumbai’s Girgaum, died on the spot,” said Thakur. “We are taking his body to New Delhi, Himachal Bhavan. The family can collect his body from there,” said Thakur. “Kumar, a Girgaum resident, was a well-known vastu consultant and used to guide several clients in India. He used to visits all over India and was a frequent flyer. He also took online classes on vastu,” said his cousin Milind Vedpathak. The family is now taking help of a cousin from New Delhi to bring his body back. “We are trying to fly the body to Mumbai by Tuesday morning,” said a neighbour of the Vedpathaks. “Tomorrow when we bring his body back to Mumbai it will be his birthday. He used to celebrate it in a lavish way,” said his neighbour who did not wish to be named.“He was a joyous person. I just came to know him during the trip. We were having a great time. It was a very sudden incident. I was thrown out of the vehicle and survived. He was not that fortunate,” said Navin Upadhyay, a Mohali resident who survived the accident.The trip was arranged by a Delhi-based tour operator and people from Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra were among the travellers.A video of the landslide has gone viral, in which huge boulders and stones are seen coming down from mountains towards Sangla Valley and even breaking a bridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-resident-among-nine-killed-in-himachal-landslide-101627326401544.html
27-07-2021||Other||MBAs, LLMs queue up for constable’s job; 4,358 posts, 1 lakh apply and counting||Ludhiana Wielding a government ‘lathi’ is widely desired among Punjab’s youngsters, even those with professional qualification like an MBA or LLM. Sample this: Over 1 lakh applications have poured in for 4,358 posts of constables in Punjab Police, within 10 days of the opening of the application window on July 16. The eligibility is Class-12 pass. The monthly pay is fixed at ₹19,900, plus certain allowances. With three weeks to go before the application window closes on August 15, the number of applications is expected to rise considerably. There are 2,015 vacancies in the district police cadre, while 2,343 vacancies are in the armed police cadre. This is the first time that a written examination is being conducted for the post of constables. Punjab police is providing training to aspirants in the form of online classes as well as physical training to candidates willing to join the force.10,500 APPLY FROM LUDHIANA RANGE ALONEFrom Ludhiana range comprising Khanna and Jagraon sub-divisions, and SBS Nagar (Nawanshahar) in addition to Ludhiana Commissionerate, 10,509 candidates have applied for the recruitment. With Ludhiana Police also starting a training module on cracking the recruitment, over 4,600 aspirants have registered with it. Of these, 936 (over 20%) are graduates; 153 (3%) are postgraduates, with 63 women also part of this highly-qualified group.Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Kumar Agrawal said the recruitment drive is receiving an overwhelming response from the candidates, and the police were providing online as well as physical training to the aspirants. “Recently recruited sub-inspectors have been asked to make short motivational videos to help candidates. We select the best and post the link for online reference of aspirants,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mbas-llms-queue-up-for-constable-s-job-4-358-posts-1-lakh-apply-and-counting-101627326401044.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||10% of active Covid patients in Mumbai are critical||As Mumbai’s daily Covid-19 cases dropped below 500, the number of critical patients in the city has also come down. Of the 5,610 active cases as of Monday, 552 or nearly 10% patients are currently in critical condition as per data from the civic body. On July 1, the number of critical patients in Mumbai stood at 761 or 9% of total 8,498 active cases. Since then, there has been a 27% decrease in the number of critical patients as of Monday.Medical experts said many of these patients are arriving late in the hospital when their symptoms are already severe. “Some of them are transferred late from other centres, while some spend too much time at home, self- treating, till their condition worsens,” said Dr Maharudra Kumbhar, the officer on special duty at SevenHills Hospital — a 1,850-bed Covid-19 facility in Marol. The hospital has 29% occupancy. It has a 300-bed ICU which currently has 180 critical patients. “Recovery rate in ICU improved tremendously since the first wave,” said Dr Kumbhar. Doctors said overall criticality and duration of hospitalisation has reduced among Covid patients. “Exposure to the virus, vaccination and newer treatment options such as the monoclonal antibody cocktail has brought down the rate of hospitalisation as well as the number of critical patients,” said physician Dr Jalil Parkar, who practices at Lilavati Hospital, Bandra. “Around 70% to 80% Covid beds in our facility are now unoccupied, and most hospitals like ours have resumed their non-Covid work,” he said. Of the total 21,434 Covid-19 beds in Mumbai including DCHs, DCHCs and CCC2s, 14% or 2,966 beds are currently occupied, according to BMC’s Covid-19 dashboard. ICU occupancy currently stands at 38% with nearly 1,400 beds vacant. “The city’s situation is now better, but we should not let our guard down,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani, adding that the civic body is focussing on two things — vaccination and preparation for the third wave. Mumbai has been recording less than 500 cases daily since July 16. The city currently has only three active containment zones and 60 sealed buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/10-of-active-covid-patients-in-mumbai-are-critical-101627326340353.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 bed occupancy in Mumbai city at 15%||With Covid-19 cases on the decline for the past few weeks, Covid bed occupancy across hospitals in the city has dropped to 15.5% with only 2,755 of the total 17,672 Covid beds occupied in Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs) and Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHCs). The total beds include 8,834 oxygen beds of which 12.8% or 1,132 beds are occupied. However, intensive care unit (ICU) and ventilator beds occupancy is higher as 38% or 871 of the available 2,278 ICU beds and 43% or 549 of the 1,269 available ventilator beds are occupied.Mumbai has been reporting fewer Covid-19 cases per day for the past few weeks. It reported less than 500 cases several times in the first two weeks of July, followed by less than 500 new cases on all days since July 16. On Sunday, Mumbai reported 364 new Covid-19 cases, on Saturday 410 new cases, and on Friday 373 new Covid-19 cases.As of Monday morning, Mumbai’s hospitals catering to Covid patients have a total of 14,917 vacant beds which include 7,702 oxygen beds, 1,407 ICU beds and 720 ventilator beds. The city also has 15 paediatric ICU beds of which only one is occupied, and 33 neo-natal ICU beds of which seven are occupied. Of the 121 beds available for Covid-positive patients who have cancer and or require dialysis, 62 beds are occupied and 59 are vacant.Private hospitals contribute to 30.5% of the total Covid-19 beds available in hospitals across Mumbai, and municipal- and government-operated hospitals contribute the remaining 69.5%. Presently, private hospitals have a bed occupancy of 22% while that of private hospitals is 12.6%.There are 7,186 active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai as of Monday, as per state data.According to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), around 47% of the active patients are symptomatic and 43% are asymptomatic. Authorities and experts have pointed that during the second wave which hit around the beginning of March, Covid-19 patients who are critical are taking longer to recover. On Monday, the city reported 297 cases — the lowest since April 2020. The city also reported eight deaths. Case tally now stands at 734,415 and toll at 15,845. Mumbai’s fatality rate is 2.15% and recovery rate 96.15% with 709,013 recoveries||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-bed-occupancy-in-mumbai-city-at-15-101627326280379.html
27-07-2021||Other||Sidhu may join stir, but no sharing stage or addressing rallies: Farm unions||Chandigarh Punjab’s major farm unions have said that they would not allow the newly appointed Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu to either share stage with protesting farm leaders or address their rallies. Farmers are seeking repeal of the three farm laws that Parliament passed in September 2020, since November 26 last year. The Samyukt Kisan morcha (SKM), comprising 31 farmer bodies, is leading the protest at the Delhi borders. Balbir Singh Rajewal, who heads a faction of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), on Monday, said, “We would not allow him (Sidhu) to share stage with farm leaders or address our rallies.” Rajewal was reacting to Sidhu’s announcement on the day he took charge that he would reach out to the protesting farmers, stand in their support and hold discussions with farm leaders. Rajewal added that Sidhu could join farmers who are sitting on protest at the borders of Delhi, but no special treatment would be given to him. “SKM has resolved not to mix politics with the protest in any way,” he said, adding that to date Sidhu had not contacted any farm leader. Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, general secretary, BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), one of the largest farm bodies in Punjab in terms of number of protesters, said, “Sidhu can join our protest as an ordinary farmer, but not in any political capacity. We will not allow him to come near our stage or give him the mike to address farmers. This has been an SKM resolve since the protest started.” Overall, too, the mood among farmers is not to involve Sidhu in their protest, though a section of leaders wanted a rethink on the idea. Responding to comments of farmers, Kuljit Singh Nagra, one of the four new working presidents of the state unit, said, “No one among us is aspiring to be on the farmers’ stage. I work with farmers the entire day and am ready to sit in the last row among protesters. We feel the pain farmers are undergoing and want that their issues are resolved at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sidhu-may-join-stir-but-no-sharing-stage-or-addressing-rallies-farm-unions-101627326161123.html
27-07-2021||Other||AGRA: No traditional fairs this year, but devotees throng temple on first Monday||Despite the cancellation of Agra’s traditional fairs this year due to Covid-19 restrictions, Taj city’s Rajeshwar Mahadev temple attracted a large crowd on the first Monday of Shravan.Every year, Agra follows the tradition of organising four fairs, in four shiv temples of the district, on all four Mondays of the Shravan month. But following the Covid-19 restrictions and to restrict gatherings the fairs were called off this year. “All four melas organised on four Mondays of the holy month are called off in compliance with Covid-19 pandemic guidelines,” stated Dr Prabha Kant Awasthi, the additional district magistrate (ADM) Agra city. As per the tradition, the four melas (Fairs) are consecutively organised, at four Shiv temples in four corners of the city, during the month of Shravan. The first fair is organised at Rajeshwar Mahadev temple followed by the second at Balkeshwar Mahadev Temple, at banks of river Yamuna.The most important fair, the Kailash fair, is organised at Kailash Mahadev Temple in the outskirts of the city near to the bank of river Yamuna, on the third Monday. The last fair is organised at Prithvinath Mahadev temple. But due to the continuing pandemic and Covid-19 restrictions, all four fairs stand cancelled this year.Despite that, a large number of devotees turned up at the Rajeshwar Mahadev Temple on the first Monday of the holy month to offer prayers, water and milk to the deity. The devotees turned up in smart numbers at the Rajeshwar Mahadev temple today and stood in long queues as a limited number of devotees were allowed at a time in premises of the temple, said a temple official.“I turned up early in the day to offer milk at the temple but had to wait in the queue to reach the gate of the temple,” stated one of the devotees waiting for his turn. These devotees braved the hot and humid weather but waited for their turn as they were allowed entry in a group of 50, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agra-no-traditional-fairs-this-year-but-devotees-throng-temple-on-first-monday-101627326041704.html
27-07-2021||Other||Cidco to transfer 219ha of mangrove land to Maharashtra forest department||The City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) has decided to transfer 219 hectares (ha) of mangrove land under its ownership to the mangroves cell of the Maharashtra forest department, for protection and conservation. Cidco has written to the Raigad district collector in this regard. The collector will take the possession of the mangrove land from Cidco on Tuesday and thereafter transfer it.Cidco’s managing director and vice-chairman Sanjay Mukherjee said, “Cidco has always given due importance to environment-friendly development in its policy. Accordingly, Cidco has decided to transfer 219ha of mangrove land to the state forest department.”To protect and conserve the mangrove forest in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region under reserved forest, the authorities are transferring the mangrove region under their jurisdiction to the forest department. Accordingly, Cidco has decided to transfer mangrove land from Mauje Kamothe and Mauje Panvel. Cidco stated that other mangrove lands in Panvel and Uran will be also handed over to the mangrove cell in the next phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cidco-to-transfer-219ha-of-mangrove-land-to-maharashtra-forest-department-101627325981529.html
27-07-2021||Other||102, 108 services stalled in UP amid strike by ambulance staff||LUCKNOW Many patients and their attendants had a tough time reaching hospitals as staff of 102 and 108 ambulance services went on a flash strike across UP on Monday in wake of a change in the company that operates the advanced life support system (ALS) ambulances. The main demands of the ambulance drivers included job security, end of contract system, inclusion of 102, 108 and ALS employees into NHM service, ₹50 lakh insurance for staff, if they die of Covid and overtime payment after eight hours’ duty. After the recent tender to run 250 ALS ambulances in UP was bagged by Ziqitza Healthcare Limited, ambulance staff were apprehending that many of them would lose their jobs. The workers went on strike to pressurise the government to get all the old staff working on ALS ambulances deployed in the new firm without any riders. “The issue was related to the selection of staff for running ALS ambulances with the new company,” said TVS Reddy, vice president, GVK EMRI that runs the ambulance services 108 and 102. “After talks with the authorities, we have decided to allow 10 ambulances to run in each district. But our agitation will continue till our demands are met,” said Hanuman Pandey, leading the agitation of ambulance staff.Keeping in view the crisis, the health department in Lucknow deployed additional ambulances. There are 4,720 ambulances in UP, including 2,270 being run under the 102 service, 2,200 ambulances under the 108 service and 250 ALS ambulances. On an average, 102 ambulances cater to about 26,000 calls and 108 ambulances attend to 9,000 calls from across UP while over 1,000 calls are received for ALS ambulances. With majority ambulances not operating, hardly a few patients could get the services. In Lucknow, 78 ambulances are deployed, including 44 under 108 service and 34 under the 102 service. “Instead of waiting for an ambulance, I used a friend’s car to reach the hospital. I had got a message about the strike from the ambulance staff in the morning,” said Rakesh, a resident of Gomti Nagar. For the past three days, some of the ambulance staff had been on protest near the PGI Trauma Centre in Vrindavan Yojna. “Finding no answer to our demands, we decided to hold a massive protest,” said Shahdab, spokesperson for the agitating ambulance staff. WHY THE STRIKE The workers went on strike to pressurise the government to get all the old staff working on ALS ambulances deployed in the new firm without any riders. Though Ziqitza Healthcare Limited has said they would give preference to experienced staff, the workers are apprehensive about their jobs with the new company. GVK EMRI would continue to run the 108 and 102 ambulances in UP.CMO deploys additional ambulances Keeping in view the strike by the ambulance staff, Lucknow chief medical officer deployed a fleet of ambulances for hospitals. Mobile numbers of staff were also issued for people to call and get the ambulance services. Till the strike is on, Vijay Kumar can be contacted on cell phone number 9335213689 and Rishit Yadav on 9798282727 to get ambulance services. “We have deployed ambulances at all CHCs in rural areas. For urban health centres, the control room at CMO office is coordinating ambulances,” said chief medical officer Dr Manoj Agrawal, in a press statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/102-108-services-stalled-in-up-amid-strike-by-ambulance-staff-101627325980906.html
27-07-2021||Other||Maharashtra forest dept proposes to seek Ramsar tag for Thane Creek||The Maharashtra forest department has moved a proposal to seek the Ramsar certification for Thane Creek, including the area currently protected as the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary (TCFS) as well as the surrounding eco-sensitive zone (ESZ). Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF), mangrove cell, made the announcement during an online town hall meeting organised by Climate Voices – a consortium of three organisations working in the climate and environment space – along with the environment department’s Majhi Vasundhara initiative on Monday, July 26, observed as World Mangroves Day.“A proposal to declare Thane Creek as a Ramsar site has been submitted and we are working on it with the Maharashtra environment department. We are waiting for its approval by the state wetland authority, headed by Maharashtra environment minister Aaditya Thackeray. Following this, it will be sent to the Union environment ministry,” said Tiwari.A Ramsar site is a wetland area designated to be of international importance – especially for water birds – under an intergovernmental environmental treaty known as the Ramsar Convention. The treaty provides a framework for nations to conserve such wetlands while seeking international cooperation and resources where required.There are only two Ramsar sites in Maharashtra – the Lonar Crater Lake in Buldhana and the Nandur Madhmeshwar Bird Sanctuary in Nashik – while overall, India has 40 such sites. If accepted by the Ramsar Convention, Thane Creek will be the first such site in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. On July 8, Tiwari had written to principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) Sunil Limaye with a draft of the official Ramsar Information Sheet (RIS) required for submission to the international authority. Limaye then forwarded the request to the principal secretary (forest department) on July 14, seeking that the proposal be sent to the Central government for approval.“Thane Creek is fringed by mangroves on both the banks and comprises around 20% of the total Indian mangrove species. These comprise of true mangroves (13 species) and mangrove associates (36 species)... The high species diversity of birds in TCFS and presence of many globally important species along with the rich abundance of lesser flamingos (near threatened) and greater flamingos (makes) this area globally significant and the site has also been categorised as an Important Bird Area (IBA). It is an important part of the wetland complex of the Central Asian Flyway of the birds (sic),” the forest department said in RIS, a copy of which is with HT.Besides flamingos, the creek harbours more than 202 bird species, many of which are considered as threatened and endangered. The other fauna includes 18 species of fish, crustaceans and molluscs, 59 species of butterflies, 67 species of insects, 35 species of phytoplankton, 24 species of zooplankton and 23 species of benthic organisms. “Owing to the uniqueness of the habitat for lesser flamingos located amidst the three chaotic megacities (Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Thane), its biodiversity, and plethora of services (both tangible and non-tangible) associated with site at local, regional and global levels, makes the protection and management of Thane Creek a conservation priority,” the forest department submitted in its proposal. Environmentalists have also been campaigning for other important birding areas such as Panje wetland in Uran to be declared as Ramsar sites.Stalin D, director of NGO Vanashakti, lauded the move, which he said is “10 years too late”. “As a protected bird sanctuary, it is still easy to divert land for infrastructure purposes. But as a Ramsar site, both the state and Central governments will be accountable before an international body. So the stakes for conservation are certainly higher,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-forest-dept-proposes-to-seek-ramsar-tag-for-thane-creek-101627325980286.html
27-07-2021||Lucknow||BJP tasks cadre with booth level people-connect||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to fill vacancies at all its district level departments or wings by August and has tasked newly appointed conveners, co-conveners and coordinators of various bodies to take the works of the central and the UP governments to the masses. The BJP also announced state level functionaries of the party’s OBC wing. They include 8 vice presidents, 3 general secretaries, 8 state secretaries, treasurer and co-treasurer, a state office in-charge, a state media in-charge, social media in-charge and a researcher. At the various meetings at the party office, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev and state general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal said though strongly placed for 2022 UP polls, the party required its cadre to remain vigilant. The BJP leaders have also been visiting booth committee members. For instance, the state BJP chief visited a sculptor Pawan Prajapati, an OBC booth president, in Lucknow’s Telibagh area on Sunday. “All the cadre have to maintain booth-level people connect,” a party leader said.“The opposition is clueless, rudderless and is trying to set a false narrative, full of lies and deceit, against the government. We need to expose the opposition,” UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev said. State general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal said the cadres have to remain in touch directly with the masses. “This direct connect would help you take the various initiatives of the government, both at the centre and in UP to the people, make the poor aware of them. It would also help achieve the objective of exposing the opposition,” Bansal said. “The idea is to galvanise all our foot soldiers for the mission 2022,” a state BJP leader said while admitting they were expecting a direct contest mainly between the BJP and the Samajwadi Party. The BJP leader didn’t attach much importance to the BSP’s Brahmin meets. “You can’t cash a cheque twice,” the leader said referring to 2007 when the BSP had put in place a remarkable Brahmin-Dalit social chemistry to come to power on its own for the first time in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-tasks-cadre-with-booth-level-peopleconnect-101627325861884.html
27-07-2021||Other||Maharashtra’s mangrove cover: Reports by state and Centre differ||Two different reports on mangrove cover in Maharashtra – one by the Union environment ministry and the other commissioned by the state forest department – show a discrepancy of 33sq km (equal to 6,111 football fields) in the extent of mangroves. Though experts said the discrepancy falls within the acceptable realm of error for satellite imagery analysis, environmentalists have expressed concern over this difference from an administration and conservation standpoint.A survey conducted by the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology (IIST), at the behest of the Maharashtra forest department, showed a mangrove cover of 353.1sq km. The survey used satellite data up to the year 2019. HT had reported the data on March 4.In contrast, the Forest Survey of India’s (FSI) biennial report (last released in 2019), pegs the total extent of mangrove cover in the state at 320sq. This report, however, used satellite data only between October 2017 and January 2018. A comparison between the sensors, scale, resolution and minimum mappable units used in each of the above surveys is not publicly available. “While an increase in the mangrove cover between 2018 and 2019 would have certainly happened, it can’t be 33sq km in such a short period of time. And even if the discrepancy is plausible due to differences in the scale and spatial resolution of images used, it only shows that there is no real substitute for an on ground assessment of the true figure,” said Stalin D, director, NGO Vanashakti, who has recently filed a fresh plea over non-compliance of the Bombay high court’s 2018 judgment on mangrove protection in the state.Virendra Tiwari, APCCF, mangrove cell and independent mappers attributed the discrepancy to differences in methodology. “The difference is most likely due to different spatial resolutions used for analysis,” Tiwari said.Raj Bhagat, a remote sensing expert currently working with the World Resources Institute (India), explained, “There will always be differences in the result when different organisations conduct the same assessment. It is not just the resolution of images. Seasonality of the images and the definitions of coastal boundaries, for example, will also make a difference. I have always maintained that satellite imagery is only an alternative to better quality data, which can be gathered from a local assessment of the grid boundaries. In the present instance, the 33sq km difference is within the acceptable 5-10% margin of error for remote sensing, but from an administrative standpoint, it is not a fair number.” There is also a more significant discrepancy in earlier data. For example, the IIST report pegged the total extent of mangrove cover in Maharashtra for the year 2005 at 304sq km, while FSI’s 2005 report pegged the state’s mangrove cover at nearly half that number, at 158sq km. This indicates an on ground discrepancy of more than 27,000 football fields. Even accounting for differences in data collection periods and methodology, experts said this difference is too large to be rationally explained.Nevertheless, experts were in agreement that the total extent of mangroves in Maharashtra is seeing a rapid increase. Going only by FSI reports, between 2005 and 2013, the mangrove area in Maharashtra grew by 17%. In the past six years alone, the increase has been a whopping 72%, as stated by the mangrove cell in an email to Hindustan Times on July 24. However, if one were to consider the IIST report from March, the growth of mangroves between 2005 and 2019 was only 16%. HT had reported this increase on March 4. This large inconsistency, and contradictory statements made by authorities, has drawn the ire of environmentalists. “Ground truthing is a bit harder in terms of mangroves because they are not accessible on foot, but there are still more reliable ways to go about this than just relying on remote sensing data: carry a handheld GPS (global positioning system), mark the grid boundaries, and then calculate the distance between coordinates using a geographic information system. It’s inexpensive, and moreover it is the duty of authorities to provide rigorous, trustworthy data to the public,” said Stalin D.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtras-mangrove-cover-reports-by-state-and-centre-differ-101627325860305.html
27-07-2021||Other||Rampal, aides acquitted in case under Drugs and Cosmetics Rules Act||A local court in Hisar on Monday acquitted controversial godman Rampal and three of his aides in a case registered under the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules Act.But Rampal will have to remain in jail as he is undergoing life sentence in a murder case, and two other cases, including one of sedition. In Hisar, Rampal and his aides are facing four criminal cases.Hisar police spokesman Vikas Kumar said they had registered a case against Rampal and others in connection with recovery of 134 types of allopathic drugs from ‘Prathmik Chikitsayla’ at Satlok Ashram in Barwala town of Hisar in 2014 when the police had arrested Rampal after a week-long operation.Pronouncing the verdict, the court of ADJ Ved Prakash Sirohi stated that the prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case against accused Rampal and others -Rajender, Baljit and Bijender - while acquitting the accused of the charges levelled against them.A team of the drug control department prepared an inventory of the allopathic medicines, ayurvedic medicines and equipment during their inspection of the Satlok Ashram on November 28, 2014. The drug control officer had filed a complaint with the court in March 2016.Advocate JK Gakhar, counsel for the accused, however, argued that the team of drug control officers carried out an inspection of the Satlok Ashram and found that neither any doctor was practising on the premises in question at the time of inspection nor any prescription slip/OPD slip and receipt of sale was recovered by the police.No patient came forward to depose before the court of undergoing treatment at ‘Prathmik Chikitsayla’, he had argued in court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rampal-aides-acquitted-in-case-under-drugs-and-cosmetics-rules-act-101627325801895.html
27-07-2021||Other||BNHS to study migratory birds at six wetlands in Maharashtra||The Mangrove Foundation, an autonomous body under the Maharashtra forest department’s mangrove cell, signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on Monday with the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) for studying the habitats and migratory routes of birds at six wetlands –Nandur-Madhmeswar Sanctuary, Gangapur Dam, Jaikwadi Bird Sanctuary, Hatnur Dam, Ujjani Reservoir and Visapur Dam.The project has been approved by the Maharashtra government at a cost of ₹2.77 crore, and is an extension of already ongoing research by BNHS under the banner of ‘Elucidating the status of migratory waterbirds in ornithologically important wetlands of Maharashtra; Central Asian Flyway perspective.’“For the past couple of years, we have been carrying out bird monitoring and ringing exercises at coastal wetlands in the state. Now we are taking that work forward and turning our attention to important wetlands in the interior regions,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF), mangrove cell.“Migratory birds coming to Maharashtra mainly use the Central Asian Flyway (CAF) which is one of the major migratory routes for birds visiting the Indian Subcontinent from Central Asia and this study will help in understanding the population dynamics, movement and dispersal patterns, and threats to various migratory birds using CAF,” the mangrove foundation said in a statement Monday.State to set up task force to assess wetlandsThe environment department announced on Monday that it will be setting up a task force to conduct a fresh assessment of wetlands in the state. In September 2017, the Union environment ministry notified the new Wetland (Conservation and Management) Rules, which excluded wetlands in coastal regulation zones (CRZ) as well as salt pans from their ambit. The rules also imposed the responsibility of identifying wetlands on states themselves, based on the National Wetland Atlas. Recently, the state government told the Bombay high court that there are no wetlands in Nandurbar, Parbhani and Nagpur and even in Raigad’s Uran taluka, despite the National Wetland Atlas clearly marking out such water bodies in these districts. The move had raised the hackles of activists who saw it as an attempt to open up man-made wetlands and salt pans for real estate.“We will be looking at all the wetlands, even those that may have been left out in our own assessments, for our latest inventory in an attempt to protect as many wetlands as possible across Maharashtra. The environment minister is already planning to meet collectors from all the districts in the state to conduct a fresh exercise to identify and demarcate wetlands that are left out. We will be setting up a task force to get this done in a time-bound manner,” said Manisha Mhaiskar, principal secretary, environment department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bnhs-to-study-migratory-birds-at-six-wetlands-in-maharashtra-101627325800260.html
27-07-2021||Other||Panipat’s Komal, Sagar win gold in Cadet World C’ship, families rejoice||Almost four days after Sagar Jaglan, 17, of Panipat, won gold at the Cadet World Championship in Budapest, 16-year-old Komal, of Patti Kalyana village in district, has also clinched gold in the women’s category.Komal defeated Azerbaijan wrestler Ruzanna Mammadova 7-2 in the 46kg category final, while Sagar had outclassed US’s James Mockler Rowley 4-0 in the freestyle 80kg final.Their families are overjoyed after their success. Media and relatives are making a beeline to their houses.Komal comes from a middle-class family. Her father Satish Kumar is a farmer and mother Kusum is a mid-day meal worker at a government school.“My daughter has achieved an extraordinary feat by winning a gold medal,” says Satish.He appreciated the efforts of her coach Vinod Kumar. “A player cannot win without a good coach. This victory is of both Komal and her coach,” he added.Komal a Class 12 student of a government school in her village took basic coaching from Baba Gyan Ram Akhara in the village. “She is very talented and will bring more medals for the country in future,” said her coach. On Monday, Komal was given a rousing welcome when she reached her village.Celebrations could also be seen at Sagar’s residence. His family belongs to Naultha village in district and have now shifted to Panipat. Sagar’s father Mukesh said he is taking coaching since he was 10 and this is gold a big achievement.Mukesh, who works in a private company in Sonepat, said he and his father Randev were also interested in wrestling which helped Sagar choose it as a career. Mukesh praised Sagar’s coach Ashwani Dahiya for his efforts. “This is Sagar’s second medal at international level,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panipats-komal-sagar-win-gold-in-cadet-world-c-ship-families-rejoice-101627325741777.html
27-07-2021||Mumbai||72-year-old killed in mishap in Thane||A senior citizen was killed while his son was injured after their scooter was hit by a speeding truck on the Ghodbunder Road in Thane on Sunday.According to the Kasarvadavli police, the incident occurred at around 11.30am on the Nagla Bunder stretch of the Ghodbunder Road. The police said that the victims, Mangesh Sumbe (44) and his father Tukaram (72), were residents of Gorai in Borivali and were on their way to Thane. Mangesh was riding while Tukaram was sitting behind when the scooter was hit by a speeding truck from behind.The impact of the collision caused both the men to fall off the vehicle. Mangesh sustained injuries to his hands, legs and head, while Tukaram sustained serious injuries to his head and both the hands.“Passing motorists who witnessed the accident immediately stopped to help. They restrained the truck driver before he could flee and also informed us. We rushed a team to the spot,” police sub-inspector Ravindra Ranbhise, Kasarvadavli police station, said.Mangesh and Tukaram were rushed to a nearby hospital, where the latter was declared dead before admission. Meanwhile, the truck driver, identified as Avinash Kadam (29), was taken into custody and later placed under arrest.Kadam has been charged with causing death and injury due to rash and negligent driving under the Indian Penal Code, along with relevant sections of the Motor Vehicles Act, officers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/72yearold-killed-in-mishap-in-thane-101627325740316.html
27-07-2021||Other||30-yr-old kills brother-in-law in Mumbai for interfering in his marital life||MHB Colony police in Borivli arrested a 30-year-old Nallasopara rickshaw driver for allegedly murdering his brother-in-law. The police said the accused, Bharat Makwana, committed the crime because the victim interfered in his marital life. Police officers said that at 5.40pm on Sunday, they received a call from locals about a man lying in a pool of blood near Naytodi ground in Eksar at Borivli (West). The police reached the spot and took the man to the hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. On checking his pockets, the police found a driver’s licence, which revealed his identity as Sandeep Rajput, a resident of Borivli. After recording the statements of Rajput’s relatives, the police found that at 5pm on Sunday, the victim’s brother-in-law had taken him out for drinks. “We found out the address of Makwana, the husband of Rajput’s sister’s, as he was the last person who was seen with the victim,” said an officer from MHB Colony police station. On Sunday evening, the police arrested Makwana after he confessed to the crime and revealed that he wanted to kill Rajput as he was interfering in his marital life. Makwana told the police that he had married Rajput’s sister a few years ago. However, from the past 18 months, his wife was staying at Rajput’s place and he did not let her return to her matrimonial house. Makwana further revealed that whenever he went to pick up his wife, Rajput used to ask her to stay back and not go with him, which irked him. On Sunday, when Rajput refused to let his sister go with Makwana, the latter invited the victim for drinks to talk about the problem. The two went to Eksar Nagar and bought a few beers and sat to drink in Makwana’s rickshaw. While drinking, Makwana removed a knife from his pocket and stabbed Rajput on his stomach and thighs. When Rajput did not die, Makwana picked up an empty beer bottle and smashed the victim’s head several times and left the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/30yrold-kills-brother-in-law-in-mumbai-for-interfering-in-his-marital-life-101627325680272.html
27-07-2021||Other||NEET-UG: NTA gives clarity on exam and marking pattern||Nearly two weeks after the National Testing Agency (NTA) announced changes to the paper pattern for the upcoming National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG), the authority on Monday clarified doubts of several candidates regarding the marking pattern. “The test pattern of NEET-UG has been modified, and in every subject students will attempt 35 questions mandatorily and of the remaining 15, one should attempt only 10 questions. It is important that the candidates do not attempt more than 10 questions because only the first 10 attempted questions will be considered for evaluation/marking,” said the response shared by the official NTA email. This is the first time since its inception that the exam pattern for NEET-UG has been changed.Until 2020, the NEET-UG paper pattern consisted of 180 objective-type questions from physics, chemistry and biology (botany and zoology) that had to be answered on a specially designed sheet using a ballpoint pen only. Each correct answer gave students four marks and each wrong answer deducted one mark. According to NTA, the new paper pattern will comprise of two sections under each subject.Section A will consist of 35 questions which students have to attempt compulsorily, and section B will consist of 15 questions from which the candidate can choose to attempt any 10 questions. “As students have to choose and attempt only 10 out of the 15 questions, the utilisation of time will remain the same, thus clarifying that the total time given for the exam remains the same this year as well (sic),” stated NTA response.“We are glad that NTA has reverted to our emails and specified the marking scheme, clearing all doubts in the minds of the aspirants. Many were confused about the change in paper pattern and this response from NTA has given much required relief to more than 1.5 million NEET aspirants,” said Ruiee Kapoor, parent and activist.In a statement released earlier this month, NTA clarified that the changes were introduced keeping in mind the reduction of syllabus by various school education boards for their Class 12 students in 2020-21, considering the loss of academic time due to Covid-19. “To rationalise the decision of reduction in the syllabus by various school education boards, NTA has taken the decision to provide choice in Section “B” for each of the four subjects,” clarified NTA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/neetug-nta-gives-clarity-on-exam-and-marking-pattern-101627325560262.html
27-07-2021||Other||2 Mumbai lawyers, five employees of law firm booked for rape, molestation||Marine Drive police on Saturday booked two Mumbai-based lawyers and five employees of a law firm on the charges of rape, sexual harassment, molestation, extortion and theft on the basis of complaint by a 35-year-old lawyer. No arrests have been made in the case yet. The Andheri resident alleged that the incidents took place between May 22 and July 23 when she was working at the Nariman Point office of the law firm of the main accused.“She alleged that the lawyer had raped her on the pretext of offering her a job in his law firm. He also allegedly blackmailed her and demanded ₹50 lakh from her,” said a police officer.She claimed that the lawyer’s friend, also a noted counsel, molested and sexually harassed her. She alleged that the lawyer’s five employees, including two women, had stolen ₹10,000 from her and aided their boss in the crimes. The police have begun the process of recording statements of witnesses. They are also verifying the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-mumbai-lawyers-five-employees-of-law-firm-booked-for-rape-molestation-101627325500230.html
27-07-2021||Other||Pothole plaints rise as Mumbai sees heavy rain spells||As Mumbai received some heavy spells of rainfall this year in June and July, the complaints related to potholes have increased by around 38% as compared to last year. In June and July 2020, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) received around 315 complaints related to potholes that went up to 437 this year till July 25.According to data reported on MyBMC Pothole Fixit mobile app, the civic body had attended to 264 complaints 8 in 2020, while this year, of the 437 complaints, only 262 have been attended to so far. Apart from the app, citizens can also register their complaints via email and on social media.Shantanu Kulkarni, director of Probity Soft, the firm which operates BMC’s app for reporting potholes, said, “The complaints reported this year were a little more than last year, and it could be further more. However, due to lockdown and people working from home, not many complaints have gone unreported.”On July 13, HT had reported that there was a 76% drop in the number of potholes during 2020-2021 as compared to 2019-2020. Since June 1 to July 13, a total of 239 potholes had been reported in the city, according to data. However, the number of complaints increased drastically in the past two weeks owing to heavy rainfall.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal held a meeting with BMC officials on Friday over the issue of potholes and directed the road department to attend to the complaints of potholes proactively and also prepare report of the complaints. “During the peak of the second wave in April and May, many officials were on Covid-19 duty and due to this the entire process of repair and maintenance of road works went for a toss,” a BMC official said. BMC maintains around 2,055km of roads in the city, and every road is repaired or resurfaced using asphalt or concrete cement from the existing paver blocks. According to estimates presented in the budget 2021-22, BMC proposed to improve the road network of 157km during financial year 2021-22, which is less than the target of 289km set in 2020-21.Dahisar resident Animesh Vora said, “In our area, BMC repaired one road as it was in bad shape, but started work on the very next road to it to fix the drainage line. The drainage line is fixed, but now there are big potholes on the road, which was a smooth one earlier. Hence, it is not just the rain, but civic officials also end up creating potholes in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pothole-plaints-rise-as-mumbai-sees-heavy-rain-spells-101627325440228.html
27-07-2021||Other||Two held with seven pistols from MP||SANGRUR Police arrested two men from Madhya Pradesh and recovered seven pistols of .32 bore and four cartridges from the accused, said senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vivek Sheel Soni said on Monday. The accused have been identified as Vicky Singh, alias Rarri of Sangrur, and Ash Ram, alias Dadwa, of Nia Bilwa of Bhagwanpura in Madhya Pradesh.The police said accused Vicky was wanted in a case registered with the City Police station-1 under Sections 452 (house trespass), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and other sections of the Indian Penal Code on June 30. SP (investigation) Karanveer Singh said the accused also faced criminal cases in Sangrur. Sources said Vicky purchased arms from Dadwa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-held-with-seven-pistols-from-mp-101627325380905.html
27-07-2021||Lucknow||‘Uttar Pradesh needs a bill to boost literacy rate’: Shia law board||The All-India Shia Personal Law Board (AISPLB) on Monday slammed the Uttar Pradesh government’s proposed population control Bill, saying instead of introducing such laws, the state should think of introducing a bill that aims to boost UP’s literacy rate, which would automatically educate people on keeping a check on population. “I think UP is in more need of a bill to boost its literacy rate than a population control bill, which is just to target the minority population. By introducing a bill on education, the government will automatically educate people on the ill effects of population explosion and the ways to control it. We strongly condemn UP’s proposed population control bill,” said Shia cleric Maulana Yasoob Abbas, general secretary, AISPLB. While addressing a gathering during the board’s meeting on Tuesday, the Shia cleric also demanded the central government’s intervention into the UP government’s proposed population control bill. Other issues like religious conversions and the deteriorating condition of heritage structures were also discussed. “Some people are trying to malign the image of Islam in the name of conversion. We clarify that in Islam, there is no such thing as conversion. Nobody can forcefully convert anyone to Islam,” said Maulana Sayed Mehndi, who led the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-needs-a-bill-to-boost-literacy-rate-shia-law-board-101627325262929.html
27-07-2021||Other||Protest against Sidhu: Channi writes to police to cancel FIR against farmers||Rupnagar Two days after police registered a First-Information Report (FIR) against 49 farmers for protesting against Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu, when he was in Chamkaur Sahib on July 23, cabinet minister Charanjit Singh Channi has written to the police to cancel the case.“I have directed the local police to take back all FIRs,” Channi tweeted. His letter to the police says, “Neither I nor any Congress worker has filed a formal complaint or recorded any statement with the police against the farmers.” “I stand by the farmers in their crusade against the black farm laws and I shall always be with them raising their voice,” another tweet on his handle read.Sidhu, along with Channi and PCC working president Kuljit Singh Nagra, had visited Chamkaur Sahib to pay obeisance at gurdwara Katalgarh Sahib, when they faced farmers’ wrath, who showed them black flags. Following the protest, a case was registered against district president of the Kirti Kisan Morcha Jagmandeep Singh, Kulwant Singh Saini, Jagdeep Kaur, Satnam Singh Sohi, sarpanch of Behrampur Jimidaran, and 45 unidentified persons under Sections 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation), 323 (voluntary causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint),148 (rioting) and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code on a complaint from one of the cops. Farmers, however, protested on Monday as well. Seeking the cancellation of FIRs, they protested at the Solkhian toll plaza in Rupnagar. Jagmandeep Singh, district president of Kirti Kisan morcha, said that in its complaint, the police had alleged that farmers assaulted Congress leaders at the local gurdwara and attempted to block the cavalcade of Sidhu and Channi. “It is a fabricated complaint registered at the behest of Congress leaders. We only raised slogans against Sidhu and showed him black flags, seeking an apology from him for his comments against farmers,” he said. Another farm union leader Parminder Singh said senior police officials visited them during their protest in which they were briefed that the case registered against them was false. “We lifted our protest after officials assured us that the process of cancellation of FIR will be initiated soon,” he said. SP Ajinder Singh said he was aware of Channi’s letter. “We listened to farmers, who have told us their side of story. We assured them that the investigation will be carried and if required, the process of cancellation of the FIR will be started,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/protest-against-sidhu-channi-writes-to-police-to-cancel-fir-against-farmers-101627325201505.html
27-07-2021||Other||Schools open for Classes 10-12 to low attendance, high enthusiasm||Chandigarh Schools for Classes 10-12 reopened in Punjab on Monday with students saying they were happy to return to classrooms and interact with teachers. Schools had been shut in March amid a surge in Covid-19 cases. Attendance, however, remained a mixed bag. Patiala recorded had just about one-third attendance, with Jalandhar and SBS Nagar districts seeing 15% strength, according to their district education officers. The state government has allowed only those teachers and staff to return to schools who are fully vaccinated. It is mandatory for schools to seek written consent from parents for sending their children to attend classes. Virtual classes are also continuing.“No student is allowed to enter the school without a mask. Social distancing is being maintained,” an official of a school in Amritsar said. Thermal scanning is being conducted at school entrances and hand sanitisers have been provided to students. Only one student is allowed to sit on a desk, school authorities added.“I am happy to be back in school. Though we were studying through the online mode, we can understand better in the classroom,” said an elated student in Ludhiana. Another student in Amritsar said, “I am very happy to return to school today. We can now interact with our teachers in the classroom.” The state government has said that schools will also be opened for the remaining classes from August 2, if the Covid situation remained under control. “There are nearly 1,600 students in the school, but the school administration is allowing only 15 students per class. All Covid norms are being followed,” the principal of a school in Amritsar said. “I want that the school never get closed as our studies were disrupted. Since the school administration has made sure that all safety arrangements were followed,” said Simranjeet Kaur, a Class-12 student. “It’s been four months since we have entered the school. I hope that the school never get closed as it is Standard 10, a board class, and one has to focus hard,” said Komal, another student. In Jalandhar and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar districts, attendance remained low. Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, DEO (secondary) Jagjit Singh said, “Attendance across schools was low on day 1, but we hope that more students will join in.” In Patiala, schools, there were parent-teacher meetings held too, but attendance remained thin. DEO (secondary) Harinder Kaur said, “At least, 30% of students attended classes. We are assuring parents that there is no need to worry.” — With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/schools-open-for-classes-10-12-to-low-attendance-high-enthusiasm-101627324901943.html
27-07-2021||Other||Haryana board Class 12 results declared, 86% students secure over 80% score||The Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) declared results of Class 12 board exams on Monday with a 100% pass percentage against last year’s 80.34%. Nearly 86% students of 2.21 lakh, whose results were announced, secured more than 80%.This time no student has secured 100% score. Total 13,503 students have secured marks in the 95-99% bracket, 49,233 in 90-94%, 1,27,160 in 80-89%, 29,944 in 70-79%, 1,103 in 60-69%, 190 in 50-59%, 69 in 40-49%, and 61 students were in the 33-39% bracket.State education board chairman Jagbir Singh said all the students have cleared the Class 12 board exams this time.“Around 2.27 lakh students had been enrolled in Class 12. We have announced the results of 2.21 lakh students, of which 1.14 lakh are boys. Total 5,567 students appeared for the compartment exam. We held back the results of 1,338 students as their school authorities have failed to provide their Class 10, 11 and 12 marks. We have asked the school authorities to provide us their details within 15 days,” he said.The Supreme Court had directed all boards to announce Class 12 results by July 31 and the top court had accepted the CBSE formulae to evaluate Class 12 results but the Haryana board did not follow the CBSE pattern. The Class 10 board results also stood at 100%.Board secretary Rajiv Prasad said they had developed a 30:10:60 formulae - based on students’ Class 10, 11 results and internal assessment of Class 12 in evaluating the results.Students dissatisfied with the assessment will get a chance to appear for the exams in August. In 2019, 74.48 % students had passed the Haryana board Class 12 exams (all streams). In 2018, the pass percentage of Class 12 students stood at 63%.All students have cleared the exam but nobody was declared topper for the first time in 51 years (since the board’s inception in 1970).The board exams for Class 10 and 12, which were scheduled to take place in April-end and May were postponed and later cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Prasad said results of students with compartment in certain subjects were compiled by averaging the marks of the subjects in which they had passed.“Students who do not agree with the board results can apply for improvement and take the exam in August. For the first time, we have reported 100% results for girls and boys in rural as well as urban areas,” Prasad said.“We did not announce a merit list or toppers this year as exams were not conducted,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-board-class-12-results-declared-86-students-secure-over-80-score-101627324900705.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Illegal farmhouses in Aravallis: Info commission seeks details on ownership||The Haryana State Information Commission has asked the revenue department to constitute committees of officers of Faridabad and Gurugram districts to ascertain the correct ownership of 60 farmhouses in the Aravallis.In his July 9 order, state information commissioner (SIC) Arun Sangwan had asked the department to submit a report within a reasonable time frame, preferably, within two months.The recommendation was made by the SIC on a Right to Information appeal filed by Haryana IAS officer Ashok Khemka. The officer had filed an appeal before the commission seeking information on illegal constructions in the forest area.The SIC order assumes significance in light of the recent Supreme Court directions on removal of all unauthorised structures on the forest land.The apex court which had ordered demolition of unauthorised structures in Khori village of Faridabad had also held that the direction to remove all unauthorised structures standing on the forest land applied to “all unauthorised structures without any exception”, including the ones already identified by Haryana forests minister Kanwar Pal, as unauthorised structures which cannot be regularised.The SC, in its July 23 order, had said that these should be removed after due verification of the fact whether they are unauthorised and constructed on the forest land as such.“The verification will be done within the extended time specified above and if the structure is covered in the category of unauthorised structure on the forest land, the same will be removed within the same time,” the order said.Khemka’s appeal was based on the reply of state forests minister Kanwar Pal, who had told the Haryana assembly on February 27, 2020 that 50 farmhouses have been built in the Faridabad area and 10 in the Gurugram area.Pal had also told the assembly that illegal construction in the Aravalli area will not be allowed and those who have illegally maintained farmhouses have been issued notices.The minister, who was responding to a query by BJP MLA Seema Trikha in the assembly, however, replied in negative to the query on whether there is any proposal under consideration of the government to regularise or approve the said farmhouses.“In summary, the minister’s reply clarifies the existence of 60 farmhouses in Faridabad and Gurugram, which were built without any requisite permission. This points to encroachment by owners of these farmhouses. The department’s response that there is no record of such individuals is not satisfactory as it is the duty of the district town planner (enforcement) to monitor any attempts at illegal construction in its designated area,” the SIC had said in his January order.“Even after the reply given in the Vidhan Sabha, the district town planner, Faridabad and Gurugram has failed to check the ownership of these farmhouses. Ignoring the violation seems to be by design rather than neglect, considering that electricity connections have already been provided to these illegal farmhouses,” the SIC had added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illegal-farmhouses-in-aravallis-info-commission-seeks-details-on-ownership-101627324720710.html
27-07-2021||Chandigarh||Covid’s downward trajectory in Haryana: Social behaviour key to virus resurgence||For a fourth successive week, the coronavirus infection in Haryana dipped to a record low.The state reported 200 infections last week (July 18-25) which was the lowest ever weekly virus count during a period of decline in the transmission of the infection.Last week’s count also surpassed the week before’s (July 12-18) infection tally of 260 which was also the record low weekly count at that moment.In fact, the infection rate is plunging to an all-time low since June-end when 525 infections were reported between June 28-July 4, and 376 between July 5-11.The daily positivity rate which went as high as 27% during the surge in April-May now stood at 0.09%.The virus transmission during the second wave was devastating with over 4.21 lakh infections and over 4,200 fatalities being reported in a six-week period between April 12 to May 23.Lockdown and containment measures were subsequently put in place to arrest the widespread transmission.‘LAPSES WILL START SPREAD AGAIN’However, even as the virus has kept up its downward trajectory for a consecutive 11th week, the reopening of restaurants, shopping malls, swimming pools, spas, gyms, bars, educational institutions, offices and easing of restrictions on the assembly of people, health officials said, poses a big challenge in keeping the numbers down.“People want to get on with their lives. But lapses in virus prevention measures such as not wearing masks in public places, defying physical distancing norms, eateries not strictly adhering to protocol of allowing only 50% seating capacity to dine-in, etc are recipe for resurgence of the infection and its spread,” said a health official.State nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Dhruva Chaudhary said social behaviour of people matters a lot when people start intermingling.“Easing of lockdown restrictions will have a lower impact on the virus spread if people take precautions and behave responsibly. The most important measure is wearing a mask, more appropriately, a double mask which reduces the chances of transmission by 90%. A surgical mask alone can reduce the transmission risk by 80-85% while its 40-60% for a cloth mask,” he said.As of July 25, there were 711 active cases across state with only Hisar district still having more than 100 active cases. Sixteen districts have less than 50 active cases. The number of deaths due to the infection was 20 last week.HARYANA RECORDS 3 DEATHS, 31 NEW CASESHaryana on Monday reported three more coronavirus-related deaths, taking the death toll to 9,622, while 31 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection count to 7,69,770, according to the health bulletin.The new fatalities were reported from Kurukshetra, Panchkula and Gurugram.Gurugram recorded nine of the fresh Covid cases while seven new cases were registered in Kurukshetra.Haryana has 711 active cases. The recovery count stands at 7,59,437 in state. The recovery rate is at 98.66%, the bulletin stated.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covids-downward-trajectory-in-haryana-social-behaviour-key-to-virus-resurgence-101627324600852.html
27-07-2021||Dehradun||Delhi man marries woman who accused him of rape, kills her after 6 months: Cop||HALDWANI: A Delhi man, who married a woman in December 2020 after she accused him of rape, has been arrested on charges of murdering her, police said on Monday evening after the accused led them to the spot along the Nainital-Haldwani highway where he allegedly dumped the body.Sub-inspector Narendra Singh, who led a team of Delhi Police officers to Nainital, said “the woman had earlier accused Rajesh of rape who was arrested and sent to jail. Rajesh was released from jail after filing an affidavit that he will marry Babita... Both got married in December 2020”, he said.But last month, the woman, Babita’s family reported her missing.She went missing on June 11 and her parents filed a missing complaint in Delhi’s Dwarka police station on June 15, said Vijay Mehta, the officer-in-charge of Tallital police station in Nainital.The Nainital connection to her disappearance emerged when the police checked her phone records to trace her movement. The last location that the police could find was on June 12, 2021 when the phone was near Hanumangarh temple in Nainital,” said Vijay Mehta, officer-in-charge of Nainital district’s Tallital police station.Mehta said when the police checked the location of her husband’s phone around the same time, they found he was also in the same area of Nainital.Rajesh initially denied having to do anything with his wife’s disappearance but eventually, according to police, came around.Mehta alleged that during interrogation, Rajesh claimed he decided to kill his wife because she and her mother “harassed”.According to the police, Rajesh convinced his wife to come along to Udham Singh Nagar on the pretext that he needed to check on his mother, and from there, they reached Nainital. On June 12, shortly after leaving Nainital, he switched off his wife’s phone. “About 13 km from Nainital, he expressed his desire to have a physical relationship with his wife at a secluded place. He took her to a cave. After having sex, he strangled his wife,” Mehta said, citing the investigation by the Delhi Police.“Police have arrested Rajesh, originally a resident of Udham Singh Nagar, but settled in Delhi now. A case has been registered against him under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence),” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/delhi-man-takes-wife-on-nainital-holiday-kills-her-and-dumps-body-arrestedcop-101627324240870.html
27-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi police launch probe into Rahul Gandhi’s tractor march to Parliament||Terming it a security breach, the Delhi Police have launched an internal inquiry into Congress leader Rahul Gandhi driving a tractor to Parliament along with other party MPs in protest against farm laws on Monday, senior police officers aware of the matter said on Monday.They said a first information report (FIR) is likely to be registered in connection with the “tractor march to Parliament”, and added that the inquiry will also look into the failure of the police to prevent the entry of a tractor in central Delhi without prior permission by the authorities. Tractors have been barred from entering central Delhi, especially Lutyens’ zone, since September last year when a tractor was set on fire at the India Gate by some Punjab Youth Congress workers to mark their protest against the three farm laws, said a police officer who asked not to be named.Rahul Gandhi on Monday drove a tractor to Parliament along with other party MPs Pratap Singh Bajwa, Ravneet Singh Bittu, Deepinder Singh Hooda, Gurjit Singh Aujla, Jasbir Singh Gill and other leaders like Randeep Surjewala, and demanded that the agricultural laws be repealed.“We have brought the message of farmers to Parliament. Their issue is not being allowed to be discussed in Parliament and farmers all over the country are being suppressed and that is why we are here. These black laws should be withdrawn,” he told reporters. The Congress leaders carried banners and raised slogans.Senior police officers who spoke on condition of anonymity said the tractor was brought in a container truck in the early hours of Monday, and kept at the office of Congress Rajya Sabha MP KTS Tulsi at Moti Lal Nehru Marg.Following the incident, 10 Congress leaders, including Randeep Singh Surjewala and Srinivas BV, were detained and the tractor was seized after being stopped by the police nearly 70-80 metres away from Parliament. As Gandhi walked inside the Parliament, the detained Congress leaders were taken to the Mandir Marg police station. They were released late in the afternoon.When asked about the police’s allegation that the tractor was kept at his office, Tulsi said, “I am not aware of all the details because I am not in Delhi. But if it has happened, I am proud of it. While the whole country is aghast over the manner with which the farmers of this country are being treated, this (tractor rally) will draw the attention of the central government. The Congress party is actually doing a great job. Everyone should put their heads together to resolve this (farmers) issue. It’s a matter of life and death for the farmers,” said Tulsi.Officers said the inquiry was initiated also because the tractor was allowed to pass a couple of police pickets between Tulsi’s office and Parliament where the tractor was finally stopped by the police.“Police as well as traffic personnel deployed in central Delhi are regularly briefed about not allowing any tractor in Lutyens’ Delhi. But the way a tractor reached a Congress leader’s office unnoticed, and it was driven by Rahul Gandhi towards Parliament without being stopped is a matter of serious concern. The responsibility of this police failure will be fixed through the inquiry,” the officer who was also quoted above said.Police officers said Gandhi’s tractor march is being considered a security and intelligence failure in the wake of the ongoing farmers’ protest at the Jantar Mantar, the monsoon session of Parliament and the Independence Day, for which nearly 5,000 personnel have been deployed in central Delhi.During the preliminary inquiry, another police officer said, it was learnt that Gandhi left his residence in the morning along with his party leaders with his security detail and reached Tulsi’s office at 3 Moti Lal Nehru Marg.From there, he came out driving a tractor and moved towards Sunehri Masjid roundabout and then to Rafi Marg. Gandhi drove towards Krishi Bhawan and then moved to Parliament, where it was chased and stopped by some policeman before he could reach the gate of the complex, the officer said.“The tractor was driven for nearly one and a half kilometres and Gandhi took around six minutes to reach the back gate of Parliament,” the second officer said, adding that the police are also probing if the container truck in which the tractor was allegedly brought into Lutyens’ zone had any permission from the traffic department or not.Thousands of farmers have been protesting against the three farm laws enacted in September last year that seek to deregulate the agricultural trade. Hundreds of farmers have been protesting on Delhi’s borders since December last year. They took out a tractor protest rally on Republic Day this year that descended into chaos after the farmers broke barricades and entered the capital, and clashed with the police at several points including ITO and the Red Fort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-launch-probe-into-rahul-gandhi-s-tractor-march-to-parliament-101627322739964.html
27-07-2021||Delhi||After hot weekend, IMD issues ‘orange alert’ for Tuesday||After a hot and humid weekend, Delhi saw only traces of rainfall on Monday even as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued an ‘Orange alert’, predicting overnight showers which will intensify on Tuesday.An orange alert is issued when there is a forecast of rain and thundershowers, along with heavy rainfall in isolated pockets accompanied with gusty winds of 30-40kmph.The Safdarjung Observatory, which is representative of Delhi’s weather, recorded just 2.4mm rainfall on Monday. The other weather stations in the Capital, including Lodhi Road, Ridge and Palam, too recorded trace rainfall.“There was light drizzle in several parts of the city on Monday while more showers are likely between Monday night and early Tuesday morning. The monsoon trough is close to Delhi and is moving further up, which is likely to result in ‘moderate’ showers on Tuesday,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’ s regional weather forecasting centre.He added that isolated rainfall will continue till July 29 which is expected to help bring down the mercury by a few notches.On Monday, IMD said the maximum temperature touched 33.1°C, a notch below the season’s normal, and the minimum settled at 28.3°C, a degree above normal.Delhi experienced high levels of humidity and above normal day temperature over the weekend.Independent forecasters too said that Delhi is likely to get good rainfall on Tuesday and Wednesday, adding that more frequent spells of rainfall are likely in August. They said La Nina conditions -- a weather phenomenon occurring in the Pacific Ocean -- are likely to develop in August, which may result in increased rainfall activity all over Southeast Asia.“The monsoon trough is moving north of Delhi and there are low clouds as well, which means Delhi could get moderate showers on Tuesday with light rain even tonight (Monday night),” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology), Skymet, a private forecaster.He added that although the monsoon arrived in the city on July 13, 16 days behind schedule, two good spells of rainfall earlier this month have helped cover the rainfall deficit. “Between June 1 and July 26, Delhi has a surplus rainfall of 11%,” he said.He also added that the La Nina conditions are likely to prevail over the region in mid-August. “La Nina conditions are good for southwest monsoon and may result in increased rainfall all over Southeast Asia, including Delhi-NCR,” said Palawat.According to IMD, the official monsoon season lasts from June 1 to September 30.IMD officials said that La Nina has a positive impact on rainfall all over the region. “That said, during August, easterly winds and the monsoon trough, which are the primary conditions for rainfall, are favourable and hence the city receives more frequent spells of rain during this time,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-hot-weekend-imd-issues-orange-alert-for-tuesday-101627322681181.html
27-07-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 Unlock: Queues persist in Delhi Metro after eased seating norms||Metres-long queues outside Metro stations in the national capital continued on Monday, even as passengers were allowed to occupy all seats on the crucial public transit service after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) relaxed its curbs on the number of commuters inside coaches amid an ease in the city’s Covid-19 caseload.However, Metro officials said they noted some instances of passengers standing inside coaches, which is still not allowed, adding that this was likely due to a lack of awareness among commuters, as they stepped up announcements inside stations relaying the new rules.Rajeev Kumar (40), a commuter who boarded the Metro from Shaheed Sthal station on the Red Line, said that the situation at the station was not as bad as it was before the seating norms were eased. “After a year, the Metro has finally lifted the cap on seats. Gates that were earlier closed have also been opened. Due to this, more people might have opted for the Metro in the morning. I didn’t find a long queue in the morning though. Otherwise, one had to wait anywhere between 30-60minutes daily to enter the metro station,” said Kumar.He added that many people were unaware of the update regarding the seating capacity. “Some people are standing because they may not be aware of the rules. In the morning, since many people were standing, the driver announced that passengers were allowed to occupy all seats. Regular announcements should be made to inform commuters,” said Kumar.DDMA on Saturday allowed the Delhi Metro and public buses to operate with 100% seating capacity from Monday, and also allowed multiplexes, spas, swimming pools, auditoriums and entertainment parks to reopen in the Capital.Shubham Singh (24) who boarded a train for Kashmere Gate from Kalkaji Mandir on the Violet Line said the social distancing labels were not removed from seats, which added to the confusion on the first day of the eased rules. “Since the sticker on the seat still reads ‘Do Not Sit Here’, my friend didn’t occupy the seat next to me. I wasn’t aware that one could occupy all the seats in the coach” he said.His friend Mayank Yadav, 23, said, “People have kept their bags on alternative seats. Since one couldn’t sit next to each other until yesterday [Sunday], I assumed that that the rule was in place. If all seats can be used by commuters, authorities should remove these stickers. People look at the sticker and don’t occupy an empty seat, fearing that a fine will be imposed,” said Yadav.Meena Gupta, 45, who boarded a metro from Badarpur on the Violet Line, said that the station was crowded in the morning. “The footfall might have increased because have lifted the seating restrictions. I couldn’t get a seat and the coach was crowded,” she said.Like most days, long queues were seen outside major stations like Rajiv Chowk and Janpath. A S Singh, a government employee, said that the new guidelines had not made any difference to the queues.“People continue to stand while travelling. Queues continue as before too. The metro authorities shouldn’t allow so many people. Amid covid, so many people queuing up with scant physical distancing is risky,” said Singh, while waiting outside Janpath metro station.Vishnhu Pada, a 30-year-old working professional, who boards the metro from MG metro station on the yellow line, attributed the crowding and daily queues to decreased frequency of trains. “The frequency of trains has reduced. One has to wait for at least 5 minutes to board the next metro. Metro authorities should increase the frequency if they want to resolve the issue of crowding,” said Pada.Niranjas Das, 67, another commuter, said that while the metro was less crowded, he had to stand in a queue. “The metro was a little lesser crowded today in comparison with other days. However, one ends up standing in the queue during the evening hours. Be it Barakhamba or Janpath or Rajiv Chowk station, there is always a queue,” said Das.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said that around 1.75 million passenger journeys were recorded till 8pm on Monday, up from a daily average of around 1.6 million passenger journeys after Metro services resumed on June 7 after the lockdown till Sunday evening.Further, on Monday, DMRC said it de-boarded 432 passengers and penalised 159.In a statement on Monday, DMRC said it came across some social media posts where people were seen standing inside the train.“In this regard, it is to mention that today is the very first day of the revised guidelines and many people are still not fully aware of the fact that the Metro is offering only 1/5th (20%) of its passenger capacity in a train and not 100% as is the general impression which has been created in the past couple of days through various reports. Some people are still under the impression that alternate seats are not to be occupied and preferred to stand during travel causing such a temporary situation in certain trains in some sections,” said Anuj Dayal, Executive Director, Corporate Communications, DMRC, on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/little-respite-from-queues-outside-delhi-metro-stations-as-new-seating-rules-come-into-play-101627322679943.html
27-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi zoo to reopen for visitors from August 1||The Delhi zoo is set to reopen for visitors from August 1, more than two months after it was shut due to a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic.Delhi zoo director Ramesh Kumar Pandey said that the zoo will operate in two shifts. “We are planning to open the National Zoological Park (Delhi zoo) from August 1. Preparations are on. It will be opened in two shifts like earlier. Online booking will open from July 31, a day ahead of its opening,” said Pandey.Zoo officials said the two shifts will be from 8am to 12pm and from 1pm to 5pm.“Visitors can buy the tickets either through the zoo’s website or at the entry gates using QR codes. This time we will allow 1,500 visitors in each shift. In total 3,000 visitors are allowed inside the premises during the day,” said a senior official.The Delhi zoo was shut for visitors on March 18 last year, a week before the nationwide lockdown that lasted 68 days was imposed. Later, after an avian flu scare in January this year, the zoo finally reopened on April 1, only to be closed again on April 15, as the second wave of the pandemic struck.During the brief period it was opened in April, the zoo had allowed only 2,000 visitors -- 1,000 in each shift -- in the premises.Pandey further said that the zoo recorded only 124 animal deaths -- the lowest in the last three years -- when it remained closed for public in 2020-21. The zoo recorded 172 animal deaths in 2019-20 and 188 deaths in 2018-19. Zoo officials said that the deaths depend on many factors, such as the age of animals, senility and heterogeneity, among others.“Besides, we have now introduced cycles for staff to move around the premises and have asked them not to use two-wheelers or cars. This to keep a healthy environment for the animals in the zoo,” he said.He added that the zoo currently has 1,162 animals from 94 species. “Soon we will be increasing the number of species to 100, as part of various pending exchange programmes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-zoo-to-reopen-for-visitors-from-august-1-101627322620569.html
27-07-2021||Delhi||Over 4,500 visitors in 15 mins as DU starts online registration for PG courses||Delhi University on Monday started online registration for admissions to postgraduate, MPhil, and PhD courses for the upcoming 2021-22 academic session, with officials saying that over 20,000 visitors logged into the portal till 9 pm -- four hours after the portal was launched.Candidates can log in to the website -- admission.uod.ac.in -- till August 21 to register for the entrance-based courses.“Over 20,000 visitors have visited our portal and around 10,000 have already logged in. They’re in the various stages of filling the form,” said Sanjeev Singh, joint director at DU Computer Centre.Rajeev Gupta, chairperson of admissions, said “more than 4,500 visitors logged in within 15 minutes”.Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the university administration had earlier announced that the admission process will be completely online . The registrations for undergraduate courses will start on August 2.All postgraduate courses at Delhi University have entrance tests -- DU entrance test (DUET) -- in addition to merit-based admission for DU graduates.The dates for the entrance test will be announced by the National Testing Agency which will conduct the test in 27 centres, including in Cuttack, Lucknow and Shillong, this year.Among the changes in the revamped admissions portal is a live chatbot which answers queries posted by applicants in real-time.The university also announced live sessions to answer queries from postgraduate and research programme aspirants. “The University of Delhi will organise virtual open days for the benefit of all prospective candidates [for PG, M.Phil and PhD courses from July 27-30 at 5pm. These virtual open days have been planned to assist the prospective candidates in the registration and the admission process. Applicants will have the option to interact with the panellists and the webinar will also be telecasted live on DU’s official Facebook and YouTube channels,” Gupta said.The university has also provided helpline numbers and email addresses on the portal for queries.Singh said that they had worked out a “seamless” admission process this year.“Since everything had to be done online, we wanted to solve the queries of applicants in no time. We are more aggressive in terms of IT interventions this year including using an automated chatbot for students even after office hours. The website will have details on seats and cutoffs as well,” he said.Entrance tests begin at JamiaMeanwhile, entrance test for admission to various UG, PG, and diploma programmes at Jamia Millia Islamia University began on Monday at various test centres on the Jamia campus in two shifts. The entrance exams will continue till August 28 amid Covid-safety protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-4-500-visitors-in-15-mins-as-du-starts-online-registration-for-pg-courses-101627322621229.html
27-07-2021||Delhi||AAP alleges corruption in MCDs renting machines to clear landfill sites||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday alleged the cash-strapped municipal corporations were deliberately using trommel machines, used to clear landfill sites, on rent as it involves higher costs, instead of procuring which would have been cheaper.Addressing a press conference AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled MCDs have paid a rent of Rs. 26 crores in the last 1.5 years for trommel machines, even though the same machines could have been bought for ₹4 crore. The BJP, however, rejected the charge as baseless.“Last year also, the chief auditor of the three MCDs found corruption of Rs. 22 crore with regard to use of such machines. Now, the BJP-ruled MCDs are planning a three times bigger loot by taking these machines on rent. The AAP will oppose the decision in the standing committee meeting tomorrow (Tuesday),” said Bhardwaj.The AAP also called it a gross misuse of taxpayers’ money. The AAP called the move a gross misuse of taxpayers’ money. The Delhi government pays the most amount of money for the purpose of reducing the height of these landfill sites. The Delhi government gives ₹65 crore to the East MCD for this purpose, while the East MCD on its own contributes ₹40 crore. In the North MCD, the Delhi government gives ₹35 crore, while the North MCD gives ₹30 crore. The Delhi government gives ₹25 crore to the South MCD, civic body contributes ₹15 crore, the AAP said in a statement.“The price of these trommel machines in the market, as stated in the audit report as well, is ₹17.70 lakh. But, the MCD has taken these machines on rent for ₹6.30 lakh per month. This means the contractors recover the cost of these machines in merely three months even as the MCDs continue to pay the high rent, which is more than the actual price of these machines. For the past 1.5 years, 23 such rented machines have been working on these garbage piles. So if we calculate the price of 23 trommel machines at the rate of Rs. 17.70 lakh per machine, these machines could have been bought for ₹4 crore. Interestingly, the MCD has spent ₹26 crore till now to pay the rent of these machines,” said Bhardwaj.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said this is the second time in a year that the AAP has tried to “mislead” people over the trommel machines issue.“What the AAP calls rent for the machines is actually it’s operation cost. The North corporation did not hire trommel machines, and we have mentioned earlier as well that the civic body has taken trommel on maintenance contract,” said Kapoor. He added that according to the contract, trommel machines are run in three shifts with the supplier company bearing its expenses in staff, diesel and other maintenance.South corporation mayor Mukesh Suryan said the AAP is just “spreading lies”. “First of all, the AAP leaders don’t know how the corporation functions. Secondly, what they said about giving us funds for buying the machines is totally false, as we haven’t got any money for the same.”East Corporation mayor Shyam Sundar Agrawal said that the figures given by the AAP itself are not correct and even confusing. “I am ready to debate over the issue and prove them wrong,” said Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-alleges-corruption-in-mcds-renting-machines-to-clear-landfill-sites-101627322619895.html
27-07-2021||Delhi||Residents of Delhi’s ‘affluent’ unauthorised colonies demand ownership rights||Residents of Sainik Farms, Chhatarpur Enclave and other 69 “affluent” residential colonies have written to the Delhi Development Authority and central government demanding ownership rights for their properties just like the 1,728 unauthorised colonies are being provided under the PM-UDAY scheme.In December 2019, the Centre enacted the National Capital Territory of Delhi (Recognition of Property Rights of Residents in Unauthorised Colonies) Act, 2019, to give ownership rights to residents of unauthorised colonies. A total of 1,797 unauthorised colonies were identified for the purpose, but 69 were not included in the PM-UPDAY scheme as these were termed as “affluent”.Of these 69 unauthorised colonies, a majority are located in South Delhi parliamentary constituency in areas such as Anant Ram Diary (RK Puram), Neb Sarai, Mehrauli, Bijwasan and Mahipalpur. Unlike a majority of the unauthorised colonies, which are spread across Delhi, these 69 mostly have farmhouses, big plots and have come up on privately owned agricultural land. Of the 1700-odd colonies that are being given property ownership are those that have come up on government land.“It’s been almost two years and no decision has been taken regarding our colonies. Our demand is that we should be included in the PM-UDAY scheme. We have written to the Prime Minister’s Office, housing and urban affairs ministry and DDA in this regard to expedite the process,” said Raman Aggarwal, president of 69 colonies welfare association (association of residential colonies that were not included in the Pradhan Mantri-Unauthorised Colonies in Delhi Awas Adhikar Yojana).HS Bhalla, president of Western Avenue Residential Welfare Association at Sainik Farms, said the neighbourhood came into existence in the 60s where defence personnel constructed their houses. In the subsequent years, several colonies, mainly having farmhouses, have come up on agricultural land around it.“Our colonies are located on private agricultural land. Most of the 69 colonies, which have been termed ‘affluent’ by the government, are located on private agricultural land. When the government is giving ownership rights to other colonies, which are on agricultural land, then why not us?” said Bhalla.He added, “We have waited for long to get ownership of our properties. All that they have to do is to add a slab for plots, which are bigger than 250 sq.m. If the government includes these 69 colonies in the ownership process, it will get a lot of revenue which it can use in the development of other 1,700-odd colonies.”The DDA, which is the nodal agency for implementation of the PM-UDAY scheme, said a decision regarding these colonies will be taken by the Centre. “We are currently streamlining the system to expedite the process to give ownership rights to 1,700-plus unauthorised colonies. We keep getting representations from these colonies regarding ownership rights. But the decision has to be taken at the central government’s level,” said a senior DDA official.The housing and urban affairs ministry did not comment on the matter.These residential colonies also want the government to do away with the “affluent unauthorised colonies” categorisation.Vani Aggarwal, general secretary of New RWA Chattarpur Phase-II, said, “The affluent tag should be removed. Some of the plots in our area are 150sq.m or small. All the 1,797 colonies should be treated at par. We want the government to give us ownership rights so that we can get our building plans sanctioned and ensure planned development in the future.”Residents have also approached the South Delhi MP Ramesh Bidhuri to take up the matter with the Centre.Bidhuri said, “I have written to the ministry of housing and urban affairs in this regard. The matter is under consideration. The government will address their concerns in the new Master Plan of Delhi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/residents-of-delhi-s-affluent-unauthorised-colonies-demand-ownership-rights-101627322501982.html
27-07-2021||Delhi||Snags hit devices in city ration shops, some recipients return empty-handed||Several ration card holders returned empty-handed from fair price shops (FPS) in south and east Delhi on Monday, after glitches in the electronic point of sale (e-POS) devices in the stores. Officials in the food and civil supplies department said the complaints reported were mostly down to poor network coverage, even as reports seen by HT showed that the Delhi government managed to reach out 64.65% of the 1.77 million eligible beneficiaries in seven days since the launch of the ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ programme in the city on July 20.Residents reported problems from stores in and around Vasant Vihar, Malviya Nagar, Okhla, Gandhi Nagar and parts of New Delhi, among others.Ramesh, a daily wage worker who lives in New Delhi’s Kusumpur Pahadi and goes by a single name, said he even took his two sons to get their biometrics authenticated. “But, the machine was not able to read our fingerprints. I lost a day’s income (nearly ₹400) today to queue up at the ration shop, but returned empty handed,” he said.Sanno Devi, a resident of South Delhi’s Jagdamba Camp, is a widow and disabled. Despite having a ration card on her, she was unable to get the subsidised food grains, due to problems with the e-POS machine.Senior officials from the food department, however, said there were no large-scale reports of such malfunctions.“It is true that teething issues are being faced in some circles, but it will be wrong to say that the system is not working in the entire city. Even if we see the latest data of Delhi’s public distribution system after the implementation of ONORC, it is one of the fastest disbursals the government has done in recent times,” said the official who asked not to be named.Owners of FPSs have been asked to put up a board outside their shops informing people if machines are not working, to limit queues in such situations.Between July 20 and July 26, government data showed, 1,150,511 (64.68%) beneficiaries of the total 1,778,527 ration card holders in Delhi received subsidised food grains under ONORC. Northwest zone was the best performing district, disbursing July’s ration quota to 215,756 card holders. This was followed by the northeast zone with 199,638 beneficiaries receiving ration. The New Delhi zone had not distributed ration to 51% of its beneficiaries till Monday evening, showed the data.ONORC, introduced in 2019, aims to add digital muscle to the country’s public distribution system (PDS) through which food grains are offered at subsidised rates to about 739 million beneficiaries under the national food security law. ONORC allows a beneficiary, such as a migrant worker, to access her share of subsidised ration from anywhere in the country regardless of the place where her ration card is registered. In other words, it allows mobility of food entitlements.In Delhi, people can get cheap grains from any of the 2,000 fair price shops. For this, the government has deployed 2,005 e-PoS devices across the capital to get ONORC going.Anjali Bhardwaj, member of the Right to Food campaign which surveys FPSs in Delhi, on Monday said the government has made Aadhaar-based biometric authentication mandatory without offering an alternate process to fall back upon if the electronic system crashes. “As a result, people are at the mercy of these machines, most of which were not working on Monday in places where our teams inspected. Many ration card holders waited for hours, but did not get the subsidised food grains. The problem is that there is no back-up option to disburse ration if the e-POS or biometric authentication fails,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/beneficiaries-return-empty-handed-as-glitches-hit-e-pos-machines-in-some-delhi-ration-stores-101627322499993.html
27-07-2021||Delhi||Police challenge ₹25k fine imposed in Delhi riots case||The Delhi Police has moved the Delhi high court against a trial court’s order that imposed ₹25,000 fine on the force, and called its probe into a north east Delhi riots case “farcical” and “callous”.On July 13, additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav dismissed the police’s plea challenging the order of the metropolitan magistrate that ordered registration of FIR in the complaint by one Mohammad Nasir, who was shot during the riots in North Ghonda, on February 24, 2020.The judge said that the fine will have to submitted to the Delhi State Legal Services Authority within a week. The judge said the petitioner, SHO of the Bhajanpura police station, and his supervising officers, have “miserably failed” in their statutory duties in this case.Challenging this order, city police have stated that the court did not give a chance to the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) to justify his stand before imposing the cost, violating the principles of natural justice.The police plea also stated that the judge failed to appreciate that imposition of such cost was “not only unwarranted but uncalled for” for the reason that the court did not find the petition as vexatious and that hand imposition of such cost would “seriously affect not only the career of the government officials but would certainly cause serious dent to the reputation of the officers.”The matter will now be heard on July 28.Nasir’s complaint was clubbed with an FIR registered for gunshot injuries suffered by six others during the riots.The court said that the facts produced before it revealed “a shocking state of affairs”, and it was not able to persuade itself about the efficacy and fairness of the investigation carried out in the matter.The court said when two separate complaints disclosing cognizable offences are filed by two different complainants, there is no provision under which the investigating agency can club such complaints and carry out investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-moves-court-against-trial-court-order-calling-its-riots-probe-farcical-101627322441118.html
27-07-2021||Pune||Four dams servicing Pune filled to 78% of capacity||PUNE Rain in Pune district over the last five days has seen the water stock in the four dams supplying water to Pune district, rise to a total of 22.56 TMC, or 78.617 per cent of the joint storage capacity.On July 26, 2020, the water stock in the four dams – Khadakwasla, Panshet, Warasgaon and Temghar – was 9.83 TMC. “Last year, July was much drier and less rain had occurred in the catchment area. This year, all the areas where dams are located have seen continuous moderate and also heavy rain in the last five days, which has increased the water levels,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune.Apart from Pune, other parts of the state have also received heavy rain in the last five days, resulting in an increase in water levels in all major dams in the state.In 141 major dams across six regions of Maharashtra, total water storage is at 57.06%, as compared to 43.5% in 2020. Pune and the Konkan region have been the major gainers in the last few days in terms of water stock in dams.“For Maharashtra, it was a very good week of rain. Last year, after cyclone Nisarga in June, rainfall activity in a major part of the state dropped in July. This year, major dams have healthy water storage and it is expected to increase further with good rain expected in the next two months,” said an official from the state water irrigation department, requesting anonymity.No water was released from Khadakwasla dam on Monday. The dam is currently filled to 96.17% of capacity. On Sunday, 1,550 cusecs of water was released from the dam.“Khadakwasla dam, being small, fills up faster than other dams. If heavy rains continue next week then Panshet dam is expected to cross 95%. We have not yet made any decision on releasing water from Panshet. It depends on the rainfall activity,” said an irrigation department official, requesting anonymity. On Monday, water was released from various dams in the Bhima basin, including Kalmodi (1,271 cusecs), Vadivale (587 cusecs), Andhra (1,462 cusecs), and Kasarsai (250 cusecs).Water was also released from dams in the Krishna basin - Koyna (52,559 cusecs), Dhom (5,298), Kanher (5,005), Warana (8,720), Radhanagari (8,540); Kasari (1,439), Dhom Blakawadi (,1292), Urmodi (1,251), and Tillari (4512 cusecs).“Water releasing activity continues from dams in Kolhapur region as Radhanagari dam is 99.09% full. Koyna dam is filled to 85.06%; Last year it was 45.86% on July 26,” said the official .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/4-dams-servicing-pune-filled-to-78-of-capacity-101627315359196.html
27-07-2021||Pune||Pune sees 450 breakthrough Covid cases in a month, no hospitalisation||Pune: According to the data collected from private laboratories by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in the past one month, 450 breakthrough Covid-19 cases or infections after two shots of vaccines or post “full immunisation” have been recorded. PMC officials confirmed that none of these reported 450 infected cases after taking both vaccines required hospitalisation. The civic body is collecting the information to remove vaccine hesitancy and encourage people to inoculate as vaccines do help bring down the severity of symptoms even if infected. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant health officer, PMC said, “We have reported 450 breakthrough Covid infections or cases wherein a person has been infected despite receiving both vaccine shots. We have been collecting the data since past one month from private labs and based on the people who come for Covid testing and their replies on whether or not they have been vaccinated. The process is still on, but the good news is that none of them have been hospitalised and that the symptoms are mild. As of now, we do not know their age or which vaccine they received. However, this is just a nominal number among the people in city who have got both the doses.” As of July 25, Pune city has seen 578,269 second dose vaccines administered which accounts for 19% of the eligible beneficiaries, followed by PMC, Pune rural has fully vaccinated 17% or 585,208 of the eligible beneficiaries and PCMC has vaccinated 13% or 245,414 second dose vaccines administered. On an average, Pune district has vaccinated over 17% of its eligible beneficiaries with both the doses of the vaccine. Experts have repeatedly said that although no vaccine promises to provide 100% protection against the infection, vaccines have been known to reduce the severity of symptoms. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, Covid adviser to the state government, who was infected after getting both the shots of the vaccine, said, “I was infected after getting the second shot, but my symptoms were mild and I did not require any hospitalisation. Despite my age, I recovered with ease hence proving that vaccines do work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-sees-450-breakthrough-covid-cases-in-a-month-none-require-hospitalisation-101627312898965.html
27-07-2021||Pune||Tribal community medical students demand hostel facilities||Pune: Many students from tribal community who have taken admission for medical course at the BJ Medical College in Pune are facing the problem of accommodation. Since the college started last year in November, these students are demanding hostel facilities from the state tribal development department. They have written to the Adivasi Vibhag of the state government many times, and are awaiting response. “The tribal community students studying at the BJ Medical college are struggling to survive in the city along with their studies. Apart from the Covid-induced financial difficulties, we are finding it difficult seek shelter as the state tribal development department is yet to allot us hostel facilities. The college started from November 2 last year and since then we are demanding hostel facilities in Pune city by the department. Despite our repeated demands, letters and follow-ups, the officials are yet to take any action,” said Mahendra Bhoye, medical student from BJ Medical College, Pune. Many tribal community students come from remote areas across the state to study. As their financial condition is weak, the state tribal community department has set up hostels for these students. There are two hostels in Pune city, one for girls and another for boys. However, these hostels were converted to quarantine centres after the Covid pandemic outbreak, leaving students to seek alternative accommodation. “We cannot afford to stay in rented flats or rooms, as there is hardly anyone from our village to send us money. We will study, get good jobs and then only we can earn something for our family. In this situation, hostels are only our hope to stay and study in the city,” said another student Harish Kolhe. The senior officials at the state tribal development department refused to talk on the issue. One of the officials on anonymity said, “The issue is pending since last few months and we are trying to vacate the hostels to take in students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/tribal-community-medical-students-demand-hostel-facilities-101627312238890.html
