28-07-2021||Mumbai||FIR intended to suppress graft revealed in phone tapping case: Rashmi Shukla to HC||Senior IPS officer Rashmi Shukla sought to quash the first information report (FIR) registered by the Mumbai Police against her in the illegal phone tapping case and informed the Bombay high court (HC) that the FIR was intended to suppress crime and not to investigate and prosecute offenders who resorted to corrupt practices in postings and transfer of senior police officers. While submitting that there was nothing illegal in the phone tapping which was done after getting the requisite sanction from the concerned authority, Shukla’s counsel disclosed excerpts of the report which was based on the surveillance of the phones of some individuals who allegedly used their connections with the then home minister and one “dada” to facilitate transfers in return for huge sums of money. The HC adjourned hearing of Shukla’s petition till August 5 after the state assured the court that no coercive steps, including arrest, would be taken against her till August 6. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar was informed by senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani that Shukla was being harassed for being honest and exposing the corruption involved in posting and transfer of senior police officers. The petition sought either quashing of the FIR or transfer of investigation to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Jethmalani submitted that while Shukla was the Commissioner of Intelligence she had initiated interception of the phone calls made by certain individuals who acted as brokers. The interceptions, which had requisite sanctions, revealed that these brokers were in touch with senior police officers and used their clout with the home minister’s office and certain other political bigwigs from the ruling coalition government to facilitate transfers and postings for huge sums of money. “The interception was for preventing a crime and it was done in an authorised way,” said Jethmalani. He, however, clarified that the political leaders whose names were mentioned in the report were not necessarily involved and the same could be ascertained after proper investigation. Jethmalani said the names were mentioned as the brokers purportedly approached them to get the desired transfers and postings for the police officers. He further added that though the sanctions for the interceptions had been granted by the then additional chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, he had later back-tracked and claimed that he had been misled on the reasons for the interceptions. Due to paucity of time, the court adjourned the hearing to August 5 and accepted the assurance from the state that they would not take any coercive action or arrest Shukla till August 6.BOXThe CBI, represented by additional solicitor general Anil Singh, informed the Bombay HC bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar that the state had refused to hand over the documents pertaining to the FIR which it had registered against former home minister Anil Deshmukh and other unknown others on April 21. Singh submitted that CBI had written two letters to the state after the HC had dismissed the petition by the state on July 22 and paved way for CBI to continue its investigations on the allegations of corruption and criminal conspiracy made by Param Bir Singh in his March 20 letter to the chief minister. He informed the court that the concerned officer had refused to furnish the documents sought by CBI, thus acting against the order of the court. However, after the state objected to the grievance raised by Singh during the hearing of a different matter, the HC directed CBI to file an application for its consideration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fir-intended-to-suppress-graft-revealed-in-phone-tapping-case-rashmi-shukla-to-hc-101627496990411.html
28-07-2021||Mumbai||760 people died on Mumbai suburban railway tracks in six months: GRP||At least four persons lost their lives every day on suburban railway tracks in Mumbai in the past six months, even though local trains are not yet open for general public. According to the statistics compiled by the Government Railway Police (GRP), 760 people have died on suburban railway tracks in Mumbai from January 1 to June 30 this year. The deceased include 665 men and 95 women. The GRP data, however, revealed that a maximum of 490 died while trespassing. Last year, 730 people had died while crossing the railway line.Police officers said that local train travel is restricted only to people engaged in emergency and essential services due to the pandemic. They said since the crowd is less (in and around suburban railway stations), people tend to take short cuts by crossing the lines, assuming that the train services have reduced.Activists, however, maintain that the cause of deaths on railway lines is due to the illegal entry points. “Railways should put up fences between tracks connecting two platforms to bring down the number of track-crossing and do more experiments like closed doors of local trains to minimise the problem of overcrowding and people falling off running trains,” said Shakil Ahmed, a railway activist.In the past six months, 106 people have died due to falling from running trains and around 30 people died by suicide on railway tracks and five commuters died as they were hit by poles close to railway tracks.The data also revealed that 111 people lost their lives due to natural causes while three were electrocuted.According to GRP figures, this year, a maximum number of deaths are recorded on Central Railway (CR) with around 460 commuters losing their lives between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) to Kalyan till June 30 this year. Throughout 2020, CR had reported 523 deaths, and 1,763 in 2019.In 2020, train services were hit by the Covid-19 pandemic which directly impacted the accidents in tracks, thus reducing deaths on tracks considerably. Last year, 1,116 people lost their lives and 878 people suffered injuries on Mumbai’s suburban railway lines, as compared to 2,691 deaths and 3,194 injuries reported in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/760-people-died-on-mumbai-suburban-railway-tracks-in-six-months-grp-101627496989738.html
28-07-2021||Mumbai||4-year-old dies after drinking polluted water from abandoned borewell in Palghar||A four-year-old boy died after allegedly drinking water from an abandoned borewell at Kondalgaon-Jambulpada village in Wada taluka on Monday. Seven others, who also drank the polluted water, fell sick. One of them is admitted to a hospital while others were discharged.The boy drank the water on Friday and fell ill, following which he was taken to Kudus PHC. He was then shifted to Wada Rural Hospital where he died on Monday evening. A government doctor said the victim got diarrhoea after drinking the polluted water.Dr Dayanand Suryawanshi, district health officer, Palghar, said he visited the village and health officials took water samples of the borewell along with three other borewells and sent the samples for analysis to the government lab at Thane. The police are awaiting the post mortem report. “After the post mortem report, we can come to a conclusion about the cause of the boy’s death due to waterborne diseases,” said the medico. “Meanwhile, we will be conducting medical camps in the above village to control the spread of such water-borne diseases due to the monsoons,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/4yearold-dies-after-drinking-polluted-water-from-abandoned-borewell-in-palghar-101627496989002.html
28-07-2021||Mumbai||Magistrate court rejects Raj Kundra’s bail plea||A metropolitan magistrate court on Wednesday rejected the bail plea of Shilpa Shetty’s husband Raj Kundra who was arrested by the property cell of Mumbai Police’s crime branch on July 19 in connection with a pornography film racket. Kundra moved the bail plea on Monday, immediately after the magistrate refused to extend his police custody and remanded him in judicial custody.Opposing his bail plea, police claimed that the investigation so far has revealed that the 45-year-old businessman had set up a company, Armsprime Media Pvt Ltd., which developed the mobile phone application Hotshots and sold it to London-based Kenrin Pvt Ltd, which is owned by his brother-in-law. Police claimed Kundra used the app to upload pornographic videos shot in and around Mumbai for paid viewership on the app.The property cell further alleged that Kundra was one who controlled the operation of the app and had earned over ₹1.17 crore between August and December last year by means of subscription fee collected from Apple App Store users of his mobile application. Police are yet to get the details of his earnings from Google Play Store users.Police further claimed that they had found 51 obscene videos at Kundra’s office in Andheri which included 35 videos with Hotshots logo and 16 with logo of BollyFame app, which the businessman had developed after Apple and Google removed Hotshots from their respective app stores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/magistrate-court-rejects-raj-kundra-s-bail-plea-101627496930758.html
28-07-2021||Mumbai||Man spikes woman’s drink, rapes her in five-star hotel in Mumbai||Worli police registered a rape case after a 30-year-old woman complained that she was sexually assaulted in a five-star hotel in Mumbai by her acquaintance who had allegedly spiked her drink. In her complaint, she said the incident took place when they went to the hotel to celebrate her birthday. Police are yet to make any arrests in the case.Police said the woman, a resident of western suburbs, approached them on Wednesday and lodged the complaint against Avin Agarwal. She told police that she met Agarwal on a dating application last month and use to chat frequently. Agarwal told her he was throwing a party on Monday to celebrate her birthday and called her to the suite of a five-star hotel. Around 7 pm on Monday they met in the suite where he offered her a glass of wine.“The woman started feeling drowsy after drinking the wine, after which Agarwal allegedly sexually assaulted her,” said a police officer.The woman started having trouble after reaching home and was taken to a nearby hospital. She then narrated the entire incident to her family members and registered a case against the accused.Anil Koli, senior inspector, Worli police station, said, the survivor was still at the hospital.The police said they have registered a case under sections 328 and 376 of the Indian Penal Code for causing hurt by means of poison and rape.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-spikes-woman-s-drink-rapes-her-in-five-star-hotel-in-mumbai-101627496930197.html
28-07-2021||Mumbai||Inquiries a vendetta for complaining against Anil Deshmukh: Param Bir Singh to HC||Former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, while making submissions in support his petition before the Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday, has alleged that the two preliminary inquiries initiated against him by the state were intended to scuttle the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) probe which was ordered by the HC on April 5. The state opposed the petition, stating that it was not maintainable as the preliminary inquiries initiated by it were under the purview of the Central Service Rules which are decided by the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) and added that Singh should have approached the tribunal rather than the HC. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar was informed by senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani that the plea challenged the two preliminary inquiries initiated against him. The first probe against Singh is under the All India Services (Conduct) Rules in connection with the Antilia bomb scare case and the second probe is related to the allegations made by inspector Anup Dange, who was suspended last year and has recently been reinstated.While arguing on behalf of Singh, Jethmalani submitted that both the probes were ordered as a vendetta as he had complained to the chief minister about the corrupt practices ordered by former home minister Anil Deshmukh. He said the probes were ordered hastily and without application of mind. “Instead of inquiring into the complaints by Singh against Deshmukh, the state has punished the whistleblower. They are trying to shoot the messenger,” said Jethmalani. He added that the inquiries were not merely administrative in nature but also dealt with the criminal aspect of the case, and hence Singh was justified in approaching the HC. Earlier in May, HC had observed that the reliefs claimed by Singh could be decided by CAT.Jethmalani then continued that the state had tried to make Singh withdraw his March 20 letter to the chief minister by asking director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey to convince Singh to take back his allegations against Deshmukh. Pandey had been appointed to conduct the preliminary inquiry when he allegedly advised Singh to withdraw the letter as it was futile to fight against the system. Jethmalani said that when Singh did not fall in line and disclosed the conversation between him and Pandey, the DGP recused himself from the inquiry, after which false and concocted cases were initiated against Singh including the one by Dange. Senior counsel Darius Khambatta for the state, however, opposed the petition and argued that the issues raised by Singh pertained to service matters and he should approach CAT as the issues were covered under the provisions of the Administrative Tribunals Act. Khambatta further refuted Singh’s claims that the government action was a form of vendetta and that Dange had lodged the complaint against Singh on February 4, much before Singh wrote the letter to the chief minister on March 20. In light of this, Khambatta said the petition was not maintainable and was intended to scuttle the probe initiated by the state against him by claiming that all action by the state against him was mala fide. “The petition is an abuse of process. Just because the petitioner has made some allegations, he does not get immunity from any of his actions. The allegations in Dange’s complaint are grave; extraordinarily serious offences are made out. None is above law, not even the former Mumbai Police chief,” said Khambatta. Senior Counsel Navroz Seervai, for DGP Pandey, concurred with Khambatta and said if the court deemed Singh’s petition maintainable, he would file a detailed affidavit with regards to the claims made by Singh against him. After hearing submissions, the court reserved its order on the issue of maintainability of Singh’s plea, which it will pronounce in due course. Meanwhile, the bench adjourned till August 5 hearing on Singh’s pleas seeking quashing of an FIR lodged against him by the Thane Police under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The state said it would continue its earlier statement of no coercive action, including arrest, against Singh till August 6 in the case under the Atrocities Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/inquiries-a-vendetta-for-complaining-against-anil-deshmukh-param-bir-singh-to-hc-101627496928968.html
28-07-2021||Other||‘Defence Ind Corridor would help realise ‘Make in India’ vision’||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said here on Wednesday that the Uttar Pradesh Defence Industrial Corridor would play an important role in realizing the ‘Make in India’ vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Uttar Pradesh Defence Industrial Corridor is a green-field project. The project would be beneficial not only for the defence and aerospace industry but also for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and start-ups established in the project area, he said. The chief minister, who addressed the CII-Indigenization Summit on Defence and Aerospace-2021 (CII-ISDA-2021) through virtual medium, said the useful suggestions received in the summit would prove useful in making India self-reliant in the field of defence production. The summit, based on the theme ‘India Marching Towards Self-Reliance in Defence and Aerospace,’’ has been jointly organized by CII, UPEDA and Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers (SIDM) from July 28 to July 31, 2021. Yogi said the state government had implemented the model of development of the Prime Minister with full commitment. The initiatives taken by the state government during the last four years under the inspiration and guidance of the Prime Minister had changed the perception of the people in the country and the world regarding Uttar Pradesh. The state government’s zero tolerance policy towards crime and corruption had strengthened law and order in the state, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/defence-ind-corridor-would-help-realise-make-in-india-vision-101627496508961.html
28-07-2021||Lucknow||Ambulance staff strike: Yogi warns of toughest action if any patient dies due to laxity||Without taking any name, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday issued a stern warning against “negligence in duty” as the strike by the staff of government ambulance services 108 and 102 entered the third day in the state.“If any patient dies because of negligence or laxity, the company, officers, or staff concerned will face the toughest of action following an FIR against them,” he said.“The health department, medical education department, and home department must ensure this order’s implementation,” he added.He also said, “Our doctors, paramedical staff and other allied staff set a glowing example of service to people. It’s praiseworthy. But at the same time, we must ensure that each and every patient in the state must get immediate medical service. Any laxity at any level towards this will be intolerable.”The two primary ambulance services – 102 (delivery of pregnant women) and 108 (emergency services) had come to a grinding halt since July 25-26 midnight, as workers went on a flash strike in wake of a change in the company that operates the advanced life support system (ALS) ambulances. So far, GVK EMRI (Emergency Management and Research Institute) was operating advanced life support system (ALS), 108, and 102 ambulance services in the state. But now the responsibility of the ALS ambulance service has been given to Ziqitsa Health Care. GVK EMRI sacked around 150 ambulance staff , including the president of the State Ambulance Sangh, Hanuman Prasad Pandey and other office bearers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ambulance-staff-strike-yogi-warns-of-toughest-action-if-any-patient-dies-due-to-laxity-101627496330668.html
28-07-2021||Lucknow||Relaunch Mission Shakti with new vigour: Yogi||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday asked the officials concerned for the relaunch of Mission Shakti, a state government programme for women’s safety and empowerment, with renewed vigour.The state government had launched the Mission Shakti programme in October 2020 during the Navratri festival and it continued till April 2021.Women’s safety and empowerment were among the state government’s top priorities, the chief minister said at a Covid-19 review meeting, adding that the Mission Shakti programme had given positive results. He also said women’s self-help groups, BC Sakhis (women banking correspondents) paved the way for women empowerment. Schemes like Kanya Sumangala and Saamuhik Vivah (mass marriage) programmes extended support to girls and their parents, he said. “Now is the time to give new energy and a new direction to the Mission Shakti. The departments of health, education, rural development, women and child welfare must coordinate well to prepare Mission Shakti’s next phase. In any act of crime against women, action must immediately be taken with all sensitivity towards the victim,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/relaunch-mission-shakti-with-new-vigour-yogi-101627496329487.html
28-07-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh reports 89 new Covid-19 cases, one death||Uttar Pradesh reported 89 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, 53 more than Tuesday’s 36, according to official data. The only death in the state was reported from Kushinagar. The maximum cases — 22 — were reported from Kanpur. This was a sharp increase of 20 cases as the district had recorded only two cases the previous day. There were two fresh cases in Lucknow, which has maintained the trend of recording below-five cases per day for the past week. “The state now has 768 active cases under treatment of which 508 are in home isolation,” said additional chief secretary (medical health) Amit Mohan Prasad at a press conference on Wednesday. Also, the number of districts that had zero active cases came down from 11 to seven as Bahraich (two cases), Fatehpur (one case), Hamirpur (three cases) and Badaun (one case) reported fresh Covid cases on Wednesday. These districts lost their no-active-case status. The seven districts that have no active case now are Aligarh, Basti, Etah, Hathras, Kasganj, Mahoba and Shravasti, according to the state health department data. While there was no new case in 36 districts, all other districts, except Kanpur, reported new cases in single digit. As many as 1,24,978 RT-PCR Covid samples were sent to labs in the past 24 hours. The recovery rate in the state is over 98%. “Lucknow has reported 2,38,560 Covid cases till now of which 2,35,858 have recovered and the recovery rate is 98.86%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. “Kerala and Maharashtra are reporting a high number of cases as are some countries. We need to follow the Covid protocol to keep ourselves (safe) and attention should be paid more to elderly, pregnant women, and children and those with comorbidity,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-reports-89-new-covid-19-cases-one-death-101627496269471.html
28-07-2021||Bhopal||10 quintal of women's hair, collected from MP villages, stolen from train||The Railway Protection Force (RPF) is probing how women’s hair worth ₹50 lakh, collected from villages in Madhya Pradesh, went missing from a train that was taking it to Howrah from Indore, police said.The hair parcels are processed in West Bengal’s Midnapore and made into wigs and hair extensions before being exported to China, Bangladesh. They are also used for hair transplant outside India.The quantity of stolen hair, naturally lost by women, is said to be ten quintals, and it was collected in a year from women in villages of Madhya Pradesh but went missing from Shipra Express on Tuesday, a railway police official said.“This is quite unusual that hairs have been stolen because theft of any product is rare in Railways. We are investigating the matter as the parcel was loaded safely from Indore and it is hard to locate where it was unloaded. We have also informed the Howrah parcel officer to check with railway officials present in the train,” Indore railways public relation officer Khemraj Meena said.The agents who collect hairs from rural areas to sell it to businessmen in West Bengal’s Midnapore for further processing and manufacturing of wigs and hair extensions, said they will go bankrupt if the parcels were not found.According to these agents, the hair collection business is worth ₹one crore annually and hair collection agents in villages earn up to ₹1000 for a kilogram of hair depending on its length as longer hair fetches better price with women earning ₹200 for 100 gm of their hair.Hair collection agent Sunil Ashok Ghumarkar said, “It took one year for me to collect 10 quintals of hairs with the help of some daily wagers from different villages of MP but I have lost it in the train.”He added that the collection of hairs was not an easy task as it can’t be collected from salons. “We have to collect the hairs of women only and it must be minimum 8 inches in length. We wash it and segregate it according to size which goes up to 14 inches. We make separate packets according to size before supplying it to businessmen in Midnapore.”The hairs are made into wigs and hair extensions before the finished product is exported, said Ajeet Dehra, a Midnapore based businessman.“Due to changes in lifestyle and hair fall problem, the demand for hair extensions and wigs has increased by 20% in the past five years. We use 10 to 20% wigs and hair extensions for the local market and the rest is supplied to China and Bangladesh,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/10-quintal-of-women-hair-collected-from-mp-villages-stolen-from-train-says-police-101627495909542.html
28-07-2021||Other||Plea challenges move to reduce legal drinking age in Delhi||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought the response of the Delhi government on a plea challenging a provision in the new excise policy, claiming that it seeks to reduce the age of consumption of liquor from 25 to 21. A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued the notice and asked the Delhi government to file reply to the petition which also sought to quash a provision in the new excise policy which mandates only private liquor vends will be able to sell alcohol in Delhi.The court listed the plea for further hearing on September 17. The plea by NGO All India Bhrashtachar Virodhi Morcha said a lot of people feel that reducing the age of consumption of liquor will increase alcoholism among students and the younger generation, and lead to other consequent problems. It added that the decision to close government vends is not in public interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/plea-challenges-move-to-reduce-legal-drinking-age-in-delhi-101627495608813.html
28-07-2021||Gurugram||City marks five years of Gurujam with similar woes||Residents woke up to flooded roads and water overflow inside housing societies as 91.8mm rainfall wreaked havoc in the city on Wednesday morning, with several areas expected to be waterlogged till midnight.This was the second consecutive day that waterlogging was reported due to rainfall. However, the intensity was much higher in comparison on Wednesday, as only 18.6mm of rainfall was recorded on Tuesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).According to IMD Chandigarh, Gurugram recorded 12.8mm rainfall between 8.30am on Tuesday and 8.30am on Wednesday, and 91.8mm rainfall between 8.30am and 5.30pm on Wednesday.The day also marked the fifth anniversary of the infamous “Gurujam” incident of 2016 when commuters were stuck on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway for nearly two days and a rainfall of 52mm was enough to flood all arterial roads, inundate houses, and wash away the moniker of “Millennium City.”On Wednesday, three underpasses, two at Rajiv Chowk and one at Hero Honda Chowk, were temporarily shut while key stretches, such as Sheetla Mata Road and Hamilton Court Road, were barricaded.At least 16 teams of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) were deployed on the ground with the necessary machinery to implement counter-waterlogging measures.Pardeep Kumar, the chief engineer of GMDA, said that rainwater was cleared from 90% of the city by 6pm, three hours after it stopped raining.“The city received nearly 100mm of rainfall, which is considered to be in the heavy category. In the high-lying areas of the city, rainwater was cleared within two hours, while in the low-lying areas, it took around three hours,” said Kumar.Kumar said that work on clearing rainwater from Iffco Chowk Road and CH Bakhtawar Singh Road was still ongoing, at the time of filing the report. Also, Narsinghpur, sectors 9A, 21, 22, and 23, which are considered to be the lowest points in the city, were waterlogged, with officials saying that rainwater will recede once the load on the drainage lines reduces.“All three-leg master drains have been running at full capacity since the afternoon. Rainwater in the aforementioned low-lying areas will recede when there is an outlet for it. We are anticipating them to be cleared by 10pm,” said Kumar.Kumar said that in Narsinghpur, where the service lanes of Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway were flooded, eight motor pumps were being used to drain out rainwater and that work is expected to finish in the early hours of Thursday, after midnight.As many as 250 police personnel were deployed at the city’s 12 underpasses. Between noon and 1pm, traffic police closed two underpasses at Rajiv Chowk and one at Hero Honda Chowk for a short duration as a precautionary measure, due to rainwater accumulation.“We did not want to take any chances and did not want any motorist or commuter to get stranded inside the underpasses. We closed the three underpasses for 15-30 minutes, and opened them after 1pm, when the intensity of the rain had reduced,” a senior traffic police official, who did not wish to be named, said.Of the cumulative strength of 6,312 police personnel, 4,500 were deployed on waterlogging duties, with hourly reports sent to the police commissioner.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that teams were deployed at 38 waterlogging-prone spots in advance. “The teams were well prepared. We had kept cranes ready near all the underpasses and stretches, with 14 vehicles having to be towed during the day. Officials were directed to keep a close watch on traffic and assist those stranded. The most challenging stretches were Sheetla Mata Road, Sohna Road, Basai Road, those in sectors 10, 17 and 38, Sushant Lok-1, IMT Chowk, Narsingpur and Dwarka Expressway,” said Rao.Despite heavy police deployment, Ambedkar Road, MDI Chowk, Narsinghpur, Mayfield Garden, Nathupur, Hamilton Court Road, Tikri exit, Dhankot, Jwala Mill Road, Udyog Vihar, sector 4/7/9 traffic signal, CH Bakhtawar Singh Road, Kapashera border, Iffco Chowk, IMT Chowk, and Basai Road were all inundated, resulting in traffic snarls.The traffic police issued alerts on social media cautioning commuters to avoid waterlogged areas.CH Bakhtawar Singh Road, Narsinghpur, Sheetla Mata Road, MF Husain Marg and Hamilton Court Road were the worst-hit stretches, with commuters taking nearly 20-45 minutes to cross them.Harshit Shukla, a resident of Sector 50, said, “It took me nearly an hour to reach the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway from my house. The underpass near Medanta hospital was closed, while the CH Bakhtawar Singh Road was flooded with knee-deep water. Wrong-side driving was rampant and many vehicles had broken down. It was complete chaos.”A section of the Sheetla Mata Road was closed for several hours on Wednesday due to heavy rainwater accumulation while on Hamilton Court Road, the road leading towards Cross Point Mall and camera museum was closed by MCG officials as rainwater had entered many people’s houses.Roads in residential areas of MG Road, Sushant Lok-1, South City-2, sectors 3, 5 and 6, and Suncity, among others, were also rendered unusable as water accumulated to a waist-high level and entered residences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/city-marks-five-years-of-gurujam-with-similar-woes-101627495253075.html
28-07-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: Second dose Sputnik V inoculations to start from July 31||The second dose of the Sputnik V vaccine will be available at the Sector 31 polyclinic from July 31, almost 21 days after the first shot of the vaccine was administered at the government centre. The district health department received a stock of around 4,800 doses for the second dose drive on Wednesday.Gurugram is the only district in Haryana to conduct Sputnik V vaccinations at a government health centre and private hospitals.“Only those people who have taken their first shot of Sputnik V at the polyclinic will be eligible to take their second shot at the same government facility from July 31 based on the date mentioned on their vaccination certificate. People who have taken their first dose in a private hospital will not be given a second shot of Sputnik V at the polyclinic,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.The Sputnik V inoculations at the polyclinic started on July 10 under corporate social responsibility (CSR) programmes, with vaccines procured from Dr Reddy’s Lab that has been importing the shots from Russia. The second dose of the vaccine has to be taken 21 days after the first shot. Till now, roughly 1,835 first doses of Sputnik V have been administered at the polyclinic.According to the Co-WIN portal dashboard, 16,697 doses of Sputnik V were administered in the district till Wednesday as three private hospitals, Fortis, Narayana and Medanta. As per the government’s guidelines, the price of Sputnik V is capped at ₹1,145.It is the third vaccine approved by the Centre to combat the coronavirus infection. The vaccine was developed by The Gamaleya National Center of Epidemiology and Microbiology in Russia in 2020, and it shows over 91.6% efficacy against Covid-19. The vaccine has to be kept at -20° C to -25° C. It has to be kept outside for 15-20 minutes before it is administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-second-dose-sputnik-v-inoculations-to-start-from-july-31-101627495250861.html
28-07-2021||Gurugram||U-turn underpass at Sirhaul border likely to open on Independence Day: NHAI||A U-turn underpass at Sirhaul toll plaza, which has been a longstanding demand of commuters in the city, is likely to be opened on August 15, officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said on Wednesday.Vikas Mittal, senior manager, NHAI, said that civic work on the underpass has been completed and finishing touches are being given to the structure. “The work of painting the inside of the underpass is going on. Lights are being installed and other such fixtures are getting fitted. If the monsoon remains normal then we will be opening the underpass for traffic on August 15,” said Mittal.The completion of the underpass on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway will allow commuters from Gurugram to take a U-turn to go towards Ambience Mall and DLF Phase 3 without having to travel up to Rajokri in Delhi.The original deadline for the completion of the Sirhaul underpass, which had started on March 5, 2019, was September 4 last year. The project was delayed due to a ban on construction imposed by the Supreme Court in November 2019 to curb air pollution. Last year, the three-month lockdown imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic also affected the progress of the work, said officials.Mittal said that measures to counter waterlogging have also been taken, with the construction of catch drains on both sides of the underpass. “The location of the underpass is such that heavy waterlogging does not take place here, but still, we have taken adequate measures,” he said.However, a four-foot patch of the main carriageway of the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway caved in last Tuesday (July 20) morning due to heavy rainwater accumulation inside the under-construction underpass. The NHAI officials had then said that a high volume of rainwater accumulated inside the underpass and without a concrete slab on top of a 15-metre portion, the water came in contact with the exposed road surface, leading to the cave-in.In a report by HT dated July 20, an official working for the contractor undertaking the project had said that rainwater accumulation in the underpass is a common occurrence and it usually drains out. However, due to the high-intensity rain, it would take 24 hours to pump out the water with a 15-horsepower motor pump provided there is no further rainfall, the official had said.NHAI officials said that the underpass is 14 metres wide and the height of the tunnel is 5.5 metres. Energy-saving LED lights of 75 watts have been installed and signage and dividers have been constructed, as per the highway norms.The length of the U-turn underpass is 377 metres, while the entire stretch, including access roads, is 1.5 kilometres. The service roads are 559 metres long and 7 metres wide. Commuters have been set a speed limit of 40kmph in the underpass.A flyover at Shankar Chowk, which opened last year, was also built as part of this project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/uturn-underpass-at-sirhaul-border-likely-to-open-on-independence-day-nhai-101627495249541.html
28-07-2021||Gurugram||Sheetla Mata Road partially shut due to waterlogging, traffic thrown out of gear||The Sheetla Mata Road was partially shut by the traffic police on Wednesday morning due to heavy waterlogging following a spell of rain, which threw traffic out of gear on nearby roads and left residents stranded in their homes. According to the police, their control room received 316 calls about waterlogging on Wednesday, of which 89 calls were regarding the inundation of Sheetla Mata Road. Commuters and residents complained that they were facing issues in crossing the five-kilometre stretch and that the diversions nearly tripled their commute time. Sheetla Mata Road is one of the oldest in the city that connects residents with other major roads of Lt Atul Kataria Marg, Caterpuri Road, Ambedkar Road, and Bus stand Road. Due to the presence of a temple, there is heavy footfall on the road with around 5,000 people visiting the shrine (pre-Covid) every day that goes up to around 15,000 visitors during the Navratri festival. On Wednesday, the Sheetla Mata Road was filled with waist-high rainwater throughout the stretch. Pedestrians held hands and formed human chains as they navigated the stretch, to avoid being swept away or avoid falling into an open drain.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that six teams were deployed on the stretch. “Unlike July 19, the situation was controlled as soon as the rain started pouring on Wednesday morning. We barricaded the entry and exit points of waterlogged stretches and diverted traffic through other routes. We had also informed civic agencies to be ready with motor pumps. All teams acted swiftly and managed the situation by the afternoon,” he said. On July 19, the Sheetla Mata Road was one of the worst-affected stretches in the city, with additional pumps being requested by the traffic police to drain rainwater as it did not recede even a day after the rainfall. On Wednesday, hundreds of commuters, especially those travelling on the stretch from Sector 5, were stopped from entering the stretch till 4pm due to the high water level. Pawan Sapra, a resident of Sector 5, said, “It took me more than an hour to travel through the diverted routes and reach my destination. Despite heavy police presence, traffic management was pathetic. I regret moving to this area.” Dinesh Vashishta, the president of the residents’ welfare association (RWA) of sectors 3, 5 and 6, said that despite repeated complaints to the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), there has been no resolution.“The water enters our sectors through Gurugram village and Sheetla Mata Road. Our basements are completely inundated. Residents have suffered huge losses as their household and electrical appliances have been damaged. Moreover, their life is at risk due to risk of electrocution and problems arising from water-borne diseases,” said Vashishta. A resident of Sector 3, who is also a daily commuter, said that he was stuck last week on the stretch during rainfall. “I avoided travelling through the stretch near the shrine as I had to abandon my two-wheeler and walk home last week. Despite avoiding the stretch, I was stuck once again, due to road diversions. The diverted routes were heavily congested and it took me nearly 20-25 minutes to cross the area,” said Mithlesh, a resident of Sector 3. After last week’s rains, traffic police had written to the MCG requesting it to install more motor pumps on the stretch, while the MCG initiated an internal probe regarding the effectiveness of the motor pumps. At present, the MCG has installed two tractor-mounted high-capacity motor pumps to divert rainwater towards a natural pond located on the temple premises. “Using two high-powered tractor-mounted motor pumps, we diverted the excess rainwater towards a natural pond located inside the Sheeta Mata Devi shrine complex. The pumps had been placed in the morning. However, they were only connected by 3pm. By 5.30 pm, all rainwater was cleared from the stretch and channelled to the pond,” said Jitender Kumar Garg, joint commissioner of MCG. Garg said that the high-capacity motor pumps will be permanently placed on the road. Besides reducing waterlogging, the diversion to the pond will also help in recharging the groundwater table, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/sheetla-mata-road-partially-shut-due-to-waterlogging-traffic-thrown-out-of-gear-101627495010579.html
28-07-2021||Gurugram||Arterial stretches flooded, residents marooned in condos, societies||A heavy spell of rain on Wednesday morning did not just impact underpasses and major roads but also left several arterial roads and low-lying areas underwater. Stretches leading to Galleria Market, MG Road, Sushant Lok-1, South City-2, sectors 3, 5 and 6, and Suncity, among others, were rendered unusable as water accumulated to a waist-high level and started entering residences.The flooding of arterial and internal roads has been a regular occurrence this year. Officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) attributed this to a change in monsoon preparedness plans caused by the second Covid-19 wave.Opposite the Galleria Market in DLF Phase 4, a stretch leading towards the camera museum was cordoned off completely due to heavy waterlogging. MCG workers blocked the entrance to the stretch, located on an incline, with sandbags and mud, as rainwater from the Hamilton Court Road flowed towards the lower-lying areas of DLF Phase 4, Sector 28 and Chakkarpur village.With the help of tractor-mounted motor pumps, MCG workers channelled the rainwater from the camera museum stretch to the Hamilton Court, and directed it towards the nearest drain outlet.“Before the path to the sector was blocked by MCG workers, rainwater entered several ground-floor houses nearby and the level of rainwater kept rising. Our entire furniture was soaked and so were a few electrical appliances. We kept draining out rainwater from our home, with mops and buckets, but the water level was too much to handle,” said Mohit Saini, a resident of Sector 28.Residents of Suncity, South City-2 and Sushant Lok-1 also complained of waterlogging in residences.“By noon, such was the extent of waterlogging inside my house that I had to shift my elderly parents to a relative’s house nearby. I had to turn off the main power, fearing electrocution, and voluntarily stayed without power for nearly three hours. From 2pm, once the moderate rains were reduced to a drizzle, the rainwater started to recede. It was only around 4pm that I was able to completely clear rainwater from my home,” said Sidhant Chawla, a resident of South City-2.On the Mehrauli-Gurgaon (MG) Road, the entrance to Essel Towers was completely flooded residents, restricting residents to their homes.“The entrance of our colony is located on a slope. All the rainwater from the direction of Iffco Chowk and MG Road Metro station started flowing towards it due to which there is persistently high accumulation of rainwater. A truck tried to make its way to the colony but stalled midway due to the rainwater. Until motor pumps were able to drain out rainwater by later afternoon, I was stuck at home,” said Manish Sinha, a resident of the condominium.Sinha said although the entrance was flooded sporadically during previous monsoons, it has become a regular occurrence this year.MCG officials said that this year, waterlogging on arterial roads has been more severe than usual due to a change in their monsoon preparedness strategy.“Till May-end, MCG workers were all caught up with the second Covid-19 wave. At the time, the monsoon was forecast to hit the city by June 12. Our priority was, hence, to clean up drains and set up temporary counter waterlogging measures at stretches that have a high volume of traffic. We prioritised high-density stretches rather than internal residential areas due to the short time period,” a senior MCG official, who did not wish to be named, said.The official cited above said that although monsoon only arrived in the city over two weeks ago, the uncertainty with its timeline meant that the MCG did not alter its strategy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/arterial-stretches-flooded-residents-marooned-in-condos-societies-101627495009550.html
28-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government slashes school fees by 15%||In a major relief to parents and guardians, the state cabinet on Wednesday decided to slash private school fees for the current academic year by 15%. The decision, according to school education minister Varsha Gaikwad, was on the lines of the Supreme Court’s (SC) order for the reduction of fees for schools in Rajasthan. Earlier this week, the Apex court had asked the Maharashtra government to consider its May judgement to collect 15% less school fees.Parents’ bodies had been demanding some relief from the state government in terms of slashing school fees, given the Covid-19 pandemic situation. Schools in the state continue to remain closed amid the pandemic and the fear of a possible third Covid wave.“The state cabinet has decided to cut school fees by 15%. The criteria adopted by the state are on the lines of the Supreme Court’s order for Rajasthan. The decision will apply to all boards. We will issue an order in the next two to three days. Parents will have to pay only 85% of the fees for this academic year. The decision will come as a relief to parents and even students. The SC had also asked the state government to consider a cut in fees, therefore, today we have made this decision,” said Gaikwad.Dispelling the doubts that school managements, anticipating a move by the government to cut fees, could have hiked the fees for this year, the minister said that many schools have not hiked fees considering the Covid-19 scenario. Gaikwad also said that the state will take action against school management if they do not adhere to the truncated fee. “Once the cabinet has taken a decision, we will share with the honourable Supreme Court. Even then if any school management does not adhere to it, then we will take action against them. The government order will cover various issues and intricacies to avoid any confusion among parents and school management,” the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-slashes-school-fees-by-15-101627494168696.html
28-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 6,857 new cases; weekly positivity rates falls to 3.80%||Maharashtra’s weekly positivity rate has dropped to 3.8% from last week’s 4.36%, indicating a declining trend of the second Covid-19 wave. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the positivity rate should remain below 5% for an outbreak to be considered under control.Maharashtra currently has 10 districts that have positivity rates above the state average of 3.80%. These include Satara (8.03%), Pune (7.23%), Kolhapur (7.18%), Sangli (6.91%), Sindhudurg (6.49 %), Solapur (5.90%), Ahmednagar (4.95%), Beed (4.88%), Raigad (4.70%) and Ratnagiri (3.83%). This means currently just six out of the 10 districts have a positivity rate of more than 5%. Last week, nine of the 10 districts had a positivity rate of more than 5%.Meanwhile, the state on Wednesday recorded 6,857 new cases with 286 deaths. The state’s Covid tally has reached 6,282,914, while the death toll stands at 132,145.There were 193,042 tests done on Wednesday and the number of recoveries clocked 6,105. There are currently 82,545 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 15,768 patients followed by Thane with 9,587 active patients. Mumbai recorded 403 new cases and 10 deaths, thus bringing its toll to 15,860.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said the weekly average rate of less than 5% itself indicates the waning of the second Covid-19 wave. “We ramped up medical infrastructure and also started mass vaccination, which played an important role in controlling the virus. However, some districts like Satara, Pune, Kolhapur, Sangli and Sindhudurg are still matters of concern for the state,” said Dr Awate.Dr Satyendra Nath Mehra, medical director, Masina Hospital, Byculla, said that the pace of vaccination should be increased in these hotspots. “The government needs to speed up vaccination as well as strictly enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour in these districts,” said Dr Mehra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-6-857-new-cases-weekly-positivity-rates-falls-to-380-101627494108727.html
28-07-2021||Mumbai||Second wave saw at least four Covid-19 deaths in 0-9 age group in Mumbai: Hospitals||The city has recorded at least four deaths in the 0-9 age group due to Covid-19 this year. Civic-run BYL Nair Hospital recorded three infant deaths, while SRCC Children’s Hospital recorded one death. Covid pneumonia, wherein the infection inflames the lungs, has been seen as the most common cause of death. However, these deaths are yet to reflect in the official data of the civic body. According to the age-wise mortality numbers obtained by Hindustan Times, the civic body has recorded zero deaths in the 0-9 age group between January to July 15 this year. “We did see deaths in the 0-9 age group during the first wave, but we have not recorded any deaths this year so far,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. “It could be that the review of deaths recorded by these hospitals revealed that the cause was not Covid-19,” he said. The civic body has recorded as many as 13,185 cases in the 0-9 age group since March 2020. Last year, there were 18 deaths in this age group, as per the civic body data. According to Dr Soonu Udani, medical director of SRCC Children’s Hospital, they recorded the death of an 18-day-old baby in May this year. “The baby had severe pneumonia. As per protocol, we have mentioned the cause of death as Çovid-19 pneumonia on the death certificate too,” said Udani, adding that the facility has recorded only one other death in the paediatric age group, that of a 15-year-old who had multiple comorbid conditions including obesity. She said that the number of paediatric patients went up during the peak in April. But cases have now reduced drastically. BYL Nair Hospital’s paediatric head Dr Sushma Malik said that at least one of the three infants who succumbed this year had developed the multisystem inflammatory syndrome, a serious complication of Covid-19 that affects organs and systems in the body. The hospital has also seen death of an 11-year-old child. “While any mortality is a concern, we have not seen a severe impact of Covid-19 on children,” said Malik. Some experts predict that the anticipated third wave may affect children badly, as they will be vulnerable without vaccine. However, there is another section of experts who believe that the third wave may not severely impact children. The civic body has started preparations to manage the anticipated paediatric surge by equipping jumbo hospitals with paediatric beds and intensive care units. A state-level task force has also been formed to steer the actions required to manage the under-18 population. Talks of rolling out vaccination for children between 12 to 18 years are also on at the centre. Clinical trials are underway with at least two vaccines for children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/second-wave-saw-at-least-four-covid-19-deaths-in-0-9-age-group-in-mumbai-hospitals-101627493988681.html
28-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai university revokes circular, marks of law students from August 2020 valid||Less than a month after the University of Mumbai (MU) released circular nullifying results of law students that were based on average scores and internal assessment last year, the MU Board of Examination and Evaluation (BoEE) on Wednesday released another circular reinstating the old marks. The university had announced to scrap the results of students from three year and five-year law courses in August 2020, based on a Bar Council of India (BCI) directive, making end of semester exams mandatory in order to promote students. “Since we were promoted last year based on an average score of previous semesters and our performance in the current semester, the university had called for the scrapping of our results. They asked all colleges to conduct assignment-based evaluation (ABE) and announce results accordingly. The HC on Wednesday clarified that the BCI directives don’t apply to results announced before the directives were released,” said Vikram Pandey, a final year law student.Last year, due to increasing Covid-19 cases and the eventual lockdown, all university students (except final semester students) were promoted to the next semester based on their performance in that semester. Results for semesters 2 and 4 of the three-year LLB course and semesters 2, 4, 6 and 8 of the five-year LLB course we’re announced based on the average scores of previous semesters and internal assessment marks. These results were announced in August 2020 and several of these students have already cleared the semester after that and are currently in their final semester of the course. On July 5 this year, law students were in for a shock after the university released a circular nullifying the August 2020 results and directed colleges to hold ABE as per a set schedule, in order to declare results once again. Students were asked to submit two assignments in each subject for 50 marks, and the scores obtained would have been extrapolated to the scale of 60 or 100, whichever applicable. Students raised this matter in the Bombay HC and a final decision came through on Wednesday.“The university announced results of summer 2020 examination, in accordance with the University Grants Commission (UGC) directives of giving marks based on previous semesters and internal assessment. The BCI in its circular from July 9 made the end of term exams mandatory, forcing the university to scrap August 2020 results,” said a statement released by the BoEE director, Vinod Patil. He added that as per the HC decision, the ABE schedule announced on July 5 stands withdrawn and results of intermediate semesters declared in the first half of 2020 announced in August 2020 stand restored.“This decision restores our faith in the judiciary. Expecting students to put their studies for the current semester on hold and complete assignments for the last academic year would have been unfair. We are happy the judiciary understood our plight,” said another student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-university-revokes-circular-marks-of-law-students-from-august-2020-valid-101627493928624.html
28-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to get 6 new DNA testing units to expedite probe in Pocso cases||To speed up the investigations, trials and outcomes of cases involving sexual assault and crimes against minors, the Maharashtra government will soon have dedicated DNA units to analyse the evidence in six regional forensic science laboratories in the state.A senior official from the Directorate of Forensic Science Laboratories (DSFL) said that these units in the regional forensic science laboratories at Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur, would be launched within a month. Those at the Nashik, Aurangabad and Amravati are likely to be operational in August-September after seeking necessary permissions from the state government.“There is a substantial backlog of cases that are pending DNA testing at our labs. These new genetic analysers will be used only for the cases registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012. This will enhance DNA extraction, testing and generation of forensic evidence,” the official explained.Sandeep Bishnoi, director general of police (legal and technical), confirmed the development and said that these specialised units would quicken the criminal jurisprudence process in offences registered under the Pocso Act.Maharashtra has a state-level forensic science laboratory in Mumbai and seven others across the state (Nagpur, Pune, Nashik, Amravati, Nanded, Kolhapur and Aurangabad). DNA testing facilities are available at Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Nagpur, Amravati and Aurangabad.At present, the DFSL has around 6,500 cases pending for DNA analysis, of which, around 1,100 pertain to offences registered under the Pocso Act.Though it takes around three days to analyse a DNA sample, the large number of cases pending for forensic testing ensure that the reports can take up to three or even six months in some instances. However, these new genetic analysers, which will be ring-fenced for testing only those cases related to crimes against minors, will bring down the time taken to just around a month.The analysers and other equipment are purchased with a fund of ₹53.70 crore, granted by the Central government to the state, to strengthen its forensic infrastructure.The number of cases sent for DNA testing to the regional forensic science laboratories has risen from 5,113 in 2017, to 6,259 in 2018, 7,540 in 2019, 6,314 in 2020 and 3,823 in July 2021. These include cases of murder, unclaimed dead bodies, dacoity, attempt to murder, sexual assault and paternity. DNA analysis is also used to establish the identity of bodies that have been mutilated in mishaps and disasters.BOX:- The DNA division generates forensic evidence for the investigation of offences like sexual assault, murder and unclaimed and mutilated dead bodies and to establish paternity.- However, factors like shortage of staff and a rise in the number of cases sent for analysis have led to the number of pending cases increasing from around 3,300 in 2019 to 5,400 in 2020 and 5,700 in July 2021.- The cases registered under the Pocso Act that were sent for forensic analysis have grown from 1,914 in 2018 to 1,974 in 2019 and 935 by July this year.- The offences lodged under the Pocso Act that is pending DNA testing have also risen from about 900 in 2018, to 1,200 in 2019 and stand at 1,100 in July this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-get-6-new-dna-testing-units-to-expedite-probe-in-pocso-cases-101627493868709.html
28-07-2021||Mumbai||Consider committee of all boards for preparing CET paper: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday asked the state to consider setting up a committee consisting of representatives of all boards to decide on the syllabus for the common entrance test (CET) to be held on August 21, for admission to Class 11. The state assured the court that it would consider the possibility of complying with the HC suggestion and respond by August 4. The court directed students from other boards to register for the CET as well. The division bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice RI Chagla, while hearing the petition by ICSE student Ananya Patki, a student of IES Orion School, Dadar, was informed by her father advocate Yogesh Patki that the petition sought quashing of the May 28 notification of the state government which stipulated that admissions to Class 11 would be based on CET results, the question paper of which would be based solely on the syllabus of SSC board.Advocate Patki told the HC that after the syllabus for the CET was notified on June 24 it was felt that there was alleged discrimination against the 4 lakh students from the ICSE and CBSE students. He added that as his daughter would not be able to appear through the offline mode, her interest would be heavily prejudiced. In light of this, Patki, sought a stay on the May 28 notification. On July 22, the Court had sought to know from the state whether there could be a separate syllabus for CBSE and ICSE students appearing for CET for Class 11 admissions and also asked the state that if such separate syllabus could not be prepared, the priority for admissions given to students who appear for CET could be withdrawn. The court had also sought data on the number of students who registered for the CET offline test. However, on Wednesday, the government pleader Purnima Kantharia submitted that the SSC board could not venture into the syllabus of ICSE or CBSE and other boards to prepare the CET admission test based on it. She added that as the registration website had crashed, the process could not be completed till July 26 and hence it was extended by three days. In light of this, the data sought by the court could not be furnished. After hearing the submissions the court said, “You (state) can form a committee consisting of all three boards so that there will be options. If there is an attempt to eliminate students from certain boards, then that is not a solution. How can ICSE or CBSE board students answer the Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs) based on topics which are optional subjects for them?” The court also suggested having some part of the ICSE, CBSE and other board syllabus as part of the CET examination.The bench while asking students from all boards to register themselves for the CET, said that their contentions would not be prejudiced and posted hearing on August 4. The bench then asked the state to file its reply to the suggestions and said that no further adjournments would be allowed. The court also allowed the addition of the IB and IGCSE board as parties to the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/consider-committee-of-all-boards-for-preparing-cet-paper-bombay-hc-101627493808616.html
28-07-2021||Other||FIR against PMPML driver for commuter’s death||PUNE Four months after a woman commuter fell off a Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) bus and died, the Loni Kalbhor police lodged an FIR against the bus driver in the case on Wednesday. At the time, police had registered a case of accidental death.The deceased has been identified as Mahadevi Gorakh Gaikwad, and she was travelling on the PMPML bus on March 29, 2021. She wanted to get down at a stop near Dhanlakshmi bridge in Wadaki village. When she came to the bus door and was about to alight, the driver sped away. Gaikwad lost her balance, fell down and died. Loni Kalbhor police said that an FIR has been registered against bus driver Praveen Shivaji Kad. He has been booked under relevant sections of the Motor Vehicle Act and sections related to rash and negligent driving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fir-against-pmpml-driver-for-commuter-s-death-101627493088556.html
28-07-2021||Pune||Nigerian held with 20gm cocaine in Pune||Pune: The Anti-Narcotics Cell (ANC) of Pune city police arrested a Nigerian citizen possessing cocaine worth ₹four lakh on Tuesday. The arrest was made following an input given by the Military Intelligence (MI) branch of the Indian Army’s Southern Command. The accused identified as Shuaib Taofiq Owolabi (40), a resident of Vashi in Navi Mumbai, was nabbed near Rajyog Society in Baner. According to the sleuths, 20 gm cocaine has been seized from his possession besides other materials, including his passport and mobile phone. An FIR has been lodged against Owolabi at Chatuhshrungi police station for offences under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The action was taken under the guidance of Commissioner of Police Amitabh Gupta, Additional CP Ashok Morale, DCP (Crime) Srinivas Ghadge and ACP Surendra Deshmukh. The team comprised senior police inspector Vinayak Gaikwad and policemen Pravin Shirke, Sujit Wadekar, Sandip Jadhav, Rahul Joshi, Pravin Uttekar, Nitin Jadhav, Pandurang Pawar and Sandesh Kakade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nigerian-held-with-20gm-cocaine-in-pune-101627493028622.html
28-07-2021||Patna||Tejashwi Yadav slams Centre for not conducting caste-based census||Leader of Opposition (LoP) Tejashwi Yadav on Wednesday hit out at the Central government for not conducting a caste-based census.Taking to Twitter, Yadav shared a video clip from his speech in Bihar Assembly and asked why the Centre wants to deprive 70 per cent of the population of the backward/most backward people of their rights.He said that the Bihar Assembly passed a proposal demanding a caste-based census twice but the Centre refused to consider it."We have sent the proposal of caste census from Bihar Assembly twice unanimously and sent it to the central government but the central government does not want to conduct caste calculation/census? Why does the central government want to deprive 70 per cent of the population of the backward/most backward people of their rights? Does BJP not consider 70 per cent of the population as Hindus?," said Tejashwi Yadav in a tweet roughly translated from Hindi.Earlier on Saturday, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar reiterated his demand for a caste-based census in the state at least once, saying it will help in the development and welfare of people in the state."We have already kept our thoughts about the caste-based census in the House in February 2019 and 2020. The caste-based census must be done at least once. Through it, they can gain benefits from schemes. If we know the exact number, we can work towards their betterment," Kumar had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tejashwi-yadav-slams-centre-for-not-conducting-caste-based-census-101627492683930.html
28-07-2021||Mumbai||Maha floods: Govt clears immediate aid for victims, plans NDRF camp in Mahad||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday decided to provide immediate assistance including an amount of ₹10,000 each to those affected by the recent floods and other rain-related incidents in the state.The state cabinet also decided to set up a permanent NDRF camp at Mahad in Raigad district."The cabinet has cleared a proposal to provide immediate relief to flood-affected people. The extremely heavy rainfall of the last week has caused havoc in several districts. We have started providing relief as per the National Disaster Response Fund norms," said PWD minister Eknath Shinde.Among other things, affected families are also being given utensils of daily use, he told reporters.“The state government will give ₹10,000 immediately to the affected people. More aid will be given after we receive funds from the Union government,” he said.The cabinet also decided to pay ₹50 lakh to the kin of the employees of smaller municipal councils who died due to COVID-19, Shinde said.Aditi Tatkare, who is guardian minister of Raigad, informed that a permanent camp of the National Disaster Response Force would be set up at Mahad in the coastal district where nearly 100 people lost their lives in landslides and other rain-related incidents.“If an NDRF camp can not be set up -- because the proposal has to be cleared by the Union government -- we will set up a camp of the State Disaster Response Force. Land has been identified for it,” she said. Such a camp can cater to the coastal Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts, Tatkare added.The state cabinet also cleared a proposal for the implementation of ₹4,601 crore Swacch Bharat Abhiyan. It will continue till 2025 with the state bearing its share of ₹1,840.40 crore, said an official statement.The government on Wednesday also decided to set up a state-level organic farming standardization centre in Akola district. At present, standardization certification is done by private agencies, which is expensive for farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-floods-govt-clears-immediate-aid-for-victims-plans-ndrf-camp-in-mahad-101627491984137.html
28-07-2021||Other||Covid vax drives affected in flood-hit districts||PUNE Before the floods hit western Maharashtra’s districts, the health administration was worried about these districts reporting a much higher positivity rate. However, now with the floods affecting these same districts , health infrastructure has also faced the brunt. The testing and reporting of Covid-19 cases has been hampered and areas flooded with water have also seen a fall in vaccinations. However, with the forced isolation of people due to the floods there could be a possible fall in numbers visible after 10-15 days, say experts. As of Wednesday, the overall positivity rate is higher than the state average in Kolhapur, Pune, Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sangli, Satara and Sindhudurg. Most of these district also include the ones that saw the highest amount of rainfall in the past few days. Dr Sanghmitra Phule, civil surgeon at Ratnagiri, which saw massive rainfall in the district especially in Chiplun, said, “The testing and vaccination surely affected a few blocks, but only those that were submerged under water. Even in the relief camps we did carry out testing and anyone found positive was immediately isolated. However, even before the floods hit our district, we had carried out extensive Covid-19 testing in the most affected blocks, including Chiplun.” Satara also saw heavy rains. Mahabaleshwar which recorded its highest recorded rainfall in 24 hours also saw Covid-19 testing hampered. Dr Sachin Patil, district health officer, said, “Not all the areas in the district were hampered, however, we did have testing centres in some districts, where there was heavy rainfall, hampered. However, the impact of whether or not the isolation of people due to floods has brought down the spread of infection will be evident in the next 10-15 days, which is the period of incubation in case of Covid-19. Now it would be too early to report any trends in case of the impact of floods in the district.”In view of the hampered vaccination drive in the flood-affected districts, the state government has sent vaccines to Ratnagiri, Sangli, Kolhapur, Satara and Raigad. Dr Vivek Patil, the district immunisation officer in Sangli, said that they have received the latest vaccine stock today. “On Monday, Sangli district received over 65,000 doses of the vaccine and on Wednesday, district received over 78,000 doses of the vaccine. The vaccination drive, which was impacted in some districts, will resume soon. We even vaccinated people in the temporary shelters and prioritised those who came from these villages.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-vax-drives-affected-in-flood-hit-districts-101627492068519.html
28-07-2021||Other||Badminton legend Nandu Natekar passes away at 88||PUNE: One of the pioneers of Indian badminton and the first Indian player (and Punekar) to win an international title, Nandu Natekar, 88, passed away at his residence here on Wednesday. Natekar – who won over 100 national and international titles over the course of his career – succumbed to age-related ailments. He is survived by his son Gaurav and two daughters.“He passed away peacefully at home and we were all with him. He was ailing for the last three months but breathed his last peacefully,” said Gaurav over a phone call.In a message, the Natekar family said, “With the deepest sorrow, we would like to inform you that our beloved father Nandu Natekar passed away on July 28, 2021. Keeping in mind the Covid-19 guidelines, we will not be having a condolence meeting. Please keep him in your thoughts and prayers.”After the news of Nandu Natekar’s passing broke, dignitaries, fans and followers sent condolence messages over social media.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a tweet, “Shri Nandu Natekar has a special place in India’s sporting history. He was an outstanding badminton player and a great mentor. His success continues to motivate budding athletes. Saddened by his demise. My thoughts are with his family and friends in this sad hour. Om Shanti!”Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol in a tweet said, “A heartfelt tribute on behalf of all the people of Pune to the Arjuna Award winner, the hero of Indian sports, the great badminton hero, Nandu Natekar.”Om Prakash Bakoria, sports commissioner, Maharashtra, said in his tweet, “Extremely saddened to know about the sad demise of six-time ‘Men’s Singles National Badminton Champion’ and the first Arjuna Awardee (1961), Nandu Natekar. His passing away is a loss to the world of sports. Condolences to his family, friends and innumerable admirers.”Ranjeet Natu, honorary secretary, Pune District Metropolitan Badminton Association (PDMBA), said, “Nandu Natekar was known as ‘Nandu Kaka’ in Pune. Not only did he contribute to the game as a player but also as a coach, organiser and official. Till 1997, he used to come to the PDMBA court and train us. Along with being a great singles’ player, he would share excellent tips for performing in the doubles and mixed doubles matches.”Natu recalled that when PDMBA hosted the senior nationals badminton in 1997, Nandu Natekar was the head of the organising committee and that he learned a lot of things from him. Back in 1986 when the Maharashtra Badminton Association was going through troubled times owing to a dispute among its management, Nandu Natekar went ahead and continued as president for four years to bring stability to the body. “In every role, he was perfect and was always open to new ideas, whether they came from a peon or a top official. He liked listening to people,” Natu remembered fondly.Nikhil Kanetkar, who represented India in the 2004 Summer Olympics, said, “It is sad news for the sports fraternity across the country and my condolences to Nandu Natekar’s family. I was fortunate to be trained under him when I was just 12 years’ old at the PDMBA. Whenever he stepped on the court, it was a treat to watch him play.”In 1954, Nandu Natekar made it to the quarterfinals of the prestigious All England Championships and in 1956, he became the first Indian player to win an international event when he claimed the Sellanger International in Malaysia. He won 12 out of 16 singles’ matches and 8 out of 16 doubles as part of the Indian team at the Thomas Cup held between 1951 and 1963. He led the country in tournaments in 1959, 1961 and 1963. He also represented India at the 1965 Commonwealth Games in Jamaica. Before appearing on the world badminton stage from 1950 to 1970, Nandu Natekar was also fond of playing tennis and cricket. In 1960, he was offered a Brylcreem advertisement for which he wasn’t paid any money but given free packets of Brylcreem every month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/badminton-legend-nandu-natekar-passes-away-at-88-101627491409501.html
28-07-2021||Other||Forest dept to set up 6 centres to rescue crocodiles from Sangli villages, post floods||PUNE The Maharashtra forest department is in the process of setting up six centres in Sangli and areas nearby, to rescue reptiles and avoid incidents of human-animal conflict. This comes after crocodiles were spotted in some residential localities as the flood waters receded on Tuesday. The floods triggered by heavy rains hit Sangli, Kolhapur and Satara, inundating several areas of these districts. Later, as the rain ebbed and water levels in villages along the banks of the Krishna river began to recede, crocodiles were spotted on some roads, in drains, and even on roofs of houses, triggering panic among people. According to forest officials, crocodiles inhabit a 60-70 km river stretch, passing through around 15 villages, including Bhilwadi, Malwadi, Digraj, Audumbarwadi, Chopadewadi and Brahmnal. In the past, there have been incidents of human-animal conflicts in some of these areas. “During the recent heavy rains, crocodiles were swept away along with the flood waters into some villages,” P G Sutar, regional forest officer, Sangli range, said. “In one case, a crocodile was spotted on the roof of a house, but the animal later returned to the river along with the flow of water,” he said. Vijay Mane, deputy conservator of forest (Sangli), said the forest department has now set up six centres near some flood-hit areas of Sangli city, Kavthe Mahakal, Palus, Kadegaon, Walwa and part of Tasgaon, to rescue crocodiles. At these rescue centres, teams comprising forest officials, guards and members from NGOs working for wildlife conservation will respond to calls of the presence of crocodiles, snakes, injured birds and other wild animals in human habitats, he said. “We have circulated a toll-free helpline number (1926) and personal numbers of forest officials and NGO members. If someone calls to inform about the presence of a crocodile or any other wild animal, the team from the nearest centre will go there, rescue the animal and initiate a process to release it into its natural habitat,” the official said. The objective of these rescue centres is to prevent any harm to the wild animals and minimise incidents of human-animal conflict, he added. Tabreg Khan, a member of the NGO Nature Conservation Society in Sangli, claimed the natural habitat of crocodiles along the Krishna river has been destroyed due to indiscriminate sand excavation. “Now, during floods, the animals easily get swept away towards villages,” he rued, and appealed to people not to harm crocodiles and inform the forest department and NGOs if they spot a reptile in their area. Amol Jadhav, another member of the NGO, asked people not to panic. He also said several videos of crocodiles venturing into villages were doing the rounds, but most of them were either of the 2019 floods in Sangli, or in other parts of the country. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/forest-dept-to-set-up-6-centres-to-rescue-crocodiles-from-sangli-villages-post-floods-101627491408405.html
28-07-2021||Other||BJP, NCP, Sena corporators to donate a month’s honorarium to CM’s relief fund||PUNE: To help people in flood-affected areas, he Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Shiv Sena members will donate one month’s honorarium for relief works in Konkan and Western Maharashtra.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has sent water tankers and fire tenders to Kolhapur and Ratnagiri. Now the elected members are also coming forward to help.Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol announced that all the BJP members would give their one month’s salary for flood relief work.NCP city unit president Prashant Jagtap announced that all elected members from his party will hand over one month’s honorarium to the chief minister relief fund. Sena leader Prithviraj Sutar also announced that Sena members would hand over a month’s honorarium to the relief fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-ncp-sena-corporators-to-donate-a-month-s-honorarium-to-cm-s-relief-fund-101627491408963.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab CM urges PM Modi to reopen Kartarpur corridor||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reopen the Kartarpur corridor so that devotees could visit the shrine dedicated to Sikh Guru Nanak Dev in Pakistan.Pilgrimage to the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara was suspended in March 2020 because of the Covid-19 outbreak.In a letter to the PM, Singh said his government will be happy to work in conjunction with the Union government to ensure adherence to proper Covid-19 protocols, including testing and vaccination of pilgrims using the corridor, according to an official release.He hoped for a positive consideration by the PM in this regard."The Covid-19 situation in Punjab has shown signs of significant improvement in the past one month and I am happy to share that yesterday, no Covid-19 related death was reported, after almost a period of one year," he wrote.He said in the changed scenario, people have obviously again evinced their desire to have "darshan" at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur.The Kartarpur corridor links Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan, the final resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev, to Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Gurdaspur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-punjab-cm-urges-pm-modi-to-reopen-kartarpur-corridor-101627490606821.html
28-07-2021||Patna||Maoists to observe ‘Martyr’s Week’, Bihar police sound high alert||The Bihar police has sounded a general high alert in the wake of Maoists observing “Martyrs’ Week” from Wednesday. The security forces are keeping strict vigil in Maoist-infested areas of bordering Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Nepal, officials aware of the development said. According to reports, posters and banners by the banned extremist outfit CPI (Maoist) have been put up, appealing residents to observe “Martyrs’ Week” from July 28 to August 3 in remote villages of several districts. In the posters, the CPI (Maoist) has not only appealed the public to join their cadres but also threatened to increase attacks and other activities in their strongholds. The banned outfit observes “Martyrs’ Week” every year to memorialise their members who were killed while fighting with security forces. The tradition started in 1972 after Charu Majumdar, founder of Maoist movement in the country, died in police custody in West Bengal. According to the posters, at least 160 Maoists have been killed over last 12 months in eight Maoist-affected states. Police informed the high alert has been sounded after intelligence reports suggested that the ultras might attack Maoist areas and indulge in demonstrative acts of violence by targeting security forces and infrastructure such as trains, buses, railway stations, bus stations and other places, where people are likely to gather in significant numbers. Officials in police headquarters said apart from ensuring deployment of additional police and paramilitary forces, the combing operations and patrolling has been intensified to check possibility of entry of Maoists from neighbouring states. Security forces have also been alerted to remain vigilant, particularly against IEDs and landmines. It has also stepped-up intelligence gathering in view of the “Martyrs’ Week”. “We have asked security forces to conduct long-range patrolling in areas of Jamui, Lakhisarai, Gaya, Aurangabad and Nawada districts,” said a police official on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/maoists-to-observe-martyr-s-week-bihar-police-sound-high-alert-101627490808377.html
28-07-2021||Patna||IGIMS to have 60-kilo litre oxygen storage capacity, 3 generation plants||The Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), an autonomous institution on the pattern of AIIMS-Delhi, will be the state’s first medical college hospital to have an oxygen storage capacity of 60-kilo litres in addition to having three pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants. Together, the three oxygen plants will have a capacity to generate up to 2,233 litres per minute of oxygen. These plants, along with the cryogenic liquid medical oxygen tanks, are expected to be commissioned by end of August.The institute allocated a fresh area on its campus to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Monday to set up two oxygen generation plants after the space earmarked earlier was found to be low-lying. The two oxygen generation plants are being set up under the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situation (PM CARES) fund. Each plant will have a capacity to generate 1,000 litres per minute (LPM) oxygen, said Shailendra Kumar Singh, superintending engineer (biomedical), IGIMS. Earlier, the institute had on July 18 commissioned its first 233 LPM oxygen generation plant, facilitated through Patna MP and former Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. “We have spoken to the authorities in the DRDO and requested them to expedite installation of the two oxygen generation plants. We expect them to be ready within a month,” said IGIMS director Dr NR Biswas. “Besides, one of the two cryogenic tanks of liquid medical oxygen (LMO), each having 20-kilo litre capacity, has been installed. Civil work on the laying of the pipeline is now underway. We expect all oxygen-related work to be complete within a month,” added Dr Biswas. The IGIMS, which has 1,050 in-patient beds, with plans to scale it up by another 1,900 beds, has also put up its 20-kilo litre cryogenic LMO tank and work on laying the pipeline is underway. “One 20 kilo-litre LMO tank is equivalent to 2,250 D-type cylinders, each having 7,000 litres (approx.) oxygen. We will have three such tanks on our campus, in addition to three PSA oxygen generation plants, making us self-sufficient in medical oxygen,” said Singh. In anticipation of the third wave of Covid-19, one tank each of 20 kilo-litre LMO has also been set up at the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) and the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), both in Patna. The Darbhanga Medical College Hospital (DMCH) will be taken up after installation work at the IGIMS is completed, said a health official. While PMCH, NMCH, IGIMS and DMCH will have two cryogenic LMO tanks each of 20-kilo litre storage capacity, the remaining six state-run medical colleges will have one such tank. All these are expected to be commissioned by August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/igims-to-have-60-kilo-litre-oxygen-storage-capacity-3-generation-plants-101627490748377.html
28-07-2021||Patna||Bihar education dept mandates accreditation of pvt schools before Dec 31||Private schools running sans recognition will have to mandatorily get an accreditation certificate from the state government before December 31, said officials of the state education department.In this regard, the education department issued an official notification on Tuesday directing all private schools offering primary education to apply for accreditation certificates through the online portal e-Sambandhan.On July 22, the department launched the e-Sambandhan portal for facilitating online applications for acquiring no objection certificate (NOC) from the department, easing the affiliation process for private primary school operators.Ranjit Kumar Singh, outgoing director of (primary) education, said, “No school will be allowed to operate in the state without accreditation certificate after December 31. Private schools must apply for recognition before September 30. Those private schools that are already recognised are also required to upload their relevant documents on the portal before September 30. After an inspection on various parameters, QR code attached accreditation certificate will be issued to them.”“The primary schools that have applied for acquiring accreditation certificate through offline mode need to fill fresh online application. All applications for accreditation will be disposed of through online portal”, he added.Officials of the department said all district education offices have been asked to submit a report regarding the accreditation of private schools of their respective districts by January 2022. As per the department, the e-Sambandhan portal would bring uniformity and transparency in issuing recognition certificates and help in the crackdown against mushrooming private schools operating without matching criteria set for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-education-dept-mandates-accreditation-of-pvt-schools-before-dec-31-101627490689597.html
28-07-2021||Patna||PU to begin admission process from August 1||Patna University (PU) is set to begin online admission process for the new academic session 2021-22 from August 1, as per a notification issued on Wednesday.Online application for admission in regular and self-financing undergraduate (UG) courses will be invited from August 1. The last date for filling online admission form is August 20.PU’s vice-chancellor Girish Kumar Choudhary, said, “Admission process for eight UG courses, including BSc, BCom, BA, BCA, and BBA, and other vocational courses will begin from August 1. Admission notice for LLB, Bachelor of Fine Arts and other postgraduate programmes will be announced soon.”Students can visit www.patnauniversity.ac for further details, said a PU official.BPSC Mains from July 29The Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC) is set to conduct the 66th Mains exam from Thursday across nine exam centres. The exam will conclude on July 31.As per BPSC officials, around 8,700 candidates have registered to write exam, which is being conducted to fill 691 vacant posts in various government departments.According to a BPSC notification, candidates should avoid writing personal details like name, mobile number, any religious slogan or symbol on the answer sheet, else their candidature can be disqualified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pu-to-begin-admission-process-from-august-1-101627490688398.html
28-07-2021||Patna||Bus mishap: Eight of 18 dead from Sitamarhi; CM announces ex gratia||Of the 18 migrant workers from Bihar who were killed after a speeding truck hit their bus in Barabanki district of Uttar Pradesh late on Tuesday night, the majority belonged from Runnisaidpur subdivision in Sitamarhi district. According to the Sitamarhi district magistrate Sunil Kumar Yadav, his Barabanki counterpart informed him that eight of the deceased and nine of the injured were from Sitamarhi. Yadav said a team has been sent to Barabanki to bring back the bodies. “We were around 70 people who left from a bus stop near Haryana’s Ambala for Bihar. When the bus reached Hisar, the driver told them that bus had developed some technical fault and accommodated us in another bus, which was already crowded. Around 8 pm, the bus broke down and the driver informed us that the repair work will take time. Many of us came out of the bus. A few were sleeping on the road, while others were eating or resting,” said Fauni Sahni, a survivor. Sanjay Mandal, a resident of Supaul, told HT over phone that he lost his father and a neighbour in the incident. “More than 17 persons had gone to Punjab and Haryana in June for sowing paddy. Around 10 from Supaul were in the bus when accident occurred,” he said. Mantu from Sheohar said he was returning with his father Joginder and friend Dilip from Kaithal in Haryana. His father was injured in the incident while he himself fainted after the mishap. Meanwhile, Bihar Governor Phagu Singh Chauhan and chief minister Nitish Kumar condoled the loss of lives. The CM announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh to next of kin of each of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bus-mishap-eight-of-18-dead-from-sitamarhi-cm-announces-ex-gratia-101627490689009.html
28-07-2021||Other||Ex-minister to rejoin JD-U||Former minister Sri Bhagwan Singh Kushwaha, who unsuccessfully contested the last assembly election from Jagdishpur on LJP ticket, said Wednesday he will rejoin Janata Dal (United) at a function in Patna on August 7 in the presence of the party’s former state unit president Basishtha Narayan Singh.Kushwaha started his political career with Indian People’s Front, which later came to be known as CPI-ML later. Since then, he has been RJD, JD(U), Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), Jan Adhikar Party and Rashtriya Lok Samata Party.He has been MLA from Jagdishpur thrice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exminister-to-rejoin-jdu-101627490628393.html
28-07-2021||Ranchi||MHA drops 3 J’khand districts out of LWE-hit list||In a boost for the state police, the Union home ministry has reduced the number of Left Wing Extremism (LWE)-hit districts to 16 from 19 in Jharkhand. There are 24 districts in Jharkhand.As per the new list notified by the Union home ministry, Simdega, Koderma and Ramgarh have been dropped from the LWE-hit list. Koderma and Ramgarh are part of North Chhotanagpur, while Simedga is in South Chhotanagpur. Confirming the development, Jharkhand inspector general (operations) AV Homkar said on Wednesday, “The revised list came into effect from July 1. Simdega, Koderma and Ramgarh are out of that list.”The districts which continue to be on the list are Bokaro, Chatra, Dhanbad, Dumka, East Singhbhum (Jamshedpur), Garhwa, Giridih, Gumla, Hazaribag, Khunti, Latehar, Lohardaga, Palamu, Ranchi, Seraikela-Kharsawan and West Singhbhum (Chaibasa). The list is revised by the Union home ministry based on the number of Maoist incidents in the districts over last three years, officials said. As per data provided by the Union home ministry in reply to a question in the Parliament, the number of incidents/activities related to Maoist violence witnessed a marginal dip in Jharkhand in the past three years. The number of deaths in the state in such incidents also recorded a decline in 2020 as compared to 2019. The total incidents stood at 205, 200 and 199 in the years 2018, 2019 and 2020, respectively, while the death toll stood at 43, 54 and 39, respectively. While the development was a pat on the back of the state police, officials expressed apprehension that dropping the three districts from the list may have other repercussions with regard to anti-Maoist operation, as it would entail funds drying up provided by the Centre under security-related expenditure scheme. “Though the funds vary from district to district, depending on the number of operations conducted, it is of big help as it pays for expenditure such as hiring vehicles for patrolling, fuel expenditure, besides other expenditure related to strengthening of pickets and camps. Though alternative arrangements are made and operations do not stop, it does pose a risk of incidents picking up if patrolling and area domination goes down,” a police officer involved in anti-Maoist operations said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/mha-drops-3-j-khand-districts-out-of-lwe-hit-list-101627490628960.html
28-07-2021||Patna||Sahni say all well in party, warns ‘those behind curtains’||Vikashsheel Insaan Party (VIP) chief Mukesh Sahni, a minister in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in Bihar, on Wednesday said all four MLAs of his party were with him and dismissed speculation that some of them were being wooed by a senior constituent of the NDA.“I am aware that some people are playing games from behind the curtains. I will burn down those curtains. I dare those people to come out in the open,” Sahni said, while talking to reporters outside the state Assembly.“Some people are trying to mislead my party MLAs and split the party. But they won’t succeed. All my party MLAs are with me and they are free to put their views at the party forum,” he said. Sahni had earlier announced his party’s plans to contest the Uttar Pradesh polls next year and field over 150 candidates. On Sunday last, he was not allowed to go out of the airport in Varanasi to attend a programme to observe the death anniversary of bandit-turned-politician Phoolan Devi, who, like Sahni, was a Mallah, a community mainly of boatmen that has significant presence in eastern UP. Earlier this week, the VIP chief had skipped the NDA meeting called to discuss the House strategy for the ongoing monsoon session.NDA in Bihar has a slender majority in the 243-member Assembly and support of VIP is crucial for its survival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/sahni-say-all-well-in-party-warns-those-behind-curtains-101627490568424.html
28-07-2021||Patna||Pursuing GI tag for Mithila Makhana: Agri minister||Bihar’s agriculture minister Amarendra Pratap Singh on Wednesday informed the Legislative Council that the state government was pursing the application for allocation of geographical indication (GI) tag for makhana, produced in the Mithila region in abundance, with the central government. Singh was replying to a call attention motion of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member Arjun Sahni, who alleged that farmers were not getting the appropriate return to their produce in the absence of GI tag. A huge number of farmers in Mithila region are engaged in production of makhana (fox nuts) on water bodies and selling them to local traders for processing and supplying it to other states and abroad. The agriculture minister said that the Bihar Agriculture University, Sabour (Bhagalpur), has sent a formal application to accord GI tag to makhana as “Mithila Makhana” to the Geographical Indication Registry office in Chennai in September last year. “Officials are in touch with the registry office, which stated that the process was on to grant the GI tag to Makhana,” said Singh. The minister said both Central and state governments were encouraging farmers to grown high-yield varieties of makhana under various schemes. “Farmers engaged in production of high-yield varieties of makhanas are being offered credit-linked assistance grant up to 35% of up to ₹10 lakh under the scheme Makhana Vikas Yojna,” said Singh. PMC faces fireEarlier in the day, leaders cutting across the party lines lashed out at the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the urban development department for their alleged lackadaisical approach to make the capital city free from recurring waterlogging. Sanjay Prakash alias Sanjay Mayukh of BJP, Sanjiv Kumar Singh of Janata Dal United, Kedar Nath Pandey of CPI, Prem Chandra Mishra of Congress and Ram Chandra Purbe of RJD, through different questions, highlighted improper and inadequate drainage facilities and blamed recurring waterlogging in Patna on callous negligence on the part of agencies.Deputy chief minister Tar Kishore Prasad, who also holds the charge of urban development department, assured of action against agencies failing to repair the roads after building drains. Prasad said a comprehensive drainage plan was being made for seamless disposal of storm water to rid cities of waterlogging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pursuing-gi-tag-for-mithila-makhana-agri-minister-101627490508988.html
28-07-2021||Patna||BJP MLA raises demand for population control bill||Amid the ongoing difference of opinion between the JD(U) and the BJP on bringing legislation for population control, a calling attention motion was moved by BJP MLA Vijay Kumar Khemka in the Bihar Assembly on Wednesday, seeking the state government response on the need for implementing the two-child norm across all castes and communities as a measure to check population and environment conservation.Other party MLAs also said there is a need for checking population due to the pressure building on agricultural land, water and environment in the state and across the country. Khemka, in the motion, said a policy for checking the population would be essential for the next 50 years. The motion drew the attention of the government to the scarcity of natural resources due to population explosion and stressed the need for implementing the recommendations of the Karunakaran committee report, which proposed measures like disqualifying those with more than two children from contesting elections. However, the government sought time to give a reply to the call attention motion. Talking to reporters outside the Bihar Assembly, Khemka said, “We request the government to give serious consideration to a population control law. It is as important as having a law to ban the sale and consumption of alcohol.” Asked whether it was a strategy by the BJP, which now enjoys the upper hand in the NDA in Bihar, to nettle Nitish Kumar, Khemka replied, “It is not about the party. It is about the whole society.” Incidentally, the BJP’s latest bid to put a thrust on framing a policy for population control is at variance with its junior constituent JD(U), which has asserted that education of women and wide awareness could be the panacea to check population. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had recently disapproved the draft of the population control bill in Uttar Pradesh and other BJP-ruled states, stating that it is not possible to check population with a law. Kumar opined that raising public awareness and boosting women’s education could achieve the target better, as it has already worked in Bihar in the past..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bjp-mla-raises-demand-for-population-control-bill-101627490508357.html
28-07-2021||Patna||March 23 incident a blot on Bihar Assembly: Speaker||Bihar Legislative Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha on Wednesday said that the March 23 incident, when the House witnessed particularly unruly scenes during a debate on the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021 and police had to be called in to evict the protesting Opposition members, was a blot on the legislature and every effort should be made to prevent such recurrence.He was speaking after a debate on the matter, as demanded by the Opposition. Parliamentary affairs minister and BJP leader Vijay Kumar Choudhary, however, said there was no relevance of a debate on the matter that was already referred to the ethics committee, but the Chair’s decision was final.Choudhary said the government had no role in the shameful incident that happened on March 23, as everything was done by the order of the Speaker in view of the ugly situation. “The government wants the House to run smoothly and that is why we are here as a mark of respect to the Chair, even though the government does not have to give any reply on an issue it is not responsible for. The government hopes the debate will put an end to it,” he said.Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav asked the Speaker by whose order the police entered the House to assault the legislators, the Speaker recited a couplet as to how slippers have to take all the blame if one trips even though it provides all protection.“March 23 incident was an insult of the House, not of the Chair or any individual. None of us can absolve ourselves. We all must strive to learn from it so that such a situation never recurs,” the Speaker said in his concluding remarks before adjourning the House.In his speech, Tejashwi said the Opposition’s role could not be undermined by use of force and spoke of how legislators, even female ones, were roughed up by policemen.Apprehending action against RJD legislators, he said if it were so, he should be the first to face action, but not before action against the erring policemen. Congress leader Ajeet Sharma and CPI-ML leader Mehboob Alam also supported his argument, demanding action against erring officers first.Former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi said that while none could appreciate the incident, it was equally important to get to the root. “Protests and dharnas have happened in the past also, but I never came across such an incident in my 36-year career as legislator. The protests in the House are symbolic and marshals were always enough to clear the area in the past, as members respected the Chair and the rules and were committed to uphold the sanctity of the House. Let the ethics committee decide the matter and all should accept it,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/march-23-incident-a-blot-on-bihar-assembly-speaker-101627490449016.html
28-07-2021||Other||Decision on easing of curbs likely soon, traders look for relaxations in Pune||PUNE The decision on lifting some curbs in Pune and 24 other districts in Maharashtra is likely to be taken on Thursday or Friday, as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has called a crucial meeting with members of the state task force and health department. The chief minister will review the Covid situation, post which, a decision on relaxations of existing curbs is likely to be taken. “As many as 11 districts, where the positivity rate is higher than the state average, will not see relaxations. The public health department relief and rehabilitation department has sent a file to the CM with suggestions on relaxations in the other 25 districts, where shops are open till 4 pm now. There is a need to relax curbs in these 25 districts. The decision will be made in two days. CM will take a final call,” said Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope in Mumbai, on Wednesday.The trader and business community in Pune are eagerly awaiting the decision regarding additional relaxations in Pune. Last week, after the Covid review meeting, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had announced that there was consensus among the attendees to ease curbs in Pune and a decision would be made on Monday. Traders are demanding an extension of timings of all shops till 7pm from the existing 4pm. Business operators have also asked for some relaxations on weekends as well. “We have written multiple times to the administration regarding some relief. Timings of all the shops should be extended till 7pm on all days. Traders, shop owners and other business operators have become restless now. We were expecting a decision this Monday, but there were floods in some districts. So we can understand that. But, a definitive decision should be taken this week,” said Mahendra Pitaliya, secretary, Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP). There are currently 2,488 active Covid patients in the city. The weekly positivity (July 22- July 28) rate is at 3.37% in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits. “Positivity rate in Pune has gone below 4%. So what is the problem now to ease some restrictions? On our level we will take all the precautions to follow the Covid norms,” said Pitaliya. The people’s representatives from Pune have supported the demand for relaxations. Muralidhar Mohol, mayor of Pune, also demanded extended timings for all services at the Covid review meeting. “In the city, all services should be allowed to remain open till 7pm on weekdays and till 5pm on weekends,” Mohol said. Like traders hoteliers are also demanding an extension of timings for restaurants. “Our main business is in the evening. Dining hours in the restaurants should be extended in the evening,” said Ganesh Shetty, president, Hoteliers Association of Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/decision-on-easing-of-curbs-likely-soon-traders-look-for-relaxations-in-pune-101627490448403.html
28-07-2021||Ranchi||Dhanbad judge dies in ‘road accident’, SIT to probe||Additional district and sessions judge in Dhanbad, Uttam Anand, was killed on Wednesday morning after he was hit by an unidentified vehicle in the coal city when he was out on his daily morning walk, police said. Locals rushed him to Dhanbad medical college, where doctors declared him brought dead. According to the police, they came into action after Anand’s family raised an alarm as he did not return home till 7 am. As police started looking for the missing judge, they got information of the accident case. When they reached the hospital, his driver identified the judge whose body was lying at the hospital. While initially the incident appeared as a routine accident, CCTV footage accessed by local media channels hinted at foul play, as an auto rickshaw is seen going out of its way to the extreme left of the road, and hitting the judge from behind before fleeing the spot. Suspecting foul play, the Dhanbad police said they are filing an FIR in this connection, and possible angles will be probed in the case. “I have constituted an SIT led by city SP who will look into all possible reasons. The CCTV footage and all related aspects will be analysed and identify the vehicle. We have requested the deceased’s family members to file a complaint and we will register an FIR,” said Dhanbad senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sanjeev Kumar. While the police said exact reason behind the suspected foul play will be clear only after investigation, the deceased judge had reportedly recently rejected bail plea of a noted shooter from Uttar Pradesh, who is in jail in a high profile murder case of Dhanbad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/dhanbad-judge-dies-in-road-accident-sit-to-probe-101627490388423.html
28-07-2021||Other||PMC to rethink use of cement to re-surface roads||PUNE With the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in an embarrassing situation over potholes in the city, the standing committee chairman has instructed the administration to work on a war footing to clear the potholes. The PMC is likely to rethink using cement concrete patches to fill the potholes.Civic activists, citizens and opposition parties criticised the civic body over the pothole issue. With continuous rain over the last few days, almost all roads have developed potholes. The Congress party, on Wednesday, held an agitation on Tilak Road over the potholes. Congress leader Sanjay Balgude organised the agitation and Congress leader in the PMC, Aba Bagul, blamed a nexus between administration and contractors for the potholes. He said, “PMC is spending crores of rupees on roads and resurfacing. Potholes not only emerged on the roads which got dug up, but even on the roads which were constructed a few years ago.”Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “It is true that the potholes emerged, but we instructed the administration to clear it on war footing once the rains take a break. We need to rethink the cement patches used on the roads.”PMC road department head VJ Kulkarni said, “We already instructed the concerned engineers to visit the spots and chalk out a plan to clear the potholes. It’s not possible to clear the potholes in the rain. If we get a break of three or four days, the department will try to clear the potholes.”Civic activists Vivek Velankar and Qaneez Sukrani blamed the administration and contractors. They said that the resurfacing work was shabby and that the administration did not monitor the technical process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-to-rethink-use-of-cement-to-re-surface-roads-101627490208430.html
28-07-2021||Pune||Pune police book former PCB member under MCOCA||Pune: The city police have invoked the stringent provisions of Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) against former BJP elected member of Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) Vivek Yadav after orders to the effect were issued by Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta. Yadav who is currently lodged in jail has been arrested on charges of plotting the murder of his rival Bablu Gawli by hiring two assassins to liquidate him. According to the Kondhwa police, Yadav was fired upon by Gawli during Ganesha celebrations in 2016 and he had been nursing revenge since then. He hired the services of a convict Rajan Rajmani who was currently out of Yerawada Central Jail on parole. Kondhwa police station incharge Sardar Patil confirmed that Yadav had been booked under MCOCA. According to the Kondhwa police, during investigation following the arrest of Yadav, it was revealed that he was involved in running an organised crime gang aimed at spreading terror in the society. The MCOCA proposal was sent to Zonal DCP Namrata Patil who vetted it and sent it to Addl CP Namdev Chavan for approval. Addl CP Chavan gave approval to the proposal and the gang has been accordingly booked under the act. ACP Rajendra Galande is investigating the case. Yadav was arrested from Gujarat-Rajasthan border and brought to Pune and the policemen submitted a list of cases against him when he was produced before cantonment court on seeking his custodial interrogation. The WhatsApp chats of arrested criminal Rajan Rajmani and Husain Shaik revealed that Yadav allegedly gave an ‘online supari’ (contract) to kill Gawli. The police had seized three pistols, seven bullets, and three magazines from Rajmani and Shaikh and were searching for an arms provider.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-book-former-pcb-member-under-mcoca-101627488648184.html
28-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra's single-day Covid-19 tally rises slightly with 6,857 new cases; Mumbai logs 403 infections||Maharashtra’s daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) saw a slight increase on Wednesday as 6,857 fresh cases were registered in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 6,282,914, according to the health department’s bulletin.As many as 286 patients succumbed to the viral disease and 6,105 recovered in the said period, taking the cumulative count of deaths and recoveries to 132,145 and 6,064,856 respectively. The active cases stand at 82,545, an increase from 82,082 cases on Tuesday.Maharashtra on Tuesday had recorded 6,258 cases and 254 more deaths.The capital city Mumbai’s caseload climbed to 735,162 on Wednesday as 403 people were detected Covid-19 positive in the last 24 hours. Six more people died in the city and the toll has climbed to 15,860.Authorities in Maharashtra have so far tested 47,369,757 samples for Covid-19 of which 193,042 were tested on Wednesday, the health department’s bulletin showed.As Maharashtra continues to remain under lockdown-like restrictions, more relaxations are expected in the next few days, state minister Aslam Shaikh said on Wednesday, adding a decision will be taken in this regard soon.“Our ministers feel that people who are vaccinated with two doses should be permitted to travel. Timings in restaurants also must be increased,” Shaikh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. His comments come in the backdrop of commercial establishments demanding more flexibility in their working hours to revive their business which has been hard hit by the pandemic.Meanwhile, health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday that the state government is preparing for the third wave of infections, adding an emphasis is being laid on paediatrics.Pointing out that the surge in infections in Kerala can be seen as the beginning of the wave, Tope said, “According to the govt and ICMR we’ve laid emphasis on pediatrics. We’ve kept oxygen, beds, medical staff and medicines prepared.”Tope also reiterated the demand for more vaccines as Maharashtra has a high infection and death rate due to Covid-19 and the state government wants to inoculate eligible beneficiaries as soon as possible.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-single-day-covid-19-tally-rises-slightly-with-6-857-new-cases-101627487091576.html
28-07-2021||Pune||Class 12 results to be delayed, expected in first week of August||Pune: Students of Class 12 are eagerly awaiting for their results even as the Supreme Court ordered the state government to declare it before July 31. However, due to the flood situation in the state, colleges and their faculty were not able to complete the evaluation process given by the state education department to declare the results. As the Covid cases were on the rise, Class 12 and 10 board examinations were canceled this year by the state government. While the evaluation of marks for the students was set through a formula given by the government in which Class 10, 11 and 12 internal evaluation marks will be considered. According to the formula, 30 per cent each for Class 10 and 11 evaluation and 40 per cent for Class 12 evaluation is set to declare the results. “The Class 12 results are expected to be declared in the first week of the August and the main reason behind it is the floods that happened in the state. Many teachers who were in the work of evaluation are been affected and it has delayed the process,” said a senior education officer from the state education department on anonymity. The plans to declare the Class 12 results have been postponed because of floods and landslide in Konkan, Kolhapur and various other parts of the state. Teachers in the flood-affected parts are still to complete the assessment and evaluation work of students and so the results will be declared late. The Supreme Court of India had instructed the state government to declare Class 12 results before July 31 which seems to be impossible now. “The process of class 12 students’ evaluation is going on and we are particulary focusing on the online results declaration process. Last time, during the Class 10 results declaration, our website crashed, so now I am personally monitoring the Class 12 results work and taking continuous follow-ups. We have also made alternate arrangements for the website if it gets any technical issues on the results declaration day,” said Vishal Solanki, state education commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/class-12-results-to-be-delayed-expected-in-first-week-of-august-101627487508067.html
28-07-2021||Pune||Pune rural police arrest trio for attempting to steal ATM||Pune: The Pune rural police have arrested three men from Ahmednagar district for attempting to steal cash from an automated teller machine (ATM) in Shirur on July 20. The local crime branch team under the guidance of senior Inspector Padmakar Ghanwat nabbed the suspects identified as Akash Gaikwad (27), Tanmay Salve (21) and Ashish Dukare (21) into custody, when they were trying to sell stolen motorcycles. The police have recovered four stolen motorcycles from their possession. “We have recovered two more motorcycles from their possession. The two stolen bikes are registered in Ahmednagar district,” Ghanwat said According to the police, on July 20, the suspects had ripped apart the cash dispensing machine of a private bank, by using a gas cutter and tried to steal cash. The suspects also damaged the CCTV cameras inside the kiosk but were unsuccessful in stealing the cash. The police analysed the CCTV footage from the neighbouring establishments and found that the gang involved in the theft attempt hailed from Ahmednagar district. A trap was laid after which they took them into custody along with the two motorcycles. Investigators said that during questioning the trio admitted their involvement in the theft attempt and revealed that they had stolen the said motorcycles from Aurangabad district. Meanwhile, the rural police have intensified patrolling near ATMs in their jurisdiction and appealed to citizens to provide information in case they suspect a foul incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rural-police-arrest-trio-for-attempting-to-steal-atm-101627486967983.html
28-07-2021||Mumbai||Rajesh Tope seeks more Covid-19 vaccine, cites high infection rate in Maharashtra||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday reiterated the demand for more vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) saying a majority of the cases are from the western state and the death rate due to the viral disease is also high.Despite becoming the first state in India to administer both doses of the vaccine to more than 10 million eligible beneficiaries, Maharashtra continues to suffer from a shortage of doses.The Covid-19 vaccination drive was suspended several times across cities and districts due to the shortage, affecting the inoculation rate. Till now, the state has vaccinated 42,352,467 beneficiaries of which 3,19,89,665 have received the first dose and the remaining 10,362,802 have received both doses.“We should receive a supply of vaccines because most cases are found in our state and the death rate is also high. We want to immunize the people as soon as possible. In this way, the effect of the third wave in the state would be less,” Tope said, while addressing reporters on Wednesday.Tope, along with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, has earlier urged the Centre to provide 30 million vaccine doses per month. Two weeks back, he (Tope) said that the state has a capacity to administer doses to 1.5 million beneficiaries on a daily basis but only 200,000 to 300,000 were being inoculated per day due to scarcity of vaccines.On being asked about the upcoming third wave of the pandemic, the Maharashtra health minister said on Wednesday that the state government is preparing for it, adding it has laid emphasis on paediatrics in accordance with the Centre and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).“The surge in cases in Kerala can be seen as the beginning of the third wave. In Maharashtra, we are preparing for it. According to the govt and ICMR we’ve laid emphasis on paediatrics. We’ve kept oxygen, beds, medical staff and medicines prepared,” Tope said.Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 6,258 fresh cases and 254 more deaths due to the coronavirus disease, taking the caseload and death toll to 6,276,057 and 131,859 deaths, respectively, according to the health department’s bulletin.As many as 12,645 recovered from the viral disease on Tuesday and the cumulative count of recoveries has climbed to 6,058,751. The active cases in the state have further come down to 82,082, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/most-covid-19-cases-found-in-maharashtra-state-minister-demands-more-vaccines-101627485492121.html
28-07-2021||Pune||In poll mode, Raj meets party workers in Pune||PUNE: Gearing up for the civic polls, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thackeray is holding marathon meetings with party workers in Pune for three days. As the civic elections are ahead in Pune, Thackeray called the assembly constituency wise candidates for meeting. The meeting started from Wednesday (July 28) and will continue till July 30. He is meeting party workers at the MNS office. Party city unit president Vasant More said, “The purpose of meetings is the upcoming municipal elections and various appointments. It is good that the party president has given three full days to meet the workers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/in-poll-mode-raj-meets-party-workers-in-pune-101627486308071.html
28-07-2021||Pune||State’s first sports varsity to offer 2 new courses||PUNE: The first sports university in Maharashtra at the Balewadi Stadium has announced two courses for this academic year namely, Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) in Sports Management and Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Sports Science. The admission process is slated to start in October this year with 60 seats available per course. This is the first-of-its-kind sports varsity in the country that will pick and train sportspersons of international calibre.Maharashtra sports minister Sunil Kedar said, “We are happy to announce two courses to be introduced at this very first sports university in the country. Excellent coaches and sportspersons will be produced by this university who will eventually represent India in various international sports events. We have instructed our department to immediately appoint a vice chancellor and faculties for the varsity and then start the admission process. Recruitment to a total 213 posts will soon be carried out and the university work will begin.”Once the varsity starts functioning, it will have centres across the state. A special budgetary provision of Rs400 crore has been made by the state government towards development of this sports university. The existing Balewadi Stadium in the university campus will be upgraded and students will be able to attend classes there and get on-ground training.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/states-first-sports-varsity-to-offer-2-new-courses-101627485467873.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana records 32 new Covid-19 cases, tally nearing 770,000||Haryana on Wednesday recorded three coronavirus-related deaths, raising the toll to 9,627, while 32 fresh infections pushed the case count to 769,828, according to an official bulletin.The new fatalities were reported from Panipat, Charkhi Dadri and Kaithal districts, the health department's daily bulletin said.Nine fresh Covid-19 cases were registered in Gurugram and five in Palwal.Haryana has 702 active cases of the novel coronavirus. The state's Covid-19 recovery count stands at 759,499, while the recovery rate is 98.66 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-records-32-new-covid-19-cases-tally-nearing-770000-101627484304911.html
28-07-2021||Pune||861 candidates complete online training in cyber security, AI & ML||PUNE: As many as 861 candidates have successfully completed the 12-week-long “Online Training and Certification Course (OTCC) in Cyber Security, Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AI & ML)” conducted by the Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT) in collaboration with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). The online course was aimed at supporting the “Skill India Mission” by imparting training in building skill sets in using cyber security tools and techniques. It covered advanced topics such as forensic and incident response, malware analysis, reverse engineering, vulnerability analysis, exploit mitigation and penetration test along with tools to train on various cyber security techniques. Over the duration of the course, expert lectures were organised by eminent faculties and scientists from DIAT, DRDO, the industry and renowned universities. Course evaluation was conducted through continuous online module-wise tests based on theory and runtime challenges to finalise results for the award of certificates. Participants gave a very positive feedback upon completion of the course. The DIAT team personally interacted with the toppers for them to share their experience and give valuable suggestions for future editions of the course. Dr C P Ramanarayanan, vice-chancellor, DIAT, praised a Class 12 student, Vishal Juneja, who was also permitted to join the course as an exceptional case in view of his excellent performance in the entrance examination. Juneja not only scored 74% in the entrance exam, but also secured 6th position in his batch. On the occasion, Dr G Satheesh Reddy, chairman, DRDO, congratulated the participants and the organising team for successfully conducting the online training course supporting the “Skill India Mission”. Meanwhile, Dr Ramanarayanan informed that the third batch for the course will begin from the second week of September this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/861-candidates-complete-online-training-in-cyber-security-ai-ml-101627483907841.html
28-07-2021||Kolkata||CBI can probe ex-TMC leader Vinay Mishra in smuggling cases, says Calcutta HC||KOLKATA: The Calcutta high court on Wednesday rejected former Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Vinay Mishra’s request to stop the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe against him in the coal and cattle smuggling cases. The bench of justice Tirthankar Ghosh also declined to extend its order that shielded him from arrest.“There has been no illegality committed in the ongoing investigation and as such, there is no scope for interference in the continuation of the investigation,” the judge said in his order, declining any relief to the former TMC general secretary of its youth wing who wanted an arrest shield, permission to be questioned over video conferencing and an Interpol red corner notice against him suspended.The petition was dismissed, said Ayan Bhattacherjee, a member of Mishra’s legal team that represented him in the high court.Vinay Mishra is a prime suspect in a CBI case that alleges that illegally mined coal worth several thousand crores of rupees was sold in the black market over several years by a racket operating in the western parts of West Bengal where the Eastern Coalfields Limited operates several mines. In March this year, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) arrested Vinay Mishra’s brother Vikas and attached his property.On Wednesday, CBI also raided an under-construction apartment owned in east Kolkata by a former officer of the Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL). Vinay Mishra’s name also figured in a CBI probe into a cross-border cattle smuggling case in which a commandant of the Border Security Force (BSF) which is deployed along the border with Bangladesh, is also an accused.Vinay Mishra has claimed that he left India on September 16 last year, days before CBI registered the first case on September 21. A second case was registered on November 27.He is believed to be living in Vanuatu, a chain of 80 islands in the south Pacific, whose citizenship he acquired. A report in Vanuatu media earlier this month said he was granted citizenship under its Development Support Program, which requires applicants to possess net personal assets worth $ 500,000 ( ₹3.7 crore).The Vanuatu passport would give the businessman visa-free access to more than 130 countries except that he has an Interpol red corner notice pending against him. One of his requests rejected by the high court also was that the red corner notice is suspended.The coal smuggling case, became politically sensitive after CBI questioned TMC’s powerful general secretary Abhishek Banerjee’s wife Rujira Banerjee and her sister Maneka Gambhir. The latter’s husband, Ankush Arora, and his father Pawan Arora was also grilled. TMC leaders have alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)is using the agency to target West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee by targeting her nephew and keep her under pressure.During the recent assembly polls, the BJP alleged that Abhishek Banerjee, who also appointed Vinay Mishra as one of the youth wing’s general secretaries months before he left the country, was involved in the coal smuggling case. The young Lok Sabha MP was earlier the president of the TMC’s youth wing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cbi-can-probe-ex-tmc-leader-vinay-mishra-in-smuggling-cases-says-calcutta-hc-101627483008333.html
28-07-2021||Other||Soon, vans to ferry pregnant women to vax centres in Lucknow||LUCKNOW The district administration is all set to launch a van service exclusively meant to transport pregnant women to Covid vaccination centres in the state capital. The first-of-its-kind service in UP is part of the exercise to boost the vaccination drive in view of the anticipated third wave of the pandemic. “Vaccination is the only way out to minimise the effect of the virus. Hence, we are about to start the van service to transport pregnant women to the vaccination centres,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate, during a meeting to check preparedness ahead of a possible Covid third wave. The health department was asked to chalk out the plan and how the facility would be made available to expectant and lactating mothers. The service would be made available at the time of registration and would be governed by the Covid control and command centre, said officials. “Many women avoid going to the vaccination centre due to inconveniences. However, the transportation facility would help them move out to the vaccination centres,” the official said. The DM also directed the health department to increase the total number of vaccinations to up to 30,000 a day. Currently, Lucknow has around 68 vaccination centres and is vaccinating around 18,000 to 22,000 a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/soon-vans-to-ferry-pregnant-women-to-vax-centres-in-lucknow-101627482767683.html
28-07-2021||Other||Amit Shah to lay foundation of Vindhyachal Corridor project on August 1||VARANASI Union home minister Amit Shah will lay the foundation stone of ₹300-crore Vindhyachal Corridor project in Mirzapur on August 1 in the presence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Thereafter, they will address a public meeting at the Government Inter College ground, said Ratnakar Mishra, BJP MLA from Mirzapur. A dream project of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the corridor is aimed at beautification of Maa Vindhayavasini Temple, creation of space for 50-ft-wide ‘parikrama’ route and creating world class facilities for pilgrims. After the construction of the corridor, Maa Vindhyavasini Temple would be visible from the bank of Ganga. The Vindhyachal project would be the second corridor in eastern UP after the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, which is already under construction in Varanasi. Mishra said the official protocol of Shah’s visit was yet to be received. But the party had received information about the proposed programme. After arrival, Shah will pay obeisance to Maa Vindhyavasini and then participate in a ‘havan’, after which the foundation stone of the project will be laid. Shah would also inaugurate ₹16-crore ropeway facility to help devotees reach the Maa Ashtbhuja temple on the hillock. The inauguration was proposed before Chaitra Navratri in 2020, but was postponed due to the Covid pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amit-shah-to-lay-foundation-of-vindhyachal-corridor-project-on-august-1-101627482227635.html
28-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s daily Covid-19 caseload dips slightly to 67; reports 3 fatalities||Delhi saw a marginal drop in its daily Covid-19 case count on Wednesday with 67 infections in a span of 24 hours, thereby taking the cumulative tally to 1,436,093, according to the updated bulletin released by the health department. As many as 61 people recovered from the disease during that period while three patients succumbed to the viral disease, taking the overall tally of recoveries to 1,410,471 and the death toll to 25,049. The active caseload of the national capital currently stands at 573.The infections reported on Wednesday are a slight improvement from Tuesday’s when 77 cases were witnessed, marking a jump from only 39 cases on Monday. The number of fresh recoveries has also seen a jump from 42 on Tuesday. The cumulative positivity rate has maintained its downward trend and currently stands at 6.12%. On Tuesday and Monday, the rate stood at 6.14% and 6.16%, respectively.The previous 24 hours also saw 73,392 samples tested for coronavirus.As far as the vaccination programme is concerned, Delhi inoculated 37,825 beneficiaries in the previous 24 hours, with 13,827 people being administered the first Covid-19 dose and 23,998 being administered the second jab. As many as 9,763,721 citizens have been inoculated with coronavirus vaccine doses so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-daily-covid-19-caseload-dips-slightly-to-67-reports-3-fatalities-101627478146164.html
28-07-2021||Lucknow||Moderate to heavy rainfall reported at most places in Uttar Pradesh||Moderate to heavy rain and thundershower occurred at most places in Uttar Pradesh, the meteorological department said on Wednesday and predicted similar weather conditions for the next day also.Kheri recorded the highest maximum temperature of 35.6 degrees Celsius in the state.Rainfall has been reported from Pratapgarh, Etawah, Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Chitrakoot, Kanpur, Lucknow, Bahraich, Sitapur, Prayagraj, Fatehpur, Barabanki, Sonbhadra, Unnao, Rae Bareli, Aligarh and Farrukhabad.The weather department has forecast rain and thundershowers at most places in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday.It has warned warned that thunderstorm accompanied with lighting is very likely at isolated places over the state and heavy to very heavy rains very likely at isolated places over the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/moderate-to-heavy-rainfall-reported-at-most-places-in-uttar-pradesh-101627477993954.html
28-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi assembly session: AAP govt likely to raise issue of farmers' protest||The ruling AAP is likely to raise the issue of farmers' protest during the two-day Monsoon Session of the Delhi Assembly beginning Thursday while the opposition BJP is set to corner the government over water supply and condition of DTC buses in the city.The matter of the Delhi Police's proposal to appoint special prosecutors to argue cases related to violence during farmers protest on January 26 and last year's northeast Delhi riots is also likely to be raised by the AAP during the Assembly session, a leader of the ruling party said.The Arvind Kejriwal government has stiffly resisted the lieutenant governor's recommendation and recently rejected the proposal of the Delhi police for special prosecutors. The LG has referred the matter to the President.Also Read| Govt says no record of farmers’ deaths: TomarHowever, the Aam Aadmi Party's focus would be on the issue of farmers protesting the repeal of three contentious Central farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price as the party is eyeing next year's Punjab Assembly polls. The AAP is the main opposition party in Punjab.Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at Delhi border points -- Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri -- since November last year."The farmers' issues will be the focus in the Assembly. Fixing the minimum support price of crops would be a major issue. Also, matters related to the ongoing farmers' protest would be raised," said a senior AAP leader.The second part of the second session of the Seventh Legislative Assembly of National Capital Territory of Delhi will begin at 11 am on Thursday, an Assembly official has said.The BJP has already declared that it would raise issues of public interest and demanded Speaker Ram Niwas Goel to extend the duration of the session to at least five days.Leader of Opposition Ramvir Bidhuri on Tuesday said that the BJP MLAs have met Goel demanding a five-day Monsoon Session and sought his support for raising issues of public interest.Also Read| Govt insulting farmers, it must repeal agri laws, says PriyankaThe legislators have given notices for discussions on important issues impacting the people of Delhi, he said.The national capital is currently faced with a "severe" water crisis and "shortage" of schoolteachers, the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) has an ageing bus fleet, due to "uncleaned" big drains there is waterlogging, and the city's healthcare system "failed" during the second Covid wave, Bidhuri said."These issues are very important and need urgent attention and we requested the speaker to allow discussions on such issues. We feel that all this cannot be taken up and discussed in a two-day session and therefore, requested the speaker to at least have five sittings during the Monsoon session," he said.The BJP has eight MLAs in the 70-member Assembly dominated by the AAP that has 62 legislators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-assembly-session-aap-govt-likely-to-raise-issue-of-farmers-protest-101627476121661.html
28-07-2021||Other||No final decision, says Goa CM on projects in Western Ghats||Goa is yet to take a decision on the Central Empowered Committee’s (CEC) report on three infrastructure projects in the Western Ghats, chief minister Pramod Sawant told the state assembly on Wednesday even as the panel has recommended scrapping one of them and modifying the two other citing environmental concerns. Sawant said they will file their reply in the Supreme Court, which appointed the panel, and will wait for its decision on the matter.The projects cut through the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park.The CEC has recommended the scrapping of the railway double-tracking in the ecologically sensitive region, saying the project will cause more damage and provide very little economic benefit. The panel has recommended that the other two projects that relate to power lines and the highway expansion can go ahead, but with alterations in alignment and scale.Also Read | To reopen schools, India must go localCivil society and environmental activists in Goa have opposed the projects saying they will irreversibly cause damage to the region recognised as one of the world’s top biodiversity hotspots.Lawmaker Rohan Khaunte, who raised the matter in the assembly, said the land acquisition for the projects must be scrapped citing the CEC report. “Will you accept the report of the CEC? Will you wait for the Centre to take a decision, or will you wait for the Supreme Court?” Khaunte earlier asked Sawant.Sawant said the CEC has recommended that the highway project can go ahead. “It recommended that the land acquisition for double-tracking of railways be scrapped. They have allowed the construction of the power lines on the old alignment and not on the new one. These recommendations are before the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has not taken a decision yet.”Activists have asked the government to clarify its stance on the three projects in view of the CEC report.The standing committee of the National Board for Wildlife in April last year granted its approval for the three projects and sparked an uproar and protests in Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-final-decision-says-goa-cm-on-projects-in-western-ghats-101627474607446.html
28-07-2021||Mumbai||Allegations of corruption against Anil Deshmukh: CBI raids 12 places in Maharashtra||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) conducted searches in 12 places, including the residences of deputy commissioner of police Raju Bhujbal and assistant commissioner of police Sanjay Patil, at Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Ahmednagar, Sangli and Nashik on Wednesday.CBI officials said searches were also conducted at other suspects’ residences and offices in connection with former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh’s allegation that the then home minister Anil Deshmukh wanted police to collect ₹100 crore from owners of Mumbai’s dance bars, bars and restaurants and hookah bars very month.On March 20, three days after Singh was transferred from the Mumbai police commissioner’s post for allegedly mishandling the Antilia security threat case, he wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging that Deshmukh ran an extortion racket. Deshmukh resigned from the Cabinet on April 5 after the Bombay high court ordered CBI to conduct preliminary enquiry into the allegations and take further legal recourse, if the agency found substance in the allegations.Also Read | CBI can probe postings as part of Deshmukh case: Bombay HCCBI, on April 21, registered an FIR against Deshmukh and others. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) also initiated a probe into the money laundering aspect of the allegations and arrested Anil Deshmukh’s PA Kundan Shinde and PS Sanjeev Palande last month. It also summoned Deshmukh and his family members to join the investigation. In April, CBI recorded the statements of over 20 people including Deshmukh, his two personal assistants, Palande and Shinde, Bhujbal, Patil, and Jaishri Patil – who petitioned the high court for an independent probe into the corruption allegations. The agency also recorded former police officer Sachin Vaze’s statement – when he was in the custody of National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Antilia explosives case.To corroborate the allegations made by Singh, CBI also recorded the statements of several bar and restaurant owners, including a Kandivali-based bar owner who was allegedly extorting money each month from other restaurant owners at the behest of Vaze.Bhujbal and Patil’s statement were also recorded by joint commissioner of police Milind Bharambe and CBI claims that both had given the same statement but they were verifying their roles. On July 18, ED raided Deshmukh’s houses in Wadvihira and Katol in Nagpur district in connection with the ₹100 crore extortion case. The agency, a few days ago, had provisionally attached the Nationalist Congress Party leader’s assets worth ₹4.20 crores in a money laundering case.  The agency then also issued summons to his wife Aarati Deshmukh for questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/allegations-of-corruption-against-anil-deshmukh-cbi-raids-12-places-in-maharashtra-101627472868557.html
28-07-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Heavy rains damage property, Kempty Falls closed for tourists||Heavy rains lashed parts of Uttarakhand on Wednesday, damaging roads and houses following an orange alert issued by the weather department predicting heavy to very heavy rainfall in at least seven districts of Uttarkashi, Dehradun, Tehri Garhwal, Pauri Garhwal, Nainital, Bageshwar and Pithoragarh.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) in Dehradun had also predicted “extremely heavy rainfall with intense shower spells in parts of Dehradun, Nainital and Champawat districts.” Continuous heavy rains since Tuesday night damaged a culvert and caused waterlogging in low lying areas of Dehradun, damaging several houses in the capital city. In Almora district, a home guard jawan Rakesh Kiroula was swept away by an overflowing stream while riding home early Wednesday morning on his scooter. The two-wheeler was later retrieved but Kiroula could not be traced and is suspected to have drowned. Due to the heavy rains, tourists were also stopped from going to Kempty Falls since the popular waterfall near Mussoorie was overflowing. “The rain has stopped but the sudden surge in water level with strong current was being experienced continuously from early morning till noon, making it dangerous for tourists to enter the pool for bathing,” Naveen Chand Jural, police station in-charge of Kempty Falls said. He added that the strong current of the fall could also result in boulders falling from the top. Ramesh Talwar, a tourist from Delhi, said, “We had come to bathe in the fall but the police have banned the entry into the pool considering the risk to lives due to falling boulders”. Another tourist Sumit Makhia from Noida said, “I am disappointed at not being able to bathe in the pool here at the Kempty Falls but the administration has done the right thing considering the risk due to the surge in the water levels here.” Tourists are currently permitted only to take pictures and pose for videos right now, said police station in-charge Naveen Chand Jural. The IMD centre in Dehradun said the state on Wednesday witnessed “moderate rainfall with heavy to very heavy rainfall with active monsoon.” “The rainfall in the state is above normal in July with excess rain in June. At present we are receiving above normal rainfall which is above 90mm. However, the exact amount of rainfall so far could be revealed after proper analysis,” Bikram Singh, director of IMD Dehradun centre said.The IMD has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall again on Thursday in Uttarkashi, Dehradun, Tehri Garhwal, Pauri Garhwal, Nainital, Bageshwar and Pithoragarh districts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-heavy-rains-damage-property-kempty-falls-closed-for-tourists-101627471772108.html
28-07-2021||Other||Climate crisis: Odisha first coastal state to assess vulnerability||With climate crisis impacting the Odisha’s economy, the state is planning a vulnerability and risk assessment for its 10 agro-climatic zones using around 40 indicators such as BPL population, infant mortality rate, fertiliser application, livestock, annual average rainfall, migration, heatwaves, frequency of storm surges and solid waste generation.The macro/micro vulnerability analysis, the first one among all coastal states, will be undertaken with the help of various research institutes and is expected to help the state prioritise some of its activities under State Action Plan on Climate Change for 2021-30.Director of environment Susanta Nanda said though such risk assessments were done for some districts earlier, the assessment is being done for the entire state for the first time. “This could be the first such vulnerability analysis for any coastal state with so many social, environmental, physical, agricultural and health parameters. The analysis would help with policy briefs for decision makers based on scientific evidence, and building up better awareness of community on climate change and its impacts. The mapping will be done by the end of this year and help us in risk mitigation,” said Nanda.Also Read | Man arrested for burning woman in Odisha’s GanjamAmong the first to recognise the threat posed by the climate crisis, Odisha was one of the first states in the country to prepare a comprehensive and consultative state action plan involving diverse stakeholders. In 2020-21, it was the first Indian state to present a climate budget. To address the issue of climate crisis, Odisha formulated its State Action Plan on Climate Change in 2010, which was revised for 2021-30 as per the commitments made in the SDG-NDC report.Officials said the risk analysis would use various existing assessments such as vulnerability to floods in coastal Odisha, vulnerability to agricultural drought in western Odisha and district-level analysis of climate vulnerability and household nutrition status among rural communities in Odisha.In a state with high poverty levels (32.5%), higher than the national average (21%), disaster management experts say the climate crisis has the potential to derail the current growth strategy and deepen poverty in Odisha. Dr Anil Gupta of National Institute of Disaster Management said the direct impacts of extreme climate-induced events could affect the state’s economic growth and nullify the effectiveness of macroeconomic policies and pro-poor initiatives.“It’s an appreciable initiative for a state like Odisha which is a pioneer in disaster management. The need to address vulnerability in agro-climatic zones is very necessary and hazard assessment is must. Improved scientific evidence base and coordination mechanisms between scientific research and academic institutions (including both national and state-level agencies) for building scientific data and evidence base for the state and collation of available scientific information and data on climate change pertaining to the state,” said Dr Gupta.According to the Odisha State Disaster Management Authority, for 95 of the last 105 years, Odisha has been affected by disasters brought on by heat waves, cyclones, droughts, and floods. Since 1965, these calamities have become more frequent and widespread. Natural calamities have seriously affected household income and set back the state’s economy. A report by World Bank, Asian Development Bank and various UN agencies in the wake of Cyclone Fani that hit Odisha coast in May 2019, assessed the state’s loss at ₹24,176 crore, while a similar report by World Bank after the Cyclone Phailin in October 2013 estimated the total damages and loss caused at about ₹8902 crore, bulk of which was in housing, agriculture and livestock.Officials said the vulnerability analysis would be done by downscaling global climate models with the help of research institutes and organisations such as the Odisha State Disaster Management Authority and Odisha Remote Space Application Centre etc. These new research and data will be used for necessary modification of the SAPCC and prioritisation of activities already proposed within the state annual plan for climate crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/climate-crisis-odisha-first-coastal-state-to-assess-vulnerability-101627470271855.html
28-07-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s Tales: Mosque plan inspires the first Peshwa-period temple||The other day, a quintessential Puneri ajji (grandmother) remarked indignantly: “I don’t fear this Coronavirus, Omkareshwari Govarya gelya majhya” (Cow dung cakes of my funeral have already reached Omkareshwar temple). And the modern generation was baffled at this specific Puneri reference which involves Omkareshwar Temple and cremation. In last week’s column, we witnessed how Shivram Bhat Chitrav Shaastri was relocated to the western side of the newly built Shaniwarwada, with due compensation. As the work on digging a well at the new house began, a treasure consisting of gold was discovered by Chitrav Shastri. The selfless Shastriji handed over the treasure to Bajirao Peshwa I, who was impressed by his Guru’s sincerity. Adding his own contribution to the treasure, Bajirao I handed it back to Shivram Bhat and asked him to construct a Shiv temple at the end of Shaniwar peth on the banks of the Mutha river. Sadashivrao Bhau, the son of Chimaji Appa and nephew of Bajirao Peshwa too contributed generously to build the temple. The construction of the temple complex was completed in 1760. The expense of building the temple was around ₹1 lakh. Construction in the early phase was supervised by the then Subhedar of Pune, Bapuji Shripat, who belongs to the Chitrav family. This area had a ghat descending to the river and as the river meandered slightly, like a knee-shaped bend, the area was called “Nadagemod”. The ghat was frequented by cows for drinking water and hence, the descent was also known as “gay utaar”. And though it may be hard to imagine, in the early 18th century, this area was outside Pune’s boundaries. The main cremation ground for Pune was located nearby. The foundation of the temple was laid on October 1736, thus making it one of the first temples built in Pune during the Peshwa period. This new endeavour was unlike any new temples built in the 18th century, due to its unique plan inspired by a Muslim mosque. The entire complex is enclosed in a prakara or temple wall, but has openings towards the river banks. The complex can be accessed via a large and imposing gateway in the middle of a massive fortified wall built in the Indo-Islamic style. Over the gateway is a music hall or nagarkhana. The courtyard houses a Nandi shrine which was damaged during the Panshet floods, and then reinstated. The additional chambers in the complex houses modern shrines of Vitthal Rukmini, Ashtabhuja Devi, Hanuman, Vishnu and Shani on a pigeon mount.This east facing temple has a main shrine consisting of nine domes with a slightly bigger central dome housing the main deity, Omkareshwar Shiva. The eight surrounding domes are connected with arches and form the circumambulatory path around the sanctum. The central dome is higher and encloses a storey within called “talim”. This place was frequented by freedom fighters to conduct secret meetings during British colonial rule. Shivalinga of the deity was specially made from Narmada valley stone and it is likely, that the name is inspired by the Omkareshwar pilgrimage site in Madhya Pradesh.The central courtyard to the east is large and enclosed by the semi-open “osari”, enclosed today it formed the priests’ residential quarters. A courtyard to the north towards ghats is smaller in size and is reserved for private rituals and devotional performances.The temple is plain with no exterior decorations and has plastered plain walls. The minimum floral motif known as “bel-fulachi nakshi” on borders and lotus petals on the dome ,made using stucco, are seen on the walls. The temple building in this case is far removed from earlier temples of Pune which used stone as a principle element, be it the Yadava-period temples, or the pre-Peshwa period. The new temple building during early Peshwa times capitalises on techniques of Indo-Islamic architecture making profuse use of arches and domes to achieve the desired height and allow flexible construction. The minarets as seen in other medieval temples, such as Bhuleshwar near Yavat, are absent here. Instead, bulbous domes of the respective niches are fashioned in conical shape to give appearance of a Hindu Nagara shikhara. However, it was still in an experimental stage and hence, the mosque-like elements do not blend with Hindu architectural sensibilities. Yet such innovation symbolises the liberal architectural approach taken by early Peshwa builders, which later evolves into a mature Maratha architecture in the region during the 18th century.The temple houses a poignant memory of Chamaji Appa, younger brother of Bajirao I in the form of his memorial. Chimaji Appa was an able commander of the Maratha army and was instrumental in successfully annexing the Vasai territory under Portuguese rule, during the Vasai Campaign. His contribution to expanding Maratha domains and supporting Bajirao Peshwa, is exemplary. His wife, Rakhmabai from Pethe family who took sati, has a memorial next to his. It was common belief that if the Omkareshwar Shivalinga submerges during the first floods of the river Mutha, it would mean a good monsoon. It is the ingenuity of the architects who allowed this phenomenon to happen in spite of massive construction during those days. If the water did not reach the Shivlinga, the entire sanctum was submerged by pouring water in. The Omkareshwar temple being next to the cremation ground was a prime location for conducting last rites and ancestral rituals as per Hindu traditions. Thus,” “smashanatil Mahadev” (Lord of Cremation Grounds), is a feared and revered deity signifying the sombre yet inevitable end of life. Hence, the phrase “Omkareshwari Gowrya gelya” prevails amongst Punekars, referring to the nearing of death.Due to modern developments, the precincts of Omkareshwar have been modified turning the complex into a medieval island. Yet, the charming complex is beautifully reminiscent of early 18th century Pune, which tempted colonial painters to illustrate it in its full glory. Saili Palande-Datar is an indologist, environmentalist, history researcher and farmer. She can be reached @ sailikdatar@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-mosque-plan-inspires-the-first-peshwa-period-temple-101627469438952.html
28-07-2021||Kolkata||9 Bengal cops injured as mob seeking release of scam suspects turns violent||Nine policemen, including the inspector in-charge of Karandighi police station in north Bengal’s North Dinajpur district, were injured on Tuesday night when a mob attacked them, demanding the release of two men arrested for alleged forgery in documents related to scholarship for the minority community and people with disability, police said. Nine persons were arrested for the attack till Wednesday afternoon. “On Tuesday night, a group of people who demanded the release of the two arrested men, staged a blockade outside the Karandighi police station. Later, they blocked National Highway 34 for four hours. When policemen tried to clear the road, they were attacked. Nine of them were injured,” Sumit Kumar, superintendent of police, North Dinajpur, told HT. Also Read | Man arrested in West Bengal caught trafficking around 1000 birds from Nepal“One of the accused is Mohammed Tahasan Ali, 46, a teacher at Sabdhan Higher Secondary School. Between 2017 and 2019, he was given the additional charge of nodal teacher. During that period, he posed as a student and registered two of his bank accounts in the national scholarship portal. He received money meant for students. A case was registered against him on July 7,” said Kumar. “The other accused, Sakir Ali, 33, is a computer operator at Raghabpur Higher Secondary School. He held the additional charge of nodal teacher during 2018-19. During this period, 39 students were granted scholarship under the scheme for people with disability. He approved these but none of the beneficiaries are students of the school. In fact, the name of his mother also figures in the list,” said Kumar. “This is just the tip of the iceberg. Probe will reveal more. There is substantial evidence against the arrested people,” Kumar said. On Tuesday night, some local people including a few men who are suspected to be involved in the scam, gheraoed the inspector-in-charge of Karandighi police station for hours demanding the release of the accused. When the demand was not met, they blocked the national highway and later attacked the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/9-bengal-cops-injured-as-mob-seeking-release-of-scam-suspects-turns-violent-101627468891514.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||City Beautiful has all but my beautiful aunt||Chandigarh has perpetually seemed ever so beautiful to me for a covert reason. Championing her feminist cause vociferously to make her hearth-bound niece see the world post completion of matriculation, my maternal aunt, Prem Lata, had extracted a hard laboured go-ahead from my orthodox grandfather. Born and brought up in pastoral setting with only an imaginary understanding of how city life looked like through books and movies, visiting the country’s first planned city left me awestruck as I marvelled at its chic random ways. My aunt painstakingly cared for my stay lest I should feel stifled in the sophisticated bubble of an urban milieu. To match me aesthetically with her two up-to-the-minute kids, she took me to the market to buy a new set of outfits besides making me partake of mouth-watering ‘gol gappas’ and ‘tikkis’ and myriad street food options. The mesmerising spectacle all around was transformed into a paradise with everything appearing new and exciting wherever my glance fell. The most fascinating among them was the visit to a theatre to watch the movie, Noorie. My aunt’s tug at my arm broke my reflecting spell over where else a movie could be seen besides the TV. She escorted me into a big dark hall, where only the usher’s face was barely visible. He split our tickets in half before pointing us to a row a few steps up. My aunt made her way into the tight aisle and the crowd’s panicked rush left me behind. My heart was thumping with a horrifying pound until her familiar voice comforted my edgy nerves. My feet hesitantly stepped into the dark with my hands unmindfully feeling heads, faces, arms, and shoulders of strangers and that unintentional ill-mannered act ended with my helpless flopping onto the lap of a woman. Thankfully, a timely apology from my aunt silenced her agitation. Soon, the silver screen lit up to an ear-piercing sound, so did my eyes and ears in utter astonishment. The enormous size and sonorous dialogues of artists seen only on a few inches screen hitherto blinded my visual senses, while the deafening sound numbed the auditory nerves. The film’s ending brought much-needed relief as I headed out in the fresh open air, leaving my aunt in fits of laughter for I, utterly buried in my own thoughts, failed to recount the basic storyline let alone voice my opinion about it. In lieu of ranting over seemingly wasted money, she was glad that I got an unprecedented experience worth narrating back at the village. Over the years, my circumstances changed for the better and were marked with frequent visits to City Beautiful. Each time, while on the way to surprise my aunt, I would rewind the same story to the boredom of whoever accompanied me. A recent visit to her was the most painful. Bidding a tearful adieu to an unexpected ending of her mortal journey flooded my mind with pleasant memories and no prizes for guessing which one is among the most unforgettable. Sitting in the car, my gaze suddenly fell upon a highway signboard announcing the arrival of City Beautiful. My eyes welled up and the heart sank for all those familiar spots and landmarks stood ‘alive’ at their original places but the loving aunt who had introduced them to me for the first time was gone forever. rama.kumari030165@gmail.com The writer is an Una-based homemaker||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/city-beautiful-has-all-but-my-beautiful-aunt-101627468052158.html
28-07-2021||Other||Tripura indigenous body claims armed Bangladeshi activists in state||An apex body of Tripura indigenous socio-cultural organizations -- Council of Tiprasa Hoda -- has alleged that members of a Bangladesh-based political party are camping in the state with arms, and could pose a threat to national security.Addressing media on Tuesday, the Council said they have seen armed gangs guarding a few camps at Narikelkunja in Dhalai district, one of the famous tourist spots in the state, and they suspect them to be United People’s Democratic Front ( UPDF) activists.UPDF, a regional political party based in Chittagong Hill Tracts in Bangladesh, was founded in 1998. The agenda of its formation is to get full autonomy in the Chittagong Hill Tracts. The council’s allegation comes days after they wrote to Union home minister Amit Shah seeking his intervention in identifying Chakma migrants settled in Dhalai district of the state and deport them. In the letter, they also claimed that Chakma people are settled at some places, including NarikelKunja, Naikacherra, Twichakma and Thakurcherra in Dhalai district, after coming from Bangladesh and later expanded their base in other villages adjacent to the Indo-Bangla international border.“We have written to Union home minister about illegal immigration of Chakma people as we collected reports showing them come to India illegally from Bangladesh. They also get Indian documents made illegally,” said convener of Tiprasa Hoda Dhirendra Tripura to media.Chakma National Council of India ( CNCI) called the allegations baseless and claimed that Chakmas are indigenous to Tripura as per the state’s Royal chronicles Rajmala. “ We believe that these allegations are being made to disturb the communal harmony,” said CNCI vice president Aniruddha Chakma. Leader of Opposition Manik Sarkar said the matter raised by Tiprasa Hoda is of concern and he forwarded the letter to chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb as the CPM is against any kind of disturbance of communal harmony. “ We want communal harmony among all the communities. We will oppose any conspiracy to disturb the peace between the communities, “ Sarkar told reporters. The chief minister’s office is yet to respond to the Tiprasa Hoda’s allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tripura-indigenous-body-claims-armed-bangladeshi-activists-in-state-101627467872247.html
28-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Malwani police register fresh FIR in porn filming racket||The Malwani police in Mumbai on Tuesday registered a first information report (FIR) against four film producers, including actor Gehana Vasisth, in connection with alleged pornographic films they produced for “Hotshots” app, purportedly owned and controlled by actor Shilpa Shetty’s husband Raj Kundra.According to the police, the producers were booked for cheating a Mumbai-based model who, in her complaint to the police, said that she was promised a “break” in a big-budget Hindi film, but was made to act in adult movies.The Malwani police said the model had approached the crime branch with her complaint. However, since the “crime” was committed in Aksa beach area, which is under the jurisdiction of Malwani police, she was asked to lodge the complaint at the local police station.Also Read | Raj Kundra’s bail plea rejected; ‘Is he a terrorist,’ asks lawyerThe FIR will now be transferred to the Mumbai crime branch, which is already investigating a similar case involving Kundra, Vasisth and others.“We have recorded the complainant’s statement and will be forwarding the FIR to the crime branch,” said a police officer from Malwani police station.In a separate case, the property cell of the Mumbai crime branch, on July 19, arrested Raj Kundra and his associate Ryan Thorpe in connection with the pornographic films racket that the cell busted in February 2021. A metropolitan magistrate court has remanded both of them to judicial custody for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-malwani-police-register-fresh-fir-in-porn-filming-racket-101627466431568.html
28-07-2021||Kolkata||Calcutta HC lawyers protest outside acting CJ’s court; bar association divided||The stand off in Calcutta high court over the acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal’s decision to transfer a case from justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya’s court to a division bench showed no sign of resolution on Wednesday as a group of lawyers protested outside the acting chief justice’s court after having decided to stay away from his court a day earlier. However, on Tuesday evening, another section of bar association members said they will not abstain from proceedings in the chief justice’s court and will instead wait for an amicable solution of the issue.The protesting lawyers are demanding that justice Bindal recalls the transfer of a civil case from the court of justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya to the division bench headed by justice Harish Tandon on July 19. The incident triggered a strong reaction and on July 22, some members of the bar association convened a meeting and wrote a four-page letter to justice Bindal. “We are extremely shocked that the moment justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya questioned why measures were not taken to improve the quality of virtual hearing, the same matter was suddenly assigned to a division bench. It is extremely apparent that the sudden assignment to a division bench was made only for the reason that justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya questioned the administrative side of the high court for not doing their required job…..” wrote the lawyers. Justice IP Mukherjee, who is a member of the five-judge bench headed by justice Bindal, on Monday held a meeting with members of the bar association but no solution was found. On Tuesday afternoon, many general members of the bar association met in the presence of assistant secretary Ritzu Ghosal, the treasurer and four members of the executive committee. The meeting was chaired by senior advocate Saptangsu Basu. “Since the issue was not resolved, the general members resolved unanimously in today’s meeting that the general members shall abstain from participating in judicial proceedings before the honourable acting chief justice till the matter is resolved,” said the resolution which was forwarded to justice Bindal. Copies of the resolution were forwarded to advocate general Kishore Dutta, the bar library club and the Incorporated Law Society of the high court. “The members said that assignment of the case to a division bench is not in conformity with appellate side rules as well as rules framed by the administrative full court of the high court,” Ghosal, who signed the resolution and the forwarding letter, told HT. Hours later on Tuesday evening, another section of bar association members virtually held a general body meeting, presided by the association’s acting vice-president Ajay Chaubey. This section of the members passed a resolution saying they would review the situation after 15 days and make efforts to resolve the issue amicably instead of abstaining from proceedings in the court of justice Bindal. The resolution was made public on Tuesday night. Referring to the issue of assignment of the civil case to a division bench, the resolution said the matter was being “considered by the judges’ committee.” The sequence of events started on July 19. Justice Bhattacharyya, who had reacted sharply on July 16 when technical glitches disrupted the virtual hearing of the civil case, passed a strongly-worded order when he found that the case was transferred to the division bench of justice Tandon. In his 10-page order, justice Bhattacharyya criticised the court administration as well as acting chief justice on whose orders the case was assigned. “There is doubt as to whether the chief justice/acting chief justice, in her/his administrative capacity as the Master of the Roster, can override a judicial order passed by a bench having determination fixed by the chief justice/acting chief justice herself/himself and the file of the matter be assigned to some other court overnight,” justice Bhattacharyya wrote in his order on July 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/calcutta-hc-lawyers-protest-outside-acting-cj-s-court-bar-association-divided-101627465831301.html
28-07-2021||Mumbai||Union minister Rane upset as officers were not present during his Chiplun visit||A video clip of Union minister of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises, Narayan Rane, giving an earful to a government officer because his seniors were not present when the former visited flood- ravaged Chiplun area of Konkan has gone viral on social media. Rane, who was inducted in the Union cabinet early this month, visited flood ravaged Raigad and Ratnagiri on Sunday along with leaders of Opposition in state legislature, Devendra Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar. In the video clip, Rane is seen taking to task district collector B N Patil for his failure to appoint a senior official to accompany the minister even as government officials were busy with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s tour. When Rane was told the officials were busy with Thackeray, he reportedly shouted, “Do not tell me about the CM, I do not care about him. The sub-divisional officer says he is with the guardian minister, You are saying you are with the CM…. I have tolerated enough…You are saying the CEO (of district council) is deputed with me...I don’t see him anywhere. Where is he?” During his subsequent press conference in Ratnagiri, Rane said, “There is no CM...Administration cannot be seen anywhere and everything has collapsed…CM has stepped out of Matoshree (Thackeray residence) only after he realised that I am on Ratnagiri tour. He did not get a helicopter for four days of the flood. He brought bad luck to the state ever since he took over.”Sena leader and former union minister Arvind Sawant condemned Rane’s behaviour. “It is not the person but the post which needs to be respected. But then, we cannot expect decent behaviour from Rane,” said Sawant. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said such behaviour demoralises the officials undertaking relief work. “Rane is a senior leader and a Union minister and we expect more responsible behaviour from him,” said Sawant. Significantly, Sena and NCP have said earlier that politicians should avoid visiting flood-affected areas as the local administration needs to focus on relief operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/union-minister-rane-upset-as-officers-were-not-present-during-his-chiplun-visit-101627465051134.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||Canada dream shattered: Woman booked for cheating husband’s family of ₹25 lakh in Punjab||A month after her 23-year-old husband, Lovepreet Singh, was found dead under mysterious circumstances in Punjab, Beant Kaur, 21, who is in Canada on study visa since August 2019, was booked for cheating on the complaint of her in-laws. The report of Lovepreet’s death and alleged cheating by his NRI wife has been shared widely on social media, prompting Punjabi media in Canada to question Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, but he declined any review of the country’s liberal immigration rules and instead urged immigrants to apply through the government’s website. Also read: Trudeau: We have enough anti-Covid shots to vaccinate entire eligible populationIn his complaint on Tuesday, Lovepreet’s father Balwinder Singh of Khote Gobindpura village near Dhanaula town stated that the wedding of his son with Beant was solemnized on August 2, 2019, after which she went to Canada to study on August 17. 2019. He claimed that he had spent ₹25 lakh on her studies but his son Lovepreet, alias Laddi, was upset as she did not take him abroad as promised and eventually stopped communicating with him. Lovepreet was found dead under mysterious circumstances in his farm on June 23. Initially, the police registered a case under Section 174 of the CrPC as the family had not complained about the cheating. Rather, Lovepreet’s family claimed he died in the field after spraying pesticide, but the viscera report is awaited. Acting on Balwinder’s complaint, Dhanaula police station in-charge Harsimranjit Singh said that a case has now been registered against Beant Kaur, who belongs to Khudi Kalan village in Barnala district, under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code. “We will investigate Lovepreet’s mobile phone records and other documents to get to the truth,” the station house officer said. On July 13, Punjab State Women Commission chairperson Manisha Gulati met Lovepreet’s mother and sisters at their village and assured them of justice. Though Beant’s family members were not available for comment, she has denied allegations of cheating on social media platforms. She said that she tried to bring Lovepreet to Canada but could not due to the Covid-19 restrictions. “His case could not be pursued due to the travel curbs,” she said. On Wednesday, local residents held a protest at Dhanaula on the Bathinda-Chandigarh national highway, demanding that the police add Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the IPC in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/canada-dream-shattered-woman-booked-for-cheating-husband-s-family-of-25-lakh-in-punjab-101627464451135.html
28-07-2021||Delhi||Rakesh Asthana takes charge as police commissioner of Delhi||Rakesh Asthana, who was appointed as the commissioner of Delhi Police on Tuesday, assumed office on Wednesday as he arrived amid a ceremonial guard of honour at the police force’s headquarters in the national capital.Prior to Asthana’s appointment, senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Balaji Srivastav was given the additional charge of Delhi Police chief following SN Shrivastava’s retirement in June.‘I believe in basic concepts of policing — maintenance of law and order and prevention of crime. If these things are done properly, peace would prevail in society. There are certain specialised problems for which there are separate SOPs. We will work accordingly,” Asthana said while addressing reporters.Highlighting the Delhi Police’s ‘brilliant past’, the new commissioner also said that the force has solved complicated cases and is adept at handling complicated situations.A 1984-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer from the Gujarat cadre, Asthana was serving as the director general of the Border Security Force (BSF).And this is not his first stint as a police commissioner. He was Vadodra city’s police commissioner when Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the chief minister of Gujarat.He also served as the special director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), and was given the responsibility of investigating the fodder scam in Bihar that led to the incarceration of Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad. He also headed the special investigation team of the CBI to probe fugitive liquor baron Vijay Mallya.Rakesh Asthana, during his CBI tenure, was embroiled in a spat with the then director of the central probe agency, Alok Verma, with both of them levelling allegations of corruption against each other. Both were moved out of the CBI in 2019.He has also held top posts in the Narcotics Control Bureau and the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rakesh-asthana-takes-charge-as-police-commissioner-of-delhi-101627462139564.html
28-07-2021||Kolkata||Man arrested in West Bengal caught trafficking around 1000 birds from Nepal||A man was arrested from Malda in north Bengal while trying to traffic around 1000 birds, mostly Alexandrine parakeets and hill myna, from Nepal on Wednesday night.The birds were crammed in cages with their beaks tied with rubber bands to prevent them from chirping. Their heads were covered with small pieces of cloth. At least two birds died while being transported in the train.A team of Railway Protection Force (RPF) officials arrested the man identified as Sheikh Sahid from Jogbani Express that connects Jogbani, a town in Bihar located along the Indo-Nepal border, with Kolkata.“Preliminary investigation revealed that the man boarded the train from Katihar station. We are interrogating him to know how he got the birds and who was scheduled to receive them,” said VB Sharma, a RPF inspector.Another RPF official said that the accused was supposed to get down at Burdwan station in south Bengal and reach Kolkata in a private vehicle.“This is one of the most notorious routes through which birds are trafficked from Nepal into India. Earlier too RPF and forest department officials have seized birds on this route and from the same train,” said a forest department official.Acting on a tip off, RPF officials carried out a search on the train and found the birds crammed in cages in one of the reserved compartments. The rescued birds were handed over to the state forest department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/man-arrested-in-bengal-caught-trafficking-around-1000-birds-from-nepal-101627462711032.html
28-07-2021||Kolkata||More complaints of post-poll violence are in, NHRC tells Calcutta HC||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) informed the Calcutta high court on Wednesday that more complaints of alleged post-poll violence poured in after the enquiry committee submitted its final report on the alleged human rights violations in the state before the court on July 13. A five-judge bench of the Calcutta high court, headed by acting chief justice of Calcutta high court, directed the West Bengal government to file a supplementary affidavit on the allegations of post-poll violence mentioned in the NHRC report. The court will hear the matter again on August 2. “The committee received some more complaints after the final report was submitted. We forwarded the same to the Director General of Police in West Bengal. We can file a supplementary report in this regard,” said Subir Sanyal, the advocate representing NHRC. Also Read | Lawyers protest Calcutta chief justice’s decision to reassign caseIn June, the court, while hearing PILs pertaining to allegations of post-poll violence, had directed NHRC to constitute a committee to examine all cases of alleged violence after the recent assembly elections. The seven-member committee submitted its final report on July 13, slamming the Trinamool Congress state government, while recommending a Central Bureau of Investigation probe. The state government on Monday filed an affidavit refuting the charges, while alleging that the report was politically motivated. “We are seeking liberty to submit a supplementary affidavit. On July 26, a 951-page document was sent to us by the NHRC. We need time to respond,” said Kishore Datta, advocate general of West Bengal. Advocate Priyanka Tibrewal, who represents some of the victims of the alleged violence, however, raised objections, stating that the violence is continuing, and the victims may end up withdrawing their complaint if the matter is further delayed. “Extension of time leads to disappearance of evidence. The police are complicit in this matter. If the state wants to file a supplementary affidavit, they have to show reason,” said Mahesh Jethmalani, counsel of a deceased BJP supporter. The bench however observed that there is no FIR on record to suggest that witnesses and victims were under pressure, while allowing the state to file a supplementary affidavit within three days. Meanwhile at least two TMC legislators, Jyotipriyo Mullick and Partha Bhowmik, who were branded as “notorious criminals and goons” in the NHRC report moved the Calcutta high court, challenging the report. The report named more than 123 people, some of them local TMC leaders, and tagged them as “notorious criminals and goons”. The list includes former TMC MLA Udayan Guha and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s election agent in Nandigram, Sheikh Sufiyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/more-complaints-of-post-poll-violence-are-in-nhrc-tells-calcutta-hc-101627462110874.html
28-07-2021||Patna||Patna man held for duping businessman of ₹1.4 crore||A Patna-based fraudster, who allegedly cheated a businessman of ₹1.4 crore, was arrested from West Bengal, police said on Wednesday.Rakesh Kumar Shrivastava was arrested from his residence at Tusar Surlen village under 24 Pargana district of West Bengal on Tuesday where he was allegedly hiding.Police were interrogating him for information on other suspected incidents of such frauds committed by him. He was to be produced in court on Wednesday, superintendent of police Rakesh Kumar said.Also Read | Patna’s IGIMS to have 3 oxygen generation plants by AugThe complainant, Santosh Kumar Singh of Bhabua in Bihar, registered a case against Shrivastava with Bhabua police station in September last year.Shrivastava, then residing in Patna, and claiming to be the director of a chain of fishery companies, convinced Singh to invest in his company.Shrivastava showed documents and profit statements of fake companies -- Nexes Trading and Counseling, and Bapudham Trading Company -- having offices and large-scale fish cultivation facilities in Bihar, West Bengal and other parts of the country.Impressed by Shrivastava’s presentations and after visiting some of the sites, Singh gave ₹1.3 crore through account payee cheques and ₹10 lakh in cash to Shrivastava as investment. Shrivastava also gave an advance, undated cheque of ₹4.1 crore, more than double of the invested amount.But the fraud surfaced when Singh produced the cheque for payment and it bounced. The bank informed him that there was no money in that account. The fishery units he had shown to Singh belonged to other people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-man-held-for-duping-bengal-businessman-of-rs-1-4-crore-101627462050826.html
28-07-2021||Other||3 minor boys caught in Jammu's flash floods rescued by SDRF troops||Three minor boys were rescued by State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) personnel on Wednesday after they were caught in a flash flood near swollen Basanter river in Samba district of Jammu and Kashmir, an official said.Most parts of the Jammu region have been receiving heavy rains for the past few days. With the prediction of more rains till July-end, authorities have already asked people living along water bodies and slide-prone areas to remain vigilant. The SDRF component swung into action after getting information that three boys, aged between seven and 13 years, from village Mananu Nud were trapped in flash floods adjoining river Basanter early this morning, the official said.He said the boys were evacuated to safety during an hour-long rescue operation.A Meteorological Department spokesperson said widespread intermittent rain is most likely to prevail across Jammu and Kashmir till July 30."Heavy to very heavy rain is possible at some places and may lead to flash floods, mudslide, landslide and waterlogging (in low lying areas). People are advised to remain alert as water level has risen in all rivers (owing to incessant rains)," he said.The spokesperson asked people not to venture on hilly, landslide and mudslide-prone areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-minor-boys-caught-in-jammu-s-flash-floods-rescued-by-sdrf-troops-101627458071585.html
28-07-2021||Other||Man arrested for burning woman in Odisha’s Ganjam||A man in Odisha’s Ganjam district has been arrested for allegedly burning alive a 25-year-old woman, who insisted on marrying him, police said. The accused, Krushna Chandra Sahoo, called the woman for some discussion to a secluded house in their village and set her afire after an argument, they added.“Hearing the screams of the woman, locals rushed to the spot and doused the fire. The woman was initially rushed to a local hospital for preliminary treatment and later shifted to another hospital where she succumbed to the burn injuries. Based on the dying declaration of the woman, the accused was arrested,” said sub-divisional police officer Suryamani Pradhan. He added the two were in a relationship for a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-arrested-for-burning-woman-in-odisha-s-ganjam-101627459950905.html
28-07-2021||Bhopal||In police station to file rape complaint, minor girl delivers baby in MP||A 14-year-old alleged rape survivor gave birth to a baby at a police station in Madhya Pradesh’s Chhindwara while filing her sexual assault complaint, an officer said. The mother, and the child were shifted to the district hospital, where they are doing well.Purva Chaurasia, the officer said, “The girl along with a relative had come to their police station on Tuesday evening to file a complaint of rape against a teenager, who lives in her village. The girl suddenly started crying due to labour pain. We took her to a room at the police station. She gave birth to a baby within half an hour.”Also Read | 2 die, 1 ill after liquor party in Indore; ‘suspected poisoning’, say policeChaurasia said the rape accused had promised to marry the girl. “In her complaint, the girl told police that the accused raped her in November and December last year and later stopped her from filing a complaint for nine months. He promised the girl that he would marry her before the birth of the child. Recently, he refused to marry her. The girl’s family asked her to file a complaint...”The accused has been booked under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 376 (rape) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/in-police-station-to-file-rape-complaint-minor-girl-delivers-baby-in-mp-101627459350312.html
28-07-2021||Lucknow||New rules make maintaining vintage vehicles easier||The Central Motor Vehicles (Fifteenth Amendment) Rules, 2021, recently notified by the union ministry of transport, has made separate rules for the registration of vintage cars, bringing hope for their owners, as also encouraging enthusiasts. “The new rules are encouraging...vintage and classic cars, jeeps and motor- cycles can now get registration and ply legally despite being overage,” said Sandeep Das, secretary, Vintage Car and Motor-Cycle Club, Lucknow. A vintage vehicle connoisseur himself, Das owns five such vehicles. The gazette notification came on July 15. “The rules have been notified after the ministry invited comments and suggestions from all the stakeholders last year in October-November,” senior transport official AK Pandey said. “Till now, there were no separate rules for vintage vehicles due to which their owners were facing problems,” he said. This, he said, will enable people to retain the original registration number of their vintage vehicle even if it was earlier registered in a state outside UP or imported from outside India. “Vintage vehicles have been exempted from the requirement of being fitted with a high security registration plate (HSRP) too,” he added. The rules that have come into force across the country with immediate effect define a vehicle as vintage if it is more than fifty years old from the date of first registration after first sale. This category will also include any imported vehicle if it is maintained in its original form and has not undergone a substantial overhaul, which includes any modification in chassis, body shell, or engine. The government has fixed ₹20,000 as the fee for the first registration and certification of a vehicle as vintage vehicle and ₹5,000 for its subsequent registration every five years with the first registration/certification to be valid for 10 years. All those vehicles which are already registered will continue to retain the original registration number and registration plate without any change. The rules, however, do not allow vintage vehicles to be driven or plied on the roads on a regular basis. According to Das, there must be at least 500 vintage vehicles in UP, mostly in Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi and Agra. “In Lucknow alone, there are around 75-80 such vehicles and the new rules will help in restoration of more vehicles as vintage ones in the whole state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/new-rules-make-maintaining-vintage-vehicles-easier-101627457730234.html
28-07-2021||Patna||Bihar hands out paddy seed to farmers who suffered losses in floods||Bihar has allocated direct seeded rice (DSR), a short duration variety, for farmers whose seedlings were damaged in recent flood in East and West Champaran districts.Officials said 4,400.725 quintal of OP variety and 287.82 quintal of hybrid variety in East Champaran, and 2,000 quintals of OP variety and 100 quintal of hybrid variety of paddy seed have been received in West Champaran. “Paddy seedlings were damaged in several blocks of district,” said Vijay Prakash, district agriculture officer (DAO), West Champaran. As against an average rainfall of 49mm in May and 181.10mm in June, East Champaran witnessed a rainfall of 260.94mm and 422.20mm respectively, causing damage to area spread over 6,800 hectares in blocks such as Kesariya, Sangrampur, Banjariya, Safauli, Fenhara, Ramgarhwa, Raxaul, Adapur and Patahi, besides parts of Motihari, Ghodasahan and Pakaridayal. “We have received online application from 55,454 farmers across the district and 8,833 of them have benefitted from the distribution,” said Chandradeo Prasad, district agriculture officer (DAO). According to Adesh Titarmare, director, department of agriculture, Patna, the government has provided over 6,500 quintals paddy seeds for farmers in these two districts (East and West Champaran) as contingent crops.*As a technology, direct seeded rice is being promoted in all districts. Due to recent floods and loss of seedlings, farmers are advised to adopt DSR in East and West Champaran,” he said. Dr N K Singh, associate director research and chief scientist (rice), Pusa University, Samastipur, describes the short duration variety as cost effective. “Compared to old transplantation technique, the yield from DSR is almost equal. Paddy cultivation through DSR can help augment farmers; income,” he said. However, not all farmers are in favour of DSR yet. “This variety of seed is still unknown in our village. Moreover, who would take risk with regard to their paddy?” said Updesh Sah, a Bherihari village-based farmer near Valkminagar in West Champaran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-hands-out-paddy-seed-to-farmers-who-suffered-losses-in-floods-101627456229948.html
28-07-2021||Mumbai||Car pile-up causes traffic jam on Sion-Panvel highway||The Mumbai lane of Sion-Panvel highway saw severe traffic jam on Wednesday morning after seven cars piled up on LP bridge at Nerul.According to the police, a car going towards Mumbai from Panvel side rammed into another car moving in the same direction around 9.45am. Both the cars then ended up hitting five other cars on the bridge.Jagdish Shelkar, police inspector of Nerul traffic division, said, “The condition of the road is not so good in that area and that might have caused the accident. No one suffered injuries in the pile-up. The pile-up temporarily blocked the Panvel-Mumbai lane and that caused traffic jam for nearly an hour. Our officials removed the vehicles from the road. Things were back to normal after 11am.” The Sion-Panvel highway is one of the most important roads in the Mumbai metropolitan region as it connects Mumbai city with the Mumbai-Pune Expressway and Mumbai-Goa highway via Navi Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/car-pile-up-causes-traffic-jam-on-sion-panvel-highway-101627455991306.html
28-07-2021||Delhi||Heavy rainfall in Delhi since morning causes traffic snarls||Moderate to heavy rains lashed parts of the national Capital early Wednesday morning, leaving roads with knee-deep water and the traffic crawling. India Meteorological Department (IMD) recordings show that till 8.30am, the Safdarjung weather station had received 3.6mm rainfall, while at Palam, it was 1.3mm. IMD officials said rainfall intensified after that, especially around the airport. The latest rainfall recording is yet to be updated. Also Read | Car-bus collision leaves 3 dead, 1 injured in Delhi’s Chhawla“Light to moderate showers are expected to continue through the day. On Thursday, the intensity will decrease, before it picks up again from Friday,” a senior IMD official said. The heavy showers led to long traffic snarls, vehicle breakdowns and road cave-ins. On Wednesday, Delhi Traffic Police officials said a portion of the Shahjahan road, near Jamnagar House, from Q-point towards C-Hexagon caved in because of continuous showers. The portion of the road was cordoned off and traffic was moving on a single lane. Complaints of bus breakdowns were also reported from parts of Newada, Ashok Nagar and Dhaula Kuan, which also resulted in slow traffic movement in those areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/heavy-rainfall-in-delhi-since-morning-causes-traffic-snarls-101627455511057.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana IPS officer Bharti Arora seeks premature retirement||Nearly three months after taking charge as inspector general of police (IGP), Ambala Range, Indian Police Officer (IPS) Bharti Arora has sought voluntary retirement.Arora replaced 2001-batch IPS officer Y Puran Kumar after being transferred here from Karnal on April 29. She also held the additional charge of Karnal Range IGP till May 10.In a letter to chief secretary Dr Vijay Vardhan through DGP Manoj Yadava on July 24, the 1998-batch IPS officer sought to be relieved by July 31, citing Section 16(2) of the All India Service (DCRB) Rules after attaining 50 years of age.Arora also requested that the prior notice period of three months be waived, as per the provision of the rules.Cites spiritual calling in applicationThe reason for her seeking premature retirement was not clear, but at the end of her application, she indicated “spending the rest of her life in devotion to God”.“My service has been my pride and passion. I am very grateful to this service for providing me with the opportunity to serve, to learn and to grow. My gratitude to the state of Haryana for showing me the right path,” her letter reads.“Now I wish to achieve the ultimate goal of life. I yearn to traverse the path shown by the holy saints such as Guru Nanak Dev, Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, Kabirdas, Tulsidas, Surdas, Meerabai, the Sufi saints and dedicate the rest of my life in loving devotional service of Lord Sri Krishna,” the letter reads.She didn’t respond to a questionnaire sent on her official email and his reader showed inability to connect with her for a comment. However, it was learnt that she had reiterated her stance of joining the path to divinity to some local journalists.Her batchmate, Punjab cadre IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap, who headed an SIT probing the Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura firing cases, took a similar retirement in April and joined the Aam Aadmi Party in June ahead of the assembly elections next year.Handled several probes in 23-year serviceDuring her 23-year service, Arora has handled multiple investigations including the Samjhauta blast probe as the then superintendent of police (GRP).Sixty-eight people, mostly Pakistani civilians, had died during the bombings near Panipat on February 18, 2007.As Ambala superintendent of police, she made headlines for arresting the then BJP MLA Anil Vij, who is now the state home minister, in 2009 during the Congress rule.She had a run-in with her senior colleague Navdeep Singh Virk in Gurugram in 2015 when she accused him of hampering investigation in a rape case and threatening her, a charge denied by him.She also headed a unique cow protection police task force as a deputy inspector general-rank officer and the principal of Motilal Nehru School of Sports at Rai in Sonepat, both in 2016.Most recently, she had headed an SIT that looked into immigration fraud cases in state in 2020, when the team was awarded by the home ministry for their probe earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-ips-officer-bharti-arora-seeks-premature-retirement-101627452389137.html
28-07-2021||Patna||Patna’s IGIMS to have 3 oxygen generation plants by Aug||The Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), an autonomous institution along the lines of AIIMS-Delhi, will be the state’s first medical college hospital to have an oxygen storage capacity of 60 kilo litres in addition to having three pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants. Together, the three oxygen plants will have the capacity to generate up to 2,233 litres of oxygen per minute. These plants, along with the cryogenic liquid medical oxygen tanks, are expected to be commissioned by the end of August.The institute allocated area to the National Highways Authority of India this Monday to set up two oxygen generation plants. The plants are being set up under the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situation (PM-CARES) fund. Each plant will have a capacity to generate 1,000 litres per minute (LPM) oxygen, said Shailendra Kumar Singh, superintending engineer (biomedical), IGIMS. The institute commissioned its first 233 LPM oxygen generation plant, facilitated through Patna MP and former Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on July 18. “We have requested DRDO to expedite installation of the two oxygen generation plants. We expect them to be ready within a month,” said IGIMS director Dr NR Biswas. Also Read | Bihar: 8 IAS officers reshuffled“Besides, one of the two cryogenic tanks of liquid medical oxygen (LMO), each having 20 kilo litre capacity, has been installed...We expect all oxygen related work to be complete within a month,” he added. “One 20 kilo litre LMO tank is equivalent to 2,250 D-type cylinders, each having 7,000 litres (approx) oxygen. We will have three such tanks on our campus, in addition to three PSA oxygen generation plants, making us self-sufficient in medical oxygen,” said Singh. Meanwhile, one tank each of 20 kilo litre LMO has also been set up at the Patna Medical College Hospital and the Nalanda Medical College Hospital, both in Patna. A health official said similar work will be taken up in Darbhanga Medical College Hospital after installation at the IGIMS. While these hospitals will have two cryogenic LMO tanks each of 20 kilo litre storage capacity, the remaining six state-run medical colleges will have one such tank each. All these are expected to be commissioned by August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patnas-igims-to-have-3-oxygen-generation-plants-by-aug-101627448728850.html
28-07-2021||Other||Violence in Kerala House: Supreme Court verdict today||The Supreme Court, Wednesday, will deliver its verdict on Kerala government’s appeal to withdraw criminal cases against six legislators in connection with violence in the state assembly in 2015. Of the six accused in the case, two are members of the present assembly--V Sivankutty is the state education minister and KT Jaleel is a former minister. All six (V Sivankutty, KT Jaleel, EP Jayarajan, CK Sadasivan, Kunahmed Master and K Ajith) were charged under the prevention of damage to public property act and other provisions. The verdict is crucial for Sivankutty, also the main accused in the case, because, according to political observers, the minister will have to resign in case of adverse remarks from the apex courtAlso Read | Zika virus cases in Kerala soar past 50 with 3 new infectionsKerala House witnessed violent scenes in March 2015, after Opposition Left Democratic Front (LDF) legislators tried to prevent then finance minister KM Mani from presenting the budget, alleging his role in the bar bribery case. Angry members snapped mikes, threw chairs, destroyed furniture and damaged lights in the melee, and two legislators were later hospitalised. The session was broadcast live when the violence took place and property worth ₹2.20 lakh was destroyed in the ruckus. In 2016, the government appealed for withdrawal of the cases, but a local court rejected the plea. The government then moved the high court, which also turned down its plea. The government invoked the privilege of legislators and public interest to justify its plea, but the high court said privilege was not a licence to carry out violence in the House. Interestingly, the coterie of KM Mani, the minister t the heart of the issue, is part of the LDF camp now. After his death in 2019, KM Mani’s party Kerala Congress (M) split, and his son took a splintered faction to the LDF camp. A predominant Christian party, Kerala Congress (M)’s foray into LDF helped it win many seats in the Christian heartland of central Travancore; and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) is now forced to swallow its earlier charges against KM Mani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/violence-in-kerala-house-supreme-court-verdict-today-101627448068593.html
28-07-2021||Patna||NCB arrests two men for drug trafficking in Patna; recovers drugs, firearms||The Patna zonal units of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday arrested two men for drug trafficking. They also recovered a country made pistol, 12 live cartridges, ₹4 lakh cash, and two SUVs.The two SUVs were intercepted with 280gram heroin, 255gram Alprazolam, and 9kgs of kala patthar (used for mixing with heroin before selling) on Kanpa bridge between Patna-Aurangabad road. Alprazolam is a psychotropic substance belonging to the benzodiazepines class, which are anti-depressants. Also Read | Bihar: 8 IAS officers reshuffledThe arrested men were identified as Manoj Kumar (Kaimur) and Rohit Kumar Paswan (Naubatpur). NCB officers recovered arms, ammunition, and cash from them. NCB Patna zonal unit director Kumar Manish said the consignment is believed to be sourced from Uttar Pradesh and was destined for Patna for further distribution or selling through street peddlers.“Further investigations in the case are underway especially regarding the network linkages with other anti-state activities including the money laundering aspect,” Manish added. The officer said NCB nabbed the duo after working on the drug supply chain for over three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ncb-arrests-two-men-for-drug-trafficking-in-patna-recovers-drugs-firearms-101627447708616.html
28-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Cloudy sky, moderate rain expected today, says IMD||Delhi is likely to see a cloudy sky with moderate rain on Wednesday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be 25 degrees Celsius while maximum temperature is predicted to reach 28 degrees Celsius.The maximum temperature on Tuesday was 29.5 degrees Celsius.Delhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Wednesday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 8am stood at 63. On Tuesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 98.Also Read | Heavy to extremely heavy rain likely over Uttarakhand and northwest UP todayAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".On Tuesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall air quality is in the Satisfactory category as forecasted. Widespread rainfall observed at Delhi and rainfall activity is likely to increase in next two days. Increased rainfall activity is likely to influence AQI positively through the washout process. Satisfactory to Good AQI is forecasted next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-cloudy-sky-moderate-rain-expected-today-says-imd-101627444222746.html
28-07-2021||Lucknow||18 killed in road accident in Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki||At least 18 people were killed, and 25 others injured when a truck collided with a stationary bus in Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki early on Wednesday, police said. The double-decker bus with 140 labourers on board was on its way from Punjab’s Ludhiana to Bihar. It was parked on the roadside after breaking down when the truck rammed into it and left the 18 standing near the vehicle dead.Additional director general (Lucknow Zone) SN Sabat said the truck rammed into the bus near Ram Sanehi Ghat in Barabanki. He added a police force was rushed to the spot to undertake rescue work.Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the loss of lives and announced ₹2 lakh each compensation for the families of those killed in the accident and ₹50,000 each for the kin of the injured.“PM @narendramodi announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each from Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) for the next of kin of those who lost their lives in the tragic accident in Barabanki. The injured would be given Rs. 50,000 each,” the Prime Minister’s Office tweeted.Officials said Modi also spoke to chief minister Yogi Adityanath about the accident. “The chief minister has also expressed his condolences and directed the DM (district magistrate and) SP (superintendent of police) Barabanki to provide the best medical care to the injured and to make arrangements to take the passengers to their destinations,” said additional home secretary Awanish Awasthi.Officials said Adityanath has also directed that financial assistance be provided to the kin of those killed in the accident. On his directions, three ministers--health minister Jai Pratap Singh, urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon ‘Gopal’ and jal shakti minister Mahendra Singh are on their way to King George’s Medical University, Lucknow, to oversee the treatment of the victims.“The deaths of people in a road accident in Ram Sanehi Ghat area of district Barabanki is very sad. My condolences are with the bereaved families. Praying to Lord Shri Ram to grant the departed souls a place at his feet and speedy recovery to the injured,” Adityanath tweeted in Hindi.Union home minister Amit Shah also expressed grief over the deaths in the accident. “The road accident in Barabanki, Uttar Pradesh, is very sad. I express my condolences to the families of those who lost their lives. The local administration is engaged in providing all possible help and treatment to the injured. I pray to God for the speedy recovery of the injured,” he saidSpeaker of Lok Sabha Om Birla also condoled the deaths.“It is very saddening to know that a large number of people died after a truck rammed into a bus in Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki. I express sympathy to the family members of those killed. May God gives peace to the departed souls and courage to family members...,” Birla tweeted in Hindi.Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati expressed grief over the deaths. She asked the government to provide free treatment to the injured and immediate disbursement of ex-gratia to the kin of the deceased.With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/18-killed-in-road-mishap-in-up-s-barabanki-rescue-operation-underway-101627442200168.html
28-07-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav resumes his state tour ahead of next year’s UP assembly polls||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav has resumed his tour of the state in the run-up to Uttar Pradesh assembly polls next year. He began the second edition of the tours with a day-long visit to Unnao, a neighbouring district of Lucknow, on July 21. Between December 2020 and April this year, the former chief minister campaigned in as many as 40 districts. “The national president’s tour was supposed to resume soon after April’s panchayat polls, but the party put it on hold because of the second wave of Covid-19,” said a senior SP functionary.The party says while Yadav will complete the tour of the remaining districts this time around, he may also revisit some districts, including his Lok Sabha constituency Azamgarh, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, and a couple of Bundelkhand districts.Also Read | Heavy to extremely heavy rain likely over Uttarakhand and northwest UP todayThese tours involve meeting the party cadre for poll preparation discussions, roadshows, public meetings, Kisan panchayats, press conferences, and short bicycle rides with party workers. He had also been on temple runs--going to Hindu, Muslim, and Buddhist places of worship.“The way crowds are gathering at his shows indicates how restive the people are to vote the BJP out and bring back the Samajwadi Party,” said SP state spokesperson and former minister Rajendra Chaudhary.Yadav has mostly kept his attack focused on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and has refrained from speaking about any other rival political party, be it the Congress or the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP).Among his political rivals, BSP chief Mayawati has not travelled across the state at all, while Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra visited a few districts such as Saharanpur and Mathura (before the panchayat polls) and recently Lucknow and Lakhimpur-Kheri.“If he and his party aspire to win against the BJP, he has to be seen on the road now. There is no other way. As of now, it is only his party which is in a position to take on the BJP in the coming polls. Hard work and some strategic alliances, if he goes for them, will help in the fight,” said Prof SK Dwivedi, a political analyst and former head of the department of political science, Lucknow University.Dwivedi added: “His solo Kranti Rath tour of the state in 2011 shortly before the 2012 UP assembly elections is still etched in public memory.”SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav credited Yadav and his Kranti Rath campaign for SP winning with majority for the first time in its electoral history. That also saw Yadav become Uttar Pradesh chief minister for the first time in 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-yadav-resumes-his-state-tour-ahead-of-next-year-s-up-assembly-polls-101627442182416.html
28-07-2021||Other||Seven dead, 12 rescued after cloudburst in Jammu’s Kishtwar district||At least seven people were killed and 19 remained missing after flash floods hit Honjar village in Jammu & Kashmir’s remote mountainous Kishtwar district following a cloud burst on Wednesday. Officials said 12 people were rescued as rescuers were rushed to the scene amid heavy rain in the region.Additional director general of police Mukesh Singh said five of the 12 are critically injured. “The rescue operation is on,” said Mukesh Singh. A second officer said the cloud burst was reported at 4 am and 28 people were initially reported missing.Kishtwar’s senior police superintendent Shafqat Bhat said they believe 30 to 40 people were in the village at the time of the cloud burst. He added bridges have been washed away in the area and a river there is in full spate. Bhat said Honjar is around 50km from Kishtwar district headquarters.In a tweet, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the Centre is closely monitoring the situation. “...in the wake of the cloudbursts in #Kishtwar and #Kargil (Ladakh). All possible assistance is being made available in the affected areas. I pray for everyone’s safety and well-being.”Officials said air force, army, State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF), and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams were rushed for the rescue operations.Union home minister Amit Shah said saving as many lives as possible is the priority. “I have spoken to the LG (Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha) & DGP (director general of police) of Jammu & Kashmir regarding the cloudburst in Kishtwar. SDRF, Army & local administration are carrying out the rescue operation. NDRF is also reaching there.”Officials said SDRF teams were sent to the area from Doda, Udhampur, and Jammu while a team of NDRF and SDRF each were on standby in Srinagar. SDRF commandant VK Singh said a police team left for the scene on foot. “The area is in the upper reaches of Kishtwar, not accessible by road. Jammu SDRF is on standby. The weather is inclement. One team of SDRF from Srinagar is ready to be airlifted,” said Singh.The Army said its teams were pressed into service at 7 am.Sinha condoled the loss of lives. “I am saddened over the loss of lives due to the flash floods caused by the cloudburst. My thoughts are with bereaved families.”The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said widespread intermittent rain was most likely to continue till July 30 in Jammu & Kashmir. “Heavy to very heavy rain is also possible at some places,” it said. IMD warned heavy rain may lead to flash floods, mudslides, landslides, and waterlogging in low-lying areas. “Accordingly, people are once again advised to remain alert and very cautious as water levels have risen in all rivers. Don’t venture out on hilly and landslide, mudslide prone areas.”With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cloud-bursts-over-jammu-s-kishtwar-4-bodies-recovered-40-people-missing-101627440802605.html
28-07-2021||Delhi||Thunderstorm with light to moderate rain to occur in Delhi-NCR today: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain in few parts of Delhi and the neighbouring National Capital Region (NCR) on Wednesday."Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of few places of Delhi, NCR (Faridabad, Ballabhgarh, Gurugram, Loni Dehat, Hindon AF Station, Ghaziabad, Indirapuram, Chhapraula, Noida, Dadri, Greater Noida)," the IMD said on Twitter.It also said that Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Karnal, Rajaund, Assandh, Safidon, Panipat, Gohana, Gannaur, Sonipat, Narwana, Jind, Tosham (in Haryana); Saharanpur, Hastinapur, Daurala, Meerut, Modinagar, Garhmukteshwar, Siyana, Hapur, Anupshahar, Jahangirabad, Shikarpur, Bulandshahar, Sikandrabad, Gulaoti, Khurja, Chandpur, Amroha, Mujaffarnagar, Shamli, Baraut, (in Uttar Pradesh) will receive rain in the next two hours.The forecast comes a day after heavy rains lashed parts of the national capital. The downpour on Tuesday brought down the maximum temperature to 29.4 degrees Celsius, according to IMD.The MeT department also said on Tuesday that 100 mm of rainfall was recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which provides representative data for Delhi, in a span of 24 hours. It was the highest rainfall recorded in a 24-hour period in the month of July in eight years.Mathura Road, Moti Bagh, Vikas Marg, Ring Road, Rohtak Road, Sangam Vihar and Kirari were among the places which saw waterloging due to heavy rain.Traffic crawled in these areas and at ITO, Dhaula Kuan underpass, near Pragati Maidan and Rohtak Road.According to the IMD, the southwest monsoon had reached Delhi on July 13, several days behind the usual date of onset.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/thunderstorm-with-light-to-moderate-rain-to-occur-in-delhi-ncr-today-imd-101627436990384.html
28-07-2021||Lucknow||Major road accident in UP's Barabanki; at least 18 dead, 19 injured after speeding truck hits bus||At least 18 people were killed in a major road accident at Barabanki in Uttar Pradesh after a double-decker bus hit by a speeding truck on the Lucknow-Ayodhya national highway, near the Ram Sanehi Ghat police station area in the district. The incident took place around 1:30am in the intervening night between Tuesday and Wednesday, reported HT's sister publication Live Hindustan. As many as 19 passengers were also left gravely injured in the incident, said UP police officials familiar with the development, adding that the wounded passengers were rushed to the district hospital for emergency medical treatment.अपर पुलिस महानिदेशक, जोन लखनऊ @sn_sabat द्वारा जनपद बाराबंकी के थाना रामसनेहीघाट क्षेत्रान्तर्गत लखनऊ- अयोध्या राजमार्ग पर सड़क दुर्घटना के घटनास्थल एवं घायलों के उपचार हेतु जिला अस्पताल का भ्रमण किया गया सम्बन्धित को आवश्यक विधिक कार्यवाही हेतु निर्देशित किया गया। @Uppolice pic.twitter.com/sB3QWuijRxMeanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi conveyed his condolences over the tragic mishap at Barabanki and said that arrangements are being made for the proper treatment of all those injured in the incident. He also said that the central government will be providing ₹2 lakh from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) as ex-gratia to the next of kin of passengers who lost their lives. The injured will be provided ₹50,000 each, he said.यूपी के बाराबंकी में हुए सड़क हादसे की खबर से बहुत दुखी हूं। शोकाकुल परिवारों के साथ मेरी संवेदनाएं हैं। अभी सीएम योगी जी से भी बात हुई है। सभी घायल साथियों के उचित उपचार की व्यवस्था की जा रही है।PM @narendramodi announced an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF for the next of kin of those who lost their lives in the tragic accident in Barabanki. The injured would be given Rs. 50,000 each.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath also expressed his deepest condolences and prayed for the departed souls, issuing additional orders to provide treatment to all those injured in the accident. All possible help and relief will be provided to the affected people, the chief minister said.Speaking to reporters at the hospital, Lucknow Zone ADG Satya Narayan Sabat confirmed that as many as 18 people have died in the "tragic mishap" that took place last night on the highway near Ram Sanehi Ghat in the Barabanki district. Several others still remain stuck under the bus, he said, adding that a rescue operation is currently underway. "Most of the passengers hailed from various districts in Bihar, including Sitamarhi and Saharsa," the police official said. "They were returning to their native state from Punjab and Haryana, where they had put up for work."थाना रामसनेहीघाट क्षेत्रान्तर्गत लखनऊ-अयोध्या राजमार्ग पर कल्याणी नदी के पास ट्रक द्वारा वोल्वो बस में टक्कर मार देने से हुई सड़क दुर्घटना के सम्बन्ध में @adgzonelucknow की बाइट-@Uppolice @adgzonelucknow @igrangeayodhya @IPSYAMUNA1 pic.twitter.com/03ql8O55BBElaborating on the Barabanki accident, ADG Satya Narayan Sabat said that several passengers had come out of the bus when the driver informed them that the axle shaft had broken down. Moments later, a speeding truck arrived and collided with the stationary bus from behind, resulting in the deaths of many of the passengers who were resting up along the highway; while several others were left gravely injured.Two passengers were declared dead on arrival at the hospital, while one more succumbed to their injuries during treatment, the police official said. "An operation to retrieve bodies from underneath the bus is currently on," he said, adding that at least 18 people have died so far, according to the latest updates. "Following this tragic mishap, the district administration and the police have launched a probe into the matter and ensuring that the wounded receive the best medical treatment that's available," the UP police official added."The Prime Minister has spoken to the chief minister to know about the road accident in Barabanki," said additional chief secretary (Home) Awnish Awasthi. "He (PM Modi) expressed his condolences to the family of the deceased. The chief minister has also expressed his condolences and directed the DM, SP Barabanki to provide the best medical care to the injured."Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has also asked for arrangements to take the passengers to their destinations, Awasthi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/major-road-accident-in-up-s-barabanki-at-least-18-dead-19-injured-after-speeding-truck-hits-bus-101627433977936.html
28-07-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath to inaugurate ISDA 2021, focus on promoting MSMEs in defence sector||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will virtually inaugurate the Indigenisation Summit on Defence and Aerospace this year (ISDA 2021), with an aim to provide a boost to the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector in the state and nurture it as a potential supplier to India's booming defence sector.Uttar Pradesh additional home secretary (ACS) Awanish Awasthi, while speaking on the matter a day ago, said that the state's MSME industry can become a reliable supplier to the country's defence sector with the "right guidance" on the requirement of materials.Also Read | Yogi Adityanath says opposition must apologise for stalling Parliament"Uttar Pradesh has the largest base of MSMEs, which can be effectively tapped to become potential suppliers to our defence sector with the right guidance on the requirements," reports quoted Awasthi as saying. "ISDA aims to take a step in this direction."Awasthi said that the Uttar Pradesh Expressway Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA), being the nodal agency for the development of the UP defence corridor can further embolden the move with its lucrative land rates, enabling policies and the upcoming facilitation centre near the Chaudhary Charan Singh (CCS) International Airport near Lucknow.Notably, Awanish Awasthi is the chief executive officer (CEO) of UPEIDA. Along with the industrial development body, the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) and the Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers (SIDM) has also called upon the MSME industry to explore business opportunities in the defence sector, he said.Also Read | No Delta Plus case in UP at present, says Yogi AdityanathISDA 2021 is being organised from July 28 to 31 virtually in Uttar Pradesh, to help the MSMEs integrate better with the defence sector.Meanwhile, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath will later in the day attend a meeting chaired by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda in Delhi on Wednesday and Thursday, news agencies reported citing party insiders familiar with the matter.The meeting is being held ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly election scheduled for next year, the reports said, adding that Adityanath, along with his two deputies -- Dinesh Sharma and Keshav Prasad Maurya -- will also be present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-to-inaugurate-isda-2021-focus-on-promoting-msmes-in-defence-sector-101627430931296.html
28-07-2021||Other||Potholes exacerbate Ludhiana commuters’ woes in monsoon||The apathy of the municipal corporation (MC) in repairing the roads and internal streets of residential areas has left commuters a harried lot amid the monsoon. Potholed, damaged roads in almost every part of the city increase the chances of accidents especially, during waterlogging, but the authorities have turned a blind eye towards the problem. Even as the MC has been making tall claims regarding taking up development projects in the city, deep potholes can be seen on main roads of the city including, Model Town-Jawaadi Road, Brown Road, Gill Road, Pakhowal Road, Lodhi Club Road, etc. A similar situation can also be seen in the residential areas of Model Town, Field Ganj, Nehru Nagar, Kundan Nagar, Dugri, Haibowal, among others.The roads that were dug up for ongoing development works at Ferozepur Road, Malhar Road, Pakhowal Road, Old GT Road, etc., have further added to the woes of the commuters.Gurkirat Singh, a resident of Model Town, said, “MC should take up the process of reparation of the roads regularly. Last year in November, a girl had suffered a serious head injury after she lost balance of her two-wheeler on Model Town-Jawaddi Road.”“The issue of potholed roads is raised every year, but the authorities still do not repair them ahead of monsoon season and put the lives of residents in danger,” added Singh.Pawandeep Singh, a resident of the Field Ganj area, said that apart from repairing the potholes, the MC should also find a solution for the uneven covers. “The roads should have been repaired ahead of the monsoon. Now, the authorities claim that repair work cannot be done during the rainy season. The MC should at least clear the gravel spread on the damaged portion of the road as there is always a danger of vehicles skidding,” he added.Councillors had in the MC general house meeting on July 14 raised the matter regarding the pathetic condition of roads. They rued that commuters are facing trouble as the contractors had failed to construct the roads after digging them up to install sewer lines.Sunita Rani, leader of BJP councillors, said, “The main Shivpuri has been dug for around three months to install sewer lines. The authorities have failed to reconstruct the road even as hundreds of vehicles ply on it daily and accidents are also taking place there.”Mayor Balkar Sandhu said that the potholes are temporarily being filled them with rubble and sand as the bitumen work cannot be done during the rainy season. “The repair work with bitumen material will start soon after the monsoon season. The MC has also approved different projects to reconstruct the main roads of the city. If the residents are facing any problems due to the potholes, then they can submit a complaint with my office,” he added. Despite repeated attempts, made to reach MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, he was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/potholes-exacerbate-ludhiana-commuters-woes-in-monsoon-101627418301452.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||In six months, over 3,000 residents bitten by dogs in Ludhiana||Letting sleeping dogs lie is doing no good as despite a slew of initiatives to keep the dog population in check, as many as 3,075 residents have been on the receiving end of a dog bite in six months. As per civil hospital data, 894 cases were reported in January, 800 in February, 336 in March, 315 in April, 245 in May and 485 in June. Data for July had not been compiled so far. The death of 11-year-old Arjun on Sunday was no isolated incident, on June 3, 15-year-old Neha of Krishan Nagar near Ghumar Mandi, had narrowly escaped death after she was attacked by a pack of dogs. She had received multiple dog bite injuries, primarily on her arms, chest, and back. Two passersby saved her from the vicious attack . She had also sustained a serious head injury from falling on the street.  ₹4 crore spent on sterilisation so far In 2009 and 2010, Himmat Singh Grewal, a dog lover, had initiated a sterilisation project. However, the project ended mid-way after Grewal accused the civic body officials of harassment. The project resumed in February 2015 after the civic body hired a private company to sterilise dogs and paid it ₹760 per dog. The company’s contract was renewed in January 2019 and the fee was revised to ₹990 per dog. As per the officials, around 50,000 dogs have been sterilised in the city so far at a cost of ₹4 crore. However, the dog population continues to rise. Sterilise females: GADVASU VCAs per Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University ( GADVASU) vice-chancellor Dr Inderjeet Singh, authorities should sterilise female dogs for better results. Any interruption or any break in the sterilisation project can jeopardise the exercise as the dog population multiplies rapidly.Municipal corporation veterinary officer Dr Harbans Dalla said 40 dogs are being vaccinated in the city each day and the number of sterilisations will increase from next month. “There are around 25,000 stray dogs inside the MC limits, while around 2,000 dogs have been registered as pets with the MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-six-months-over-3-000-residents-bitten-by-dogs-in-ludhiana-101627417462022.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana boy conceals dog bite, dies of rabies 20 days later||An 11-year-old boy who concealed a dog bite from his parents died of rabies a few hours after he was diagnosed on Sunday, 20 days after he was bitten. The victim, Arjun, who lives in the slums on the outskirts of Jaspal Bangar village, had told his parents that he had injured his leg while playing, while he had in fact sustained a dog bite. An ex-serviceman, Lakhwinder Singh, who lives in the village, said, “Arjun started behaving abnormally a few days ago. Instead of taking him to a doctor, the family took Arjun to a quack, and then to a witch doctor as they believed he had been possessed by evil spirits.”The victim’s health deteriorated further on Sunday and he started frothing at his mouth. This time, the family took Arjun to a local hospital where he was diagnosed with rabies, but he died a few hours later. His body was handed over to the family after postmortem.The incident came to light after health officials probed the death. The victim’s father Haimraj and mother Parvati blamed the stray dog menace in the area for their son’s death. “The stray dog population is on the rise. Canines enter the slum area in search of food and attack children.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-boy-conceals-dog-bite-dies-of-rabies-20-days-later-101627417221220.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||Teen, his 6-year-old cousin come in contact with power cables in Ludhiana, hospitalised||A teen and his six-year-old cousin sustained severe burn injuries after they came in contact with high-voltage power supply cables while playing on the roof of the labour quarters on Sekhewal Road here on Monday evening. The victims, Vikas, 14, and his cousin Satyam,were rushed to the Civil Hospital, from where they were referred to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. The victims have suffered 50% burns . Vikas’ father, Ram Pukar, of Uttar Pradesh, said the victims used to live in the village with their mothers, and had only come to Ludhiana to visit their fathers two weeks ago. “I was at work when I learnt that the children had been electrocuted,” Pukar said. Daresi station house officer Davinder Singh said they helped take the victims to the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/teen-his-6-year-old-cousin-come-in-contact-with-power-cables-in-ludhiana-hospitalised-101627416921070.html
28-07-2021||Other||UP govt scraps bidding process, clears decks for purchase of 1,23,398 smart phones||LUCKNOW The UP government on Tuesday cleared the decks to buy 1,23,398 smart phones, setting aside the controversy over the process of bidding initiated earlier for the purchase. The smart phones will be used by ‘anganwadi’ workers under the National Nutrition Mission programme. Each phone is expected to cost ₹9,440 and a sum of ₹116.48 crore had been earmarked for the purpose.A government order (dated July 26, 2021) titled ‘financial and administrative sanction to buy smart phones in 2021-2022 through GeM portal under Poshan Abhiyan’ has been issued in this regard by special secretary Garima Yadav cancelling the financial and administrative sanction issued vide GO number 13/2020/1763/58-1-20-2/3 (6) 13TC (dated July 24, 2020) to buy smart phones. The order also laid down other terms and conditions for the use of funds earmarked for the purchase of smart phones. The state government proposed to provide these phones to the ‘anganwadi’ workers to ensure real-time monitoring of provisioning supplementary nutrition to national nutrition mission beneficiaries that include pregnant and lactating mothers and children etc. Those aware of the development said the smart phones would enable village level women and childcare workers (‘anganwadi’ workers) to feed data on the spot about the distribution of nutrition supplements to beneficiaries. The workers will use the Poshan tracker app to feed the data for real-time monitoring. “the state government has issued administrative sanction to buy 1,23,398 smart phones through the GeM portal. It has cancelled the financial and administrative sanction for bids to buy smart phones issued on July 24, 2020,” said a senior officer of National Nutrition Mission, which was launched with an objective to leverage technology for monitoring and improved service delivery to beneficiaries. About the complaints of alleged irregularities in the bidding process initiated earlier, the officer said the department was not aware of any such complaints. “We just received one-line information from the state government informing the department about the cancellation of bids,” said the officer.There were reports that a smart phone manufacturing company had pointed towards alleged irregularities in the tendering process that pushed the company out of the bidding process. Minister of state (independent charge) for women and child development, Swati Singh, had raised the issue of alleged irregularities and wrote to a senior officer in the women and child welfare department. Swati Singh and other senior officers of the women and child welfare department either remained unavailable or refused to comment on the issue. The UP government had proposed to buy smart phones for ‘anganwadi’ workers under the National Nutrition Mission named as the Prime Minister’s Overarching Scheme for Holistic Nutrition (POSHAN) Abhiyan. It was launched in 2017 as a multi-ministerial convergence mission with a vision to make India malnutrition free by 2022. The union ministry of women and child development developed the new Poshan tracker app to monitor distribution of nutrition supplements and bring about an improvement in the nutritional status of beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-scraps-bidding-process-clears-decks-for-purchase-of-1-23-398-smart-phones-101627416620395.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||HC orders fact-finding survey on ‘apartmentalisation’ in Chandigarh’s northern sectors||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the Chandigarh administration to carry out a survey, within two weeks, to identify residential properties which have been sold to a person outside the family of the original owner since December 2019, in a particular manner indicating that the purpose of the sale was construction of apartments.The court also asked for a physical inspection of such buildings to find out whether the sale has actually led to the buyers occupying independent floors in an otherwise composite dwelling unit. The entire exercise is to be carried out under the supervision of the UT chief architect, and with assistance from police and other enforcement agencies. “We are constrained to observe that the UT administration has chosen to skirt a vital issue that has been raised in the instant petition,” the HC bench of justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and justice Vivek Puri observed while seeking a report by August 11.Only those residential properties are to be checked which were transferred or sold to a person outside the family of the original owner, after December 31, 2019, and where the pattern of share(s) is 50 %, 30 % or 20 %.“We would also like to observe that it is only a fact-finding exercise, which we feel would be imperative for us to take a final view in the matter. The present order in no way expresses our opinion on merits,” the bench further observed.The court was hearing a batch of petitions pending since 2016 seeking prohibitory orders on conversion of residential plots into apartments. Residential plots in Chandigarh are meant to be used as single-dwelling units. However, in the recent years, these are being sold floor-wise to multiple owners.There is a huge divide among residents on the issue. A section says by allowing apartments, those who wish to get property in northern sectors would get a chance to own them. On the other hand, many owners in northern sectors have been opposing the move insisting that it could change the city’s character.In the year 2001, Chandigarh administration notified Chandigarh Apartment Rules, 2001, whereby even single residential units, wherever they existed, could be subdivided into apartments but were repealed in October 2007. Chandigarh administration has maintained that no permission is being granted to convert residential houses into apartments. The bench itself scanned newspapers to ascertain veracity of the claims and found that on a single day in an English daily, 24 advertisements scouting for purchasers/investors for separate floors/independent floors, were found. “ ..(It) lend (s) credence to the assertion raised on behalf of the petitioners that under the garb of sale of certain percentage share of a residential unit, independent floors are being sold,” the court observed adding that UT had been silent on such aspect.“In our view, the Chandigarh administration ought to have been alive to such situation and particularly when there were specific averments made in the present petition which was filed way back in the year 2016. Being in a state of denial on paper would not suffice. In the fitness of things, the administration should have carried out some kind of physical verification to ascertain as to whether such modus operandi had been resorted to after repeal of the Apartment Rules, 2001,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-orders-fact-finding-survey-on-apartmentalisation-in-chandigarh-s-northern-sectors-101627416561107.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||Charges fly as safai karamcharis’ panel chief, Ludhiana MC staff lock horns||High drama was witnessed at the Circuit House after the Chairman of the Punjab State Safai Karamchari Commission and Municipal Corporation (MC) employees locked horns over the recommendation of lodging FIR against the concerned MC employees, who had alleged forced staff to undertake manual scavenging of sewer lines without safety gear in Jugiana area on July 16.Chairperson of the commission, Geja Ram Valmiki, had called a meeting of the commission over the delay in lodging the FIR against the concerned MC employees even after he recommended action against the officials on July 16. However, some MC staffers reached the spot and opposed the recommendation alleging that the chairperson himself had asked the manual scavengers to enter the manhole and accused the chairperson of falsely implicating the employees. The MC employees, including junior engineers, a sub-divisional officer (SDO) and executive engineers of the operations and maintenance cell of the civic body shared a video where the chairperson can reportedly been heard asking the men to enter the manhole.Contractual sewer cleaner, Vijaypal, who was caught on camera while entering the manhole in the Jugiana area, also said that he was asked to enter the manhole by the chairperson himself. Few councillors also came in support of the MC employees. As the argument between the chief and MC employees grew heated, police force was deployed on the spot. The argument between the MC employees, chairperson and administrative officials continued for over seven hours, with Geja Ram alleging that he too had video evidence of a sewer cleaner entering a manhole in Model Town area on July 22.The MC employees said they try to avoid manual scavenging and when there is no other option, prior permission is taken from the higher authorities and safety kits are provided.The chairperson accused the MC employees of misbehaving, threatening him and obstructing the proceedings of the meeting and recommended an FIR against 33 employees. In turn, Municipal Employees Sangharsh Committee chairperson Jasdev Sekhon said that the MC employees will go on an indefinite strike if the MC officials and employees are wrongly implicated.Administrative officials including sub-divisional magistrate (SDM East) Baljinder Dhillon, and municipal corporation joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh who were present on the spot intervened. The commissioner recorded the statements of the MC employees and sewermen.Geja Ram said he was stopping the employees from entering the manhole and the video was being misinterpreted to pressure the commission. “Five manholes had already been cleaned in the Jugiana area before the act was caught on camera. The statements of the MC officials and safai karamcharis have been taken but they will be verified as the manual scavengers are also under pressure,” he said.“An FIR will be recommended in cases of manual scavenging and also against the MC officials who came to the meeting uninvited, broke the protocol, misbehaved, created nuisance and obstructed the proceedings of the meeting. I will meet commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal in this regard on Wednesday. We have video proof of everything,” said the chairperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/charges-fly-as-safai-karamcharis-panel-chief-ludhiana-mc-staff-lock-horns-101627416500489.html
28-07-2021||Other||Major respite for Mohali as only 1 new case detected; tricity count 5||For the first time in 15 months, Mohali breathed a sigh of relief as only one Covid case was detected in 24 hours in the district. It also didn’t report any new deaths. Mohali has been the worst hit by the pandemic in the tricity area, recording 68,441 infections and 1,057 deaths so far (see box). In July alone, it has recorded 194 infections and eight deaths.In all, the tricity area reported five cases on Tuesday, of which four were found in Chandigarh. All the cases were detected in Sector 38. The UT too had no virus deaths. Panchkula, with zero cases and zero deaths, had a recovery rate of 98.7% and positivity rate is zero on the day.Mohali has the highest number of active cases, 40, followed by Chandigarh which has 37 and Panchkula which has three cases. UT adds 21k people in ‘to-be vaccinated’ listThe UT health department on Tuesday added around 21,000 people to the list of people eligible for Covid vaccination in the city. Earlier, the health department had said that 7,09,180 people are eligible (18 years and above) to be jabbed in the city, according to the latest electoral list. However, the population count has now been revised to 7,29,822.The health department aims to vaccinate the entire eligible population with at least the first dose by August 15. As of Tuesday, 82% of the eligible population had taken the first dose and 25% have been fully vaccinated. Dr Amandeep Kang, director health services, Chandigarh, said, “The population target is set according to the last census, in which we add decadal growth rate (estimate percentage by which population grows in 10 years). Earlier, we had added decadal growth rate by 17% but we have now revised it to 17.2%. As a result, 21,000 people got added to the list.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/major-respite-for-mohali-as-only-1-new-case-detected-tricity-count-5-101627416321366.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||Soon, Chandigarh officials will only move around in electric vehicles||In a major move towards clean-energy, the UT administration is all set to start the process of replacement of its fleet of official vehicles with electric ones. Confirming the development, UT adviser Dharam Pal, said, “Within all the departments, we are looking at buying only electric vehicles from hereon and all condemned vehicles will also be replaced by e-vehicles.”Batting for e-vehicles for the city, Pal, said, “The city is small. E-vehicles can serve our purpose very well. In fact, e-vehicles are designed for a city like Chandigarh.”Pal has already directed the finance department to issue necessary instructions to other departments on the issue. The UT engineering department has also been directed to examine the requirement of necessary infrastructure for e-vehicles.“I have already held discussions with the engineering and finance departments on the issue. They are looking at what infrastructure is required to back-up the decision. It will require charging systems in all government offices,” said Pal.The induction of e-vehicles in the UT official fleet of cars is part of Pal’s focus on improving mobility within the city. “The inter-city connectivity issues would require time and beset with inter-state coordination issues. I am not overly focused on outer towns. I am only looking at the requirement within the city,” said Pal.Notably, earlier this year, Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari had also made a case for making it mandatory for all officials in government ministries and departments to use electric vehicles.20% to be replaced in next three yearsDebendra Dalai, chief executive officer, Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science and Technology (CREST), said, “We are planning to replace 20% of the current official fleet of vehicles with e-vehicles in next three to four years. For official use in the city, e-vehicles are the best option. This will be beneficial for the environment and the administration will save a huge amount in running and maintenance costs.”Currently, the department has nine such vehicles which include e-cars and e-scooters. “The cost of running an e-car is around ₹0.50 per km. At the same time, a petrol car costs around ₹10 per km, which mainly includes maintenance and cost of fuel. The electric vehicles only require recharging of battery and vehicle as such doesn’t have high-maintenance costs,” said Dalai.Infrastructure available in cityFor improving the charging infrastructure in the city, the CREST is also planning having additional number of charging stations in the city. “Currently, we have nine points with 48 charging stations in the city. These are slow chargers. In addition to these, at the same nine points, we are planning to have fast chargers,” said Dalai.The UT transport department plans to replace its entire fleet of around 360 local buses with electric buses. Forty buses have already been procured. The prototype bus will be inducted into the fleet by August 15. All of these 40 e-buses will be inducted by October this year. The transport department has also started the process of procuring another batch of 40 e-buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/soon-chandigarh-officials-will-only-move-around-in-electric-vehicles-101627416141113.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder, German envoy discuss trade, investment opportunities in Punjab||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has extended his government’s full support to German ambassador to India, Walter J. Lindner, who evinced keen interest in investing in key sectors of mobility, engineering, pharmaceuticals, chemicals and renewable energy in the state. The envoy, who called on the CM late Monday evening, discussed strategies to explore new trade and investment opportunities in the state. During the meeting, Amarinder highlighted the major reforms undertaken by the state government to boost ease of investment and business. He also invited more German entrepreneurs to come and experience the investor-friendly ecosystem in the state, which is already home to multiple German companies, including Metro Cash and Carry, Hella, CLAAS and Vibracoustics. Principal secretary (investment promotion) Alok Shekhar apprised the German envoy that Invest Punjab held an aftercare session in June 2021 for German companies operating in Punjab to ensure continued business success for them. “The state government is proactively involved with German investment agencies, such as Invest in Bavaria and the Indian Embassy at Berlin, especially for their Make in India Mittlestand (MIIM) initiative,” he said. Invest Punjab CEO Rajat Aggarwal was also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-german-envoy-discuss-trade-investment-opportunities-in-punjab-101627416080981.html
28-07-2021||Other||GMADA to e-auction of 40 commercial, residential properties from Aug 4 to 16||Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) will be holding an e-auction after a gap of three months and over 40 commercial and residential sites are up for grabs. The e-auction will start at 9am on August 4 and end at 1pm on August 16, 2021. As per an official spokesperson, 26 booths, five SCO/SCF, four IT plots, one Group Housing site, one school and two educational sites are available for e-auction. GMADA has fixed the base price of these properties and the information regarding these are available at www.puda.e-auctions.in.In the last auction held in April this year, GMADA had sold 11 of the 44 sites put up for auction and earned ₹301 crore against the total reserve price of ₹452 crore. A school site of five acres in Eco City-1 went for ₹35 crore against the reserve price of ₹34.54 crore, while a group housing society of 6.5 acres in Sector 88 went for ₹111 crore against the reserve price of ₹96 crore. In the auction held in February this year, GMADA earned ₹544 crore against ₹794 crore, while in the auction held in December last year, out of 78 properties, only 10 were sold for ₹134 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gmada-to-e-auction-of-40-commercial-residential-properties-from-aug-4-to-16-101627415721285.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||Muddy water supply situation yet to be corrected in Ambala’s sectors||Months of muddy water supply situation in posh areas of Sectors 1, 7, 8, 9 and 10 has been irking the residents of Ambala City.The residents said that they had written as well as spoken to the authorities multiple times, but there was no redressal yet. The problem might lead to diseases for those who can’t afford a water purifier at home, they said.Dr Deepak Arora, a dentist and a resident of Sector 9, said due to the contaminated water supply in the area, he had to get the RO membrane replaced multiple times. “The problem has been going on for weeks. I met the area SDM who assured us of a solution soon. But there is no improvement,” Dr Arora said.Advocate Sandeep Sachdeva, the president of the Sector-7 residents welfare association (RWA), said that the water quality was the poorest till last week, but had improved considerably.“We had visited the supply spot in Sector 10 earlier this week and highlighted the negligence of the officials of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), who assured us of a solution within a week. But the situation deteriorated and MLA Aseem Goel had to check out the site on July 24. The demand of the residents to cement the distributary line is two decades old. The state government had approved it, but the officials made a mockery of it and affected the supply itself,” he said.On Tuesday, deputy commissioner (DC) Vikram chaired a meeting of senior officials of HSVP and the irrigation department and asked them to prepare a timeline of works being carried out.Officials said that cementing of the areas around Kanwla distributary that supplies water to these sectors was going on at a cost of ₹23 crore and almost a kilometre was left to be constructed. “I’ve also asked the officials to ensure there are filled sacs arranged at the areas where the sand is getting mixed with water,” the DC said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/muddy-water-supply-situation-yet-to-be-corrected-in-ambala-s-sectors-101627415602126.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University planning to reopen campus for students||With Covid cases dipping sharply in the last two weeks, Panjab University (PU) has started making plans to reopen campus for students, senior varsity officials confirmed on Tuesday.The Chandigarh administration had recently allowed colleges and universities to reopen from August, with the rider that students, teaching and non-teaching staff who turn up for physical classes must have received at least one vaccine dose. A committee has already been constituted to work on the modalities. The Punjab government has also allowed universities to reopen. However, an official said that nothing has been finalised yet.PU has remained closed for students since March last year after the Covid outbreak. The classes and exams for both semesters of 2020-21 academic session were conducted online.While demanding resumption of physical classes, students of a few departments had boycotted online classes in March. Meanwhile, members of National Students Union of India (NSUI) submitted a memorandum on Tuesday with the same demand.Waiting for detailed instructions of UTPU is yet to announce the academic calendar for 2021-22 academic session, but according to the academic calendar drafted by a panel, classes will start from August 11 at PU and its affiliated colleges. “We are also waiting for the detailed instructions to be issued by the UT administration,” an official said.The reopening of the campus for students will be in accordance with UT’s instructions. A senior official of the education department said, “We are in process of finalising the guidelines and the instructions will be issued soon.”However, PU is also working to frame its own guidelines for students and reopening of hostels. Currently, only research scholars whose work is pending are allowed to stay at hostels.As per PU’s draft guidelines, hostel residents will be allowed to join with consent from their parents if the varsity reopens, and they should have received both vaccine doses 14 days before joining. Also, visitors will not be allowed and residents will not be allowed to enter the ”common room”.PU seeks vaccination status of studentsMeanwhile, the office of the dean university Instruction (DUI) on Tuesday directed heads of departments to provide the vaccination status of all students by July 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-planning-to-reopen-campus-for-students-101627415600955.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||Gym told to provide pending services to Chandigarh resident||The district consumer disputes redressal commission- I, Chandigarh, has directed a gym owner to immediately provide pending services of 142 days to a member, who could not avail of the facility amid the pandemic.Pulkit Sachdeva, 28, a resident from Chandigarh, filed a complaint against Athelonics Hybrid Gym and its director Arush Dhir. He said that in December 2019, he had taken an annual subscription at the gym for ₹12,000. However, due to the pandemic outbreak, gyms were shut from March 2020 and reopened on July 2020.Sachdeva stated that he remained under the bonafide belief that membership period will be extended for the period of five months that it was closed. However, in January 2021, he got a call that his membership will expire on January 10. He requested them to extend the membership period, but to no avail. Hence, he moved commission. No one appeared on the part of the gym, hence the case proceeded ex-parte.In its order dated July 16, the commission observed that he could avail the services for only 233 days and remained deprived of 142 days due to the pandemic. “However, it is an act of God, and not a deliberate action on the part of opposition parties, as the circumstances were beyond their control. However, they still could have offered the benefits of the membership for the remaining 142 days, but failed.”The commission directed the gym owners to “immediately provide all benefits of the membership to the complainant, or any of his family member, for the period of 142 days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gym-told-to-provide-pending-services-to-chandigarh-resident-101627415543050.html
28-07-2021||Other||Ambala police bust interstate illegal liquor supply, six arrested||Almost a month after the CIA-1 unit of the Ambala police seized a truck with 25,000 litres of extra neutral alcohol (ENA), the investigators after arresting six accused have established that it was being taken from Bhind in Madhya Pradesh to Chandigarh for processing and further supply to other states.The crime came to light on June 25, when the CIA unit working on a tip-off, impounded the truck with Amritsar registration number at a naka set up near Shahapur village and apprehended the driver, Chandan Bharti, a resident of Gauriganj in Uttar Pradesh.Police said that the driver showed some documents of M/S Vinayak Distilleries Private Limited, Chandigarh, but failed to show any permit or pass and failed to justify the word “sanitizer” written on a receipt issued by Baba Deep Singh Cargo in Amritsar.The next day, Chandan was booked along with two prime accused, Parth Sharma and Satbir Singh, alias Satta, under the IPC and the Punjab Excise Act (Haryana Amendment). He was sent to seven-day police remand.Series of arrestsIn the past one month, the police have arrested five other accused from Madhya Pradesh, Chandigarh, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and other states. During the police remand, Chandan revealed the involvement of his fellow villager, Anil Kumar, who was arrested on June 29 and taken into remand.Sub-inspector (SI) Vinod Kumar, the investigating officer in the case, said that as the probe unfolded, they arrested the manager of Gwalior Distilleries in Bhind, Raj Kumar, and later his counterpart of Vinayak Distilleries in Chandigarh, Atul, and the pattern was established.“Recently, we apprehended one of the prime accused, Parth Sharma, from Varanasi and the owner of the Vinayak Distilleries, Uday Pal, from Amritsar. Both of them are currently under police remand. Owner of the Gwalior Distilleries, Sunil Yadav, is still absconding,” the SI said.Kumar further added that the other co-conspirator, Satbir Singh, alias Satta, has taken a stay on his arrest till July 30 through an anticipatory bail application moved at the Punjab and Haryana high court.Modus operandiThe 25,000 litres of this raw material from Bhind was to be converted into 75,000 litres of illegal alcohol at Chandigarh and was to be supplied to UP, Jharkhand, Arunachal and Chandigarh, police said. SI Kumar said that the duo (Parth and Satta) had been earlier dealing in illegal liquor and conspired to convert ENA into alcohol during the lockdown last year. “Earlier, a similar truck was seized at Satta’s filling station in Shahabad,” he added.DSP (Cantt) Ram Kumar said that the CIA unit has busted this interstate illegal liquor gang and a thorough investigation is underway to arrest all those involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ambala-police-bust-interstate-illegal-liquor-supply-six-arrested-101627415542065.html
28-07-2021||Other||MACT directs Punjab Roadways driver, MD to pay ₹19.83 lakh to Panchkula family||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT), Panchkula, has directed a Punjab Roadways bus driver and its managing director to jointly pay a compensation of ₹19.83 lakh to a Panchkula-based family, who lost their only bread-earner in a 2018 road mishap.The claims petition was filed by the family of the victim, Dinesh Sharma, 39, of Bihar who was residing in Chandimandir. A painter by profession , Dinesh used to earn ₹18,000 per month plus overtime.It was mentioned in the complaint that on October 9, 2018, Dinesh and his brother had gone to the new construction site in Sector 71, Mohali. At around 8am, when they were crossing the light-point of Phase 7, Mohali, a Punjab Roadways bus came from Chandigarh side and hit Dinesh’s bicycle from the front.Dinesh suffered head injuries and was taken to Guru Harkrishan Hospital, Sohana, in the same bus where he was declared dead by the doctors. The same day, an FIR was registered against the driver under Sections 279 and 304A of the Indian Penal Code.Alleging that the bus was being driven in rash and negligent manner, the victim’s family moved the tribunal seeking compensation.In the tribunal, driver Amrik Singh pleaded that no accident had taken place and that a false FIR had been registered against him at the instance of the claimants. He denied driving the vehicle at a high speed, rashly and negligently. A similar plea was taken by the MD of Punjab State Bus Stand Management Private Limited, Chandigarh.The tribunal, however, directed the two to pay ₹19.83 lakh to the family. “As the bus is not insured, the amount is to be paid by the respondents jointly and severally together with costs; and interest at the rate of 6% per annum from the date of institution of the petition till realisation,” the tribunal ordered.While the widow, Manjula Devi, will get ₹3.83 lakh, her four unmarried daughters will get a total of ₹13 lakh and a married daughter will get ₹2 lakh. The victim’s mother will get a compensation of ₹1 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mact-directs-punjab-roadways-driver-md-to-pay-19-83-lakh-to-panchkula-family-101627415540965.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||HC notice to income tax department on Navjot Sidhu’s plea||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday sought response from the income tax department on the plea of Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has challenged the I-T (appeals) commissioner’s decision to dismiss his plea on assessment done for the year 2016-17.The HC bench of justices Ajay Tewari and Vikas Bahl has sought response by August 11. As per the plea, Sidhu declared an income of ₹9.66 crore in October 2016. However, the assessment done under Income Tax Act, 1961, by the department, which was completed on December 21, 2018, estimated it at ₹13.19 crore. The petitioner was intimated about the same through a notice served on him on March 31, 2019, against which he moved an appeal before the joint commissioner, income tax, Amritsar range-1, who acts as commissioner, income tax (appeals), seeking revision. However, the revision plea was dismissed on March 27, 2021, on “flimsy and untenable grounds”, Sidhu has claimed in the court, adding that rather than divulging merits, his appeal was dismissed in a completely “arbitrary manner”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-notice-to-income-tax-department-on-navjot-sidhu-s-plea-101627415121870.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||Genome sequencing to start at GMCH Patiala in first week of August||With early identification of new coronavirus variants emerging as a key component in the fight against the pandemic, the Punjab government’s efforts to set up a whole genome sequencing laboratory at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) or Rajindra Medical College, Patiala, is all set to see the light of day in the first week of August. The lab has already been set up in the medical college with the assistance of PATH, an international nonprofit health organisation. The training of 40 staffers who were already involved in RT-PCR testing at the college is starting from Wednesday. The virology lab of the Patiala medical college has already got the registration with the Indian SARS CoV2 Genomic Consortium (INSACOG), a group of 28 virology labs from across the country, to conduct genome sequencing. Bangalore-based private pharmaceutical company Genotypic will provide training to the staff for 3 days starting from Wednesday. They have already trained few staffers in their lab in Nagpur. Samples from Punjab were being sent to the National Centre for Diseases Control in Delhi and the National Institute of Virology, Pune, for the genome sequencing and their results were delayed due to heavy rush of samples from other states. Till date, Punjab has got tested 2,200 samples in these labs for genome sequencing, of which nearly 1,980 had the Delta variant, said state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. “The idea is to test the variants regularly so that the strategy to deal with the virus is changed accordingly. At least 15 samples from our labs already conducing RT-PCR tests would be tested after every 15 days for whole genome sequencing. Positive samples of post-vaccination, re-infection cases, death cases, severe cases, clustering etc. would be sent for testing,” the nodal officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/genome-sequencing-to-start-at-gmch-patiala-in-first-week-of-august-101627415120847.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||65% population in Himachal has received 1st jab, says government||Himachal Pradesh government has vaccinated 65% of its population with Covid vaccine’s first dose, with which the state claims to be the first in the country to have inoculated such a large number of people. “A recent sero survey’s results have shown that in Kullu, 60% population has achieved immunity,” secretary, health, Amitabh Awasthi said, adding that Himachal will soon achieve the herd immunity.“As far as vaccination is concerned, 48.5 lakh people (about 64% to 65% of population) have received their first shot of Covid vaccine, while 13 lakh people (about 21% to 22%) have got the second jab. Covid situation is under control in the state, but we are leaving nothing to chance. We are testing nearly 15,000 samples daily and are also ready to deal with the third wave in terms of infrastructure and equipment. By the end of August, we will be ready with all preparations,” he added. Himachal also claimed to be among those states which have achieved zero percentage vaccine wastage. About Kullu’s performance in sero survey, Awasthi said it was a good sign for Himachal Pradesh. The state recorded Covid positivity rate of 0.8% in the week ending on July 26, health officials said. Director, National Health Mission, Himachal Pradesh, Hemraj Bairwa said there has been a steady decline in corona infections in the state and number of active cases has come down to 858 as on July 26. He said last week, 85,068 samples were tested for Covid, of which 670 turned out positive, thus registering the positivity rate at 0.8%.He said Mandi, where 153 out of 5,836 samples tested positive, recorded the highest positivity rate of 2.6%. It was followed by Chamba where 8,701 samples were sent for testing and 175 were detected positive with a positivity rate of 2%.Shimla recorded a positivity rate of 1.2%, while Lahaul and Spiti logged the positivity rate at 1.3%. However, the number of samples tested there as compared to other districts was considerably low. The remaining eight districts clocked positivity rate below 1%. Sirmaur recorded the lowest positivity rate of 0.04% with only four people testing positive for the virus among 8,132 tested. Bairwa said during the given period, the case fatality ratio was recorded at 1% with seven deaths reported across the state. 183 cases added to Tuesday tally
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||No Covid death due to shortage of oxygen in UT: Top J&K official||With health experts warning of a more lethal third Covid wave in India, the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Tuesday directed all clinical establishments and hospitals having more than 50 beds to set up an oxygen generation plant of appropriate capacity. Jammu and Kashmir financial secretary, health and medical education, Atal Dulloo said, “No Covid death has taken place across the Union Territory due to shortage of oxygen.” He said 24 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants existed in J&K before the pandemic. “Eighty-four PSA units were sanctioned under the UT budget, out of which 56 have been commissioned and remaining ones are in the pipeline,” he said. He also informed that 30 PSA plants will be set up with the help of the World Bank. “Similarly, 32 plants were sanctioned under PM CARES fund, out of which six have been commissioned,” he added. Dulloo also informed that two PSA units were donated and commissioned by Maruti Udyog each at Jammu and Srinagar. “We have augmented our capacity and have more than sufficient plants. The work on remaining plants will be completed at the earliest,” he added. Health experts said that despite a large number of people building immunity against Covid due to previous infections or vaccinations, people cannot afford to lower their guard against the contagion. They highlighted the need to follow Covid-preventative measures strictly to avoid a second wave-like crisis. 107 new cases detectedJammu and Kashmir on Tuesday recorded 107 fresh Covid infections. No death due to the contagion was reported in the UT. The number of patients who were cured was 183 with active positive cases dropping to 1,124.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,15,367, prompting the recovery rate to climb to 98.28%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,20,866 and the death toll stands at 4,375.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-covid-death-due-to-shortage-of-oxygen-in-ut-top-j-k-official-101627414761449.html
28-07-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Look before you sit||The woman’s eyes are threatening to turn into two big tears. Beside her is painted a heart, embedded with these two words—Love You.And in this theatre of romance sit people like us—the auto rickshaw commuters. For this is the seat cover of an auto. “I got this new seat after the first lockdown” says driver Kishore Kumar, while driving a customer from Gurugram’s MG Road Metro station to Civil Lines.The yellow-and-green auto rickshaws of the Delhi region epitomise its distinct identity, like the yellow cabs of Kolkata, the red double-deckers of London, and the painted trucks of Pakistan.But the seats of the autos have long gone ignored, when often they are the auto’s showiest part. Though many auto seats are themed after the matter of love, you’ll be astounded at the dizzying variations of the bleeding heart symbol. The other much-exploited icon is the ubiquitous ‘Tum Kab Aoege’ figure—that classic image of a woman sitting with her face buried in her knees, silently wondering when her lover, the driver, will come back. Taj Mahal is another common sight on these seat covers.So, it is refreshing to find seat designs that go beyond romantic love. An auto in north Delhi’s Kashmiri Gate is evocative of Moscow’s Bolshoi Theatre. It shows a ballerina dressed in white, her left arm raised upwards, her head turned to one side. An auto seat in Mahipalpur is spotted showing a panorama of a riverside village, with trees shaped like pagodas.Other sightings included Delhi’s Lotus Temple, actor Salman Khan holding a plate of boondi laddus, horses running in a jungle, and the famous “I’m flying” scene from the Titanic movie.Truth be told, many autos still consist of plain seat covers, but the scenario is gradually changing. It takes anything from ₹3,000 to ₹5,000 to get the upholstery revamped. These makeovers are done in Delhi’s so-called scooter markets of Dakshinpuri, Jheel, Hastinapur, and Janakpuri. In Gurugram, some such shops are situated on New Railway Road.This afternoon, auto driver Parmeshwar is waiting for customers outside Gurugram’s MG Road Metro station. His seat is plain blue. “Each driver makes his own choices,” he explains. “Some also fit their auto with disco lights and (music) deck, but I like being simple.” In a way, his seat too is a style statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-look-before-you-sit-101627413903794.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||HC apprised of criminal cases pending against Capt, Hooda||Various agencies on Tuesday apprised the Punjab and Haryana high court of criminal cases pending against Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Punjab Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira, among others.Additional solicitor general Satya Pal Jain told a high court special bench that an income tax case is pending against Amarinder in the chief judicial magistrate court, Ludhiana, and is at pre-summoning of evidence stage.Information in this regard was shared before the bench of justice Rajan Gupta and justice Karamjit Singh, which is monitoring trial against MPs and MLAs as directed by the Supreme Court. At least 163 cases are pending against sitting or former MPs and MLAs in Punjab and 21 cases, including eight against ex-MLAs, in Haryana.Jain also apprised the court that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) case against Khaira, who has approached high court against the proceedings, is held up due to court orders.Three cases were listed against Hooda, in which trials are pending. One case was of ED probe registered in 2019 in a plot allotment case to Associated Journals Limited (AJL) in Panchkula, against which Hooda’s plea is pending in the HC, the court was told.The CBI listed two cases against Hooda, one related to AJL plot allotment case, in which trial has been stayed by the high court and another of alleged illegal industrial plot allotment case registered in 2016. Proceedings in these cases are underway at Panchkula district courts.Punjab told court that the inspector general of police, crime-III, Bureau of Investigation, has been nominated as a nodal officer to review the cases and ensure that trial does not get delayed.Haryana too stated that the probe in different cases is being reviewed by nodal officer inspector general of police, law and order (administration), Sanjay Kumar. The matter will now be taken up on August 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-apprised-of-criminal-cases-pending-against-capt-hooda-101627413740892.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||Capt urges protesting govt employees to call off strike||Assuring all efforts to resolve their grievances, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday appealed to the striking state government employees to call off their agitation to prevent inconvenience to the people. Chairing a high-level meeting to review the demands of the striking employees, the chief minister expressed concern over their continued agitation, which has severely impacted the functioning of state government departments, according to an official spokesperson. The state government had constituted a committee of officials to look into the demands of the agitating employees. The committee examined, in detail, the demands of employees’ associations and had submitted its report. It found that certain demands raised by the employees were linked to the decisions of the government prior to 2006 and were in no way connected with the report of the 6th Punjab Pay Commission, the spokesperson said. As such, it was decided that these demands will be considered separately, based on the recommendations of the administrative department. The meeting further decided that certain demands linked with inta/inter departmental issues will be addressed in consultation with the departments of personnel and finance, the spokesperson said. Acceding to a long-pending demand of the employees, the Punjab government had decided to implement the recommendations of the 6th Punjab Pay Commission within a month of receipt of its report. The implementation of the commission’s recommendations with effect from July 1, 2021, has resulted in a financial outflow of ₹4,692 crore to approximately 2.85 lakh employees and 3.07 lakh pensioners every year. On an average, it works out to ₹79,250 per annum, over and above what they are getting at present. In addition, the government employees and pensioners will be getting arrears of ₹14,759 crore, which works out to an average of ₹2.32 lakh per employee/pensioner, the spokesperson said. The meeting was attended by local government minister Brahm Mohindra, finance minister Manpreet Badal, PWD minister Vijay Inder Singla, chief principal secretary to the chief minister Suresh Kumar, chief secretary Vini Mahajan, principal secretary to the chief minister Tejveer Singh and other senior officials of the departments of finance and personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-urges-protesting-govt-employees-to-call-off-strike-101627413561558.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||British-Indian novelist with roots in Punjab on Booker Prize longlist||Indian-origin British novelist Sunjeev Sahota is among 13 authors longlisted for this year’s Booker Prize for fiction for “China Room”, a novel described by the judges on Tuesday as a “brilliant twist” on the immigrant experience.The 40-year-old, whose grandparents emigrated from Punjab in the 1960s, has been previously shortlisted for the 2015 Booker Prize for “The Year of the Runaways” and is a winner of the European Union Prize for Literature in 2017.His novel “China Room” was chosen from 158 published in the UK or Ireland between October 2020 and September 2021 for the prize open to works by writers of any nationality, written in English and published in the UK or Ireland.“Weaving together two timelines and two continents, “China Room” struck us as a brilliant twist on the novel of immigrant experience, considering in subtle and moving ways the trauma handed down from one generation to the next,” the Booker Prize judges note.“In crisp, clean prose, and with a dash of melodramatic action, Sahota turns these heavy themes into something filled with love, hope and humour,” they said.Sahota is joined on the 2021 longlist by previous winner British Japanese author Kazuo Ishiguro for “Klara and the Sun” and other previously shortlisted authors South African Damon Galut for “The Promise” and American Richard Powers for “Bewilderment”.The shortlist of six books will be announced in London on September 14, with the shortlisted authors each set to receive 2,500 pounds and a specially bound edition of their book.The 2021 winner, to receive 50,000 pounds, will be announced on November 3 in an award ceremony held in partnership with the BBC at Broadcasting House’s Radio Theatre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/britishindian-novelist-with-roots-in-punjab-on-booker-prize-longlist-101627413320853.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||No Covid-related death in Punjab after 15 months||For the first time in almost 15 months, Punjab did not report a single Covid death in the past 24 hours. The casualty count in the state stood at 16,281 on Tuesday.The state had reported zero Covid death on April 29, 2020. May 18 was the deadliest day for the state this year when it recorded 231 Covid-related fatalities. Meanwhile, with 45 fresh cases on Tuesday, the infection tally in Punjab reached 5,98,882, according to a medical bulletin. The number of active cases also came down to 583, and the positivity rate to 0.13%. Ludhiana reported six fresh cases, followed by four each in Fatehgarh Sahib, Jalandhar and Kapurthala, the bulletin said. With 93 recoveries, the number of cured persons reached 5,82,018, the bulletin said. A total of 1,19,78,055 samples have been collected for testing in the state so far. Zero Covid case in Patiala Patiala: Patiala recorded no new Covid case on Tuesday for the first time since June 5 last year. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said 2,378 reports were received on Tuesday and all were Covid negative. “The process of sampling will continue as people have been advised to go for testing in case they show some symptoms,” Dr Sodhi said. The district has 30 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-covid-related-death-in-punjab-after-15-months-101627413200804.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||Bail to four dera men in derogatory posters case||A Faridkot court on Tuesday granted bail to four Dera Sacha Sauda followers in a case related to desecration incident wherein derogatory posters were pasted near gurdwaras of Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala villages in Faridkot district on the intervening night of September 24 and 25, 2015. The court of judicial magistrate Tarjani allowed the bail applications Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, and Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola, both residents of Kotkapura, Shakti Singh of Daggu Romana village and Baljit Singh of Sikhanwala village in Faridkot district. On July 20, The SIT led by inspector general of police (IGP), border range, Surinder Pal Singh Parmar filed a chargesheet against the four. The same day, the court granted bail to them in the 2015 Bargari sacrilege case. But they were not released as they were in judicial custody in derogatory posters case. Now, with bail granted in both the cases, they will be after more than two months in jail. The court directed the accused to furnish bail bonds of ₹90,000 each, besides one surety of the like amount each. While granting the bail, the judicial magistrate said the accused will have to attend the court on every date of hearing and in case they failed to do so, their bail will be cancelled. “They will not directly or indirectly make any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with facts of the case and will not tamper with any evidence. They will not leave the country without prior permission of the court,” the court ordered. The SIT claimed that derogatory posters were pasted by the accused on the directions of dera’s three national committee members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bail-to-four-dera-men-in-derogatory-posters-case-101627412969292.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||SAD, 6 other parties seek President’s intervention in getting farm laws repealed||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday claimed to have led a seven-party initiative appealing President Ram Nath Kovind to personally intervene and prevail upon the central government to discuss the demand for repeal of the three agricultural laws. The seven parties have also requested the President to give them time to apprise him about the deadlock in Parliament due to the “intransigent attitude” of the NDA government, which is stonewalling all discussion on the three agricultural laws. The letter was signed by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on behalf of his party, besides representatives of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), National Congress Party (NCP), CPI-M, CPI, RLP and Jammu and Kashmir National Congress. It has also demanded a discussion on the need to probe the Pegasus spyware issue. In a statement, former minister and SAD’s Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal said the opposition parties briefed the President that they had been moving repeated adjournments to demand discussion on repeal of the three laws on agriculture, but the government refused to allow discussion on this most sensitive issue. The letter said a human tragedy was unfolding on the borders of Delhi with more than 550 farmers already having lost their lives during the course of the ongoing agitation. “The livelihoods of millions more are at stake due to the three agricultural laws, which have been made with the express purpose of handing over the agriculture sector to corporates, but the NDA government remains unmoved,” it read.BoxTwo Punjab Cong MPs stage dharna inside Lok SabhaNew Delhi: Congress MPs from Punjab Ravneet Singh Bittu and Gurjeet Singh Aujla sat on a dharna inside the Lok Sabha chamber on Tuesday after the proceedings of the House were adjourned for the day.The opposition has been disrupting the House since the beginning of the monsoon session of Parliament on July 19 demanding discussion on the three farm laws, besides alleged snooping of various political leaders using Pegasus spyware.As soon as the Lok Sabha was adjourned for the day around 4.45pm, both Bittu and Aujla sat on a dharna inside the chamber. The dharna was still on when the last report came in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-6-other-parties-seek-president-s-intervention-in-getting-farm-laws-repealed-101627412722100.html
28-07-2021||Other||10 booked for duping Karnal man of ₹28 lakh||Ten people have been booked for allegedly duping a man of ₹28.23 lakh on pretext of sending him, his wife and son abroad.As per police, the accused have been identified as Sandeep Kumar, of Jatpura village, Anil Kumar, Sunil Kumar, Pala Ram and Rani, of Kuruk Jagir village, Raju and Kamala, of Panipat, Saneha, and Prashant and Sanjive, of Pune.They have been booked on complaint of Dalvinder Singh, of Bahlolpur village in Karnal.Police said in his complaint, Dalvinder alleged that he had paid ₹28.23 lakh to the accused in 2018 and they had promised to arrange Canada’s visa for him, his wife and son. He paid them the money in instalments from 2018 to 2021. But neither did he get the visas nor was the money returned.Baljeet Singh, in-charge of Sadar police station, said a case under Sections 406, 420, 506 of the IPC and under the Immigration Act was registered against the accused and efforts are on to arrest them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10-booked-for-duping-karnal-man-of-rs-28-lakh-101627412720838.html
28-07-2021||Other||20 passengers injured as Haryana Roadways bus overturns in Kurukshetra||At least 20 passengers sustained minor injuries after a Haryana Roadways bus overturned near Malakpur village in Kurukshetra.The Bhiwani depot bus was carrying around 40 passengers and was going towards Chandigarh from Toshan. Police said the injured were taken to a government hospital and were discharged after first aid.Police said they got information about the incident and in the preliminary investigation it was found that the driver of the bus lost control due to slippery road and the bus overturned in the fields.An injured passenger, Phool Singh, said the accident took place when the driver was overtaking a truck and could not stop the bus.Police said they are recording statements of the passengers for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/20-passengers-injured-as-haryana-roadways-bus-overturns-in-kurukshetra-101627412480801.html
28-07-2021||Other||Cleanliness of ‘tiraths’ a challenge in Haryana||Even as ₹31.48 crore have been spent by the Haryana government on the development and upgrade of 81 ‘tiraths’ located in ‘48-kos parikrama’ of Kurukshetra since June 2014, upkeep and cleanliness at the ‘tiraths’ remains a challenge.The Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB), in reply of an application filed by Panipat-based advocate Amit Rathee, revealed that ₹32.85 crore was released for development of 81 ‘tiraths’ in parts of Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Jind and Karnal districts.As per the reply, ₹5.32 crore was allocated for development of 16 ‘tiraths’ in Karnal, ₹1.92 crore on development of Mukteshwari ‘tirath’ in Narwana of Jind, ₹1.08 crore on development of Hansraj ‘tirath’ in Jind, ₹1.05 crore each on renovation and beautification of Kukrityanshan ‘tirath’ in Kakot village of Kaithal and development of Rasmangal ‘tirath’ in Jakholi of Kaithal, and ₹1 crore on development of Khatwangeshwar ‘tirath’ in Narwana.Also, ₹1.37 crore allocated to ‘tiraths’ were returned as these ‘tiraths’ come under the Archeological Survey of India.During a visit to the recently developed ‘tiraths’, it was found that cleanliness and upkeep of these ‘tiraths’ remain a major issue. Even the work on many ‘tiraths’ has not been completed yet.Around ₹64 lakh was spent on construction of five ponds, a ghat and a shed but the Panchdev ‘tirath’ in Karnal’s Padha village is in a poor state, Even the boundary wall is broken and a newly-constructed wall between two ponds has collapsed in the recent rains.When the issue was taken up with Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav, he said, “I will look into the matter and strict instructions will be issued for better upkeep of this ‘tirath’ by forming a village-level committee.”The condition of Surajkund ‘tirath’ located in Jyotinagar of Kurukshetra is also not satisfactory despite the KDB claiming to have allocated over ₹1.30 crore on development of this ‘tirath’ since 2015. As it is located in the middle of a residential colony, residents of the area often complain of dirty water in the ponds and weed on the ground.However, the KDB officials said the project could not be completed yet and the second phase is yet to be completed.Waterlogging on the main entrance of the Jyotisar ‘tirath’, where lakhs of people from across country visit every year, is a major challenge and people face problems during rains despite ₹12 lakh being spent on contraction of pavement and repair work.The Kotikut ‘tirath’ in Kaithal’s Keorak village on which ₹1.02 crore was spent by the KDB since 2018 requires efforts for cleanliness.“The government did a good job by developing this ‘tirath’ in our village but the water could not be released in the pond yet and in lack of water it has become a grazing ground for stray cattle,” said Ranjit Singh, of the village.Rasmangal ‘tirath’ in Jakholi village of Kaithal was found well maintained and construction of ghats, a conference hall and toilets is near completion with ₹1.05 crore.However, two years after ₹67 lakh were allocated for development of Chakra ‘tirath’ in Serdha village of Kaithal, the construction of this ‘tirath’ is in its initial stage.Similarly, the pond of Pundrik ‘tirath’ in Pundri town of Kaithal is also in a poor condition. “There is nobody to take care of it,” said Sonu Singh, a shopkeeper from near Pundrik ‘tirath’.On why the money was spent on the ‘tiraths’ related to Hindu mythology as the KDB was set up for overall development of Kurukshetra, KDB honorary secretary Madan Mohan Chhabra said, “We are not sending money to promote any religion or place but to provide facilities to people visiting these places as they need shelter, food, toilets, parking, etc.”He said the government is also going to develop a Sikh museum as all 10 Sikh gurus had visited Kurukshetra and a Buddha circuit will be developed by the Centre in Kurukshetra. The aim is to develop Kurukshetra as a cultural hub.Talking to HT, KDB member secretary Atul Dwivedi said he will take up the issue of lack of cleanliness and poor upkeep of the ‘tiraths’ with the CEO of the KDB.KDB chief executive officer (CEO) Anubhav Mehta said, “ There were some problems due to which the projects are not complete yet. Efforts will be made to ensure cleanliness of these ‘tiraths’.”He added that since most ‘tiraths’ are located in rural areas, they come under the village panchayats and the tenure of village panchayats was over. But with participation of local-level committees better facilities and cleanliness will be ensured, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cleanliness-of-tiraths-a-challenge-in-haryana-101627412369348.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||Gangster Preet Sekhon, two aides held from Ajnala village with arms||Police on Tuesday arrested notorious gangster Daya Singh, alias Preet Sekhon, and his two aides from Chamiari village, falling under the Ajnala sub-division. Sekhon is wanted in more than a dozen criminal cases, mostly of murder and extortion. The other two arrested are gangster Jarmanjit Singh alias Nikka Khaduria of Chamba Khurd village in Tarn Taran and one Gurlal Singh of Kamalpur village in Tarn Taran. Sekhon, who is the prime accused in the May-28 Patti shootout in which an Akali leader and his aide were killed, had been playing a cat-and-mouse game with the Punjab Police since December 2019. The police also recovered five pistols, a rifle, three mobile phones, a cache of bullets, two internet dongles, and a Maruti Swift car. Amritsar rural police and the organised crime control unit had a tip-off that the gangster had taken shelter in a house at Chamiari village. A team of nearly 100 policemen, including several deputy superintendents of police (DSPs) and station house officers (SHOs), sealed the entire village. Sources said, the gangster also opened fire at the police team and tried to flee, but to no avail. Before being nabbed, Sekhon posted a post on his Facebook page about being surrounded by police. According to police, gangster Nikka was also involved in Patti shootout. On May 28, two unidentified car-borne men opened indiscriminate fire at Amandeep Singh alias Aman Fauji (28), an Akali worker and a close aide of former minister Adesh Pratap Singh Kairon’s political adviser Gurmukh Singh Ghulla, and Prabhjit Singh, alias Pooran (27), killing them on the spot. One Samsher Singh alias Shera (30) had received bullet injury in the attack outside a tomb at Nadohar Chowk in Patti. Soon after the killing, two Facebook posts surfaced, one from a user who claimed himself from Jaggu Bhagwanpuria gang and another from an account named after Preet Sekhon, claiming responsibility for the murders. Later, police identified Sekhon as the shooter and he reportedly committed the crime for ₹10 lakh at the ‘instance’ of gangster Lakhbir Singh alias Landa, who lives Canada. According to the police, Sekhon had allegedly killed his own sister and her mother-in-law in a Tarn Taran village in 2011. A case in this regard was registered at Tarn Taran Sadar police station. He reportedly came out of jail in 2018. Hailing from Sangna village in Amritsar, Sekhon had allegedly killed one Harjit Singh in Amritsar in December 2019. Sekhon was also wanted for shooting dead a bouncer in Amritsar in October last year. Sekhon was also booked on July 14 this year for allegedly opening fire at the Beas residence of singer Prem Dhillon, currently living in Canada. The singer’s family members had a narrow escape in the attack. Sekhon had allegedly demanded ₹10 lakh from Prem Dhillon on July 2. Director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said, “Gurlal, who is currently on parole and accused in several criminal cases, including of murder, had given shelter to gangster Sekhon and Nikka at his in-laws’ house in the village.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gangster-preet-sekhon-two-aides-held-from-ajnala-village-with-arms-101627412240925.html
28-07-2021||Other||SC Commission seeks action taken report of Rewari rape case||Reacting to a notice sent by the National Commission for Scheduled Castes seeking action taken report in connection with the rape of a 10-year-old girl in Rewari, superintendent of police (SP) Abhishek Jorwal said he had already sent a detailed action report to Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava on July 20.“The Commission had sent a notice to Haryana chief secretary, state DGP, Rewari DC and me regarding the action taken against accused booked in the rape case of a 10-year-old girl. All accused had been arrested and we have even filed challan in court. The 18-year-old accused is lodged in jail and juveniles were sent to observation home,” the SP added.Rewari DC Yashendra Singh confirmed the same and said the SP has already sent the report and the administration is looking closely at the case.An 18-year-old man and eight minors were arrested for allegedly gang-raping a Class-5 student and filming the assault at a village in Rewari on June 10.Five of the minor accused are aged between 10 to 12. In their complaint, the 10-year-old girl’s family had said that the incident took place on May 24 when the victim was playing outside her house.They realised what had happened after a video of the assault was widely circulated on the social media and reached them.Rewari DSP (headquarters) Hansraj said the victim’s family had lodged a complaint on June 8.“The boys took the girl to the government school near her house. They raped her and recorded the incident. They threatened her of dire consequences if she told anybody about the assault. After circulating the video, they started blackmailing the victim,” Hansraj said.Police had arrested the 18-year-old and five juveniles for raping the minor and three minors for filming the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sc-commission-seeks-action-taken-report-of-rewari-rape-case-101627412180739.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||OP Chautala to meet politicians over forming third front||Former Haryana chief minister Om Prakash Chautala on Tuesday injected fresh vigour into the possibilities being explored to form a third front against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), saying he will meet ‘leaders of all political parties opposed to the BJP to stitch a strong third front’ and topple the Union government.The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) supremo said in next one month he will travel across states to meet Opposition party leaders and unite all anti-BJP forces to form a third front.Chautala said he would like to make formal announcement of the third front on September 25 when the INLD has planned to hold a mega-rally to mark the birth anniversary of former deputy PM Devi Lal, with strong support base among the farmers.Chautala’s push for a third front comes close on the heels of recent reports of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar holding talks to assess possibilities to formulate a third front. Pawar had later said that third front cannot be formed without the Congress.“I will reach out to all Opposition parties. My aim is to unite all political forces opposed to this corrupt government at the Centre and stitch a robust third front. I will visit all states in the next one month. I’m going to have a luncheon meeting with Bihar CM Nitish Kumar next week. And I have close ties with West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee,” Chautala said.Accusing the Centre of formulating anti-farmer policies, the former CM said all 36 communities of Haryana are participating in the ongoing agitation against the three farms laws.He said every section of the society and people from all religions are supporting the farmers’ stir, but the Union government is “not reading the writing on the wall”.“The country needs an alternative to the BJP as people across country are suffering,” Chautala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/op-chautala-to-meet-politicians-over-forming-third-front-101627412004081.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||Team Sidhu meets Capt, lists five demands for early action||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and four working presidents, who met chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday, demanded immediate action in sacrilege and police firing cases, arrest of “big fish” behind drug trafficking and rejection of three farm laws. These were among the five “priority areas”, which also included cancellation of “faulty” power purchase agreements and opening of doors for discussions with 20 protesting unions, listed by Sidhu and his team for immediate action in a letter handed over by the newly appointed state office-bearers of Punjab Congress to Amarinder at their first formal meeting. The government must act immediately upon these issues identified from amongst the 18-point agenda after multiple deliberations and consultations with party workers across Punjab to understand the public sentiment, read the one-page letter signed by Sidhu and working presidents Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Kuljit Nagra and Pawan Goel. The meeting, held at the chief minister’s office in Punjab Civil Secretariat, lasted close to one-and-a-half hours. Amarinder told Sidhu and others that all the key issues of concern raised by them are already in advanced stages of resolution, and that his government had been working on them in close coordination with the party. “The government has already implemented most of the promises made to the people in the party’s 2017 election manifesto. The other pending issues are also being resolved. The government is committed to the implementation of all the poll promises,” he told the newly constituted state Congress leadership. The chief minister also stressed the need to work closely together in the interest of the party and the state and its people. “The party leaders and workers need to take the pro-people decisions and actions of the government to the ground so that the people of Punjab could be made aware of all the excellent work done in the past four-plus years of the Congress government in the state,” he said, offering to meet the PPCC leaders on regular basis for better coordination. The new state Congress leadership, named by Congress president Sonia Gandhi on July 18 and took charge on July 23, called on the chief minister after Sidhu took time from him. In the letter, they said that Punjab needs a stern, decisive, inclusive and compassionate leadership more than ever before to fulfil the genuine demands of every Punjabi. “Punjab Congress workers stand firm in their resolve with our esteemed high command’s 18-point agenda,” they wrote, calling it their “guidebook” to deliver justice to every Punjabi. The 18-point to-do list, based on the feedback given by Capt’s detractors and others, was handed by the central leadership to the chief minister for implementation before next year’s state polls. PRIORITY POINTS Punish the main culprits behind sacrilege and police firing incidents at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan Arrest and give exemplary punishment to “big fish” behind drug trafficking mentioned in STF report Reject the Centre’s three farm laws completely. As in case of SYL, stern resolve needed from the Vidhan Sabha Cancel the “faulty” power purchase agreements (PPAs) without any further loss to the state exchequer Open the doors for discussions with more than 20 unions protesting across the state||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/team-sidhu-meets-capt-lists-five-demands-for-early-action-101627411822746.html
28-07-2021||Other||Recall Maharashtra governor: Congress to Centre||The Maharashtra Congress has raised a strong objection to the statements by Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on former prime minister late Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. Terming Koshyari’s remarks as an insult to the people of the country, Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole demanded that the Union Ministry of Home Affairs call him back immediately. Koshyari on Monday had criticised Nehru and said that the first PM’s policies weakened the country. “I admire Pandit Nahru, but he had the biggest weakness. He wanted to become a messenger of peace and release pigeons. Due to this weakness, the nation has become weak and remained in the same position for a long period,” he remarked. “Nehruji’s contribution to the country after independence helped India in becoming self-reliant in the world. The hatred toward Nehruji is the preaching of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and reflects in the governor’s remarks. The governor is expected to act as a constitutional head of the state by rising above politics. However, the statements by Koshyariji in the past exhibit the ideology of a particular organisation. He has been acting against the government and in favour of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). If he has political aspirations, he should first resign from the constitutional post. The Union government should recall him immediately,” said Patole.Maharashtra BJP vice-president Madhav Bhandari said, “Patole’s demand to recall the honourable governor is a political stunt. It is an attempt to showcase the loyalty towards the Gandhi-Nehru families. There is nothing wrong in criticising Nehru.”Patole has also demanded the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government to go for a judicial probe in the Pegasus case, on the lines of the investigation being done by the West Bengal government.“The Central government has failed to order an inquiry into the Pegasus row even after it came to the light that hundreds of influential people were under surveillance. The MVA government should initiate an inquiry by a retired high court judge on the lines of the inquiry announced by West Bengal government led by Mamata Banerjee. The phones of politicians, lawyers, social activists and journalists were hacked since 2017 as per the reports. In Maharashtra too, the phones of political leaders from opposition parties were tapped by the then Devendra Fadnavis government. It needs to be probed if there was any link with the phone hacking software developed by Israeli firm NSO Group,” he said. “I think the state government should admit Patole’s demand. A probe should also be conducted into Patole’s allegations that his phones, too, were being tapped,” remarked Bhandari, hinting at the earlier allegations made by the state Congress chief that he was being kept under surveillance by allies Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP).The Pegasus row erupted on July 18, a night before the beginning of the current monsoon session of the Parliament, after an international investigative consortium reported that India was the among countries that had used NSO Group’s phone hacking software to potentially target politicians, journalists and activists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/recall-maharashtra-governor-congress-to-centre-101627411580147.html
28-07-2021||Noida||GB Nagar health dept notice to 6 premises for failure to curb mosquito breeding||The Gautam Budh Nagar district health department has begun inspecting government and private premises for possible mosquito breeding sites and has issued notices to six establishments for failing to check the menace.“The notices have been issued to four residential societies and two private schools under the Uttar Pradesh Prevention and Control of Malaria, Dengue, Kala-azar and any Vector Borne Disease Regulations, 2016,” said Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.As per the regulations, if the owner or occupant fails to clear stagnant water, the health department will issue a penalty against the person responsible.Most vector-borne diseases such as malaria and dengue are reported in the months of July to November, which is also the monsoon season.The regulations were implemented in 2017 in Uttar Pradesh under Vector Borne Diseases Control Act. Since then, notices and penalties have been issued in the district every year, except in 2020 when the inspection could not be carried out because of the Covid-19 outbreak.According to official data, in 2017, 256 notices and 20 penalties were issued, to the tune ₹3,500. In 2018, 74 notices and 43 penalties were issued, amounting to ₹1,67,000. In 2019, 48 notices and 23 penalties were issued totalling ₹1,07,000. “From 2018, Gautam Budh Nagar fixed the penalties for violation of rules at ₹500 for small structures where water is allowed to collect, ₹1,000 for medium-sized structures and ₹2,000 for big structures,” said Sharma.The Aedes aegypti mosquito that causes vector-borne diseases such as dengue and chikungunya breed in still water that accumulates in old tyres, discarded vases and objects, utensils and coolers.Till the month of June, Gautam Budh Nagar has reported two malaria cases, but no dengue case. The report for July is yet to be released, said officials. Chief medical officer Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma said, “Health teams have been instructed to ensure all preventive measures are taken in order to control vector-borne diseases in the district.”Sharma further said that since Covid-19 outbreak, better hygiene and cleanliness are being maintained by citizens and hence the department expects fewer number of notices and penalties this year.“After the Covid-19 outbreak, people have become conscious of cleanliness and hygiene and there is an increase in awareness as well. Apart from these, the district health department keeps on holding awareness programmes in rural and urban areas to educate people about removing any stagnant water around their residential area. Hence, we hope that this year, we will see fewer number of penalties,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-health-dept-notice-to-6-premises-for-failure-to-curb-mosquito-breeding-101627411400108.html
28-07-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Seven residential segments have no Covid case in July||Covid-19 cases have decreased in Ghaziabad drastically since June, with seven residential segments not reporting even a single case this month so far. According to data from the district health department, the densely populated segments of Bhowapur near Kaushambi, Chandmari in Vijay Nagar, Ghookhna adjacent to Delhi-Meerut Road, Khoda, Maharajpur in Sahibabad Industrial Area, and Pasonda and Shaheed Nagar in Sahibabad have reported no fresh Covid-19 case in July so far. The localities of Vaishali, Vasundhara and Indirapuram have reported just one, two and four new cases, respectively, this July so far, shows the data. The records also indicated that during the period, the highest cases -- 10 -- were reported from Sadik Nagar comprising Raj Nagar Extension. “The cases have reduced, but the infection is still present. So we have to continue with testing and surveillance in the district. The vaccination coverage has also increased, and this has helped prevent the spread of the infection,” said Dr Rakesh Kumar Gupta, district surveillance officer. In June, only Shaheed Nagar segment had no fresh Covid-19 case.Experts said it is likely that the rate of seroprevalence could be higher in segments where cases have reduced. “Since these are densely populated areas, we expect that it (decline in cases) could be a result of high rate of seroprevalence -- about 60-70% -- indicating the beginnings of herd immunity. But, the health department should keep the daily testing at the same level and continue with it for at least another two months. They should also focus on testing of people coming from other states,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president, Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). According to the data, there were only 59 new cases in July so far, while the district had reported 324 cases in June. As a result of declining cases, the sample positivity rate in July (up to July 26) dropped to 0.06%, with 108,253 samples tested in the district. According to the state’s health bulletin, Ghaziabad, till July 26, has recorded 55,605 Covid-19 cases and a death toll of 461, with 21 active cases. Of the 21 active cases, eight patients were under home isolation, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-seven-residential-segments-have-no-covid-case-in-july-101627411280578.html
28-07-2021||Noida||Woman assaulted by neighbours over friend’s death, five held||Five members of a family were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly beating up their neighbour, a 22-year-old woman and her family, allegedly blaming them for the death of their 24-year-old male relative. The man was found dead on July 6 in Uttarakhand where he worked, police said; he died by suicide, according to them. The woman said he was urging her to marry him. “We had known each other for a long time. But whenever he asked me to marry him, I refused. He visited his family in Noida last month and there were some issues. After his death, his family didn’t file a complaint but harassed and blamed me for his death,” said the woman. She said on Sunday night, members of the man’s family forced their way into her home in Noida Phase 3. “They dragged my brother and me out and hit us with sticks. My parents too were assaulted. My mother suffered a fracture to her arm and my brother suffered blows to his head. I have multiple stitches on my forehead. Other neighbours intervened and called the police, and only then did they let us go. They threatened more harm. We are scared because they have a licensed gun,” said the woman. Based on her mother’s complaint, a case was registered at the Phase 3 police station against the dead man’s parents, three brothers, a relative and two sisters-in-law under sections 147 (rioting), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 354 (intending to outrage woman’s modesty) , among others, of the Indian Penal Code. “We have arrested the father, the brothers and the relative for the assault. A probe in the matter is still underway. Due action will be taken,” Vivek Triwedi, station house officer of Phase 3 police station, said, adding that a magistrate sent them to judicial custody for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/woman-assaulted-by-neighbours-over-friend-s-death-five-held-101627411281208.html
28-07-2021||Noida||Heavy rain slows down traffic at several places in GB Nagar||Vehicular movement was badly affected due to waterlogging in several parts of Gautam Budh Nagar as the district witnessed moderate rainfall on Tuesday morning. Commuters had a difficult time between 8am and 10am due to slow movement of traffic at Mahamaya Flyway, DND cut on Film City road, Labour Chowk and Kulesra in Dadri, among other areas. Alok Singh, a resident of Sector Alpha 1 in Greater Noida, said he got stuck in traffic around 9.30am while going to Noida. “I was stuck in a traffic jam at Kulesra village for 30 minutes. The authorities should fix the waterlogging problem permanently,” he said. At some places, traffic was diverted to ensure smooth flow of vehicles, officials of the traffic police department said.CP Maurya, traffic inspector, GB Nagar, said that the traffic police personnel were deployed at different places. “Heavy rain affected the traffic movement at some places in the morning. We received some complaints of a traffic jam from Kulesra in Greater Noida. This road connects Surajpur to Noida Special Economic Zone (NSEZ). We visited the spot and found that both sides of the road were waterlogged. But Surajpur-NSEZ stretch was a bit less waterlogged. We divided this stretch to allow traffic from both sides and blocked the NSEZ-Surajpur side as it was waterlogged till the afternoon,” he said.The Noida traffic control room also received complaints of waterlogging at the Sector 60 underpass. Maurya said that the underpass gets waterlogged as it is in the low lying area. “The traffic was slow at this spot. Our personnel guided commuters to navigate through,” he said.The traffic also moved slowly on the Noida-Greater Noida expressway near DND Flyway loop. This is a significant road connecting the expressway to DND Flyway leading to Delhi. Similar situation was witnessed at Labour Chowk where people were seen wading through the knee-deep water. The rain had slowed down the traffic movement at the Model Town crossing in Sector 62 too. Meanwhile, waterlogging was also reported from some residential areas. Sanjeev Kumar, general secretary of Sector 51 RWA, said that there was waterlogging between Sector 51 and Sector 52 metro stations from 8am to 9am. “It was very difficult for people to commute. The RWA members then drained out the water from the road using a pipe into the neighbourhood park and cleared the stretch,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/heavy-rain-slows-down-traffic-at-several-places-in-gbnagar-101627411220174.html
28-07-2021||Noida||Man fleeing after car break-in nabbed following police chase||A 27-year-old man allegedly involved in several cases of car break-ins was arrested on Monday night following an encounter with the police in Noida Sector 25A. Police said he was fleeing with an accomplice on a scooter after stealing valuables from a car in Delhi. According to police, the two men were asked to stop for checking near Spice mall. “We had information that two suspects, who had stolen valuables from a car in Delhi’s Kondli area, will be passing through our (jurisdictional) area. The number plate of their scooter was found covered and that prompted the police team to signal them to stop. However, they tried to flee and opened fire at the team. One suspect was injured in the retaliatory firing and arrested, while the other managed to escape. Efforts are on to nab him,” said Sudheer Kumar, station house officer, Sector 24 police station. The injured man was identified as Delhi resident Amit was he taken to the district hospital for treatment, police said, adding that two stolen laptops and a countrymade pistol were recovered from him. The police said he is part of a gang involved in thefts from vehicles over the past two or three years. At least 15 cases have been identified against the suspect in Delhi-NCR, they said. “In the past few weeks, there have been several complaints about car break-ins and theft of laptops and other valuables from vehicles. Our teams are working on these cases. A search is on for other accomplices of the suspect. We will nab more people soon,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-fleeing-after-car-break-in-nabbed-following-police-chase-101627411160690.html
28-07-2021||Noida||Noida sees season’s highest rainfall||Moderate showers lashed the city on Tuesday, making weather soothing and bringing mercury down by a few notches. However, the rainfall, so far the best recorded in Noida since the arrival of monsoon on July 13 in the National Capital Region, left several roads waterlogged even as officials said that there were adequate measures in place to deal with the situation.The city will continue to see light to moderate rainfall for the next five days, the weather department predicted.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Noida saw moderate rains while neighbouring Delhi recorded heavy rainfall. Though the automatic weather monitoring station installed at Noida Sector 62 recorded very light rainfall, IMD officials said that the actual rainfall especially in the areas adjoining Delhi was high.“Noida received an average of 25mm rainfall on Tuesday. At some places, it would have been around 40-50mm. The city experienced moderate rain showers which was also evident from waterlogged streets at a few places during the morning hours. The weather monitoring station recorded only light rains because it would have been lesser rains in those areas. But as per the radar information, it was moderate rainfall day for Noida,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre. According to IMD, a rainfall between 15mm and 65mm is considered moderate.Srivastava further said that there are chances of rains everyday till August 2. “The rains will continue for a few days. The intensity may fall slightly on July 29. However, it will pick up from July 30 again and continue till August 2. On July 31, the rainfall intensity is likely to be maximum,” he said.On Tuesday, IMD recorded maximum and minimum temperatures for Noida at 30.2°C and 26.6°C against 32.9°C and 29°C a day earlier.At the Safdarjung monitoring station, considered average for the NCR, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 29.5°C, five degrees below the season’s average and 25°C, two degrees below the season’s average. The humidity level oscillated between 100% and 79%.Meanwhile, waterlogging and traffic snarls were reported from several areas of the city during the morning, including DND cut, near Dalit Prerna Sthal, below Mahamaya Flyover, Labour Chowk, and Sector 58, among others. However, officials of the Noida authority said that the situation has improved compared to last year.“It often takes a few minutes for the rainwater to clear from roads whenever the rain intensity is high. Compared to the situation in Delhi or Gurugram, we have done much better. Measures have been taken to deal with three major waterlogging -prone spots in the city. At DND cut, we have a sump that channelises the water and at Dalit Prerna Sthal and areas under Mahamaya flyover, we have fixed the drains. We also use pumps at some congested areas like Khoda where rainwater gets logged,” said PK Kaushik, general manager (water), Noida Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-sees-season-s-highest-rainfall-101627411160104.html
28-07-2021||Noida||Skill development institute begins operations in Greater Noida||The Greater Noida Authority opened two skill development institutes for the youth in Sector Alpha 1 and at a government primary school in Mubarakpur village on Tuesday.The institute will primarily cater to children of those people who gave their land for the development of the city and will aim to make them employable by multinational corporations, said officials.Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh and Greater Noida authority chief executive officer (CEO) Narendra Bhooshan inaugurated the two institutes.“With these two facilities we can train students in skills, particularly the youth from villages, where unemployment is more as compared to urban areas. Our objective is to help those seeking jobs in any sector. The courses will enable a student to acquire skills and then get placed in a nearby company,” said MLA Singh.The institutes will first train 430 applicants in electronics and telecom over three months or up to a year, depending on the course. The courses include electronics assembly operator, telecom sales executive and mobile phone repairs. Anyone who has graduated class 12 is eligible for admission, said officials. Over the course of a year, the institutes aim to skill train around 1,200 persons.The authority is also planning to open similar institutes in the GNIOT campus in Knowledge Park-II, Udyog Kendra-I, Sector Ecotech 3 , Noida ITI in Chipyana, Knowledge Park-III and Greater Noida 901. On March 3, Greater Noida authority CEO Narendra Bhooshan said the national skill development council, under the Union ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship, agreed to help set up the centres. The application process began on April 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/skill-development-institute-begins-operations-in-greater-noida-101627411040122.html
28-07-2021||Other||Woman, three kids’ murder case workedout, two arrested||Agra Two people, including a relative, were arrested for the ghastly murder of a divorced woman and her three children in Kuncha Sadhuram locallity here on July 21. One of the accused is still absconding and hunt for him is on. According to police, the killings were the outcome of money transactions that took place between the main accused and the victim woman who were cousins. The children were killed because they knew the main accused who was a frequent visitor to their house and owed ₹3 lakh to the woman. Addressing the media on Tuesday evening, inspector general (IG) of Agra range Naveen Arora claimed that the blind case had been worked out with the arrest of two people, including the main accused. “These three accused were Santosh Rathore, Anshul Rathore and Dheeru Valmiki. Santosh Rathore, the main accused, was related to the victim woman Rekha Rathore and they used to celebrate Rakshabandhan,” informed Arora. “Santosh Rathore had taken about ₹2 to 3 lakh from Rekha Rathore as well as a scooter. Santosh believed that Rekha might have received heavy cash after being divorced from her husband. So, he planned to eliminate her. He took two of his associates Anshul Rathore and Dheeru Valmiki to her house on July 21. Santosh had assured his associates of a share in the loot,” said the IG. “It is believed that the three accused stayed for three to four hours in the house and first killed Rekha and then her three minor children before moving out with cash and jewellery. The accused had brought tablets to intoxicate the children and killed all with knife and scissors one by one,” said Arora. “Santosh Rathore and Dheeru Valmiki have been arrested and search is on to nab Anshul Rathore who too is related to Santosh Rathore. The successful police team has been awarded Rs. 25,000,” added Naveen Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-three-kids-murder-case-workedout-two-arrested-101627410740047.html
28-07-2021||Pune||Continuous rain exposes civic work: Potholes on all major roads in Pune city||Continuous rain in the city over the past four days has exposed the Pune Municipal Corporation’s poor road resurfacing work undertaken as part of its pre-monsoon preparations.The PMC is also in the process of laying pipelines for its 24x7 water scheme, because of which, several roads were dug up before the rains began. Currently, potholes have developed on all prominent roads in the city. VJ Kulkarni, head of the road department said, “It is true that potholes have developed on the roads, which were mainly dug-up for various works. Once a road gets dug-up, the ‘life’ of that road reduces.”Kulkarni added, “Once the rains take a break, we will start to clear the potholes. This cannot be done in the rain.”During lockdown, PMC carried road works on Tilak road, Bajirao road, Shivaji road, and Sahakarnagar among other parts of the city. The allegation by residents and activists, especially those residing in areas with these pothole-ridden roads, is that the PMC, after digging-up the roads, re-surface it with cement. “The rest of the road is tar and the part which got dug-up is now levelled by pouring cement. This cement has come out in the rain causing potholes,” said one angry resident on Tilak road, requesting anonymity.Recently, the BJP, the ruling party in the civic body, had issued a statement saying, “Citizens must co-operate with the civic body as it is executing the water project. Water lines are getting changed. Due to development works, roads getting dug up.”The PMC’s road department said that as roads are being dug-up for the water project, more money will have to be set aside on for road maintenance in the future. Under the 24x7 water project, a total of 1,800 km of roads will be dug-up for laying of pipelines in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/continuous-rain-exposes-civic-work-potholes-on-all-major-roads-in-city-101627410441703.html
28-07-2021||Pune||COEP begins survey of landslide-prone areas in 34 merged villages||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has appointed the College of Engineering of Pune (COEP), to survey the 34 villages merged into its limits for areas prone to landslides.This comes in the wake of a major landslide following heavy rain in Taliye village, Raigad district that killed 53 villagers and left 31 still missing.COEP has already begun work on the survey and a report will be submitted to the PMC in August. Recently, the State government merged 23 villages with the PMC, and in 2017, 11 fringe villages were also made part of the corporation.Yuvraj Deshmukh, superintendent engineer of the building permission and development department, said, “Against the backdrop of the Raigad landslide incident, we have taken the decision to survey landslide-prone areas in the merged villages. We have assigned the work to the COEP.”“The corporation wants the survey to reveal unauthorised construction at the foothills, as well illegal constructions on the hills,” he added.Professor B G Birajdar, applied mechanical department, COEP, said, “We have started work and it will be completed before next month.”COEP will check the soil and slopes of hilly areas. It will categorise the areas as low, medium, and high risk. It will also suggest remedies to tackle the situation and take precautionary measures. Second survey of landslide-prone areasAfter a major landslike at Malin village in Ambegaon taluka of Pune district in 2014, PMC surveyed landslide prone-areas in Pune city. That survey was also done by the COEP.Deshmukh said, “As per that report, we removed unauthorised constructions in Warje and carried out a strengthening process as recommended by the COEP. That report highlighted Warje and the Baner gaothan area. We took precautionary measures.”According to the PMC disaster management department, there are six land- and mud-sliding areas in the city - Dukkar Khind (between Chandani chowk and Warje) and the new Katraj tunnel road are landslide-prone areas. Whereas Kelwadi (Kothrud), Warje hill and Parvati hill are mudslide-prone areas.Landslides are caused by disturbances in the natural stability of a slope. It can happen after heavy rain, droughts, earthquakes or volcanic eruptions. Mudslides usually begin on steep slopes and can be triggered by natural disasters. Areas where wildfires or construction have destroyed vegetation on slopes are at high-risk of a landslide during and after heavy rains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/coep-begins-survey-of-landslide-prone-areas-in-34-merged-villages-101627410440632.html
28-07-2021||Pune||Grandpa, 90, pens years’ old tale for great-grandchildren during Covid||PUNE Unlike a majority of people who found the Covid-induced lockdowns boring and stifling, Vishnu Joshi, 90, an ex-student of Deccan Education Society’s New English School Ramanbaug, Pune, put all that time to good use by turning his passion for storytelling into concrete reality.Joshi, who loves to regale everyone with stories, managed to write a tale he had narrated to his grandchild 15 to 16 years ago and even got it published as a book titled, “Why the Rose has thorns?” which was launched on Saturday on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of New English School Ramanbaug. What’s more, the book is now available in 12 languages, both Indian and foreign, into which it was painstakingly translated.Recalling his experience, Joshi said, “During Covid, I made it a habit to write every day for an hour using my computer (which he learned at the age of 70). I remembered the story I had narrated to my grandson and penned it.”Reminiscing how an old story came to life as a book, the voracious reader and budding author said, “I am an engineer by profession, and it was while I was looking after a factory at Khanapur near Belgaum that I visited a rose garden near Asogaon. My grandson had accompanied me and while we enjoyed the beauty of the many varieties of roses, he asked the owner of the garden whether he could pluck a rose. After the owner allowed him to do so, he plucked a rose but its thorns pricked his finger and he started crying. The owner crushed the leaves and petals of the very same rose into an ointment of sorts which he applied on my grandson’s wound. My grandson stopped crying but kept pestering me as to why the rose plant has thorns. I then narrated to him the tale of how Lord Shankar and his consort Goddess Parvati visited the Earth as commoners when they felt thirsty and asked a local gardener for water. Instead of water though, the gardener gave them gulkand (sweet made from rose petals) which Goddess Parvati had never tasted…”“Why the Rose has thorns” is dedicated to Joshi’s nine great-grandchildren whom he rarely gets to meet. In his dedication in the book, Joshi has said that the energy drawn from watching children play along with the discipline and values he was taught at Balranjan Kendra, Bharati Niwas, made it possible for him to write the book.Joshi said that after he showed the completed script to his daughters and grandchildren, they were pleasantly surprised. Joshi’s daughter, Savita Kelkar, remembered, “After my father wrote this story, it became a family affair, which brought us a lot of joy and a chance to interact with each other. It was read aloud before the grandchildren in Marathi and English and reactions and suggestions were noted and words were added to and deleted from the script.” Being a translator by profession, she decided to reach out to the larger public with this simple story and consequently, the book got translated into 12 (Indian and foreign) languages.“Many of my friends volunteered and we now have this book in 12 languages. With my translation in German, others like Ujjwala Chaphalkar Anderson from Sweden (who is translating it in Swedish) were inspired to take the project further,” said Savita.Joshi’s book is now available in Urdu, translated by Sahida Inamdar; Hindi by Shipra Chaturvedi from Lucknow; Khasi by Rebekah Tham from Shillong; Odiya by Dusmant Kumar Chakra; Kannada by Shobha Joshi and Shobha Panchangmath; French by Jaya Gadgil; Russian by Rohini Joshi; Spanish by Darshana Thatte; Sanskrit by Swati Yadnopavit; Gujarati by Surbhi Bhagwat; Chinese by Yashoghara Gadgil; and Japanese by Swati Bhagwat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/grandpa-90-pens-years-old-tale-for-great-grandchildren-during-covid-101627410379992.html
28-07-2021||Pune||Only 16 of 50 oxygen plants operational in Pune district||PUNE As the daily requirement of medical oxygen in Pune district rose to nearly 421 MT at the peak of the second Covid-19 wave, the Pune district administration in May proposed setting up around 50 oxygen generation plants at public hospitals under the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), and rural parts of the district to ease scarcity of medical oxygen and also prepare for a possible third wave. However, of the 50 proposed plants, only 16 have become operational till the end of July even as officials claim that the remaining 34 will soon become active.Of the 16 oxygen generation plants that have become operational, six are under the PMC; two under the PCMC; and eight in rural parts of Pune district. “Six oxygen generation plants have become operational under the PMC while six more are in the pipeline,” said Dr Ashish Bharati, head of the health department, PMC. The six operational plants under the PMC are at hospitals crucial in the treatment of Covid patients namely, Naidu Hospital, Dalvi Hospital, Baner (old) Hospital, and Laigude Hospital. The six plants in the pipeline have been proposed at Rajiv Gandhi Hospital, Khedekar Hospital and Annasaheb Magar Hospital among others.Between the 16 oxygen generation plants that have become operational, a total of 13,169 LPM (litres per minute) of oxygen is generated. If the remaining 34 oxygen generation plants also turn operational, the oxygen generation capacity is expected to increase up to 37,267 LPM. The Pune district currently has a medical oxygen storage capacity of 3348.8 MT. Work on the 34 oxygen generation plants is currently in different stages. Funds for these plants are gathered out of corporate social responsibility (CSR), the mayor’s funds, civic bodies’ budgets, and the district planning development committee.Apart from the eight operational plants, 24 more have been proposed in the rural parts of Pune district. “Some of the proposed plants are expected to be operational by August 31. Work on them is in progress,” said Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Pune Zilla Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/only-16-of-50-oxygen-plants-operational-101627410323168.html
28-07-2021||Delhi||30 schools to be affiliated to new Delhi state board, says Sisodia||New Delhi: Thirty government schools will be affiliated to the newly formed Delhi Board of School Education (DBSE) in the upcoming 2021-22 academic session, of which 20 will be the Schools of Specialised Excellence (SoSE), deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday.Admissions to Class 9 and 11 of these special schools will begin by August 15 as a part of the first phase, he said.“The Delhi Board of School Education (DBSE) will affiliate 30 Delhi government schools in the session 2021-22. We will roll out this year with 20 Schools of Specialised Excellence and 10 general schools. The 20 SoSE spread across Delhi will be launched by August 15,” Sisodia said.The decision was taken during the second general body meeting of SoSE and DBSE officials presided by Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio. Following the meeting, the government also announced that the department was partnering with global institutes to hold consultations on the board.“Our vision is to create government schools in Delhi that would be at par with the international schools in the coming years. In order to create progressive curriculum and assessment structures for Delhi schools, the Delhi Board of School Education is partnering with the renowned research and assessment organisation Australian Council for Educational Research (ACER), which is credited with designing the globally recognised Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA),” Sisodia said.The Delhi Cabinet on March 22 approved setting up 100 schools of specialised excellence across the city for students of classes 9 to 12. These schools will focus on four domains -- science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), humanities, performing and visual arts and ‘high- end 21st century skills’.In a statement released on Tuesday, the government said admissions for Classes 9 and 11 in STEM schools and Class 9 in the other three SoSE domains will begin shortly. “Australian Council for Educational Research (ACER) and Boston Consulting Group (BCG) will provide technical and managerial support to DBSE and SoSE respectively,” the statement said.Of these 20 SoSEs in the first phase, eight schools will specialise in STEM, five schools each specialise in humanities and skills, and two schools specialising in Performing and Visual Arts.Sisodia further said in the next academic session, a total of about 100 Schools of Specialised Excellence will be formed -- with all four domains available in every educational zone of Delhi -- so that children of all parts of Delhi can access specialised schools in their neighbourhoods. All of these schools will be affiliated to DBSE.Detailing the modalities, the deputy chief minister said the students at SoSEs will receive excellent learning opportunities in the area of their interest that will enable them to join some of the best universities and institutions in the country and abroad. “It is important to identify and provide specialised education to students who have a specific aptitude and deep interest. In the first year, admissions will be offered in Class 9 in SoSEs in humanities, performing and visual arts, and high-end 21st century skills, whereas, in the STEM schools, admissions will be offered at the 9th and 11th grade levels. Students seeking admission in SoSEs will have to take an aptitude test. The schedule of admission will be announced later,” he said.Currently, there are about 1,000 government and 1,700 private schools in Delhi, nearly all of which are affiliated with the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE).In July last year, the Delhi government constituted two committees to prepare the scheme and framework for the formation of the state education board and for curriculum reforms.The Delhi Cabinet approved the setting up of the DBSE on March 6, following which the society for the Board was registered on March 19. Announcing the cabinet approval, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the present education system focuses only on learning by rote that needs to be changed. He added that high-end methods will be used to teach students of schools affiliated to the new education board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/30-schools-to-be-affiliated-to-new-delhi-state-board-says-sisodia-101627409719914.html
28-07-2021||Delhi||DTC buses clock bigger spike in ridership than the Delhi Metro||The daily bus ridership of the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) spiked by around 36% on Monday compared to a week ago when only 50% of the seating occupancy was allowed in the buses, the DTC said on Tuesday. The jump in ridership after the latest Covid-19 relaxation was steeper than that of the Delhi Metro, which registered an increase in ridership of only about 9.3% on Monday, data analysed by HT showed.Buses and the Delhi Metro were operating with 50% seating capacity till Sunday. This has been increased to 100% from Monday, but no standing passengers are allowed inside buses or the Metro. So effectively a DTC bus can now carry 33 passengers (excluding the driver and conductor), while a Metro coach can carry 50 people (400 for an entire train).DTC data showed that last Monday (July 19), its fleet of 3,760 buses carried 1,102,513 passengers. During that period, buses were allowed to ply with only 50% seating capacity. On Monday (July 26), when the restriction was lifted to allow 100% seating capacity, the ridership increased to 1,522,444. Similarly, the total earning of the DTC through tickets also increased from ₹1.01 crore to ₹1.58 crore on the days mentioned above. This means that the per bus earning last week was around ₹3,450 which increased to ₹4,611 this week after the relaxation.“Compared to the pre-pandemic days, the average daily bus ridership, even after the relaxation, is less by around 1.6 million. Till March 2020, for example, the DTC used to carry around 3.2 million passengers every day,” said RS Minhas, deputy chief general manager (public relations), DTC.The Delhi Metro, which also started operating with 100% seating capacity from Monday, witnessed at least 1.75 million passenger trips on day one after the relaxation, as compared to the usual 1.6 million passenger trips seen on Mondays.The combined DTC and cluster bus fleet in Delhi currently is 6,750 - the highest in nearly a decade. It was during the 2010 Commonwealth Games that Delhi last operated around 6,000 buses. However, the city needs 11,000 buses, according to a government affidavit submitted to the high court in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dtc-buses-clock-bigger-spike-in-ridership-than-the-delhi-metro-101627409660435.html
28-07-2021||Delhi||Black fungus: Delhi hospitals can now refer patients to pvt health centres||The Delhi government has allowed its hospitals to refer patients of mucormycosis, popularly known as black fungus, to private hospitals for surgeries if the waiting period is more than seven days.The measure has been taken under the government’s existing scheme of Delhi Arogya Kosh that allows state-run hospitals to refer patients in need of over 1,000 surgeries and procedures, which the Delhi government has identified that can be referred to private centres, if there is a long waiting period or the service is unavailable.However, the waiting period at government hospitals for other procedures and surgeries has to be over a month for a patient to be referred out. Keeping in mind the urgent surgery that patients with mucormycosis need, the waiting period has been reduced to seven days.“In view of the limited capacity for performing surgeries pertaining to mucormycosis in Delhi government hospitals … eligible patients (resident of Delhi identified on the basis of voter ID of Delhi) … may be referred to empaneled private hospitals under cashless scheme of Delhi Arogya Kosh if allotted date of surgery in the concerned Delhi government hospital is beyond seven days,” said the order signed by director general of health services Dr Nutan Mundeja.This will help patients admitted to some state government hospitals where the ENT department, which handles cases of mucormycosis, are scheduled to do surgeries only on a few days of the week. The government designated three of its hospitals – Lok Nayak, Guru Teg Bahadur, and Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital – for dedicated treatment of patients with the fungal infection.The decision of the Delhi government comes at a times when new cases of the fungal infection have already gone down in the city. A doctor from Lok Nayak hospital said, “Now, we are getting maybe one case a week. At its peak, we used to get five to six new mucormycosis patients each day”The hospitals, however, are still running full with patients of the fungal infection needing hospitalisation for a month on average.Data accessed by HT shows that Delhi has recorded at least 1,656 cases of mucormycosis so far, of which 952 are active cases.Private hospitals are treating 402 cases in the city, which is the maximum among the three hospital categories in the city. The Delhi government hospitals are treating 302 cases, while Central government hospitals have 248 cases.A senior doctor from Guru Teg Bahadur hospital said, “There is some waiting for the mucormycosis surgeries because the ENT department has only two OT (operation theatre) days.” A second doctor from Lok Nayak hospital, however, claimed they were able to bring down the waiting period by opening up the OTs on Sunday.“With so many patients in need of surgery, the hospital had to increase hours for ENT and eye surgery. Now, we are performing surgeries even on Sundays to cut down on the waiting time, which has reduced from a week or ten days to maximum three days,” said the doctor from Lok Nayak hospital.Mucormycosis is a rare fungal infection that started surging in the city after the second wave of Covid-19 wave in April-May. The infection is largely affecting those who recently contracted Covid-19, have uncontrolled blood sugar levels and were administered steroids during the treatment of the viral infection.Mucormycosis has a fatality of over 50% and others face facial disfigurement as a result of surgeries to remove the dead tissues.The total requirement of Amphotericin-B--the vital drug required for the treatment of mucormycosis-- in Delhi is about 150,000. “Delhi has been alloted a total of 39,680 vials of Amphotericin-B, of which 30,880 vials have been received and distributed to hospitals. At least 8,800 vials are awaited,” said the government document, which HT has seen.To address the shortage of such medicines, the Delhi government is now procuring more injections. It is buying 6,700 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin-B and 25,000 vials of Amphotericin Lipid Complex, said a health official on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/black-fungus-delhi-hospitals-can-now-refer-patients-to-pvt-health-centres-101627409661109.html
28-07-2021||Delhi||Waterlogged road forces DMRC to briefly shut Saket Metro station||Heavy rains on Tuesday flooded the road outside south Delhi’s Saket Metro station, forcing the the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to shut the entry and exit gates to the station for about two and a half hours in the afternoon.Many commuters posted photographs and videos of the waterlogged road leading to the station on social media. In one such video, stranded commuters could be seen waving to a DTC low-floor bus, signalling it to rescue them from the spot.“Service Update: Trains are currently not stopping at Saket metro station. Entry/exit gates have been closed due to waterlogging. Services otherwise normal on the entire Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli -HUDA city centre),” the DMRC tweeted at 12.24pm.According to DMRC officials, the primary reason to halt services on the line briefly was because the entry and exit points were waterlogged. “The area outside was flooded and there was no way passengers could get in. The services were resumed at the station shortly after the water receded,” said a senior DMRC official, who did not wish to be named.According to PWD officials, the stretch outside the station was inundated because of a depression on the road. “The rainfall was heavy and hence the accumulated water took few hours to clear. Four pumps were installed to help clear excess rainwater from the road,” said a PWD official who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/waterlogged-road-forces-dmrc-to-briefly-shut-saket-metro-station-101627409659917.html
28-07-2021||Delhi||National child rights body justifies probe into child care homes||The National Commission for Child Rights Protection (NCPCR) has justified in the Delhi high court the criminal investigation against two child care homes run by Centre for Equity Studies (CES), where social activist Harsh Mander is a director.The statutory body, in an affidavit filed in the high court, has prima facie observed that inadequate facilities were being given to children and there were several violations, such as financial irregularities, and instances of sexual assaults in 2012, 2013 and 2016 in the boy’s shelter home.“The Commission... from an employee of the home has received information that the cases of sexual abuse are still prevalent in the Home (for boys) and there is no reporting being done of the same. The non-reporting of such POCSO offences by the staff of the home is a serious offence under POCSO Act, 2012 and also jeopardizes the welfare and well-being of children in this home,” said the NCPCR.Reasoning the recommendations on which an FIR was registered against two child care homes-- Umeed Aman Ghar, a home for boys, and Khushi Rainbow Home, a residence for girls—the commission told Justice Rekha Palli that children were used for protest as four to five girls were taken to Jantar Mantar to agitate against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) last year.The children, in an interaction with the commission, said they sat for some time at the protest site but later returned due to the sultry heat.The court on Tuesday took the NCPCR’s response on record and posted the matter for further hearing in January.The NCPCR’s response comes after the two child care homes moved high court through their counsel Sarim Naved challenging the recommendations of the NCPCR, on the basis of which a show cause notice was issued by the Delhi government. Subsequently, an FIR was also registered against the two homes on various charges.The plea also sought quashing of the show cause notice issued by the Delhi government and stated the inspection was carried out at the homes in violation of the Juvenile Justice Act and rules.The two NGOs were raided on October 1 by the NCPCR, following which they submitted their findings to the police. In its recommendations, the commission reported a host of abuse and irregularities such as sexual abuse, using the children for anti-CAA protests, not providing them the right living conditions, Covid-19 norm violations, among others, said the police earlier.On April 7, the court sought to know the procedure that was followed in recommending action against the two child care homes.Responding to the queries of the court, the commission said during inspection, they found there were frequent visits by foreign nationals for providing voluntary services in this institution. However, it was unclear that on what grounds these foreign nationals were permitted to give voluntary services in these institutions and interact with children while their visit to India was for other purposes.Raising questions on the infrastructure of the NGOs, NCPCR said the building of the institution was covered with tin shed, which was not in line with safety and security measures.It said the sleeping material was not properly cleaned /sanitized regularly or before reuse as needed and they were not regularly fumigated.“It was also observed that some of the girls were staying in a tin shaded room connected with iron staircase, which was very risky and dangerous. It was seen that there was one double storey porta cabin and that the stairs were hazardous. Also, the rooms of dormitories were not well lit, ventilated and were tin shaded with inadequate sunlight and dampness in many of them,” said the NCPCR in its affidavit.The children’s body said even though rules provide for the segregation of children, during inspection, it found minor children were mingling with the elder ones.It said the police verification of all the staff members was not done and neither the qualification of the teachers was in consonance with the norms.Earlier, the DCPCR and the Delhi government’s social welfare department informed the court that based on the recommendations of the NCPCR, the State Inspection Committee conducted an inspection and found that the children were very happy and content at the care home.The city government earlier told the court that they just issued a show cause notice to the child care homes and put their registration on abeyance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/national-child-rights-body-justifies-probe-into-child-care-homes-101627409601932.html
28-07-2021||Delhi||Two murders in 10 hours in Delhi, elderly targeted||Two people were murdered in two separate incidents within a span of 10 hours between Monday night and Tuesday morning. Personal enmity was the prime reason behind both the killings, said police.In the first incident that took place in east Delhi’s Anand Vihar around on Monday evening, a 42-year-old rickshaw puller allegedly stabbed a 51-year-old woman, Neelam, at least thrice near a bus stop close to a private hospital, where she worked as a sanitation worker. She was rushed to Hedgewar hospital where she died during treatment, said police.Deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram said the attacker, Vedpal, was known to the woman for the last 10 years, as she used to take his cycle rickshaw to commute between her home and the workplace.“Vedpal told us that he was angry with the woman because she stopped taking his rickshaw. She had also filed a police complaint against him for assaulting her in January this year, for which Vedpal was booked,” said the DCP.Police said Neelam lived with her daughter in Vishwas Nagar while her husband works in Mumbai. Her two other children – a daughter and a son – are married and live with their families.Around 8 pm on Monday, Neelam finished work at the hospital and was waiting for her son near the Anand Vihar community centre, when Vedpal arrived and a scuffle broke out between the two. Vedpal took out a knife and stabbed Neelam twice in her abdomen and once on the shoulder. She screamed for help and collapsed on the road. Some passersby caught Vedpal and informed police.“Vedpal claims that Neelam slapped him and he killed her in a fit of rage. However, he has no explanation as to why he was carrying the knife. We suspect he had come prepared to kill the woman,” said an investigator.Nearly 10 hours after Neelam’s murder, Ajeet Singh (62) was shot dead while he was asleep outside his house in southwest Delhi’s Palam Extension on early Tuesday morning. Singh was shot in his forehead from a close range, said police.“Singh’s family members were carrying out some construction work, that was met with opposition from their relatives. There was a quarrel over that issue on Monday. Singh’s nephew Rajbir had threatened to kill them. Singh’s family members suspect the role of their relatives, who live next door, in his murder. We are investigating the case,” said deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena.According to Meena, the murder came to light after Singh’s wife went to wake her husband and found him dead. She alerted her family members and her son informed police about it. An empty bullet shell was found on the bed on which Singh was sleeping, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-murders-in-10-hours-in-delhi-elderly-targeted-101627409599999.html
28-07-2021||Delhi||100mm rain in 3 hours on Tuesday makes it Delhi’s wettest July in 18 years||Season’s heaviest rain in Delhi on Tuesday morning inundated key road stretches and low-lying areas, flooded residential colonies and led to long traffic jams.The Safdarjung observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded 100mm rainfall in just three hours (between 5.30 am and 8.30 am) on Tuesday morning, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Another 1.8 mm rain was recorded from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm. IMD data shows that the Delhi has recorded 381mm rainfall so far this month, the highest for July since 2003 when the national capital recorded 632.2mm. Normally, Delhi records 210.6 mm precipitation in July.On Tuesday, the Palam weather station saw the heaviest rainfall with 68 mm 24-hour rain ending at 8.30 am and another 59.4 mm during the day ending at 5.30pm. The Lodhi Road station recorded 86.8mm rain over the past 24 hours and another 0.5mm during the day. Aya Nagar station got 69.8mm 24-hour rainfall and another 27.4 mm throughout the day. Delhi Ridge station received 38.2 mm 24-hour rainfall with another 6.3mm during the day.The IMD rain guages define 24-hour rainfall from 8.30am of a day to 8.30am the next day.“With some days still left for July-end and more showers are likely, the cumulative rainfall count for the month could even surpass previous records. Light to moderate showers are predicted even on Wednesday. Besides, another spell of moderate rain is likely to hit the city on July 30-31,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, IMD’s head of regional weather forecasting centre.With Tuesday’s rain, Srivastava added, July already has a surplus rainfall of 108% at the Safdarjung observatory. “The maximum rainfall in Delhi is observed between July 10 and August-end. Moreover, Delhi sees more frequent spells of rainfall in August when easterly winds and the positioning of the monsoon trough, the primary conditions for rainfall, are favourable. So far it seems that Delhi is likely to have a normal monsoon,” he said.According to Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology), Skymet Weather, the number of rain days has reduced over the last few years, and extreme weather events have increased. “Cities are recording more rainfall in a shorter period of time. Earlier, 100 mm rainfall would occur over three to four days. Now, we have been receiving this much precipitation in just five-six hours,” he said.Waterlogging and jams across cityAccording to the Delhi traffic police, nearly 50 stretches were inundated and pumps were installed to flush out excess water. “Most of these stretches are from the list of 150-odd waterlogging-prone points across the city, which is shared with the civic and road management agencies every year ahead of the monsoon,” said a senior police officer asking not to be named.At least 11 vehicles, including state-run buses, broke down on different stretches, including Tilak Nagar, Badarpur, Dhuala Kuan, and traffic had to be diverted to alternate routes or slip roads. There were also reports of low-floor buses getting inundated and passengers stranded inside them being rescued by rickshaws, said the official.“A portion of a road caved in at the Rafi Marg crossing. Traffic from the stretch between Rail Bhawan and Sunehri Bagh Road was diverted to Dr Rajendra Prasad Road via Janpath,” said the official.As per data shared by the traffic police, the other stretches that were submerged in knee-deep water causing long traffic snarls include Pul Prahladpur underpass (both carriageways), 11 Murti Marg, Red Cross Road, Dwarka underpass, Sardar Patel Marg to Dhaula Kuan, road outside Qutub Minar Metro station, Mehrauli-Badarpur (MB) Road, Tilak Nagar, IP Estate, Vikas Marg, Africa Avenue, Seelampur flyover-Dilshad Garden, Zakhira underpass, Azad Market, among others.Commuters stuck in traffic jams tweeted photos, tagging the Delhi traffic police and other authorities, seeking help.“Continuous standing here since last 1 hour...Huge traffic jam..plz help...MB Road, South Delhi,” tweeted Rishang Sharma at 12.13pm.“Just one rain again and whole Delhi seems to have come to a standstill!! Stuck in huge traffic jam near Dhaula kuan,” tweeted Pankaj Roy at 9.34am.The Delhi Traffic Police also tweeted updates about waterlogging and the areas where traffic movement was affected.Trees uprooted, residential areas floodedData shared by the police and the three municipal corporations showed that the heavy showers also led to over 20 trees being uprooted across Delhi.Besides, residential colonies also reported flooding. Areas such as Saket, Vasant Kunj, Munirka, CR Park, Lajpat Nagar, Maharani Bagh, Mayapuri, Kailash Colony, Dwarka, RK Puram, Alaknanda apartments, Khanpur, Uttam Nagar, New Rajendra Ngaar, Karol Bagh, Anand Parbat, Ashok Vihar and Laxmi Nagar reported waterlogging during the day.Municipal corporations blamed the PWD and the state’s irrigation and flood control (I&FC) department for not cleaning up stormwater drains along arterial roads that they said overflow on internal streets.“Every monsoon, the major stretches get submerged in water causing major trouble to commuters. This is mainly because the major drains under the PWD are not being maintained, even causing them to overflow to residential lanes,” said South Corporation mayor Mukesh Suryan.However, PWD officials said that they do not want to engage in the blame game. “Where there is heavy rain, low-lying areas do get flooded. We take immediate action and install pumps to flush out the excess water. There are long-term plans underway to combat the problem,” a senior PWD official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/100mm-rain-in-3-hours-on-tuesday-makes-it-delhi-s-wettest-july-in-18-years-101627409540663.html
28-07-2021||Delhi||Minto Bridge to get a permanent waterlogging solution||An independent drain along Minto Road in central Delhi that came up in April this year as a trial measure to prevent the perennial waterlogging problem underneath the Minto Bridge has succeeded in resolving the issue, and the public works department (PWD) plans to widen the new drain after the monsoon, said a senior government official on Tuesday.The Minto Bridge success story was highlighted in the last drainage review meeting chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on July 19, which was also attended by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Delhi PWD minister Satyendar Jain, said the official adding that the decision to widen the new independent drainage system on Minto Road was taken in that meeting.“There was no waterlogging underneath Minto Bridge because of elaborate arrangements made there to avoid water accumulation. Nine pumps have been installed to flush out water from Minto bridge. Sound alarms along with blinkers and CCTVs have also been set up near the bridge for swift action and real time monitoring,” said an official on Tuesday.He further said, “Other than increasing monitoring, case specific solutions were also adopted in the Minto bridge waterlogging case. Usually, water from Minto Bridge area used to get mixed with a sewer line of DJB on DDU Marg, which used to cause back flow of water and eventually lead to waterlogging in the area. To prevent that, we did an experiment by making a new drain along the Minto Road so that storm water no longer merged with the sewer drain. Now, there is no waterlogging underneath Minto Bridge because of the independent drainage system there. The experiment has worked.”The official further said the work on widening the drain will start after this monsoon and it should be finished this year.After the July 19 meeting, Kejriwal said that the Delhi government will redesign the city’s drainage system and identify more waterlogging hot spots so that area-specific interventions can be made to ensure smooth flow of traffic and people’s safety.Citing the Minto Bridge example he said, “I am pleased with the work done by our agencies... In Delhi, it is said if Minto Bridge gets waterlogged, then monsoons have begun in the city. But, this time, Minto Bridge is the talk of the town for all the good reasons… We know of 147 such vulnerable points. If we conduct extensive mapping, we can enlist all possible vulnerable points. If solutions for all vulnerable points are planned and worked towards like the Minto Bridge, then we can bring Delhi freedom from waterlogging.”Following rains on Monday and Tuesday last week, traffic from at least 20 underpasses across the city was diverted after they were all flooded with rainwater. On Monday, a man drowned at the flooded Pul Prahladpur underpass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minto-bridge-to-get-a-permanent-waterlogging-solution-101627409540034.html
28-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi: DDA to open swimming pools by August 10||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is planning to open most of its swimming pools to the public by August 10, with officials adding that at least 11 of its 15 pools in the Capital will be made operational this year.“We plan to open the facilities by August 7 or 10. We will have proper measures in place and staff deployed to ensure that people coming to the facility follow all the Covid norms. There will be thermal screening of people and other such measures,” said a senior DDA official.Another senior DDA officialsaid the agency is carrying out repair and maintenance work “as the pools were closed for a while now”.However, the Olympic-size swimming pool at the Commonwealth Games village and the facility at Hari Nagar sports complex will not be operational as, the official said, the former is a Delhi government-run Covid care centre and the latter has no source of water to fill the pool.“While we plan to make at least 11 pools operational, the final number will depend on the size of the pool and water source available, as we have to refill the pools,” said the official.DDA officials said that they started the work on making swimming pools operational in March this year after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority allowed swimming pools to open in April after a long gap due to the coronavirus pandemic.“We were planning to open our facility from April, but then the lockdown was announced. Though people were not allowed inside the facility, we kept the pool operational for a month after the lockdown. But it was turning out to be very expensive, as we had to filter the water on a daily basis and deploy staff for regular operations. This is why it was decided to drain the water in the pools,” said the official.A senior official said that it will take time to fill the pools and carry out basic repair and maintenance.Usually, swimming pools at DDA’s sports complexes are operational between April-September and some continue till November and again reopen in February.“We have three heated pools at Siri Fort, Yamuna and CWG sport complexes. Of the three, two facilities will continue till November,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-dda-to-open-swimming-pools-by-august-10-101627409422372.html
28-07-2021||Delhi||Covid curbs kill charm of Delhi’s iconic Daryaganj book bazar||Every Sunday, a section of the footpath outside Mahila Haat on Asaf Ali Road becomes busier than usual as booksellers from different parts of Delhi-NCR start trickling in around afternoon. Cycle rickshaws, tempos, scooters, and hand-driven carts stacked with books of all shades line the road, and restless vendors stand on the footpath as they wait for the clock to strike 4pm.As the heat gets unbearable, some occupy the footpaths, others use stacks of books as makeshift stools, while the rest lay down the books alongside a railing bordering the Mahila Haat complex with the hope that passersby might take note and buy a book or two.Santosh Gupta, a book vendor, whose books were stacked against the railing, talks about the futility of the entire process. “The gates of Mahila Haat will not open before 4pm. Until then, we are compelled to wait and watch. Some people unpack the books and spread them out in the hope that a passerby might buy some books from the lot. Around 4pm, we bundle the books again as the gates open and then unpack them inside the complex. Around 7pm, we start packing again before the closure at 8pm,” said Gupta, who was sweating profusely.Since malls and markets reopened in June, the timings for the popular book bazar have been reduced with the Haat opening at its usual time at 4pm but closing at 8pm instead of 10pm. As a result, Gupta and his contemporaries get only a handful of hours for business. The duration includes the time that goes into setting up the bazar and later packing it up.The Daryaganj Sunday Book Bazar functioned from the pavements for decades after the court ordered its removal from the road in 2019 due to traffic congestion. The Mahila Haat, from where it runs now, is located opposite the Delite Cinema, interestingly the same place where it used to start earlier. The bazar was known for priceless editions sold at throwaway prices and titles as varied as school textbooks to poetry, space and engineering.The bazar was reopened in June as curbs on markets and malls — put in place after a lockdown was imposed in the Capital from April 19 — were lifted. Unlike other markets, however, the book bazar is allowed to open only between 4pm and 8pm, as per oral orders of the North Municipal Corporation of Delhi. Vendors have asked authorities to extend their timings, arguing that the ongoing four-hour limit has made it difficult for them to even recover costs.Qamar Sayeed, president of Daryganj Sunday Book Bazar Patri Welfare Association, said MCD officials have given them oral instructions outlining the timings of the market. He said the vendors were helpless since MCD officials did not open the gates before the stipulated timing.“They never show us a written order and simply say that the Delhi government and DMs/SDMs have issued guidelines that say that the bazar can operate only between 4pm and 8pm. The orders might be oral, but we are compelled to comply since the complex is under the MCD’s control and they don’t unlock the gates before 4pm,” said Sayeed.Besides the unreasonable timings, there are other challenges at the current location. “Now, we are confined by walls. There are all kinds of challenges now. From harsh weather to police lathi charging us, we bear it all,” he said.The association has written to multiple stakeholders; including chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, the district magistrate and sub-divisional magistrates of the district, and the police and MCD, asking for an extension of their business hours, but to no avail.“Before the second lockdown was imposed in April, we were allowed to sell our books from 4pm to 10pm. Now, we have to close by 8pm. These timings are not enough to run our business. It takes us an hour to set up the market once the gates open at 4pm. This leaves us with only three hours. After 7pm, we need to start wrapping up. How are we supposed to earn a living in an hour or two? We are not even able to cover the transportation cost and other charges,” said Sayeed, as he stood on the footpath outside Mahila Haat on Sunday, waiting for the gates to open.He added that the timings were not feasible for vendors, who travel from different parts of Delhi and its neighbouring cities, or students, who are an important target audience.“There is only one such market for book lovers. People travel from far-off places but don’t get enough time to purchase books of their choice. Parents also don’t allow children to travel freely in the evening. We want the government to allow us to operate from the morning as we did in our earlier location or at least allow us to work from 12 noon till 5pm,” said Sayeed.District magistrate of central Delhi Akriti Sagar said market timings were regulated as per the DDMA order. She added that since the market was shifted to Mahila Haat, the MCD was looking into the matter.Commissioner of North Delhi Municipal Corporation Sanjay Goel said the civic body will take action as per the DDMA orders and examine the timings of the market.On Sunday, first-time visitors to the market and others, who were not aware of the timings, waited outside till 3:30-4 pm for the market to open. Regular visitors to the book bazar also said that extended timings will be better. Vivek Kumar, a Class 12 student of a government school, said the old timings were better. “Here, time for buying books is limited. Earlier, we would get enough time for browsing through books, at the old location. Today, I saw many people return because they didn’t want to wait till 4pm,” said Kumar, who was at the market to purchase textbooks. “Books are cheaper here. Every year, I try and get my course books from this market,” he said.Pooja Kumar, a DU graduate and a first-time visitor, said she heard about the market from her friends. Pooja, who was not familiar with the timings, however, left before vendors could set up the market. “A friend of mine once got four to five books at throwaway prices. Since I had some free time, I decided to visit the market. However, only a few vendors are selling right now. I had no idea that the market is only operating for a few hours,” said Pooja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-curbs-kill-charm-of-delhi-s-iconic-daryaganj-book-bazar-101627409359920.html
28-07-2021||Mumbai||International travel expected to rise in the coming months: Travel portals||After few countries have opened their borders for Indians, enquiries for travel to international destinations have seen an average increase of 80-85% in July as compared to June. Maldives, Switzerland, Russia, Ukraine, Qatar, Turkey, Iceland, Costa Rica, Nepal, and France have opened travel for non-essential travel.Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, cargo and special flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission and under bilateral air arrangements with selected countries since May last year.MakeMyTrip said that international travel is picking up slowly as countries have eased travel restrictions and quarantine regulations for Indian outbound travellers.According to the portal, Maldives and Russia currently rank high on the list of preferred leisure travel destinations. Switzerland and Qatar are the two countries that have made it mandatory for Indian travellers to be fully vaccinated.According to Swiss rules, children have to be quarantined, which is why fewer tourists are opting to travel to Switzerland.“We have seen a 35% jump in searches for international leisure packages for July as compared to the previous month. Overall, recovery within the international travel segment for essential as well as leisure travel is picking pace progressively. The scope and pace of recovery in international travel after the second wave is definitely higher as compared to the period post the first wave because of the global vaccination roll out,” said Vipul Prakash, chief operating officer, MakeMyTrip.Ixigo said it expects more countries to gradually lift restrictions in the coming months.“With India seeing an overall decline in the number of active Covid-19 cases, countries are evaluating and reconsidering their current travel restriction policies for Indian travellers. Recently the US state department has lowered its Covid-related travel advisory for India to ‘Level 3 – Reconsider Travel.’Industry sources said currently there are no direct flights from Mumbai, Delhi and Bangalore to Switzerland. “Though the country is allowing Indians to travel, Switzerland might not allow an Indian traveller to come via a transit country as it may have different rules for entry from those particular countries,” explained an industry expert, who did not wish to be named.He added, “Moreover, not all tourists are aware of linking their passport to their vaccination certificates which is leading to case-specific issues.”Jyoti Mayal, president of Travel Agents Association of India (TAAI), said currently most international travel is being undertaken by students.“After student travellers, business travellers are more seen travelling internationally. These are followed by visiting friends and relatives (VFR) and least air traffic is seen for leisure travel,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/international-travel-expected-to-rise-in-the-coming-months-travel-portals-101627409119858.html
28-07-2021||Other||Hardship for patients as ambulance workers in UP continue strike||LUCKNOW The staff of 108 and 102 ambulance services continued their strike across UP for the second day on Tuesday, resulting in hardships for patients who reached hospitals in autos, taxis and private vehicles.The two primary ambulance services – 102 (delivery of pregnant women) and 108 (emergency services) had come to a grinding halt since July 25-26 midnight, as workers went on a flash strike in wake of a change in the company that operates the advanced life support system (ALS) ambulances. So far, GVK EMRI (Emergency Management and Research Institute) was operating advanced life support system (ALS), 108, and 102 ambulance services in the state. But now the responsibility of the ALS ambulance service has been given to Ziqitsa Health Care.GVK EMRI sacked around 150 ambulance staff , including the president of the State Ambulance Sangh, Hanuman Prasad Pandey and other office bearers.Office bearers of the Sangh said they were being punished for demanding a salary hike of just ₹1,000, which was promised by GVK EMRI. They also alleged that the company terminated services of a number of drivers, citing change of company. Currently, ambulance drivers get around ₹13,000 as salary.Hundreds of GVK EMRI employees continued their agitation at Eco Garden in Lucknow and shouted slogans demanding increase in their salary and reinstatement of sacked workers.They claimed that the employment conditions offered by the new company were unjust and the government should be considerate towards their selfless service during the pandemic. Officials of GVK EMR, Ziqitsa Health Care Private Limited and health department held a meeting with the office-bearers of State Ambulance Sangh to solve the issue. An FIR was lodged against the agitating staff and office- bearers of the State Ambulance Sangh – Hanuman Prasad Pandey, Susheel Pandey, Abhishek Mishra, Brajesh Kumar Mishra, Sharad Yadav, Salil Awasthi, Sunil Sachan, Madhut Mishra, Raghvendra Tewari, Ritesh Shukla, Dinesh Kaushik for stalling essential services.One Sanjeev Kumar Gupta, who reached Lohia hospital in an auto with his ailing mother, said: “I called for an ambulance thrice, but they didn’t turn up. So there was no option, but to transport the patient in an auto.”Meanwhile, chief minister Yogi Adityanath warned that if the needy don’t get ambulance services in the time of need, the state would take stern action against the ambulance services provider.“The state government is committed to providing quality health services to people. So ensure that needy people get ambulance services. If it doesn’t happen, the state government will act tough against the ambulance services provider,” he said during the Covid-19 review meeting at Lok Bhawan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hardship-for-patients-as-ambulance-workers-in-up-continue-strike-101627405699613.html
28-07-2021||Pune||Covid cases double Pune city’s 2021 death count as compared to previous year||Pune: In a year, the city’s death count almost doubled because of intense Covid-19 infection. As per the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the city registered 11,870 deaths, including accidents and natural deaths, between January and May 2020. However, for the same period in 2021, the city saw 22,748 which is almost double the previous year. Although deaths due to Covid infection started to be reported in the city from April 2020, only a nominal number of deaths due to the infection were reported in April and May 2020. The data also showed a stark disparity in the number of deaths reported by the state department due to Covid as compared to the numbers reported by the civic body during the months of January to May for the 2021. As per the civic body data, Pune city reported 11,870 deaths from private and government hospitals covering all 15 wards. These deaths could vary as the data is collected from wards who then have to upload it on their centralised system. Dr Kalpana Baliwant, PMC assistant health officer, said, “The numbers of deaths registered for the actual period may vary as the data needs to be uploaded by the wards on the centralised system. Also, the information of occurrence of the event can be reported within 21 days and delayed registration up to one year.” In 2020, the city saw nearly half the number of deaths reported in 2021 in these five months. In January 2020, 3,071 deaths were reported, in February 2102, in March 2,492, in April 1,712 and in May 2,493 were reported. The city saw the first death reported from Pune city due to the infection on April 1 when a Thane resident was reported dead from a private hospital in Pune city. For the same months in 2021, the number of deaths rose by 52% when 22,748 deaths were reported. The major contributor being Covid infection. In January, the city saw 3,028 deaths of which 221 were due to Covid, in February 2,497 deaths were reported of which 193 were due to Covid, in March 3,785 with 783 Covid-related, and April saw peak of Covid cases and deaths as PMC registered 7,656, of which 4,055 were due to Covid which were more than non-Covid deaths. In May, the city saw 5,785 deaths of which 2,903 were due to Covid. Dr Baliwant said that irrespective of the residence, the person’s place of death or birth is where the “event” is registered. This could have possibly led to a major surge as Pune hospital also saw an influx of patients from neighbouring villages which are out of Pune city limits and also neighboring districts for tertiary Covid care and in case of their death, the death was registered in PMC records. Dr Baliwant said, “As per the birth and death registration act, it is the job of the private or government hospital to inform the local ward office about the event, birth or death, who then update the centralised system at Kasba peth.” The data disparity with respect to deaths recorded by the local administration and the state government was also evident from the data. As per the state records for Covid-19 cases and deaths, Pune city reported 2,376 deaths due to the infection between January 1 and May 30 while the PMC reported 8,155 deaths due to Covid alone in the city for the same period. To overcome the disparity, the state department has been reconciling deaths due to Covid after it was found that the reporting and recording of deaths due to the infection are lagging. The difference of deaths reported by PMC and the state highlights the gap in reporting or under-reporting of deaths. In April alone, PMC recorded 4,055 deaths due to Covid when the infection was at its peak in the city. The reconciliation process began from June and is still ongoing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-cases-double-pune-city-s-2021-death-count-as-compared-to-previous-year-101627399691103.html
28-07-2021||Chandigarh||One injured as boulders hit car in Kangra’s Nurpur||One person was injured when the car he was driving got stuck in a landslide at Niazpur in Nurpur subdivision of Kangra district on Tuesday. He has reportedly suffered fracture in legs. Locals faced tough time rescuing the driver as he was trapped in the crushed car. The traffic movement on the highway was also halted, but was later restored. The injured man was rushed to Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College in Tanda where his condition is stated to be stable. Meanwhile, the death toll in the car accident that took place on Monday at Ranital climbed to two after one more person succumbed to his injuries. The car had rammed into a boulder that was lying on the roadside after a landslide. Red weather alertThe weather office has predicted heavy rain till July 30 in the state with a red alert in four districts of Kangra, Mandi, Sirmaur and Bilaspur on Wednesday and orange warning for six districts, barring Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti, till July 29. Kangra deputy commissioner Nipun Jindal said all officers have been asked to stay in touch with district and subdivision-level control rooms. “The PWD has been asked to mobilise machinery to restore traffic immediately in case of a blockade, while home guards and volunteers have been deployed in vulnerable areas,” he said. Moderate rainfall has been recorded across the state. Bharari in Hamirpur district got the highest 75.6mm of rainfall followed by 60mm in Sarkaghat and 45mm at Gohar in Mandi district. Dharamshala got 43.6mm of rainfall, Sundernagar 36.1mm, Hamirpur 32mm, Sujanpur Tira 31mm, Baijnath and Palampur 30mm each, Gaggal and Nahan 29mm each, Mandi 23.5mm and Bhunter 22mm. State capital Shimla got 7mm of rainfall, while Manali got 8.4mm. According to the Himachal disaster management authority, 190 people have been killed in rain-related incidents such as landslides since June 13 when the monsoon entered the state. The PWD has suffered losses amounting to more than ₹272 crore and Jal Shakti department ₹115 crore. The horticulture department estimates losses to the tune of ₹90 crore and agriculture department ₹30 crore. A total of 87 houses have been damaged in floods and landslides. Traffic disruptedTraffic on the Chandigarh-Manali highway was disrupted for an hour on Tuesday morning due to a landslide at Hanogi, 30km from Mandi. The authorities mobilised machinery to clear the highway at Hanogi and traffic was restored around 9.30am, officials said. Traffic on the Pathankot-Mandi highway also came to a halt due to a landslide at Gumma near Jogindernagar and the road was cleared in the afternoon. Chamba-Bharmaur highway also remained blocked and efforts were on to clear the debris.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/traffic-restored-on-landslide-hit-chandigarh-manali-highway-101627371428915.html
28-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi to nominate doctors, healthcare workers for Padma awards||New Delhi: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced that the Delhi government will nominate only doctors and health care workers this year for the country’s second, third and fourth highest civilian awards, Padma Shri, Padma Bhushan and Padma Vibhushan, to honour their contribution in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. The Padma Awards are announced annually on the eve of Republic Day. Bharat Ratna is the country’s highest civilian award.Kejriwal said his government would take suggestions from the public to decide the nominees before sending their names to the Union government.“The contribution of doctors and health care workers has been immense throughout this pandemic. Many such doctors have even lost their lives while treating Covid-19 patients in service of the nation. It is time we honour them. Hence, the Delhi government has decided to nominate only doctors and health care workers for the three Padma awards this year.”The Union government seeks recommendations from every state for the awards.“Anyone who wants to suggest a doctor or health care worker for the Padma awards can mail us at padmaawards.delhi@gmail.com. In the mail, please explain why the person is deserving of the award. You can send in your suggestions by August 15. We have set up a search and screening committee with deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia as its chairperson,” said Kejriwal. He added once all suggestions are in, the panel will screen the names over the following fortnight and then send the names to the Union government. “The last date to send the nominations to the Centre is September 15. So, we want to do this well in time,” Kejriwal added.The Delhi government has offered compensation of ₹1 crore each to health care and front line workers who died due to Covid-19 while performing duties related to the pandemic.So far, the Delhi government has given this compensation to at least 17 families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-nominate-doctors-healthcare-workers-for-padma-awards-101627370529291.html
28-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Gandhari Bridge reopened after no crack found||A day after the Gandhari Bridge in Kalyan was closed amidst rumours of a crack, it was reopened on Tuesday at around 6.30pm by the PWD after it found no crack on it. The PWD officers who inspected its pillars in a boat, claimed that the bridge was safe and could be used for traffic. Officials said that the pillar of the bridge had a lot of waste accumulated during the recent heavy downpour, including a black cloth that appeared as a crack. The officials added that minor repair works needed to be carried out to the bridge.The bridge is a vital link between the cities of Kalyan and Bhiwandi. The bridge built over the Ulhas river, connects Kalyan (West) to National Highway 3 at Padgha check post. Also Read | Rainfall likely in Maharashtra for next 3 days; death toll rises to 192The bridge, which is maintained by PWD, is around 25 years old. A traffic police inspector from Kalyan traffic unit said, “ As per the information from the PWD, the bridge was shut with immediate effect on Monday night.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/traffic-on-kalyan-s-gandhari-bridge-halted-after-heavy-rain-damages-pillars-101627359764791.html
