29-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Wardha saw 11 ‘no Covid vaccination’ days in July||While the state is being appreciated nation-wide for administering over 47 million vaccine doses, the highest in the nation, a few districts are lagging behind in vaccination, with Wardha topping the list. Data from the state shows Wardha is the only district to record zero immunisation on 11 days in July. The public health department has attributed it to unavailability of vials. An analysis of the data shows the district is recording severe inconsistency in vaccination since July 9. This has turned into a nightmare for residents who either have to return without vaccination as the centres remain closed or wait for hours in a queue to get inoculated due to overcrowding. On July 1, 1,481 vaccinations were recorded, which dropped to 177 on July 3. It increased to 1,483 on July 4 and jumped to 5,464 on July 5. The next day, 3,206 vaccines were administered, which dropped to 34 on July 7. On July 8, as many as 11,970 people were inoculated. But for the next three days, the district registered zero vaccination. On July 12, 13,454 inoculations were done— the highest recorded so far in July. The next two days, the district had zero vaccination. Again, on July 15, 9,944 were administered vaccine doses, which was followed by zero vaccination on July 16. In the following days, between July 18 and 26, 200, 20, 0, 11,019, 0, 14,267, 0, 11,860 vaccine doses were administered, respectively. In the past two days, the district again recorded zero vaccination. The district health officer (DHO) of Wardha has blamed shortage of doses. Every week, they receive 2-3 consignments – on an average, with 9,000 and 15,000 vials per delivery. “We don’t stock the vials. As soon as we get the vials, we vaccinate people the next day. At present, I have 18,000 vials, which will be used up in a day. I will then have to wait for another two days to get the vaccines,” said Dr Ajay Davale, DHO, Wardha. “This also helps us to save wastage.” As per Census 2011, the district has a population of 1.3 million with 71% residing in tribal areas. This month, till July 28, the district has administered 104,699 vaccine doses. Other districts with similar or lower population have performed better in the mass immunisation programmes. For instance, Bhandara, with a population of 1.2 million, has administered 107,481 vaccine doses between July 1 and July 28. Similarly, Gondia with the same population as Wardha has recorded 148,274 vaccinations during the period. A senior public health officer talking about the discrepancy in the distribution of vaccines said their priority is districts with higher positivity rate like Beed, Sangli, Kolhapur. “The vaccines come from the central government, so we have no control on it. We have to use it reasonably. At present, on an average, the district is getting 10-12 new Covid-19 patients. The positivity rate is below 1%. So, we are diverting the vials to districts with higher infection rate,” said the officer. In the district, around 370,000 have taken the shots, of which 114,000 have been administered both the doses. Health activists said stock shortage discourages people from taking the jab. “There is so much confusion among people about where and when to get inoculated. The beneficiaries have to keep checking availability of vials daily. Also, on days of vaccination, most centres get overcrowded which not only makes them vulnerable to contracting the infection, but is also physically straining,” said Subodh Mahire, a local activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-wardha-saw-11-no-covid-vaccination-days-in-july-101627582617782.html
29-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees 23% drop in Covid vaccinations in July compared to June||The city has reported a 23% drop in the number of vaccinations conducted in the first 28 days of July (1,499,125) compared to June (1,949,878), according to data provided by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The data reveals that vaccination at public centres has increased marginally in July compared to June, but the vaccination at private hospitals has seen a significant fall of around 50%. In total, there are 425 vaccination centres in the city, of which 293 are civic-run centres, 20 of state government and 112 are private hospitals. In 28 days of June, private hospitals vaccinated 1,244,822 citizens that went down to 669,814 in July. Public vaccination centres include centres run by the BMC and state. Further, in 28 days of June, 705,056 citizens were vaccinated in public vaccination centres that went up to 829,311 in July. Overall, in June, more than 2 million doses were administered, a jump from 0.8 million doses in May 2021.Private hospitals said one of the reasons is because vaccination became free by the last week of June, while many attributed it to shortage of stock. Behram Khodaiji, joint chief executive officer at Masina Hospital, said, “The number of people turning up at Masina hospital dropped by 20%-30 % in the past 30 days. According to BMC data, more people are getting vaccinated at civic-run hospitals. As citizens will have to pay for their vaccination at private centres, most choose government centres. Also, as per the guidelines, people who have taken their first dose have to mandatorily wait for 84 days before they can take their second one which results in a drop in numbers.”Dr Mangala Gomare, chief of BMC’s public health department, said, “Our vaccination has increased, but our potential is much more and if we are having more stock, we can vaccinate more citizens. Our capacity is to vaccinate 100,000 citizens on a daily basis. In private hospitals, those willing to pay have taken it already. Also, there is a shift as vaccination has become free in public centres. I do not feel there is any issue of shortage of vaccine doses in private hospitals.”As 53,076 citizens were vaccinated on Thursday, the city crossed the seven million mark, with 7,020,006 doses administered since January 16. A total of 1,694,895 citizens are fully vaccinated in the city. Meanwhile, as of July 29, of the total 7,020,006 vaccine doses administered in the city, 2,552,299 are in the 18-45 age group, 2,133,666 in 45-60 age group, 1,597,377 senior citizens, and 713,324 frontline and health care workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-23-drop-in-covid-vaccinations-in-july-compared-to-june-101627582378808.html
29-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Shilpa Shetty’s mother duped of ₹1.6 crore in a land deal||Juhu police booked a Karjat resident for cheating Sunanda Shetty, mother of actor Shilpa Shetty, to the tune of ₹1.6 crore.Juhu police on Wednesday registered a first information report (FIR) for cheating and forgery following an order by a metropolitan magistrate court. Shetty alleged that the man, Sudhakar Ghare, sold her a plot at Karjat in Raigad district for ₹1.6 crore by lying to her that the land belonged to him.According to police, Ghare came in contact with Shetty in 2109 and showed her a plot at Karjat saying it was his and he wanted to sell it. The complainant bought the land last year.Later, when she found out that the land belonged to someone else, she confronted Ghare. He told her that he had political contacts and threatened her. Shetty then approached the court following which an order was issued to Juhu police to register an FIR against Ghare.Shashikant Mane, senior inspector of Juhu police station, said they have booked Ghare under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 409 (criminal breach of trust by agent), 420 (cheating), 462 (punishment for same offence when committed by person entrusted with custody), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (fraudulent or dishonest use as genuine any document or electronic record which is forged), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.“We have registered the FIR and are now tracing Ghare who is absconding at present. We are also verifying the purchase documents submitted by Sunanda Shetty before the court,” said Mane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-shilpa-shetty-s-mother-duped-of-1-6-crore-in-a-land-deal-101627582377754.html
29-07-2021||Mumbai||Mangrove cell sets September 30 deadline for mangroves handover in Maharashtra||All mangrove lands currently in the possession of various government agencies, such as the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT), Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada), Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) and various municipal corporations, among others, will be handed over to the state forest department within the two months, by September 30, the mangrove cell submitted to the Bombay high court (HC).The deadline was set during a July 13 meeting of an independent state-level committee constituted to ensure compliance with the HC’s final judgement of September 2018, instructing that all mangrove lands in the state be handed over to the forest department for protection under the Indian Forest Act, 1927. The minutes of the meeting, released on July 26, were submitted to the HC in an affidavit Wednesday. The matter is set to be heard on Thursday.HT had, on July 25, reported that a total of 519 hectares (ha) of mangroves have already been committed for handover by Cidco (219ha) and MMRDA (200ha). However, the Committee of Secretaries, in their July 13 meeting, noted that Cidco has over 1,000ha of mangroves in their possession. “Cidco is directed to identify remaining mangrove forest with the help of MRSAC maps and ground-truthing,” the committee noted, issuing similar directions applicable to JNPT, Mhada, MIDC, and the municipal corporations of Panvel, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Navi Mumbai and Kalyan-Dombivli.The date, September 30, has also been set as the deadline to resolve 58 pending complaints received since 2018 by the HC-appointed mangrove monitoring and protection committee headed by the Konkan divisional commissioner. The committee has received 146 complaints related to destruction of mangroves in three years, of which 88 have been resolved. The date is also the deadline for civic bodies to assign sites for dumping of debris and construction waste and to clear up all illegally dumped construction and demolition waste from not only recognised mangrove areas but also a 50-metre buffer zone around them, shows the minutes of the meeting.However, a member of the monitoring committee said this deadline is unlikely to be met. “The official stance of the municipalities is that cleaning up the mangroves is too expensive and that the process will be a lengthy one, involving taking out tenders and so on. It does not make financial sense for them. In all cases of illegal dumping on mangroves, there has not been any instance where the waste has actually been cleaned up. We will have to see what the court says about this,” the member said. Another significant milestone that the forest department hopes to achieve in the next two months is the settlement of claims on 3,700ha of mangroves which are awaiting final declaration as “reserve forest” under section 20 of the Indian Forest Act with appointed forest settlement officers or sub-divisional officers. Konkan divisional commissioner has been asked to ensure that none of these areas are deleted on account of the lack of mangroves on site. “The status of mangroves in the year 2005 shall be considered for the purpose of final notification,” the committee observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mangrove-cell-sets-september-30-deadline-for-mangroves-handover-in-maharashtra-101627582077826.html
29-07-2021||Gurugram||After Khori, demolition of illegal structures in other parts of Aravallis to start next week||Officials of the Gurugram and Faridabad forest departments said that preparations are underway to raze all illegal structures in the Aravallis and that the groundwork is likely to start next week.The action comes a week after the Supreme Court, while hearing a case about demolition of Khori village in Faridabad, observed that “the direction to remove all unauthorised structures standing on the forest land applies to all such structures without any exception”. In Gurugram, there are over 400 illegal farmhouses, among other structures, on Aravalli land, officials said. Rajeev Tejyan, the divisional forest officer for Gurugram, said, “We are identifying all the illegal structures and notices will be sent (to the owners). We will follow all the directives of the Supreme Court and take action within four weeks.”Raj Kumar, the divisional forest officer for Faridabad, said that the orders of the Supreme Court will be followed on priority and action on the ground action will start next week. “By Friday, notices will be sent about all these properties and four days will be given to them (property owners) to file a response. After that, from next week, a drone survey and ground verification will be carried out by the forest and district administration staff to understand the exact area before starting the demolition work,” said Kumar. In Faridabad, officials have estimated that around 120-130 illegal structures are currently standing on land notified under the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA). According to directives of the Supreme Court, the PLPA attracts protection under the Forest Conservation Act of 1980, which states that “no state government or other authority shall make, except with the prior approval of the central government, any order directing that any forest land or any portion thereof may be used for any non-forest purpose.” On Thursday, 11 illegal structures were also demolished by the Sohna Municipal Council in the Raisina Aravallis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/after-khori-demolition-of-illegal-structures-in-other-parts-of-aravallis-to-start-next-week-101627581958992.html
29-07-2021||Gurugram||Woman raped by cab driver on way home to Delhi||A cab driver was booked for allegedly raping a woman, an employee of an apparel brand in a prominent mall on the Mehrauli-Gurugram Road, on the pretext of offering her a lift to her residence, the police said. The woman is a Delhi resident and was on her way back home on Wednesday night when the incident took place. Subhash Boken, the spokesperson for Gurugram police, said that she flagged down a cab on MG Road, near a bus stop, and the driver asked her to board the front seat. “The driver asked her to leave the rear seats for other passengers. He parked the car on an isolated stretch and raped her in the cab,” he said. The police said that the cab driver left her at the Aya Nagar border. The woman approached the police on Thursday and lodged a complaint at the DLF Phase-2 police station. The woman, in her complaint, said that the driver molested her and when she tried to raise the alarm, he threatened her life. Boken said the woman had left her workplace around 8pm and boarded the cab around 8.15pm. Before leaving, the driver returned her purse and mobile phone, which she used to call her husband. Following the complaint, a medical examination was conducted and a case was registered against the unidentified cab driver under sections 376 (rape) and 354 (molestation) of the Indian Penal Code at the DLF Phase-2 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/woman-raped-by-cab-driver-on-way-home-to-delhi-101627581957643.html
29-07-2021||Gurugram||Highly venomous common krait snake rescued from residence near Aravallis||A four-foot-long common krait — a highly venomous snake native to the Aravallis — was rescued by officials of the wildlife department from a house in Gadoli Khurd village in Sector 9 on Pataudi Road, early on Thursday.Officials said that the male snake, weighing around one kilogram, was kept under observation for three hours before it was released in the Aravallis, under the supervision of the wildlife department.A 10-year-old girl was the first to notice the snake, after feeling the reptile move across her chest.Anil Gandas, a wildlife expert who led the rescue operation, said he received a call from 34-year-old Jai Kishan, an executive of a multinational company who lived in the village around 2.30am on Thursday. According to Gandas, he was told that the snake seemed to be asleep on the sofa but it started slithering towards a bedroom when the light was switched on. The residence is on the periphery of a dense jungle.Gandas, who lives in the same village, reached the spot within 10 minutes. “There was a huge crowd when I got there. The snake was on the bed in the bedroom at the residence,” he said. Ten-year-old Avantika, a class 5 student of a private school, said that she was sleeping on a sofa, adjacent to her father’s bed. “Around 2.30am, I woke up after I felt something was moving across me. I tried to throw it away but the movement continued over and over. I thought that a frog had jumped on my sofa but after a few minutes, I realised that it was a snake,” she said. This is the eleventh snake to be rescued this month from a residence in Gurugram. Snake sightings in Gurugram’s residential areas, particularly inside houses, have become commonplace over the past few years, according to the district wildlife department. In the last 10 years, there have been 1,027 instances of snake rescue, on average, every year. According to wildlife experts, 20 species of snakes are native to the Aravallis and four of those, the monocled cobra, spectacled cobra, black cobra and the common krait, are highly venomous. Wildlife officials said that the common krait was released in the Aravallis in the morning. Members of the household, where the snake was found, raised the alarm as soon as they spotted the snake.“My wife and I were in panic. We all came out of the house and stood outside until Gandas reached. Even after the rescue, we were unable to enter the room. Except for my daughter, all of us were scared. We were lucky enough that the snake did not bite any of us. I was scared and worried about the safety of my family till the rescue team took it away. It was the first time I saw a snake, this big, up close. It was huge,” said Kishan. The 10-year-old who found the snake said that she watches wildlife shows on television frequently but having a first-hand encounter was a different experience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/highly-venomous-common-krait-snake-rescued-from-residence-near-aravallis-101627581898365.html
29-07-2021||Other||More awareness needed to increase vax among lactating, pregnant women||PUNE As lactating women and pregnant women have begun taking the Covid vaccine, experts suggest hesitancy among these beneficiaries can be reduced as awareness increases. Speaking about the issue, Dr Meenakshi Deshpande, consultant obstetrician and gynaecologist, and president-elect, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Pune chapter, said that many lactating women and pregnant women are still hesitant about taking the vaccine.“Since the central government gave permission to vaccinate pregnant women, 300 beneficiaries have received the vaccination. Any side-effects, post vaccination, are similar to those from other age groups. Dizziness, fever and pain at the site of vaccination are common symptoms post- vaccination,” said Dr Deshpande.She added that so far only one patient has reported fever and fatigue, post vaccination, for more than one day.“The effect of vaccination on children who breastfeed and on the foetus are not seen. The vaccines are safe for the child and the mother,” said Dr Deshpande.She added that in other countries, vaccines for pregnant and lactating women started early.“Due to this, many women are inoculated. As inoculation started just a month ago, many women are hesitant to take the vaccine. Doctors are suggesting pregnant and lactating women take their dose as soon as possible to keep themselves and their babies safe,” said Dr Deshpande.Dr Dnyaneshwar Mote, member of the Pune city Covid task force for social action, said that on the ground level, many women and families are hesitant about taking the vaccine.“So far, the scientific evidence suggests that Vaccines are safe for pregnant and lactating women. In such a scenario, more awareness campaigns should be taken up by the government,” said Dr Mote.He added that women who are not educated should be counselled about the benefits of the vaccine.“During the second wave, we saw a lot of new mothers infected with Covid. Whereas, young infants were safe and many later tested negative with no post-Covid complications. For this to not repeat itself, it is important to vaccinate pregnant women and lactating women. Their vaccination will ensure the safety of the child too,” said Dr Mote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/more-awareness-needed-to-increase-vax-among-lactating-pregnant-women-101627581896990.html
29-07-2021||Mumbai||Arrested Raj Kundra, Thorpe to prevent further destruction of evidence: Police to Bombay HC||The Mumbai Police responded to the petition filed by arrested businessman Raj Kundra on Thursday and informed the Bombay high court (HC) there was nothing illegal in the arrest of Kundra and co-accused Ryan Thorpe who were nabbed when they were taken to the crime branch office at Byculla. The police said the arrests were made to prevent Kundra and Thorpe from further destroying or tampering with evidence crucial to the pornographic film racket case. Kundra, however, argued that as proper Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) was not followed by the police during his arrest, making it illegal. He added that new charges including section 201 (punishment for causing disappearance of evidence) of the Indian Penal Code, which were not pressed when he was first arrested, were added as an afterthought. Kundra argued that as he was not informed about the same, his arrest was illegal. A single judge bench of justice AS Gadkari, while hearing the petitions filed by Kundra and Thorpe, was informed by senior counsel Aabad Ponda that the police had acted vengefully as Kundra had refused to acknowledge the notice they had served him under section 41A of CrPC which mandated his appearance before a police officer to avoid unnecessary arrest.Kundra’s petition stated that though he had not acknowledged the notice issued by the police based on the FIR registered under various sections of IPC and laws on indecent portrayal of women, he had been present in his office when it was searched and also went to the crime branch. However, he was arrested there without being served a notice, which was a violation of his rights as well as laws which safeguarded a person from arrest when the offence calls for less than seven years of imprisonment.On July 27, the bench had asked the police to respond to the petition and said it would not grant ex-parte ad-interim relief without hearing the respondents.On Thursday, the affidavit filed by police inspector Kiran Bidve from property cell, district crime branch, criminal investigation department-Mumbai, said Kundra and his IT technician Thorpe were served a notice under section 41 (A) of CrPC, and while Thorpe accepted the same, Kundra refused to accept the notice during the July 19 search of his office.Public prosecutor Aruna Pai, for the police, said due procedure was followed by the prosecution and that Kundra was given due notice under section 41A of CrPC.“The fact that the petitioner refused to accept the said notice implies that he refused to cooperate in the investigation. Apart from this, petitioner and his IT technician Ryan Thorpe also started deleting from the WhatsApp group and chat, thereby causing evidence of the offence to disappear and tamper with such evidence. Hence, in order to prevent them, accused Kundra and Thorpe were brought to property cell, crime branch for probe, and thereby they were arrested,” stated the affidavit.In view of this submissions, the police in the affidavit sought dismissal of Kundra’s petition.Ponda, however, argued that under the said section of IPC, if the Investigating officer wanted to arrest Kundra for non-compliance of the notice, he was required to avail an order from magistrate to arrest the petitioner and the same was not followed which led to an arbitrary arrest.He further said while the police had not made any allegation of destruction of evidence or deletion of WhatsApp messages by the petitioner at the time of arrest or even during the first remand, it was added as an “afterthought”. “The police are trying to show the compliance of the section 41A of CrPC, however, they have committed mockery of the criminal procedure,” Ponda said and sought interim relief to the petitioner.Advocate Abhinav Chandrachud, for Thorpe, said while his client had complied with the notice issued by police, his arrest was illegal and sought relief from the court. Shilpa Shetty moves HC seeking restraint on media from publishing defamatory content Actor Shilpa Shetty filed an interim application in a defamation suit in the Bombay HC seeking restraining orders on various media organisations which, according to the application, are indulging in publishing incorrect, false, malicious and defamatory content against her through various media platforms in connection with the arrest of her husband Raj Kundra in the pornography film racket case.The interim application stated that the respondents were causing irreparable harm and damage to her reputation with the aim of sensationalising news and attracting viewership. The application seeks an injunction against further publication of completely false, erroneous, derogatory and defamatory information and to remove the objectionable content already uploaded on their websites and portals and issue an unconditional apology for the same. The respondents include Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and YouTube which are among the 29 entities named in the application. HC will hear the petition on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/arrested-raj-kundra-thorpe-to-prevent-further-destruction-of-evidence-police-to-bombay-hc-101627581777644.html
29-07-2021||Gurugram||MCG wants to reclaim amenities from GMDA||Councillors of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) said that they are considering reclaiming all amenities — master roads, green belts and CCTV cameras, among others — that were transferred to the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) in 2018, over concerns of deterioration and slow progress of work. The MCG’s councillors floated an agenda in this regard and the same will be put forward for discussion during MCG’s House meeting on Saturday, said officials. Mayor Madhu Azad said that the issue of transferring amenities back to the MCG was raised by councillors during a civic body meeting on July 20, after severe waterlogging in the city.“All councillors approached me with this issue and we unanimously agreed that bringing back the amenities to the MCG is of utmost importance. The GMDA is not taking care of the amenities properly. We will be content even if GMDA just monitors the amenities and MCG carries out all the execution work,” said Azad.Sudhir Rajpal, the chief executive officer of GMDA, declined to comment on the matter. A senior official of the GMDA, wishing not to be named, said, “It (the transferring of amenities) is a policy decision. This was taken by the Haryana government three years ago. Continuing with GMDA, giving it back to MCG or making them work together is their decision. Such decisions take time, as it has to go through multiple levels. We will continue with our services, unless directed otherwise.” In Gurugram, the MCG looks after all arterial roads, colony roads and internal drains, while the GMDA looks after master (major) roads, green belts, CCTV cameras and master drains. In its agenda, the MCG stated that under the GMDA’s care, the amenities are either deteriorating or work on projects is progressing slowly, and hence, they want them transferred to the MCG. The GMDA has been facing a fund crunch and four years since its formation, it is yet to work out its financial model and relies on other public bodies for its revenue. On the other hand, the MCG is the richest civic body in Haryana. In its 2021-22 budget, the GMDA has set an estimated expenditure of ₹1,848 crore, against an estimated revenue of ₹1,200 crore. On the other hand, for this fiscal year, the MCG has set an estimated expenditure of ₹2,583 crore and estimated revenue of ₹4,899 crore, with an estimated profit of ₹2,316 crore. Azad said that due to disparity in the work carried out by MCG and GMDA, the city’s development is getting lopsided. “There is a huge gap in the city’s amenities. The streets and internal roads are properly built while most major roads are either pothole-ridden or nearing degradation. For citizens, the discrepancy is difficult to comprehend. All master services are in dire need of an upgrade as well as upkeep,” said Azad. On Thursday, MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja also held an internal meeting with officials at the MCG’s Sector 34 office regarding Saturday’s House meeting, in which the agenda was also discussed.“The matter was deliberated upon in the meeting. Even if the agenda gets approval in the House, it would be forwarded to the Haryana government for final approval. As the Haryana government had decided to transfer the amenities from MCG to GMDA, they are the ones holding the power for transferring them back,” a senior MCG official, wishing not to be named, said.The MCG House meeting is scheduled to take place at 11am on Saturday at the Haryana Institute of Public Administration’s office in Sector 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-wants-to-reclaim-amenities-from-gmda-101627581719834.html
29-07-2021||Gurugram||Juveniles who robbed cab for vacation in Himachal Pradesh apprehended||Two juvenile teenagers were apprehended on Wednesday night for allegedly robbing a cab driver at gunpoint, after booking a trip on a cab aggregator service, to get a vehicle to travel to a hill station, the police said.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said the younger of the two is a resident of Gurugram and is a class 11 student of a private school in the city, while the other juvenile is a Delhi resident who was awaiting results of his class 12 board exams. They are childhood friends as they had attended the same primary school in Jhajjar.They booked a cab from Hero Honda Chowk to Haridwar in Uttarakhand, and were planning to vacation in Himachal Pradesh, the police said. The juveniles, according to the police, are just a few months from turning 18. The police said that when the cab reached Garhi Hasaru, they allegedly took the driver at gunpoint, robbed him of cash, mobile phone and car, and pushed him out of the car on an isolated stretch. They were caught when they were trying to rob commuters to fund their vacation, the police said.The cab, mobile phones, cash and a countrymade pistol was recovered from their possession. “They were looking for a personal car for the trip and despite attempts, they could not arrange one through friends and relatives, following which they planned to commit a robbery. The juveniles were on the lookout for another target to rob money when they landed in the police net,” Sangwan said. Sangwan said that they booked the cab on July 26. “Within a few minutes of the trip, one of them pulled out the pistol and asked the driver to pull up, but when the driver resisted, the other juvenile placed a broken beer bottle on the driver’s neck and threatened to kill him. Fearing for his life, the driver stopped the car and the duo dragged him out of the car near Sector 10,” he said. Based on a complaint from the cab driver, Rafiq (30), a case was registered under sections 379B (snatching using force) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. After scanning footage of multiple CCTV cameras, the police tracked the suspects and caught them on Wednesday. Sangwan said that one of them has a previous criminal record. “The older juvenile was apprehended for snatching a car in Jhajjar and sent to an observation home. He was released from the correction home a few months ago,” he said. The juveniles were produced before the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) and sent to an observation home in Faridabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/juveniles-who-robbed-cab-for-vacation-in-himachal-pradesh-apprehended-101627581718752.html
29-07-2021||Gurugram||Tenders for Bilaspur flyover, Manesar elevated corridor by next week: Rao Inderjit Singh||Gurugram member of Parliament (MP) Rao Inderjit Singh on Thursday said that tenders for a proposed flyover in Bilaspur flyover and Manesar elevated corridor will be floated by the next week. Singh made the announcement after a meeting with the union transport minister, Nitin Gadkari, in the Parliament on Thursday. He said that various road projects in Gurugram and south Haryana that aim to reduce congestion and traffic pressure on the Delhi-Jaipur highway were discussed.“The tenders for Bilaspur flyover and Manesar elevated corridor would be floated within the next 10 days. The flyover is going to be constructed at the cost of ₹23 crore and the budget for the elevated corridor is pegged at ₹90 crore. These two projects would reduce congestion and traffic jams on the Delhi-Jaipur highway and ease the movement of commuters in Gurugram and south Haryana,” said Singh. Singh is also the minister of state (independent charge) of the ministry of statistics and programme implementation; union minister of state (independent charge) of the ministry of planning and union minister of state in the ministry of corporate affairs.He said that the matter of shifting the Kherki Daula toll plaza was also discussed with the transport minister and he was assured that it would be done after the completion of the Gurugram section of the Dwarka Expressway, expected to be completed by the year-end. “This matter was also taken up with the transport minister and NHAI [National Highways Authority of India] officials in March and it is being pursued seriously. Removal of the toll plaza will greatly help city residents,” he said. Singh said that he also discussed the issue of broken lights, and poor condition of main roads and service lanes on several stretches on the Delhi-Jaipur highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/tenders-for-bilaspur-flyover-manesar-elevated-corridor-by-next-week-rao-inderjit-singh-101627581717649.html
29-07-2021||Mumbai||University of Mumbai declares law final-sem results with 98% success rate||Keeping up the streak of unprecedented results, the University of Mumbai (MU) on Thursday announced results for semesters 10 and six of the five-year and three-year law courses, respectively. The success rate of semester-10 students stands at 97.36% while that of semester 6 students is 98.62%, MU stated in a press release.“Of the 1,563 students who appeared for semester-10 exams, 1,331 passed with first class and above scores and only 25 students have failed. Of the 5,297 students who appeared for semester-six exams, 4,154 passed with first class and above while 72 failed the exam,” said the statement released by MU. These exams were held virtually by colleges in May this year.While students had every reason to rejoice, colleges once again attributed the high success rate to exams being held in multiple-choice questions (MCQs) format. “Last year, the success rate of law students was 96% and this year it is 98%. Students are scoring 100 out of 100 in subjects which was otherwise unheard of earlier. Almost every college is boasting of at least one or more student with perfect scores in final-year law this year,” said the principal of a suburban law college, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-declares-law-final-sem-results-with-98-success-rate-101627581597679.html
29-07-2021||Noida||Noida: Now, fast trains to stop at Sector 81 Metro station from August 2||The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) on Thursday said that the Aqua Line fast trains will stop at Sector 81 Metro station from August 2 during peak hours.Fast trains or limited stop trains were introduced in February 8 this year. These trains stopped only at 11 of the 29-km line’s 21 stations, skipping stations at sectors 50, 101, 81, 83, 143, 144, 145, 146, 147 and 148 due to low ridership.NMRC managing director Ritu Maheshwari said that the change has been made keeping in view the popular public demand. “The fast trains will stop at Sector 81 station from August 2, 2021 during peak hours – 8am to 11am and 5pm to 11pm,” she said.At present, the trains ply every 10 to 15 minutes during peak and non-peak hours at the stations. The metro service is available from 6 am – 10 pm from Monday to Friday. The Aqua Line metro trains do not operate on Saturday and Sunday due to weekend curfew brought on by the second wave of Covid infections.Brajesh Sharma, a resident of Antriksh Golf View 2, Sector 78, said that there are some residential sectors near Sector 101 metro station. “We had asked NMRC to make stoppage of fast trains at Sector 101 too. But the issue has not been resolved,” he said.Since partially resuming services after the curfew was lifted, the Aqua Line recorded its highest ridership on Monday with 10,135 passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-now-fast-trains-to-stop-at-sector-81-metro-station-from-august-2-101627581296901.html
29-07-2021||Patna||Katihar mayor Shivraj Paswan shot dead by bike-borne assailants||Katihar mayor Shivraj Paswan was shot dead by unidentified persons on Thursday evening, LiveHindustan reported. Paswan was attacked by bike-borne men in his own ward Santoshi Chowk while he was on his way to a temple.According to the report by LiveHindustan, four bike-borne men shot the lawmaker at point-blank range. Three bullets hit Paswan on the chest following which he fell to the ground. He was brought to Katihar Medical College where he succumbed to his injuries. Doctors at the Katihar Medical College said that the mayor's life could not be saved as he was hit by three bullets.District magistrate Udayan Mishra said that Paswan’s bodyguard was not with him at the time of the incident.Police officials at the spot said that an investigation is underway and efforts are being taken to nab the perpetrators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/katihar-mayor-shivraj-paswan-shot-dead-by-bike-borne-assailants-101627580967701.html
29-07-2021||Noida||2 held for providing fake Aadhaar cards, other govt papers to 1,000 people||Noida Police on Thursday arrested two persons from Noida’s Gejha village for allegedly forging Aadhaar cards and other government documents of several persons. Police identified them by their first names as Sachin (25) and Alam (24), residents of Noida Phase 2 and Wajidpur village, respectively.Additional deputy commissioner of police (Noida Central) Ankur Agarwal said, “Police received a tipoff about the activities of the two persons. Police went to Gejha village to investigate and searched their houses from where they recovered 19 Aadhaar cards, five PAN cards, 55 voter IDs, ₹42,000 cash, two laptops, a computer and printer from their possession. All the ID documents were fake.”Police said when they were questioned, they admitted to visiting different places in the state over the past one year, offering people a driving licence for ₹1,200, an Aadhaar card for ₹150 and a PAN for ₹200. “They gave their customers forged documents/IDs,” Agarwal said.Station house officer (SHO), Phase 2 police station, Sujeet Upadhyaya said, “They made nearly ₹1 lakh a month in this manner and have cheated nearly 1,000 people so far.”A case was registered against them under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) at the Phase 2 police station. They were produced before a court that sent them to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/2-held-for-providing-fake-aadhaar-cards-other-govt-papers-to-1-000-people-101627581236962.html
29-07-2021||Noida||Girders launched at DME’s rail overbridge for six additional lanes||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has launched girders for the under-construction rail overbridge (ROB) at Chipiyana near Crossings Republik Township in Ghaziabad. The development is significant as it will enable the construction of six more lanes of the ROB for traffic on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME). With only four lanes of the ROB currently open, the structure is a major bottleneck for over 60,000 passenger car units (or PCU, which measures traffic taking into consideration the different vehicles that ply on a road) that use it. Once complete, the bridge will have 16 lanes in total.“The girders over which the six lanes will be constructed were launched om Wednesday after shutting down rail movement, on the busy Delhi-Howrah route, for about one to four hours daily for over 12 days. We should be able to construct and open the six additional lanes by the end of August,” said Mudit Garg, project director, NHAI. “We plan to open two more lanes by November and the rest by the end of the year.”The two lanes scheduled for opening in November will only be for heavy vehicles that the NHAI will employ to finish the project, another official said, asking not to be named. The ROB is part of Phase 2 of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, from UP Gate to Dasna, which was opened to traddic this April. Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday tweeted several pictures of the launching of the girders, which are 74 metres long and 66 metres wide. The construction of the six lanes was to be finished by June but Covid-induced curfew affected work and overshot the deadline, the officials said. Commuters were happy to see the girders go up as during peak hours, traffic slows down considerably on the ROB.“It is a hassle to cross the ROB as the traffic barely moves an inch, especially during the evening hours. If one happens to travel between 7pm and 8pm, one is bound to take an hour to cross the ROB,” said Kamiya Arora, a resident of Crossings Republik. The section is mainly used by short distance commuters between Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, Noida and Delhi, while also serving as a link for long distance travellers to Moradabad, Bareilly and Meerut. “Long distance travellers to parts of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand over the weekends are also hassled by the congestion on the ROB. The DME connects Delhi to Meerut within an hour, but time almost doubles when commuters get stuck in jam on the ROB,” said Nitin Kumar, a resident of Vijay Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/girders-launched-at-dme-s-rail-overbridge-for-six-additional-lanes-101627581176919.html
29-07-2021||Other||Uttar Pradesh village gets ‘women only’ gym, DM calls it state’s first||In keeping with the administration’s promise to villagers, district magistrate of Baghpat village in Uttar Pradesh, Rajkamal Yadav, inaugurated what he called the state’s first dedicated gym for females in Bijrol on Saturday. The district magistrate claimed that it was the first such gym for females in the state and that six more gram panchayats of the district have sent him requests to establish similar facilities in their areas. The gym has been established in the panchayat ghar of Bijrol, which is a historic village with a population of over 20,000. The great revolutionary Baba Shahmal of Bijrol fought against the British during the First War of Independence in 1857 and made the supreme sacrifice for the motherland. As many as 32 other villagers were also hanged to death for supporting Baba Shahmal. The gym has six machines for multiple exercises. Yadav shared that over ₹6 lakh had been spent to set up the gym. The amount was sourced from the account of the Gram Nidhi. “We can extend it further after seeing the response,” said Yadav, adding that villagers, especially women and girls, were quite excited during its inauguration. “A few of them even assured to add more machines by spending their own money and to take care of its maintenance too,” said a visibly overwhelmed DM. The district administration had a plan to establish the gym in the last week of March this year but it was delayed due to the second wave of the pandemic. “The project was delayed due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and we started it again only after the corona cases subsided,” said Yadav. Fitness freak Priyanka Sharma of the village has been deputed as the trainer in the gym. Priyanka’s association with the gym has an interesting story behind it. In the second week of March, divisional commissioner of Meerut, Surendra Singh, visited the village and held a ‘Jan Chaupal’ to address the grievances of the people. Singh was taken aback when Priyanka asked him to set up a gym for females in the village. “It was for the first time in my career that a village girl demanded a gym,” said Singh who immediately approved it and directed district magistrate Rajkamal Yadav to work on it. “We announced to set up the gym in 15 days,” said the DM. An overjoyed Priyanka said, “What I dreamt of and demanded has transformed into a reality now”. She said village girls and women were happy and excited and have started using the gym. The gym is being run in two shifts - 5 am to 11 am and 4 pm to 6 pm. Priyanka is the mother of three children but has a passion for fitness and sports, like weightlifting. “I have a dream to bring a medal for the country like Mirabai Chanu,” said Priyanka who teaches village girls and women how to use machines at the gym and do multiple exercises. The gym will also be a boon for such girls and women who aim for recruitment in police and armed forces. Priyanka shared that many girls of Bijrol and neighbouring villages aspired for police and other similar jobs. These girls and women needed to maintain their physical fitness to qualify for the medical tests during recruitment. They used to attend a gym in the neighbouring town of Baraut, which is six kilometres away from Bijrol, but now they will not have to travel that far. She said many village women have joined the gym to reduce their weight and become fitter. “We seldom get the opportunity to attend a gym because of the hectic routine at home but the availability of a gym in the village would help us access it for fitness,” said Rekha and Anita of the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttar-pradesh-village-gets-women-only-gym-dm-calls-it-state-s-first-101627580279331.html
29-07-2021||Patna||Congress raises price rise in Bihar Assembly||While Congress member Prem Chandra Mishra moved an adjournment motion in the legislative council to discuss the fall-out of increasing prices of petrol, diesel and liquefied petroleum gas (LGP), hundreds of Youth Congress staged a vociferous protest against price hike of essential commodities and the Pegasus snoopgate issue on Thursday. Soon after the legislative council assembled for the question hour, Mishra moved an adjournment motion and urged the state and central government to reduce taxes on petroleum products to offer some relief to the people from burgeoning inflation. The motion, however, was rejected by the working chairman Awadhesh Narayan Singh, the issue saw verbal dual between Mishra and JDU minister and former Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Ashok Choudhary in presence of chief minister Nitish Kumar. Mishra pressed for reducing the state’s share of tax in petrol and diesel citing CM Kumar’s statement at a recent Janata Darbar. The CM watched the proceedings in the council but declined to intervene in the war of words between Choudhary and Mishra. Later, the council chair announced Madan Mohan Jha being granted the status as leader of Congress party in the upper house, on the recommendation of Congress legislature party (CLP) leader Ajit Sharma. The post of Congress legislature party leader in the council remained vacant since the superannuation of the previous term of Jha. Earlier in the day, hundreds of Youth Congress workers gathered under the leadership of Bihar Pradesh Youth Congress (BPYC) chief Gujan Patel and former legislator Amit Kumar Tunna took out a march from Sadaqat Ashram to gherao the state legislature on the issue of spiralling prices of petroleum products, essential commodities and government-sponsored phone hacking of top political leaders, social activists and journalists. The protesters were, however, not allowed to move towards the state legislature and stopped near Rajapur. A minor scuffle between the police personnel and the Youth Congress activists erupted near Rajapur when the former refused to proceed. Addressing the gathering, Tunna accused the government of leaving the people to fend for themselves in its lust for taxes and said that their protests would continue at different levels across the state. Patel said that the wing activists would go to New Delhi to participate in the Indian Youth Congress called Parliament march on the same issue on August 5. The police later arrested the Youth Congress leaders and detained them at Patliputra police station. BPCC chief Madan Mohan Jha and Mishra met the detained leaders at the police station and managed their release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/congress-raises-price-rise-in-bihar-assembly-101627578777325.html
29-07-2021||Patna||Tejashwi flays TMC MP||Bihar’s leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Thursday flayed Trinamool Congress MP Mohua Moitra for allegedly making disparaging comments against BJP MP Nishikant Dubey on his Bihari identity. “It is unfortunate. Such comments should not be made . Bihar has a rich history and has been at the forefront of the freedom movement and also in academics. It continues to produce so many IPS and IAS officers while our youths are also excelling in other fields,” Yadav told reporters. Moitra, however, tweeted and denied having made any such comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tejashwi-flays-tmc-mp-101627578776716.html
29-07-2021||Other||Police rescue kidnapped man, arrest four from E Champaran||Sagauli police rescued the general manager (GM) of a Rajasthan-based construction company and arrested four people allegedly for kidnapping him from a place in East Champaran district, police said on Thursday. East Champaran superintendent of police (SP) Navin Chand Jha said that the victim, identified as Saurabh Jhalani, was rescued from a spot near Chhapawa under Sagauli police station. “Further investigation into the matter is underway,” said the SP. Vivek Jaiswal, station house officer (SHO), Sagauli police station, said the victim’s company was engaged in the construction work of the HP gas plant at Harshidih. “During the investigation, we came to know that all the four persons used to supply material for the construction work. They took the extreme step to get the clearance of pending bills worth at least ₹2 lakh,” said the station house officer. Acting on a tip-off, a police team intercepted a white car on Chhapwa -Bettiah road and rescued Jhalani around 10pm on Wednesday.Those arrested have been identified as Jainish Kumar Singh, Ajay Pandey and Abhinash Singh and Brijmohan Bharti. Police have registered a case against the accused under Sections 363, 365, 386 and 506 of the IPC..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-rescue-kidnapped-man-arrest-four-from-e-champaran-101627578536745.html
29-07-2021||Other||Police cracks cloth trader’s murder case, 2 held||The Bhojpur police on Thursday claimed to have cracked a cloth merchant’s murder case with the arrest of two persons in this connection. The businessman was killed on July 14 at an area under Koilwar police station limits in the district.However, two other accused in the murder case are still at large, police said.According to Bhojpur superintendent of police Vinay Tiwari, the businessman was murdered on direction of incarcerated notorious criminal Mithilesh Paswan, as he suspected the deceased businessman’s involvement behind his arrest.This was revealed after police got information that some criminals gathered at Ibrahim Nagar near Sanjay Gandhi college under Ara town police station to commit a loot on Wednesday. Among them were those involved in the trader’s murder, police said.During raids, police arrested four persons, out of whom two were involved in the murder, officials said, adding that all the arrested persons were sent to jail on Thursday. Police seized two country-made pistols, four live cartridges, three mobiles and one bike from their possession.Raids are on to arrest the other absconding accused, officials said.During the incident on July 14, a friend of the deceased also sustained firearm injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-cracks-cloth-trader-s-murder-case-2-held-101627578356735.html
29-07-2021||Other||UP-Bihar robbers’ gang busted, 9 held in Kaimur||Kaimur police busted an interstate robbers’ gang and arrested nine of fourteen members, including the kingpin, during raids over the last 72 hours in bordering areas of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, officials said on Thursday. Police recovered three rifles, a pistol, cartridges, a looted pick-up van, three motorcycles, gold and silver jewellery, a television set, mobile phones and ₹25,000 from the arrested gang members along with other articles, officials said.According to the police, the gang was involved in numerous incidents of murder, loot and burglary in Kaimur and bordering Chandauli and Varanasi districts of Uttar Pradesh since long. “They adopted a unique modus operandi to escape police. The gang always reached the place of occurrence with a pick-up van and escaped to the bordering state after committing the crime,” the superintendent of police (SP) Rakesh Kumar said.After the gang looted 90 sheep from a village under Chainpur police station limits on April 30, SP Kumar formed a special team to track the criminals. The gang’s kingpin and his two brothers were arrested from their native Dumraith village, officials said.He said police have identified the rest of the absconding gang members and they will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/upbihar-robbers-gang-busted-9-held-in-kaimur-101627578296667.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||'18-point agenda will be implemented': Navjot Sidhu promises in meet with Punjab Congress workers||Newly-appointed Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday met party workers in Jalandhar, remarking that the party high command’s 18-point program will “definitely be implemented.”Also Read | Tell Punjabis why you whittled down 18-point agenda: SAD to Sidhu“I have always protected the interests of the people of Punjab and have always raised their voice. Also, as instructed by the Congress high command, the 18-point program that has been decided, will definitely be implemented. It will have to be implemented,” Sidhu, flanked by Congress workers, says in Punjabi in a video uploaded on his Twitter handle.Raising the Voice of the People of Punjab | Jalandhar pic.twitter.com/ufwibVkeVbOn Tuesday, Sidhu had met Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh for the first time since assuming charge as the president of the Punjab Congress. It was at this meeting that the former cricketer-turned-politician spoke to Singh about the 18-point agenda, as well as the five “priority” areas. Singh is believed to have told Sidhu that all the issues are already in “advanced” stage of resolution.Also Read | Team Sidhu meets Capt, lists five demands for early actionReportedly, the 18 points were given to the chief minister during his meeting in Delhi with party’s central leadership amid his tussle with Sidhu.“I met the chief minister on some priority areas. First and foremost, the three black agricultural laws, these are illegal, anti-constitutional and are against the federal structure. The state government should take a stand on these, just like it did in the Sutlej Yamuna Link Canal issue, and categorically reject amendments to these laws. The government should tell the Centre that it won’t let these laws be implemented,” Sidhu said, talking about one of the five points among the priority areas.The other four issues raised by the Punjab Congress chief were punishing the main culprits behind sacrilege and police firing incidents at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan, arrest and exemplary punishment to “big fish” behind trafficking, cancellation of the “faulty” power purchasing agreements (PPAs) with no loss to the state exchequer, and opening talks with more than 20 unions protesting across Punjab over various issues.Thursday’s meeting was also attended by party workers from Phagwara, Bholath, Sultanpur Lodhi and Kapurthala. Punjab is likely to go to polls early next year, with the ruling Congress aiming for a second consecutive term in office. In 2017, it returned to power by winning 77 seats in the 117-member assembly.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/18point-agenda-will-definitely-be-implemented-sidhu-in-meeting-with-punjab-congress-workers-101627577502042.html
29-07-2021||Other||Oppn forces counting of votes on bill in Bihar Assembly, loses||PATNAThe Opposition on Wednesday forced voting on Bihar Engineering University Bill, 2021, one of the three bills passed by the Bihar Legislative Assembly during the third day of its five-day monsoon session.The Opposition forced counting of votes after its proposal fell by voice vote during the passage of the Bill, but the result remained unaltered. There were 110 votes against the Opposition proposal to replace “CM” with “Chancellor” in the Bill, while there were just 89 votes in favour.The bill proposes to bring all the government and private engineering colleges in the state under one umbrella, with CM as the Chancellor. The Opposition wanted that Chancellor should remain the Chancellor, as was the case with other state universities.Earlier in 2008, all the technical institutions, including those of engineering and medical, were brought under the Aryabhatt Knowledge University, but the government decided to come up with a university exclusively for engineering colleges due to rapid increase in their numbers in the last one decade and development of modern and allied fields. Now, all 38 districts in the state have an engineering college.Deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad, who also holds the finance portfolio, moved the Bihar Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) (amendment) Bill, 2021 to provide amendments in fiscal targets for 2021-22, as recommended by the 15th Finance Commission and the government of India.The third bill passed was the Bihar Goods and Services Tax (amendment) Bill, 2021, necessitated due to change in the central legislation following the recommendation of the GST Council, as both the central and legislation’s need to be in consonance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/opp-forces-counting-of-votes-on-bill-in-bihar-assembly-loses-101627577996633.html
29-07-2021||Other||3,500 cusecs of water released from Pavana dam; decision on Panshet dam on Friday||PUNE A total of 3,500 cusecs of water was released from the Pavana dam on Thursday, while decision on releasing water from the Panshet dam is yet to be taken by the state water irrigation department.Pavana dam is filled to 85.46% of capacity, while Panshet is filled to 91.91%.“Decision on releasing water will be taken after looking at the situation in the morning (Friday) at 8am,” said HV Gunale, chief engineer, water resources, Pune division.Water has been released from the Khadkawasla dam which is full up, while Temghar dam is filled to 70.08% of capacity as of Thursday.“We are ready with the plan to release water from dams. Everything depends on how much rain the city receives in the night,” said an official from the irrigation department.However, the residents living in low-lying areas have been told to stay alert by the district administration.A total of 1,929 cusecs of water was released from Khadakwasla dam on Thursday.Moderate rain in city; heavy in ghat areas Pune city is expected to receive moderate rainfall for the next two days, while the ghat areas of Pune, Satara and Kolhapur are expected to receive heavy rains.On Thursday Shivajinagar received 4.1mm of rain, while Lohegaon received 3mm. “The state is receiving rain due to heavy moisture incursion in the air which has occurred due to strong westerlies,” said Anumpam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting, India Meteorological Department (IMD).Till now, Pune has received an excess of 29% of rain over the normal. Madhya (central) Maharashtra has received 30% excess rain. Konkan, Goa and Marathwada have received 43% excess rain, while Vidarbha has received 5% more rain than normal. In the state, only Nandurbar is still rain deficient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3500-cusecs-of-water-released-from-pavana-dam-decision-on-panshet-dam-on-friday-101627577276546.html
29-07-2021||Other||Bihar should hold its own caste census, says Tejashwi; Lalu too weighs in||PATNA Bihar’s leader of opposition, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), on Thursday said chief minister Nitish Kumar should lead a delegation of the state Assembly to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi to press for enumeration of caste groups or else conduct a caste count on its own, as was done by the Karnantaka government earlier. The last caste census in India was conducted in 1931.In New Delhi, RJD chief Lalu Prasad, in his first media interaction after being granted bail in fodder scam cases in April this year, also pushed for caste census and said he and his party had long struggled for this and would continue to do so. The ailing RJD chief, who is recuperating at the residence of his eldest daughter and MP Misa Bharti, was talking to reporters after taking his first shot of Covid-19 vaccine on Thursday. He said he would return to Patna in next one or two months.In Patna, Tejashwi Yadav said he would meet the chief minister to push for a caste census. “The CM himself is in favour caste census. The Bihar state Assembly had passed resolutions twice in the past for caste census,” he told reporters outside the state Assembly. “I had moved an adjournment motion today for debate on caste census in the state Assembly. But it was not accepted. The BJP government at the Centre has rejected caste census and it is apparent the NDA government here does not want a debate on it,” Yadav said.Yadav said if the CM does not lead a delegation to meet the Prime Minister, he should order a caste census in Bihar as done by Karnataka in 2018 by the then government led by chief minister Siddaramaiah.The demand for caste census is once again in the centre stage of Bihar politics following the Bhartiya Janata Party-led union government’s recent announcement in Parliament that there will be no enumeration of people belonging to various castes other than scheduled caste and scheduled tribes during the census 2021. Union minister of state for home Nityanand Rai had made the announcement on July 20. In Bihar, both the ruling Janata Dal (United), an ally of BJP, and Opposition RJD have thrived on the social justice plank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-should-hold-its-own-caste-census-says-tejashwi-lalu-too-weighs-in-101627577217374.html
29-07-2021||Other||Principals fear latest fee cut by state govt will result in closure of pvt schools||PUNE State education minister Varsha Gaikwad, on Wednesday, announced a reduction in private schools fees by 15 per cent. Although this came as a relief to parents, private school managements are worried. Schools have been closed since the Covid-19 pandemic began in 2020, with all classes online. Rajendra Singh, president, Independent English Schools Association (IESA) said, “As the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2011 is in place, any decision about fees is between EPTA and schools. So we are surprised; on what basis such an ordinance has been passed? There cannot be a blanket order for all schools. At some schools fees have been reduced by 50 per cent, and from that now there will be a further 15 per cent reduction. These schools will close down. This order has been passed for popularity and because of inappropriate public pressure.”“If you are reducing fees, then parents must pay all outstanding fees in full. Already schools are facing a challenge to get fees from parents,” he added.When asked about legal measures that could be taken against this decision, Singh said, “Once our legal teams go through the detailed order, we will take the appropriate measures.”Sanjay Shendge, principal, Seth Dagaduram Katariya High School said, “It is the collective responsibility of both schools and parents to keep the learning of students going on, and school fees is an important factor. The state government decision has given relief to parents, but at the same time it is necessary to think about private schools which are closing down due to a financial crisis or not getting fees from parents.”Another prominent school principal speaking on condition of anonymity said, “The decision declared by state government has shocked us. We are already struggling for the last one year to pay salaries. Half salaries have been paid to teachers, many of them have left the job and now in such a situation running a school will be difficult. We would rather take a final call and close down the school.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/principals-fear-latest-fee-cut-by-state-govt-will-result-in-closure-of-pvt-schools-101627577096623.html
29-07-2021||Other||BJP’s Khardekar threatens to file PIL over potholes on city roads||PUNE On the one hand as the rain is preventing the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) from repairing roads with potholes, the issue is gaining momentum among political circles, threatening it to snowball in the coming elections. PMC tried to fill up potholes on some stretches of road on Wednesday, though it had to abandon plans due to the rains. While these potholes have posed a risk to to-wheelers in the city, it has also embarrassed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which controls PMC. The BJP’s Sandeep Khardekar issued a letter to commissioner Vikram Kumar on Thursday, with the threat of a PIL within. The letter also demanded that potholes be filled-up and roads repaired within 10 days.Khardekar said, “Due to development and cable-laying works many roads got dug-up. Ideally, after finishing the work, it is expected that the road surfacing is done immediately. In places where work finished three months ago, the contractor has still not resurfaced the road; and the municipal officers are not bothered about it.”Prashant Inamdar, convenor, Pedestrian First, also criticised the municipal corporation on the pothole issue. Inamdar said, “I was a member of the technical committee formed by the PMC. We prepared a detail report about road maintenance, but the administration is not following it. For any urban area, road connectivity is important.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjps-khardekar-threatens-to-file-pil-over-potholes-on-city-roads-101627576856589.html
29-07-2021||Other||Pune district reports 1,189 fresh Covid cases and 21 deaths on Thursday||PUNE As per the authorities, Pune district, on Thursday, reported 1,189 fresh Covid-positive cases and 21 deaths in the last 24 hours. Of these, 17 deaths were reported from Pune rural and three deaths from Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours. One death has been reported from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in the last 24 hours.As per the state Health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 503,315 Covid cases and 8,876 deaths as of Thursday. PCMC has reported 256,949 cases so far, and a total of 3,353 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 326,998 total cases so far and 6,218 deaths due to Covid. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,087,262 Covid cases. Of this, 1,052,367 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 18,718 deaths in the district. At present, there are 16,177 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 11,124 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra, taking the total to 6,075,888. The recovery rate in the state is 96.59%.The case fatality rate in the state is 2.1%. Currently 487,704 people are in home quarantine and 3,245 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reports-1-189-fresh-covid-cases-and-21-deaths-on-thursday-101627576616503.html
29-07-2021||Other||Rural Pune caseload keeps district under Covid norms as is, for now||PUNE After the chief minister’s meeting with the state Covid task force, health minister Rajesh Tope, on Thursday, announced that Covid curbs in 11 districts, including Pune, would not be eased. However, the Pune district administration clarified that the Covid situation in its three administrative units - Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), and Pune Rural would be considered separately as per earlier guidelines issued by the state government. In Pune district, the weekly positivity rate in the PMC limits is 3.37%, below the state average of 3.8%. Whereas the positivity rate in rural Pune is higher than the state average, at 6.79% on Wednesday. According to district officials, details of a possibility of relaxations would be discussed at the weekly Covid review meeting to be held on Friday. “As per earlier state guidelines we consider the three separate administrative units in Pune district for the decision-making process related to Covid containment measures. The detailed guidelines of the recent developments are awaited. Further decisions could be made based on those,” said Rajesh Deshmukh, collector, Pune district. Earlier, when the state government had announced its five-level restriction plan, the three administrative units in the district had different levels of restrictions based on the positivity rate and oxygen-bed occupancy rate. Initially, PMC and PCMC were under level 3 restrictions and level 4 was imposed in the rural parts. As the positivity rate in rural areas did not drop below 5%, the level 4 restrictions have not been lifted in these parts. The caseload in the rural parts has remained higher than the urban areas for the last few weeks. As of Wednesday, there were 9,265 active Covid cases in the district and 5,918 of these are in rural areas. The weekly positivity rate in PCMC was recorded at 4.31% on Wednesday, slightly higher than the state average. Health minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday, that even if 25 districts are set to see relaxations, local administrations of the remaining 11 districts can impose extra restrictions to contain the spread of the infection. “A report on suggestions and recommendations related to relaxations has been submitted to the chief minister. He will take a final call and a detailed order will be issued in the next two days. Eleven districts in the state remain a matter of concern,” said Rajesh Tope in Mumbai. Last week, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had hinted at relaxations in Pune city. Following his announcement, traders, hoteliers, and other business operators are eagerly awaiting a decision. The final decision on the relaxations in Pune was expected on Monday, but no announcement was made. Business operators are hoping for a definitive decision at this week’s Covid review meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rural-pune-caseload-keeps-district-under-covid-norms-as-is-for-now-101627576436539.html
29-07-2021||Other||CM approves PMRDA’s draft DP that includes merged villages||PUNE Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray gave his nod to the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) – of which he is also the president - to publish its first draft development plan (DP) on Thursday. The plan includes the development plan of the 23 recently-merged villages in the city.The PMRDA will now publish the DP, inviting suggestions and objections from the public. Town planning and PMRDA officials will then go through the same and resend the DP to the state government for final approval.At the meeting for the draft DP held by the chief minister in Mumbai, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, urban development minister Eknath Shinde, and PMRDA metropolitan commissioner Suhas Diwase were present in person while Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol joined through video conferencing. The draft DP covers 6914 square kilometre which is the highest in the state and the third highest in the country, Diwase said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cm-approves-pmrda-s-draft-dp-that-includes-merged-villages-101627576256587.html
29-07-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh govt passes controversial bill to take over private medical college||The Chhattisgarh assembly on Thursday cleared a controversial bill to acquire a private medical college 50 km from state capital Raipur amid loud protests by the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which alleged the Congres government signed off on a sweet deal with the college management to bail out the loss-making institution.The Chandulal Chandrakar Memorial Medical College (Acquisition) Bill 2021 was passed by a voice vote after a debate in the assembly where the Congress’ 70 members vastly outnumber the BJP’s 14 lawmakers. BJP legislators later walked out of the assembly, demanding that the government roll back the bill cleared by the assembly moments earlier.Health minister TS Singh Deo, who piloted the bill in the assembly, said the acquisition of the college was a step towards providing health facilities to the poor and common people.“This is the best option to start a government medical college in the state with limited resources,” Singhdeo told the assembly that it will annually cost the exchequer only ₹140 crore to run the college. He also countered claims by the BJP that the medical education regulator, the Medical Council of India, has cancelled the college’s recognition, and said the MCI has sanctioned 150 seats.The medical college was set up in 2013 in memory of the veteran Congress leader Chandulal Chandrakar. The acquisition, however, turned controversial after it emerged that among those on the board of the medical college is a member of the joint family into which chief minister Bhupesh Baghel’s daughter is married.During the two-hour-long debate on the bill, Congress leaders emphasised that the bill will not transfer the liabilities of the college but only provide for the acquisition of its assets.The BJP, however, questioned section 8 of the bill that specified that the government would get an assessment of the college’s movable and immovable assets and then pay the owners, twice the assessed value.The leader of the opposition in the assembly Dharamlal Kaushik said this did not stand to reason. “When the government is facing a financial crisis and has a debt of around ₹76,000 crores, an additional government expense of ₹140 crore is not logical. Secondly, why is the government is paying twice the amount of the valuation of the medical college through acquisition? This could lead to corruption which is also not logical,” Kaushik said.Former chief minister Raman Singh said the government should have upgraded an existing 600-bed government hospital in Durg rather than acquiring a loss-making private medical college if the government wanted to expand health facilities. Singh said there was an attempt to sell the college in the past and litigation was still on to recover ₹35 crore paid to the owners in advance.“The bill has been brought to ensure relief to directors from debts,” Singh.Senior BJP MLA Brijmohan Agrawal said the bill is aimed at benefitting only some people. It is even against the interest of people who lent crores of rupees to the college and its employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhattisgarh-govt-passes-controversial-bill-to-take-over-private-medical-college-101627575297981.html
29-07-2021||Other||‘UP to have over 2 cr doses of Covid vaccine in August’||LUCKNOW Chief secretary RK Tiwari on Thursday said that vaccination should be given impetus and there should be more focus on districts with low vaccination coverage. Over two crore doses of Covid vaccine have been allocated for the state for August, including 15497770 free doses (in govt hospitals) and 4588040 doses for private sector hospitals, according to a press statement issued after a review meeting on Covid vaccination held by the chief secretary on Thursday. “There should be monitoring in districts with poor vaccination coverage. People who have their second dose due should be called up via Covid command centre or CM helpline and asked to take the jab,” stated the chief secretary. Till now, Uttar Pradesh has administered 46770451 doses of Covid vaccine, including 39175805 first doses. Apart from government hospitals, a large number of private hospitals too are administering vaccine doses and more are joining. On Thursday, Healthcity hospital in Lucknow also started Covid vaccination and now 14 private hospitals are inoculating people. During the day, 17,641 beneficiaries got their vaccine dose in Lucknow, including 1,343 in private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-2-cr-doses-of-covid-vaccine-for-up-in-august-101627574457709.html
29-07-2021||Pune||Gang of 15 arrested for dacoity at senior citizen’s house in Lonavla||PUNE: A gang of 15 people was busted by Pune rural police for dacoity at an elderly couple’s house in Lonavla in the small hours of June 17. Valuables and cash worth ₹66,77,500 was stolen from the house of Dr Hiralal Khandelwal (73) living in Pradhan Park Society of Lonavla after tying them up, according to the police. The dacoity was planned and executed by a national gang whose leader has cases in Goa, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. The arrested were identified as gang leader Hemant Rangraj Kushwaha (24), Nathu Sadhu Deshmukh (52), Sunil Shankar Shejwal (40), Ravindra Kashiram Pawar (42), Shamsundar Shivnath Sharma (43), Mukesh Ramesh Rathod (45), Sagar Ramesh Dhotre (25), Prashant alias Hemant Rangaraj Kushwaga alias Patel (27), Dinesh Jayram Ahire (38), Vikas Shankar Gurav (34), Sanjay Bhagwan Shendage (47), Daulat Bhavsingh Patel (24), Vijay Chandraprakash Patel (21), Govind Thansingh Kushwaah (18), and Pradeep Lallu Dhanuk (28), according to the police. The police traced CCTV camera footage and other technical methods to Lonavla, Mumbai, and Pune, to arrest the first eight accused. “However, their interrogation had revealed that the main accused is in Madhya Pradesh, and he was in possession of the stolen valuables. A team of policemen led by sub-inspector Rameshwar Dhondge of crime branch were stationed in Madhya Pradesh for three weeks,” read a statement from the Pune rural police. The police found five accused and two minor boys in Danbri area of Madhya Pradesh and found stolen valuables worth ₹30,52,200, including cash, jewellery, and three phones purchased using the stolen money. Inspector Dilip Pawar of Lonavla police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gang-of-15-arrested-for-dacoity-at-senior-citizen-s-house-in-lonavla-101627574096262.html
29-07-2021||Pune||Bhima Koregaon Commission to resume on August 2 in semi-virtual format||PUNE: The Bhima Koregaon Commission will resume its hearings into the Bhima Koregaon violence of 2018, on August 2 in Pune, after being on hold for almost two years, according to the commission secretary. In the light of the Covid pandemic, the hearings will be held in a semi-virtual environment, according to the commission. “Only witnesses and advocates concerned will be allowed to enter the court hall. If the number of advocates exceed the sitting arrangement, admission to the hall would be given on the basis of “first come, first serve”. If any seats remain vacant after accommodating advocates; others would be accommodated on first come, first serve basis, but preference would be given to reporters. It is clarified that only one advocate per party would be allowed in the court hall subject to availability of seats,” read a statement from the secretary of the commission. For everyone else, a link will be generated and sent. The two-member commission consists of Justice JN Patel, retired Calcutta High Court judge, and Sumit Malik, former chief secretary with VV Palnitkar as the secretary of the commission. The two-member commission was formed by the then state government with Bharatiya Janata Party’s Devendra Fadnavis as the chief minister on February 9, 2018. In its initial literature, the commission was tasked with following six terms of reference - identifying causes of the January 1, 2018 riots that took place in Pune, identify responsible groups, determine whether police and administration were prepared enough, and recommend short and long-term measures. The commission which was formed in February 2018 works out of public information office at Madam Cama road, Mumbai and the Zilla Parishad building in Bundgarden, Pune. The hearings on August 2 will begin in the Pune office with a video link for reporters and public, should they inform the secretary beforehand. The commission has so far been granted at least eight extensions. While at point the commission was looking out for a bigger space to hold more people, the stakeholders have decided to take the process online. In November 2020, the five people who were scheduled to record evidence included Sharad Pawar, Nationalist Congress Party chief; Saurabh Rao, former district collector; Suvez Haque, former superintendent of Pune rural police; Ravindra Sengaonkar, IPS officer; and Rajendra Gaikwad, descendant of Govind Gopal Mahar whose tomb was allegedly desecrated at Vadhu Budruk. However, now, the list of people includes Rekhatai Sahebrao Shivle, Sabhaji Shivali, Pralhad IShwar Gaikwad, Rameh Ganpatrao Galande, and Ganesh Arvindrao More, according to the commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bhima-koregaon-commission-to-resume-on-august-2-in-semi-virtual-format-101627573678286.html
29-07-2021||Other||3 children among 5 injured in Karnal roof collapse||Five people, including three children, have sustained injuries as the roof of a two-storey house they were living in collapsed due to heavy rain at Kathlaheri village in Karnal.The injured have been identified as Abhi (4), Garvit (3), Sonam (4), Sunita (48), and Sonia (23). Charan Singh, a member of the family, told police that at around 4am, he heard noise and found that the roof of the house had collapsed.Some family members were trapped under the house. Later, the villagers reached the spot and pulled them out from the debris. They were taken to a local hospital and their condition is stable.Karnal villagers protest waterloggingResidents of Barota village in Karnal held a protest demanding the government to take immediate action to protect hundreds of acres of standing crop that was submerged in water.The villagers blocked Karnal-Moonak road. They alleged that their crop is under water for the past one week and the district administration has not taken any action to drain out excess water from their fields.“We have taken up the issue with the local officials but they did not take it seriously,” alleged the protesters.Later, police reached the village and tried to pacify them and after one-and-a-half-hours the villagers agreed to lift the blockade.Yamuna water enters fields in Karnal villagesMeanwhile, water of Yamuna river entered hundreds of acres in many villages of Karnal.Following incessant rainfall in the past couple of days, the river’s water level has increased and it entered fields in Chaugawan, Chandraon, Karsola, Sayeed Chapra, Shergarh Tapu, Nabiabad and Mundigarhi villages.However, there were no reports of water entering residential areas. Following reports of overflowing river, the district administration put out an alert and teams were deployed to assist the farmers.District revenue officer Sham Lal said the situation is under control as by evening, the water had started receding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-children-among-5-injured-in-karnal-roof-collapse-101627573317454.html
29-07-2021||Pune||Lok Adalat to sit online on Aug 1, 56,000 cases to settle||Pune: As many as 56,000 litigations will be taken up for dispute resolution during the forthcoming Lok Adalat scheduled online on August 1. The initiative is undertaken after more than a year as it had to be postponed due to the Covid situation. The Lok Adalat will ensure that the litigants are present online on different social media platforms like WhatsApp where a live discussion over the litigation would be done. District Legal Services Authority secretary Pratap Sawant said the Lok Adalat will take place under the guidance of the district judge and forty panels had been formed to the effect. “The online Lok Adalat system is being done to stop crowding of physical space in courts. The email and phone numbers of the litigants have sent to Sama company which is assisting us with the online conduct of the programme. Currently, the company has got 4,500 litigation details available with it for disposal,” he said. The parties can present their cases online through various medium. Pune District Legal Service Authority will be conducting the Lok Adalat. According to the National Legal Services Authority, Lok Adalat is an alternative dispute redressal mechanism. It is a forum where disputes/cases pending in the court of law or at pre-litigation stage are settled/compromised amicably. It has got statutory status under the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987. Under the said Act, the award (decision) made by the Lok Adalats is deemed to be a decree of a civil court and is final and binding on all parties and no appeal against such an award lies before any court of law. There is no court fee payable when a matter is filed in a Lok Adalat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lok-adalat-to-sit-online-on-aug-1-56-000-cases-to-settle-101627573318135.html
29-07-2021||Pune||Bank duped of ₹9.9 lakh by poser customer in Pune||PUNE: An unidentified person was booked for cheating a bank employee into transferring money from one of the bank customer’s accounts to an unidentified account by personating the original customer. “The man was pretending to be the CEO of a company which has an account in the bank. The complaint was with the cyber crime cell and now we are investigating it. The real account holder has applied for the money to be returned to him as it was deducted without his knowledge or consent,” said inspector (crime) Sajay Mogale of Deccan police station. The incident happed in July 2020 when the man wrote an email to the bank employee claiming to be the CEO of a company and in need of money. Through an email ID, the suspect told the bank that he did not have the cheque book as it was not delivered due to the lockdown. Thereafter, in two transactions of RTGS, a total of ₹9,93,530 was transferred from his account to the suspect’s account. When the original account holder realised that money was deducted, he told the bank and the bank lodged a complaint. A case under Sections 419 (personation) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Deccan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bank-duped-of-rs-9-9-lakh-by-poser-customer-in-pune-101627572898503.html
29-07-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Bombay HC calls for Hany Babu’s medical report||The Bombay high court on Thursday directed Breach Candy Hospital to submit the health report of Delhi University associate professor and Elgar Parishad case accused, Hany Babu, who is currently undergoing treatment for an eye infection.The court was informed by Babu’s advocate that after receiving treatment at the hospital for two months his condition has substantially improved and did not want to press for further relief. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar was hearing the application of Jenny Rowena, the wife of Babu seeking his transfer to a private hospital to treat an eye infection, which he had suffered while he was at Taloja jail. Babu had also tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to GT Hospital. However, as the hospital did not have the wherewithal to treat the eye infection his wife had sought his transfer to Breach Candy Hospital. The HC allowed it and on May 19 ordered his shifting to the private hospital provided he bore the expenses. In June, his stay at the hospital had been extended after the hospital report showed that he had a swelling in the optic nerve which required an MRI scan and other tests.On Thursday, advocate Payoshi Roy for Babu informed the court that as per the doctors at the hospital, the eye infection had been treated to a large extent and only a little swelling in the corner of an eye remained and the same could be cured by administering antibiotics. “We are not pressing for further reliefs and court may call for doctors’ report from the hospital,” Roy said.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh for National Investigation Agency (NIA) also asked the court to seek a medical report from the hospital. After hearing submissions, the bench asked the private hospital to submit a report in a sealed envelope before the next hearing and said that the Court would consider the petition on August 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-bombay-hc-calls-for-hany-babu-s-medical-report-101627572897903.html
29-07-2021||Mumbai||234 pregnant women vaccinated; one adverse event recorded in Mumbai||As many as 234 pregnant women in the city have taken the Covid-19 vaccine shots over the last two weeks. Of these, two women have taken the second dose, while the rest are partially vaccinated. Only one case of adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) has been reported so far, according to the civic body. According to Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), AEFI was reported in a 24-year-old woman who was in her fourth month of pregnancy. The woman had taken the second dose of the vaccine (Covaxin) at Parel’s KEM Hospital on July 16. Next day, she complained of fever, around 10-20 episodes of vomiting, cough and headache. She also had swelling in the gums on the left side. She was admitted to the KEM Hospital on July 19 and discharged after four days. Mumbai began vaccinations for pregnant women from July 15, a few days after the ministry of health and family welfare granted approval stating that the benefits of vaccination outweigh their potential risks. The ministry said pregnant women should be informed about the risks of exposure to Covid-19 along with the risks and benefits associated with the three vaccines — Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V — that are available in India. “We follow the procedure laid out by the Centre about explaining the possible side effects of the vaccine when pregnant women come for taking the shots,” said Dr Vidya Thakur, medical superintendent of civic-run Rajawadi Hospital, Ghatkopar, which is one of the 35 centres where pregnant women can get vaccinated. “We also explain to them about the risks of the infection,” she said adding that their centre has vaccinated only about 10 pregnant women so far and no one presently with any AEFI. “The response is very low. We have told resident doctors to inform pregnant women about the vaccination when they come to OPD’s for checkup and antenatal follow ups. Hopefully, more women will be motivated in the coming days,” said Thakur. Several gynaecologists HT spoke to said that pregnant women complained of very mild aftereffects of vaccinations like feeling feverish, mild fever, and body ache. “No one has returned with any major complaints,” said gynaecologist Dr Suruchi Desai from Vile Parle’s Nanavati Hospital. According to Desai, there is need of spreading awareness among the pregnant women about the importance of vaccination. “The message has to spread by the government, medical experts and each one of us,” said Desai, adding that vaccinations have played a crucial role in averting so many deaths across the country. “Everyone has to play their part in spreading this message,” Dr Desai said. The Federation of Obstetrics and Gynecological Societies of India (FOGSI) has been pushing for vaccinations for pregnant and lactating women for a long time. “Covid-19 during pregnancy can be very risky for the mother-to-be as well as the baby in some cases,” said Dr Bipin Pandit, gynaecologist, who is also the vice president of FOGSI. “Vaccination can bring down these risks drastically. We have been strongly advocating vaccinations for a while now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/234-pregnant-women-vaccinated-one-adverse-event-recorded-in-mumbai-101627572717165.html
29-07-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC to start physical hearings from August 2||The Bombay high court (HC) administration committee on Thursday decided to restart physical hearings after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and state authorities informed the committee that the number of vaccinations had increased and there was a reduction in number of Covid cases.Physical hearings will start from August 2 and will be held three days in a week, while there will be virtual hearing on one day. Earlier in the day, citing the need to await the decision of the HC administration committee on whether physical hearings can be started, the court had adjourned hearing of a public interest litigation (PIL) which sought directions to the state and civic authorities to relax travel restrictions for fully vaccinated persons and to allow them to travel by all public transport modes including suburban local trains. According to the statement released by the Bombay Bar Association whose representatives participated in the committee meeting, the committee has decided to start physical hearings of cases – a demand which was being made by lawyers also. Physical hearings will be restricted to half days only and not be starting full-fledgedly in 11 districts namely Raigad, Sindhudurg, Ratnagairi, Sangli, Satara, Kolhapur, Pune, Nagar, Beed, Nashik and Palghar. However, the three-day physical hearing schedule will also be applied in Nagpur, Aurangabad and Goa. The committee also decided to continue the hybrid system during physical hearings as well to enable advocates and litigants to appear virtually, if they so chose, and to permit litigants inside court rooms only if their presence is required. The decision will come into effect from Monday, August 2. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni while hearing the PIL filed by Mohan Bhide, a chartered accountant and resident of Vile Parle was informed that in light of increase in the number of people getting double jabs, the authorities should be directed to permit such persons having valid Co-Win certificates to use all modes of public transport including local trains. The bench was also informed that another PIL filed on behalf of lawyers also sought similar directions. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni for the state government informed the bench that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray would be meeting the state Covid Task Force to review of the pandemic situation in Maharashtra and was likely to decide in this regard before evening. In light of this as the HC administrative committee meeting was scheduled for Thursday evening, the bench adjourned hearing of both petitions and stated that it would pass orders after the committee took a decision. “We hope they (state government) also decide on train travel. There are media reports that the government is thinking of permitting those who have got two doses of vaccinations to travel. We need someone to give us details on that meeting, as our (HC Administrative Committee) notice has to go out today. Let a decision be taken (by the government), then we will consider,” the bench had noted in the morning. The PILs will now be heard on Monday, August 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-to-start-physical-hearings-from-august-2-101627572356977.html
29-07-2021||Other||Consumers in UP spared of power tariff hike for second consecutive year||LUCKNOW The UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) on Thursday announced the tariff order for 2021-22, retaining the existing rates in what may come as a big relief to consumers who have been spared a tariff hike for the second consecutive year. The regulator is believed to have made no tariff hike in view of the situation arising from the Covid-19 pandemic as well as assembly elections that are due early next year in UP. But the UPERC has issued some important directions to the UP Power Corporation Ltd/discoms (licencees). “The commission, taking into consideration the consolidated gap /(surplus) position of all the five state discoms, approves the existing rate schedule of FY 2020-21 (previous year) to continue to operate in FY 2021-22. Accordingly, no change in any slab and no tariff hike in any category/subcategory has been effected in FY 2021-22,” the commission said in its order. Welcoming the tariff order, UP Rajya Vidyut Upbhokta Parishad chairman and state advisory committee member Avdhesh Kumar Verma said: “The commission not only made no revision in the tariff, but also rejected the UPPCL’s proposal for changes in the tariff slabs and levy of regulatory surcharge. The order will give much relief to consumers in the Covid year.” UPERC chairman RP Singh said apart from retaining the old tariff, the commission had also not allowed any billing and collection inefficiency as doing so would amount to punishing honest bill payers and reward the bad behaviour of delinquents. “We have also not allowed any expenditure towards smart meters as claimed by the licensees since the rollout plan approved by the Commission earlier clearly stated that this was to be funded through efficiency gains by the licencee in terms of reduction of commercial losses,” he pointed out. For FY 2021-22 (the current year), the commission approved distribution loss at 11.08% as per the approved losses in Business Plan Order dated 27.10.2020 against the claim of 16.64%. “In addition to this, the commission has issued directions to the UPPCL for following up peer to peer energy exchange using Blockchain technology pilot forward to its next phase i.e. integrating it with the existing billing system (ERP)/ financial settlement etc so that P2P rooftop solar energy may become operational for the prosumers and consumers of the state,” Singh said. He said petitioners had been directed to expedite completion of the smart meter rollout and also submit the technical/financial impact of such rollout on their system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/consumers-in-up-spared-power-tariff-hike-for-second-consecutive-year-101627572177417.html
29-07-2021||City||'Planned campaign against us': Kerala health minister complains as concerns rise over Covid-19 situation in state||Kerala health minister Veena George on Thursday complained of a "planned (misinformation) campaign" against the state as it logged more than 22,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for a third straight day. Pointing to a study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), George said it showed Kerala's preventive mechanism was "very good."Also Read | Why Kerala Covid cases are increasing? Study says every 100 people spreading infection to 111"There's a planned campaign against Kerala. All experts in different states say that we have a very good defence mechanism. Seroprevalence study by the ICMR shows that almost 42% of people have antibodies. This shows that our preventive mechanism was very good. More than 50% population is still unaffected," she was quoted as saying by news agency ANI, on a day the southern state recorded 22,064 new Covid-19 cases, with the test positivity rate rising to 13.55%.Also Read | ‘Their formula has failed’: Union minister targets Kerala govt as state sees Covid surgeThe minister blamed the Delta variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus for the recent surge in cases. "The type of coronavirus which is spreading in this phase is Delta, the infectability is more. So naturally, we're trying our best," George said. More than 50% of the total population is still unaffected. The type of Coronavirus which is spreading in this phase is Delta virus, the infectability is more. So, naturally, we are trying our best: Kerala Health Minister Veena GeorgeThe health minister also outlined the steps the state government is taking to control the situation. "We're conducting maximum tests these days. Yesterday, we conducted over 196,000 tests, while today we did more than 163,000 tests. So, we're trying to do more tests. We want to identify every single positive case," she remarked.We're conducting maximum tests these days. Yesterday we conducted over 1.96 lakh tests, today we did more than 1.63 lakh tests. So, we are trying to do more tests. We want to identify every single positive case: Kerala Health Minister on state reporting 22,064 COVID cases today pic.twitter.com/smcM6zQ4mfThe coronavirus pandemic situation in Kerala has prompted the Union government to rush a six-member central team to the state, while the state government, too, has announced a complete lockdown on July 31 and August 1.Also Read | Covid-19 surge in Kerala: Weekend lockdown declared, Centre to send 6-member teamThe opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has blamed the ruling CPI(M)'s decision to relax restrictions for last week's festival of Bakrid for the spike in cases, while the government has pinned the blame on the Centre's "poor vaccination distribution policy."Also Read | As cases rise in Kerala, BJP, CPI(M) engage in war of words onlineOn both Wednesday and Thursday, India reported more than 43,000 Covid-19 cases from the preceding 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW). Of these, Kerala contributed 22,129 and 22,056 infections, respectively, as per state government's data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/planned-campaign-says-kerala-health-minister-as-concerns-rise-over-covid-19-situation-in-state-101627569404070.html
29-07-2021||Other||Pooja defeated career-threatening injuries, financial issues to reach Olympics, says Bhiwani boxer’s father||Bhiwani boxer Pooja Rani Bohra, 30, entered quarterfinals in the 75kg weight category of the Tokyo Olympics after defeating Algeria’s Ichrak Chaib 5-0 in her opening bout on Wednesday.She is one win away from securing at least a bronze medal in the ongoing Olympics. She will take on China’s former world champion and Olympic bronze medallist Li Qian on August 31.Before reaching the international podium, Pooja’s initial days of boxing were full of struggle. Her coach Sanjay Singh Sheoran, who runs Captain Hawa Singh Boxing Academy in Bhiwani, said she was first spotted by his wife Mukesh Rani, a lecturer at Adarsh Mahila Mahavidyalaya, Bhiwani when she got admission in bachelor’s degree in 2009.“Pooja’s father Rajbir Singh Bohra, who is a retired Haryana Police SI, did not want her to pursue boxing as he thought she might get injured. She used to stay at our home with my wife when she got some punches on her face. Later, we told her father about her potential and then he agreed. She used to train for six hours a day,” Sheoran said.“Her competitors are good and well-prepared boxers. A single mistake can take the game away from her. I have asked her to focus on her strengths. We are hoping that she will bring laurels to the nation,” he added.Her father said he was pushing her to get married for nearly five years but it was deferred after she requested the family to give her some time.“We were looking for a groom for Pooja, but she requested for a couple more years so that she can perform better at international levels. Now, we are hoping that she will clinch gold,” her father added.Sharing challenges faced by Pooja, he said she battled a career-threatening shoulder injury, a burnt hand and lack of financial support before making it this far.Hailing from Nimriwali, 9km from Bhiwani, Pooja used to cycle to Captain Hawa Singh Academy in the initial days. She is presently posted as an income tax officer in Delhi. In 2012, she had joined the Indian Railways as a clerk.“Before pursuing boxing, she used to play basketball and football. I asked her to quit the team game and start single-event game. When she defeated a Haryana Police boxer in 2010 in an event in Bhiwani, hundreds of people from our village had gone in tractor-trolleys to cheer for her,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pooja-defeated-career-threatening-injuries-financial-issues-to-reach-olympics-says-bhiwani-boxer-s-father-101627571637142.html
29-07-2021||Mumbai||Allow vaccinated commuters in Mumbai locals, says association; warns of protest||As the Maharashtra government is yet to decide on allowing the general public to travel by local trains, railway passenger associations have decided to again approach the state government requesting the same.Citing angry passengers approaching them to protest on road and railway tracks, the passenger associations have said that this would be their last attempt to urge the government.“We get calls every day from angry passengers who are spending hours and extra money to travel to their workplace. Despite repeated attempts, the state government has not paid any attention to our demand. People want to stage protest. We will approach the state government one last time and urge them to allow people,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.The state health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday had said the decision on allowing vaccinated people to travel by local trains would be taken after discussions with railway authorities.“We had suggested to permit vaccinated people to travel by local trains and we had discussed this extensively with passengers residing across Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). We can also help share information on vaccinated passengers and their travel destinations. The state government should immediately allow general public,” said Lata Argade, secretary, Suburban Railway Passenger Association.Local train services for the general public were suspended for the second time on April 15 after the increase in coronavirus cases in the city.Earlier, as the train services were resumed on February 1, the general public were allowed to travel in the stipulated period to avoid crowding. They were allowed to commute by local train between 12pm and 4pm, post 9pm and starting with the first local train till 7am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/allow-vaccinated-commuters-in-mumbai-locals-says-association-warns-of-protest-101627571097766.html
29-07-2021||Other||156 Mira-Bhayander Covid warriors not paid since March, stage protest||Around 156 contractual Covid warriors — nurses, clerks, sweepers and ward boys — attached to the Pandit Bhimsen Joshi Civic Hospital in Bhayander, have started a ‘Begging Bowl’ campaign on Wednesday to demand their salaries. They have been denied their salaries since March. Former Vasai MLA Vivek Pandit, president of Shramjeevi Sanghatana, who is supporting the agitation said the workers were on the forefront, battling the Covid pandemic, and now since March, they have been denied their salaries. “The contractual workers were doing duty through a private labour contractor. The agent has blamed the Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) for the pending payments,” said Pandit.The Centre had ordered all states and union territories to remit the salaries of Covid warriors on time. “The MBMC is not following the said order. Hence, the workers have started this agitation, by marching out of the civic hospital with begging bowls in their hands since Wednesday,” said Pandit.Sultan Patel, a frontline worker, said, “We risked our lives and in return, we are denied payment. There was no option left but to protest.”Dr Ashok Gite, chief medical officer, MBMC confirmed that the 156 contractual workers have not been paid since March. “We will release the amount within this week as soon as we receive the funds,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/156-mira-bhayander-covid-warriors-not-paid-since-march-stage-protest-101627570856968.html
29-07-2021||Mumbai||Decide on plea over Class 10, 12 exam fees refund, HC tells Maharashtra board||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the chairman of the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) to decide the representation of a parent seeking a refund of SSC and HSC board exams fees due to the pandemic.The petitioner, a retired principal has stated that due to the pandemic the state government cancelled the SSC and HSC board exams and as a lot of parents are going through financial difficulties it is mandatory for the state government to refund the amounts collected by the state board, for the exams that it did not conduct. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Pratapsing Chopadar, a retired principal from Miraj in Sangli district was informed by advocate Manoj Shirsat that the PIL was filed as the state had cancelled the Class 10 and 12 board exams, which are conducted by the MSBSHSE through government resolutions dated May 12 and June 9 respectively. Shirsat submitted that the MSBSHSE had recovered fees of ₹415 from the 17,65,829 students who registered for the Class 10 board exams and ₹520 from the 15,07,314 Class 12 students for the board exams to be held in 2020. As the statistics for the number of students registered for the exams for 2021 were not available, he was assuming the figures for last year and said that the board had collected ₹80 crore and ₹70 crore from the Class 10 and 12 students, respectively, but as the exams were cancelled based on the two GR’s, the state was bound to refund the fees. Chopadar’s petition further states that he had made a representation to the chairman of the MSBSHSE at Pune but as there was no response he had no option but to approach the HC through the PIL. After perusing the PIL and hearing the submissions by Shirsat, the court directed the chairman MSBSHSE to decide on the representation made by Chopadar expeditiously, preferably within four weeks and also decide on the quantum of the amount to be refunded and disposed of the PIL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/decide-on-plea-over-class-10-12-exam-fees-refund-hc-tells-maharashtra-board-101627570556849.html
29-07-2021||Indore||Shivraj Chouhan warns as Indore sees uptick in daily Covid-19 cases||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday expressed concern at gradual rise in daily new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Indore, requesting residents of the city to stay vigilant and follow all Covid-19 guidelines."Today Indore recorded seven new Covid-19 cases. I have directed the administration to remain alert. I also request the people stay vigilant and follow all the guidelines. If you become complacent, it would not take long for the situation to deteriorate," a rough translation of Chouhan's tweet, posted in Hindi, read.आज इंदौर ज़िले में #COVID19 के 7 पॉज़िटिव केस आये हैं। मैंने प्रशासन को सतर्क रहने के निर्देश दिए हैं। वहाँ के नागरिकों से भी मैं विनम्र अनुरोध करता हूँ कि अगर हमने ज़रा सी भी असावधानी रखी, तो परिस्थितियों को बदलने में देर नहीं लगेगी इसलिए सजग रहें और गाइडलाइंस का पालन करते रहें।According to health officials, the city has, in recent days, seen a gradual spike in fresh coronavirus infections, going from just one case on July 23 to seven on July 28. Earlier, on July 16 as well, Indore saw lone Covid-19 case from the preceding 24 hours, making it for the first time in 16 months that the state's largest city had logged a single case in a 24-hour period.Also Read | Indore reports lone single-day Covid-19 case, a first in 16 months, says health officialHowever, in recent crowds, crowding has been seen at various public places in the city, with many people not even wearing face masks let alone follow social distancing and other norms. According to official figures, the cumulative Covid-19 infection tally in Indore stands at nearly 135,000 including a related death toll of nearly 1400. The district, which has a cumulative population of more than 3.5 million, has the highest number of cases in Madhya Pradesh and, at the peak of the pandemic, was among the worst-hit in the country.On Wednesday, Madhya Pradesh added 11 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death, government data showed. The total number of cases thus stand at 791,778 including 781,135 recoveries, 10,513 deaths and 130 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/shivraj-chouhan-warns-as-indore-sees-fresh-uptick-in-daily-covid-19-cases-101627567158824.html
29-07-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 restrictions likely to be eased in 25 Maharashtra districts, says Tope||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said that the Maharashtra government is planning to relax Covid-19 restrictions in districts where the rate of new infections is lower than the state average. The minister said that 25 districts of Maharashtra would come under the ambit of these relaxations.Tope said that 11 districts reporting a high caseload will remain under restrictions necessitated to contain the Covid-19 infection. The health minister said that shops, restaurants and cinema halls could be allowed to operate with 50% capacity. The timing for shops to remain open could be extended beyond 4pm to 8pm or 9pm on weekdays.He further added that a formal order on relaxations in the 25 districts reporting fewer cases would be issued in a couple of days. Tope said that the state government is in discussion with railways authorities regarding letting fully vaccinated people board the suburban trains.“Decision on allowing fully vaccinated people to travel by suburban trains will be taken after thorough discussion with railway authorities,” Tope said. Maharashtra has vaccinated at least more than 1 crore people with one dose of the vaccine, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday.Tope earlier on Thursday said that the rise in infections in the UK and some countries of the European Union has made the state government cautious regarding reopening at a faster pace. “Several nations have reintroduced lockdown to curb the chain of transmission and stop the spreading of Covid-19. The same challenges are before us well,” he said.Maharashtra reported a marginal rise in the number of new cases on Wednesday as it reported 6,857 new cases, reporting 599 more cases. Pune, which was among the worst affected districts in the nation, continues to have the highest number of active cases in the state. Maharashtra has 82,545 active patients with Pune reporting 15,768 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-restrictions-likely-to-be-eased-in-25-maharashtra-districts-says-tope-101627565931466.html
29-07-2021||Other||Metro trial run between Vanaz and Ideal colony on Friday at 7.30am||PUNE The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation will conduct a trial run of the Pune Metro between Vanaz and Ideal colony on Friday morning. Pune district guardian minister and deputy chief minister, Ajit Pawar, will be present for the trial which will take place at 7.30am, as per Brijesh Dixit, managing director (MD), Maha-Metro.Along with Pawar, other office-bearers of the PMC will also be present at the trial.The metro track between Vanaz and Garware College is ready and works on the stations are now in progress. While the metro track between Pimpri-Chinchwad and Kasarwadi is also ready, the underground section of the track between the Civil court and Swargate is in progress.Maha-Metro plans to start commercial operations on two priority sections - PCMC to Kasarwadi and Vanaz to Garware College - before the civic elections scheduled for the end of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/metro-trial-run-between-vanaz-and-ideal-colony-on-friday-at-730am-101627566535525.html
29-07-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai hints at delay in cabinet expansion, to decide after meeting BJP’s top leadership||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday hinted at a delay in the state cabinet’s expansion and said that the decision regarding it will be taken following his meeting with the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) central leadership in Delhi.“I am going to Delhi tomorrow morning, there I will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and BJP national president JP Nadda. This is my first visit (as CM), this will be to greet them and take their blessings,” news agency PTI quoted the chief minister as saying.“When I go to Delhi to meet the party leadership, I will also try to meet our Members of Parliament and central ministers from Karnataka on the pending projects and issues concerning the state,” he added.Bommai also said that he would seek the leadership’s time to discuss the cabinet expansion in the state and it might be finalised during the visit. He made the remarks at Hubballi, while he was on his way to visit the rain-hit Uttara Kannada district, earlier on Thursday.Also read | 'Won't be a rubber stamp CM': Karnataka's new CM has a message for BSYWhen asked about the ministerial aspirants who had already approached him for a berth, the CM replied that it was common. “Once someone becomes the CM and has to expand the cabinet, it is common,” he said.Following BS Yediyurappa’s resignation from the top post on July 26, Bommai was elected as the CM after the BJP’s legislature party meeting on Tuesday. He took oath as the CM on Wednesday.Earlier on Wednesday, Bommai said that Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and G Kishan Reddy, who were BJP’s central observers for Karnataka, wanted to discuss the cabinet expansion after they go to Delhi. “I had met central observers Dharmendra Pradhan, Kishan Reddy and general secretary (Arun) Singh (in the morning), they said let's not discuss it today, once they go back to Delhi let's see,” he said.Meanwhile, Jagadish Shettar, former Karnataka chief minister and a minister in Yediyurappa’s cabinet, said that he had decided to not be a part of the new cabinet. “As I am a former chief minister and have seniority, I have decided not to be a part of the new cabinet. I was minister in the Yediyurappa cabinet despite being a former CM as he (Yediyurappa) is senior to me and I had worked in his government in the past too, but now keeping seniority and morality in view I am not ready to be part of the new cabinet,” he told reporters on Wednesday.In reply to a question about Shettar’s comments, Bommai said “I have told him (Shettar) that I will come and speak to him personally. We have close bonding as we have grown together. We were friends even before we came to politics, so I have good regard, love and affection towards him and he too has similar feelings for me. We had a good relationship even when we were in different parties,” PTI reported.Several senior leaders within the Karnataka BJP alongside those that joined from the Congress-JD(S) coalition in 2019 have expressed their intent to be part of the new cabinet.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-hints-at-delay-in-cabinet-expansion-to-decide-after-meeting-bjp-s-top-leadership-101627565047312.html
29-07-2021||Patna||Rebuked by parents for online game addiction, Bihar teens attempt suicide||Two teenagers from Bihar’s Gopalganj district attempted suicide in separate incidents after their parents scolded them for playing online games on Wednesday evening, officials said. The incident occurred at Uchkagaon and Manjhagarh police station areas of the district.Police claimed that the two minor boys aged between 12 and 14 years and were addicted to online games. The Gopalganj police said, in the first incident, the 12-year-old schoolboy, a resident of Arna Bazar village under Uchkagaon police station, used a towel to hang himself in a room at his home, while his mother was cooking in another room. According to the boy’s parents, he was addicted to playing a game called Free Fire, for which he was reprimanded. His father, Balister Shah, who is a small-time farmer, confiscated the phone on Wednesday evening in an attempt to stop his son from playing the game. He was brought to Sadar Hospital in an unconscious state while the doctor referred him to Gorakhpur for further treatment. In the second incident, a 14-year-old hung himself from the ceiling fan at his house at Nawkatola village under Manjhagarh police station but was rushed in time to a nearby primary health centre where the doctor referred him to Sadar Hospital in critical condition.The boy’s father Lotan Choudhary said that immediately after his mother scolded him, the boy, extremely upset, went into the room. When he did not come out for a long time, the family members broke the bathroom door and found him hanging from the ceiling, though alive. Meanwhile, the boy’s father appealed that the government should ban such games.“My child got depressed whenever we stopped him from playing the game. I don’t want such an incident to happen again. I request the government to ban such games,” Choudhary said.Professor Ranbijay Sinha from the psychology department of Magadh University, said, internet gaming disorder is like an addiction. “Because of this, a person doesn’t show interest in other works and gets addicted to gaming only,” he said. He said parents need to keep an eye on children’s online behaviours early to prevent possible addiction. “Mobile use of children should be regulated by the parents. They should evaluate their internet and mobile use regularly,” he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rebuked-by-parents-for-online-game-addiction-bihar-teens-attempt-suicide-101627565996319.html
29-07-2021||Pune||32-year-old in police custody for pushing minor daughter into prostitution in Pune||PUNE: A 32-year-old woman was among five people remanded to police custody on Thursday for pushing her minor daughter into prostitution in Pimpri. Along with the woman, the four others arrested in the case include Ajay Narayan Mane (22), Omkar Balasaheb Kadam (22), Rakesh Ramjilal Choudary alias Saharan (32) and Mangiram Suratsingh Bugaliya (32), according to the police. “Two of them are customers and two are drug users. We had received information about this, and raided the place. The girl and one other woman rescued from the place are now at the rescue center in Mohammadwadi,” said inspector S Naikwade of Pimpri police station who is investigating the case. The group was found in Shreyas Heights society in Masulkar colony area of Pimpri, according to the police. The police raided the place around 2:55pm on Tuesday and a case was registered in the small hours of Wednesday. A case under Sections 8(c), 20(b)(ii)(a), and 29 of NDPS, Sections 3, 4, 5 of PITA, Section 370(a) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 11, 12, 17 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) and Section 65(e) of Information Technology Act was registered at Pimpri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/32yearold-in-police-custody-for-pushing-minor-daughter-into-prostitution-in-pune-101627565755526.html
29-07-2021||Ranchi||Dhanbad judge death: 2 held, vehicle seized; ADG heads SIT probe||The Dhanbad police have recovered the auto rickshaw that hit the additional district and sessions judge Uttam Anand that led to his death on Wednesday morning and arrested two persons who were allegedly riding the vehicle at the time of the incident. The police on Thursday also formed a 14-member special investigation team (SIT) headed by additional director general of police Sanjay Anand Lathkar to investigate the matter after the Jharkhand high court on Thursday took suo motu cognizance of the incident. Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana too spoke to the chief justice of the Jharkand high court Ravi Ranjan on the issue. Director general of police Neeraj Sinha and Dhanbad senior superintendent of police Sanjeev Kumar attended the hearing in the high court in person and provided details of the investigation to the bench of the chief justice. Also Read | Dhanbad judge dies in ‘road accident’, SIT to probe“Prima facie it appears that the additional district judge has been killed deliberately. The police took immediate action and arrested the two persons who were riding the vehicle and recovered the auto rickshaw. Their interrogation is on. A 14-member SIT has also been constituted to investigate the incident. It is a very sensitive matter and we will ensure that probe is completed and conduct a speedy trial and punish the guilty,” said Jharkhand advocate general Rajiv Ranjan, who appeared on behalf of the government before the high court. Responding to the bench’s remark that it would transfer the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation if the investigation was not done professionally, the AG said while it was prerogative of the court to do this, the progress in investigation after the incident has been satisfactory.The police have filed a murder case in the incident after CCTV camera footage of the incident showed a vehicle deliberately swerving on an empty road to knock down the judge. Uttam Anand was killed on Wednesday morning after he was hit by an unidentified vehicle near the magistrate colony when he was out for his daily morning walk. The auto rickshaw used in the incident, which was allegedly stolen from Dhanbad, was later recovered from the neighbouring Giridh district on Wednesday night itself. “Based on facts that came up during investigation and the CCTV camera footage, two people and the auto involved in the crime were identified. Two persons, identified as Lakhan Kumar Verma and Rahul Verma have been arrested and the auto was seized from their possession. They have confessed to the crime. Further investigation will be done carefully,” said Amol V Homkar, inspector general (operations). While the police are yet to reveal the motive of the alleged killers, the family of the judge, who was cremated in his hometown Hazaribag, demanded a CBI probe. “The CCTV camera footage makes it very clear that it has been done as part of conspiracy. We demand an impartial probe headed by a judge or the CBI,” Subham Sambhu, younger brother of Anand told reporters. Judge Anand was reportedly hearing some high profile criminal cases. He recently rejected the bail plea of a gangster from Uttar Pradesh who is in jail in connection with a high profile murder case of Dhanbad.In Delhi, Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) president and senior advocate Vikas Singh made a demand for an independent probe by CBI into the death of Anand.Mentioning the matter before the Supreme Court, initially before a bench headed by Justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and later before CJI NV Ramana, Singh said: “This is an attack on judicial independence. If judiciary has to remain independent, judges have to be safe. An ADJ cannot be killed in this manner. This matter should be probed by CBI as local police can be complicit.” CJI Ramana who specially took up the case told the SCBA President that he has spoken to chief justice Ravi Ranjan of Jharkhand high court, who assured him that the matter will be taken up by the high court on the judicial side. “The chief justice f the high court has spoken to Senior Superintendent of Police, Dhanbad. Even the secretary general (of the Supreme Court) spoke to registrar general of the high court this morning. If there is any need for us to be involved, we will take it up.”The CJI appreciated the concern shown by the Bar saying, “We are overwhelmed at the initiative shown by SCBA. We appreciate the steps taken but let us not jump into conclusions.”Suspecting it to be a murder, Singh said that the ADJ recently rejected the bail of a notorious gangster and the matter needed probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/dhanbad-judge-death-2-held-vehicle-seized-adg-heads-sit-probe-101627563897134.html
29-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai local resumption for vaccinated people to be discussed with railways, says health minister Rajesh Tope||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said the decision of whether to reopen Mumbai locals for people who are fully vaccinated will be taken in consultation with the railway authorities. Tope's comment on Mumbai locals came as he announced further relaxation of Covid-19 restrictions in 25 districts of the state.Mumbai suburban trains are open for a limited number of passengers. Passengers' woes have now snowballed into a political issue and the BJP is threatening the government that its party workers will travel by local trains from August 2, if travel restrictions are not relaxed. Pressure to reopen Mumbai locals to fully vaccinated people has been mounting on the government from MNS too as Raj Thackeray wrote to Uddhav Thackeray stating that this restriction is not coming to any use as Mumbai local passengers are now crowding buses. The BJP has also demanded that the state government should pay ₹5,000 per person if it does not reopen suburban railway services.Mumbai's guardian minister Aslam Shaik on Wednesday said that personally, he was of the opinion that people who have got both the doses of their Covid-19 vaccine should be allowed to travel by local trains. The minister said that a detailed discussion on this issue took place in one of the recent Cabinet meetings.Local trains, which are now only carrying essential staff, were suspended last year during the nationwide lockdown and then the services were restored in several phases for the specific essential categories of travellers, including lawyers, people travelling for treatment etc. Women passengers were also allowed for a specific timing. In February, just before the second wave of the pandemic struck, the services were open to all, but with timing restrictions.Maharashtra's deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar earlier said that people who have been fully vaccinated should be allowed to go out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-reopening-for-vaccinated-people-to-be-discussed-with-railways-says-health-minister-rajesh-tope-101627563312970.html
29-07-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh says no admission for students facing criminal charges||Madhya Pradesh’s higher education department has notified rules barring students facing criminal charges from getting admissions to universities and colleges. The admission process is set to start on August 1 in the state and around 1.17 million students are expected to apply for admissions to higher educational institutes. Students seeking admissions will have to submit declarations that there are no pending cases against them to get admissions.“College principals have been asked to take an undertaking from every student while giving admission that he or she is not facing any criminal charges in any state of India,” said a college principal, who did not want to be named.Students found guilty of misbehaving with faculty, staff, or other students and vandalising property will also not get admissions.A 48-page new rule book for admissions was notified on July 15 and made available to colleges earlier this week.Student leaders have taken exception to the rules saying they could be misused for targeting students on an ideological basis and for participating in protests against the government or colleges.“First they banned direct student union elections and now this rule is to stop students from participating in the protests against the government,” said Ajay Tiwari, state secretary of the Students Federation of India. He pointed out that students across the state have participated in protests against inflation, three farm laws, and corruption. Tiwari added in some instances, the protesting students were even booked for rioting.“So, many of these students will be denied their constitutional right to education because they expressed their constitutional right to protest and dissent,” Tiwari said.Gopil Kotwal of the National Students Union of India said the rules would prevent student leaders from emerging from colleges. “Most of the leaders, who did not come from political families, rose as a result of active participation in student politics. Now the BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party)-led state government does not want colleges to produce good leaders,” he said.The Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh’s students wing, Akhil Bhartiya Vidhyarthi Parishad (ABVP), called the rules bizarre and unacceptable.“This will definitely end student politics and is against one’s right to education,” said ABVP’s state secretary Praveen Sharma. He added the rules deny a chance to an accused to improve and live a better life. “How can college authorities decide the future of a student even before the court passes its order?” he asked.Congress lawmaker Kunal Chaudhary said he will raise the issue in assembly as the rules violate the right to education and are discriminatory. “We will not allow this autocratic rule. We will raise this issue in the assembly,” he said.Ruling BJP leader Rajneesh Agrawal backed the rules saying they will not suppress student politics. “Students can raise the issues through peaceful protests as they can learn discipline and respect for the Constitution.”Former high court judge AK Gohil said the Constitution has made education till higher secondary level a fundamental right and the rules punish someone even before a court has taken a view. He called the rules discriminatory.“I think the government should give provisional or conditional admission to students with criminal charges to save their future. If proved guilty, their admission should be cancelled.”Higher education department principal secretary Anupam Rajan said they will ensure more clarity in the rules so that genuine students do not suffer. “We will come with a clarification soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/no-admission-for-students-facing-criminal-charges-new-madhya-pradesh-rules-101627563238352.html
29-07-2021||Other||Karni Sena activists prevent ‘interfaith marriage’ in Ballia||LUCKNOW Activists of right wing group, Karni Sena, allegedly prevented an interfaith marriage in Ballia district of eastern UP and created a ruckus at a court before forcibly taking the couple to the police station, claiming forceful conversion. The cops registered a case of kidnapping against the groom and began investigations, said officials.A video purportedly showing the commotion created by the Karni Sena activists surfaced online on Thursday in which the Dalit woman could be heard saying she was marrying the Muslim man willingly.One Dilshad Ahmed, 23, along with a 19-year-old burqa-clad woman, reached the office of marriage registrar on the tehsil premises in Ballia on Thursday. Some Karni Sena members, who were present there, stopped the duo from entering the office of the registrar, alleging that the woman was being forced to embrace Islam to marry Dilshad.The police intervened in the matter and the woman’s father was called. He alleged that Dilshad had kidnapped his daughter on Wednesday and also submitted a police complaint in this regard at Ubhaon police station, on the basis of which an FIR of kidnapping was lodged against Dilshad.SP (Ballia) Vipin Tada said, “The woman has been handed over to the district women and child welfare committee and the man has been detained. The woman will be presented before a magistrate to record her statement on Friday and further action in the case will be taken on the basis of her statements.”He said no ‘love jihad’ angle, as alleged by the Karni Sena activists, had come to fore so far. He did not respond to questions on the alleged ruckus created by the Karni Sena activists.While Karni Sena members and the woman’s father alleged that she was kidnapped and forced to convert, Dilshad’s family members refuted this claim.“Dilshad and the woman know each other for the last couple of years. They both wanted to marry, but their families were against it. The woman was forcefully married to a man in Shahjahanpur last year, but she returned home after a few months. I think Dilshad and the woman got married secretly and went to court to register their marriage,” informed Dilshad’s cousin Akram Ahmad.“Now, some politically connected people have influenced the woman’s father and they are trying to make it look like a case of forceful conversion,” he added. Inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karni-sena-activists-prevent-interfaith-marriage-in-ballia-take-couple-to-cops-101627562035167.html
29-07-2021||Patna||CAG report flags low job generation under MGNREGA in Bihar||A Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India report on the general, social and economic sectors for the year ending March 31, 2019, has observed that registration of all potential job seekers, especially the landless casual labourers, under the Mahatma Gandhi national rural employment guarantee Act (MGNREGA), 2005, needs substantial improvement in Bihar.“Though Bihar has the highest number of landless casual labourers in the country at 88.61 lakh and 60.88 lakh (69%) were surveyed, only 3.34% (3,007 out of 90,161 of willing landless households) were issued job cards. In the test check districts, less than one per cent (146 out of 22,678 willing landless households) were issued job cards and survey work was discontinued. Specific plans, as required, for providing employment opportunity to the vulnerable group of households were not prepared,” stated the report which was tabled in the Bihar legislative assembly on Thursday.The audit observed that only 9%-14% of the registered disabled persons and 5%-9% of senior citizens (60 years and above) were provided employment under the scheme during the 2014-19 period in the state. “Overall, during the lean period (July to November), against the work demanded by 26%-36%, only 2%-9% of households were provided employment during 2014-19. Besides, only 14% of total works taken up were completed in respect of works for the creation of durable assets despite directions from the ministry of rural development, while 65% work remained incomplete for one to five years and 61% did not even start,” said the report, which focused on the implementation of MNREGS.It underlines a very low achievement against the target of focus area and poor convergences of MNREGS work with the schemes of other departments, viz. forests, agriculture, rural development, panchayati raj etc. “Overall, households that availed 100 days employment ranged between less than 1% and 3% of the demand in the state and only 14% work taken up during 2014-19 were completed,” the report added.According to the report, during the 2014-19 period, the state utilised schemes funds to the tune of ₹10,960.52 crore (98%) out of available funds of 11,181.72 crore. Wage employment was provided to 99.44 lakh households. On average, households earned wages amounting to ₹33,642 in the state during the period, lower than the national average of ₹37,639. Bihar was ranked 21st in the country in terms of average wage generation.The report has pointed out deficiencies, with respect to non-reporting of social audit finding/quality of report, non-maintenance of complaint register, vacancy in the office of ombudsman and lack of 10-member vigilance and monitoring committee at the level of gram panchayat as per scheme guidelines, non-immunisation of wage slip to workers, irregularity in payment of wages through E-Shakti programme and improper maintenance of records and registers.“Institutional arrangements and measures taken for capacity building for implementation of the scheme need to be further strengthened. There was an acute shortage of manpower in test-checked districts (37%) and at the state level (42%) in various cadres of posts. Financial management was deficient as observed through huge liabilities in respect of pending wages and cost of materials, diversion of scheme funds, pending adjustment of advanced since long, non-closure of inoperative bank accounts, etc. There was low employment generation in the state,” the report said, stressing the need for a “bottom-up approach of planning”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cag-report-flags-low-job-generation-under-mgnrega-in-bihar-101627561916117.html
29-07-2021||Kolkata||TMC workers take out procession in Kolkata with horse over Pegasus snooping row||Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers took out a procession in Kolkata on Thursday with a horse over the Pegasus snoop project issue, news agency ANI reported. Among the leaders present at the procession was party leader Madan Mitra, who walked blindfoldedTMC supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has already directed the formation of a commission to probe into the Pegasus issue, which has kept the Opposition and the NDA-led Centre at loggerheads since its disclosure on July 18. West Bengal became the first Indian state to officially initiate a probe into the matter.Banerjee is currently on a five-day visit to the national capital. Addressing the media at Nabanna, the state secretariat, before leaving for Delhi, Banerjee said, “The cabinet has approved the appointment of a commission of inquiry…in the matter of widely reported illegal hacking, monitoring, putting under surveillance, tracking, recording, etc. of mobile phones of various persons in the state of West Bengal.”The West Bengal chief minister has, on several occasions in the past, alleged that her phone was being tapped. Last week, she hinted that a high-level TMC meeting attended by her along with political strategist Prashant Kishor, TMC leader (and Banerjee’s nephew) Abhishek Banerjee, and party’s West Bengal president Subrata Bakshi, ahead of the conclusion of the recent assembly polls, was snooped into using surveillance tools.“The mobile phones were with us, even though we were not talking on the phone. The entire meeting was recorded. We came to know after PK (Prashant Kishor) got his phone audited. Can you imagine how dangerous it is?” she added.Notably, both Kishor – who played a prominent role in TMC’s landslide victory in 2021 assembly polls — and Abhishek were named in the list of potential targets.Banerjee further stated that Prime Minister Narendra Modi must summon an all-party meeting to discuss the Pegasus issue.“When I talk to Prashant Kishore, [and] Abhishek Banerjee, my phone is hacked. Please remember that,” she added on Wednesday.The chief minister has already met several significant Opposition leaders on her Delhi visit, including Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi, party leader Rahul Gandhi, and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, among others.With focus on strengthening the central Opposition’s presence, Banerjee said that she hopes the entire opposition can come together and “create history” in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Also Read | 'Poore desh me khela hobe': Mamata on Opposition’s unity ahead of 2024 electionsMeanwhile, the Opposition’s uproar over Pegasus snooping row saw both Houses of the Parliament get adjourned yet again on Thursday. It has been adjourned till 11am on July 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-workers-take-out-procession-in-kolkata-with-horse-over-pegasus-snooping-row-101627560907053.html
29-07-2021||Bhopal||Covid-19 vaccination in Madhya Pradesh crosses 30-million-mark, CM Chouhan hopeful of 100% immunisation soon||The cumulative coverage of Covid-19 vaccination in Madhya Pradesh crossed the 30-million mark on Wednesday, against an eligible population of 54 million as chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan expressed hope that the state would soon immunise 100% of its population against the coronavirus disease.So far, 30,098,663 doses of the vaccine have been administered to eligible beneficiaries in the state under the Covid-19 vaccination programme, news agency PTI reported on Thursday citing state health officials. The total doses included 25,195,270 first doses and 4,903,393 second doses, the officials further said.Also read | Over 28 million Covid-19 vaccine doses remaining with states, UTs: GovtMore than a million people (1,034,384 people) were vaccinated in the state on Wednesday, which the MP public relations department called a “record” and the highest so far in the country. Chouhan took to Twitter to share that 1 million people were vaccinated on Wednesday and it was the highest in the country. “Today our Madhya Pradesh has created a new record in Covid-19 vaccination. Not only have 10.34 lakh people been vaccinated, which is the highest in the country, but over 3 crore eligible citizens have also been vaccinated till date in the state,” Chouhan tweeted in Hindi.The chief minister also expressed hope about 100% vaccination in the state “Because of the people's awareness and willingness to defeat corona, the state will soon achieve the target of 100 per cent vaccination,” news agency PTI quoted him as saying.Indore leads the list of districts in the state that have administered the maximum number of doses with 3,018,551 doses followed by state capital Bhopal with 1,886,239 doses and Jabalpur with 1, 398,640 doses, according to officials. Also, in Indore, 310,611 people above 60 years of age have been jabbed, according to Dr Tarun Gupta, the district’s vaccination officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/covid19-vaccination-in-madhya-pradesh-crosses-30-million-mark-cm-chouhan-hopeful-of-100-immunisation-soon-101627559798032.html
29-07-2021||Ranchi||'Inappropriate to speak without evidence': Jharkhand health minister cautions on Dhanbad judge's death||Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta, who is also the minister in-charge of Dhanbad district, where a district judge died after being hit by a three-wheeler, on Thursday cautioned against anything being said without investigation or evidence. Gupta further said a probe would reveal whether it was a planned murder or an accident.Also Read | Dhanbad judge dies in ‘road accident’, SIT to probe"I had instructed the deputy commissioner and SSP of Dhanbad to constitute an SIT immediately in the matter and submit a report within seven days. I am the minister in-charge for the district, and saying anything without investigation and evidence is not appropriate," the minister said, according to news agency ANI. "I'm sure things will become clear after the investigation. A case of murder has been registered under Section 302 of the IPC. I would like to say the truth and reason behind the matter will be investigated and revealed. Whether it was pre-planned or accident, will be clear," Gupta further said.I'm sure that things will get clear after the investigation. A case registered under Section 302 of IPC (murder). I would like to say that truth & reason behind the matter will be investigated & revealed. Whether it was pre planned or accident will be clear, Banna Gupta added.The incident took place around 5am on Wednesday. Additional district and sessions judge Uttam Anand died after being hit from behind by an "unidentified vehicle" while out on a routine morning walk in what initially appeared as a "routine" accident. However, the emergence of a CCTV footage, in which the three-wheeler can be seen swerving from its path, hitting the judge, and fleeing from the spot, has led to a theory that the accident could, in fact, be "pre-planned."A Special Investigation Team (SIT) was constituted to probe the incident. Two people have been arrested till now, and the three-wheeler, an auto, has been seized from them, according to ANI.Based on facts that came up during investigation & CCTV footage, 2 people & auto involved in the crime were identified. Two people - Lakhan Kumar Verma & Rahul Verma - arrested & auto was seized from their possession. They've confessed to the crime: Amol Vinukant Homkar, IG (Ops)The matter was also raised in the Supreme Court, where senior lawyer and former additional solicitor general Vikas Singh called it a "brazen attack on the judiciary" and demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Singh was informed by the Chief Justice of India, NV Ramana, that the chief justice of the Jharkhand high court had already taken up the issue.Also Read | Lens on Jharkhand judge's death as new clip emerges: SC lawyer seeks CBI probeThe deceased judge is reported to have recently dismissed the bail petition of an alleged contract killer from Uttar Pradesh, who is currently imprisoned in a Dhanbad jail. However, officials say it is "too early" to link the two developments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/inappropriate-to-speak-without-probe-or-evidence-jharkhand-health-minister-on-dhanbad-judge-s-death-101627557760727.html
29-07-2021||Other||Assam minister says Mizoram police yet to vacate disputed border post||Amidst the ongoing border tensions between Assam and Mizoram, Assam Minister Ashok Singhal on Thursday alleged the Mizoram government has not removed its police from the disputed site and hoped that talks pave the way for a solution.Ashok Singhal who holds the state's Housing, Urban Affairs and Irrigation portfolio told ANI: "The Ministry of Home Affairs had ordered CRPF to be deployed, we have given our post to CRPF but Mizoram government has still not removed its people from the post, which is sad. Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has said that the dispute can be resolved by talks.""It feels like the Mizo people wish to settle the dispute via arms and ammunitions. If it is so, then, this approach itself is wrong. Also, six police officers of Assam Police were martyred during the clash while Mizoram officials continued to shoot LMG (light machine guns) at the disputed site. Peace and harmony between the two states is yet to be attained", said the minister.The minister also said that Mizoram should understand that people of both the states "should live together and move forward together."Meanwhile, requesting the Centre to intervene in the border dispute with Assam, the Mizoram government on Wednesday said miscreants from Assam had removed railway tracks and blocked National Highway (NH) 306 disrupting transportation to the state.Mizoram Home Secretary Pu Lalnunmawia Chuaungo requested the Centre to take necessary action for the immediate removal of the blockade to ensure resumption of the movement of goods and passengers to Mizoram.Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Wednesday had met Assam chief secretary Jishnu Baruah and Mizoram chief secretary Lalnunmawia Chuaungo as part of the Centre's effort to de-escalate the border conflict.On Monday, the border dispute between the two states peaked and a fierce gun battle between the forces of the two states resulted in the death of five Assam police personnel and one civilian. One injured policeman succumbed to his injuries later taking the total number of policemen killed to six. At least 50 people were injured in the incident. A total of six companies of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) have been deployed at the site where the policemen died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-minister-says-mizoram-police-yet-to-vacate-disputed-border-post-101627555176344.html
29-07-2021||Delhi||Covid no bar: Weddings become big, fat again?||The pandemic may have shrunk the grandeur of a big fat Indian wedding but tying the knot still doesn’t mean dull celebrations. To keep up with the city’s ‘showshaa’ culture, couples-to-be are again hiring celebs such as popular TV actors and singers to perform at wedding festivities. Entertainment specialists say there was a sharp decline at the beginning of the pandemic but the demand has again gone up, especially at destination weddings, as restrictions eased.Pawan Chawla, celebrity manager says, “Pehle bilkul dead ho chuka tha. Now it’s coming back to normal. Moreover, ours is celebrity-obsessed nation so couples are now keen to hire artists. The demand is up for destination weddings in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan due to relaxed restrictions as compared to Delhi.” Gaurav Sharma, AGM operations, Rashi Entertainment, says, “Chote scale ki wedding hai toh we get chote artistes – it all depends on the budget.”Hosts are ready to spend between ₹5-50 lakh for a 60-90 minute performance, vendors say. The purpose to get artists perform at an intimate wedding is for an added entertainment factor. Couples believe that a singer or a well-known DJ can deliver more than an actor and keep the crowd grooving. Chawla adds, “Actor ko bulane wale kam hote hai. Logo ki demand singers ke prati jyada hai, kyunki choti wedding mein bhi thoda entertainment chaiye.” However, Sharma opines that even with the reduced guest list, adhering to the restricted numbers and following all Covid protocols is the top priority. Similarly, to continue to take all precautions measures in the current times, wedding vendors are given a lowdown before hand. A photographer who was at a destination wedding in Kolkata where a renowned rapper and singer performed last week says, “We were given clear instructions about social distancing. Non-vaccinated staff of our group or even family members weren’t allowed to be near the performer. Moreover, to avoid coming under scrutiny, guests were also clearly instructed to not post about the performances on social media or ‘tag’ the artists.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-no-bar-weddings-become-big-fat-again-101627559155878.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab power: Why it took 4 years to review pacts, Sukhbir asks Capt||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday said the party welcomed the Congress government’s announcement to cancel or revisit power purchase agreements with private companies but the government should clarify why it took it more than four years to realise any wrongdoing in the PPAs. After addressing a party workers’ meet in Bathinda, Badal told journalists that the then SAD-BJP government had signed PPAs to buy electricity for ₹2.86/unit, the cheapest at the time. Also read: Capt asks PSPCL to cancel, revisit PPAs with pvt firms“It is for chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to explain the poor planning that led to the chaos this summer. Industrial, domestic and farms sector are equally disturbed due to poor power availability. PPAs were signed in accordance with the rules framed by the then Congress-led UPA government at the Centre. The Punjab government had simply worked according to the framework given nationally,” he said. Badal said the agreements were signed to meet the power demands of the state, especially during paddy sowing and summer season. “The SAD welcomes any move to terminate lopsided PPAs if they are not beneficial to the state. This year, the Punjab government purchased power at a price of up to ₹14/unit and the government should explain how much a consumer will have to shell out for power,” said the SAD chief. He said the state government was also trying to hinder the Centre’s direction of a CBI investigation into the scam in the disbursal of funds under the SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-power-why-it-took-4-years-to-review-pacts-sukhbir-asks-capt-101627558135437.html
29-07-2021||Pune||Taste of life: Revolution on the menu at Pune Bhojangruha||The opening of “Pune Bhojangruha” in June 1881 heralded a new beginning for Pune city. Even though the first “native” restaurant in erstwhile Maharashtra shut down within four years, it paved the way for others.“Pune Bhojanagruha” was started by Narayan Ramchandra & Co and actively supported by Vishnushastri Chiplunkar and Gopal Ganesh Agarkar, as is evident from advertisements and articles that appeared in “Kesari”. Who was Narayan Ramchandra? Why did he start a restaurant in conservative Pune? Why did one of the most popular leaders of the time, Chiplunkar, his friends, and associates take an active interest in the “Bhojanagruha”?Since the “Bhojanagruha” served only Brahmins, it was clear that Narayan Ramchandra would have been one. It was most likely that he was a Chitpavan Konknastha Brahmin, because the economy of erstwhile Pune was dominated by this caste. He lived in Pune between 1881 and 1885.Looking for Narayan Ramchandra without a surname was cumbersome. It was customary in Maharashtra to not use surnames till the end of the 19th century. Surnames appeared in the public sphere after the British established universities and schools and made the usage of surnames compulsory. Still, many preferred not using their surnames. Like, Narayan Ramchandra. He might also have not used his surname because of the stigma associated with public dining. Several Narayan Ramchandras appeared in newspapers like “Kesari” between 1880 and 1920, and were likely to have the capital to start a restaurant. There was Narayan Ramchandra Kelkar who was known for his wooden toys and had a workshop in Sawantwadi. Another NR Kelkar owned a perfumery in Kannauj. NR Sowani owned a printing press in Bombay, while NR Oak was a renowned paper merchant. NR Gogate exported arrowroot powder and biscuits to the UK and was based in Dapoli. NR Gokhale was an actor. Both Gogate and Gokhale were associates of BG Tilak at some point in time.However, none of them were the proprietor of the “Bhojanagruha”. I was able to trace the families of most of these men and found that they had no association with “Bhojanagruha”. “Kulavruttantas” (documentation of clans bearing the same surnames) corroborate this conclusion.The reports of Poona Municipality published between 1881 and 1920 do not mention “Pune Bhojanagruha” at all. They do, however, mention a few Narayan Ramchandras. NR Dikshit had a feud with the municipality because the latter seized some of his lands for widening a lane. NR Alawani had supported a candidate in the municipality elections held in 1895. Dikshit had passed away in 1882, and Alawani was a priest who spent his entire life at the Modi Ganpati temple.There were several other Narayan Ramchandras in the kulavruttantas, both Narayan and Ramchandra being fairly common names. None of them seemed to have anything to do with the “Bhojanagruha”. It was easy to rule them out because they did not live in Pune in the early 1880s.On January 25 and February 22 in 1881, “Kesari” published lists of donors and subscribers. These included the Royals from Baroda and Indore, “noble” families like Kibe, Natu, Mujumdar, and Paranjape, and social leaders like Mahadev Govind Ranade and Moreshwar Mahadev Kunte. There were several distinguished gentlemen from other parts of Maharashtra. However, one name in the list caught my attention - Narayan Ramchandra Pongashe. He had visited the “Kesari” office himself and had subscribed to the newspaper for Re. 1.According to the “Ponkshe Kulavruttanta”, born in 1849, Narayan Ramchandra Ponkshe (also spelled as Pongashe) worked in a government office for a few months after passing his matriculation exam. But, craving for independence and not wanting to work for the British, he resigned and opened a grocery shop in Budhwar peth which he ran dedicatedly for 35 years. He passed away in 1919. The entry in the kulavruttanta does not mention any restaurant.I was able to trace his family which unfortunately did not know about the “Bhojanagruha”. However, some events in Pokshe’s life point towards his likely association with Chiplunkar and “Pune Bhojanagruha”. Ponkshe and Chiplunkar were born a year apart. They were neighbours while growing up in Pune. Ponkshe was one of the few outside the royalty and nobility to have subscribed to “Kesari” during the first month of its inception.During the first year of its publication, “Kesari” published only a few ads. Those came from Dr Garde, who was one of the owners of the newspaper, Nuserwanjee Nowrojee, the owner of Napier Hotel and an ice factory, Rawji Shridhar Gondhalekar, the publisher, and “Pune Bhojanagruha”. Nowrojee and Gondhalekar were subscribers of the newspaper. So was Ponkshe, a fact that points towards the possible ownership of the restaurant.However, a series of reports published in the newspaper “Native Opinion” from June 1879 bolster the claim that Ponkshe ran “Bhojanagruha”. On the night of May 13, 1879, both Visrambaugwada and Budhwarwada caught fire. Vishrambaugwada housed the Government English School and the office of the Education Inspector. Budhwarwada had the Government Treasury, Magistrate Courts, a temporary jail, post office, Government Marathi School, Poona Native General Library and the government book depot. Vishrambaugwada survived the fire, but Budhwarwada burned down to ashes. The police initially suspected that Vasudeo Balwant Phadke, the freedom fighter, was behind the arson. After a week of investigations, they arrested Krishnarao Ranade, the keeper of the book depot in Budhwarwada, his son Keshav and the manager Shyamrao Ballal. It was revealed that Ranade and Ballal had forged receipts for many years and had committed fraud. After realising that they would be caught, they set the wada on fire, in the hope that the financial records would be destroyed, and the act would be blamed on Phadke. . Narayan Ramchandra Ponkshe was mentioned by Keshav as a friend of Phadke. According to the report in “Native Opinion”, Ponkshe, Moro Balwant Khare, Chinto Bhikaji Vaidya, Vishnu Balwant Khare, Govind Bhikaji Date, and Ganesh Deodhar would often spend time at the Khunya Murlidhar Temple. They were educated, but unemployed and wanted to fight against the British. They had requested Phadke to teach them warfare techniques. The request was turned down because Phadke was not willing to teach them for free. All the men were interrogated and were found to have no role in the arson.This incident, however, establishes Ponkshe as a staunch nationalist, and someone Chiplunkar would be fond of. Ponkshe was educated, hated the British, and did not want to serve them. Chiplunkar encouraged youngsters who harboured nationalist thoughts and encouraged them to start “native” institutions and businesses. Chiplunkar and Ponkshe might have come together to start a restaurant, which they felt was necessary for the development of the city and the country.Narayan Ramchandra Ponkshe’s name did not appear in print after the fire. The ads stopped after 1882 and the restaurant shut down in 1884. Ponkshe’s immense contribution to the hospitality industry in Maharashtra has unfortunately never been acknowledged. Gopal Ganesh Agarkar’s monumental efforts to encourage men and women to start restaurants have been forgotten too. More about this next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-revolution-on-the-menu-at-pune-bhojangruha-101627556815713.html
29-07-2021||Mumbai||Shilpa Shetty’s mother lodges cheating complaint in ₹1.6 crore land deal case||Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty’s mother Sunanda Shetty on Thursday registered a cheating complaint with the Mumbai Police in a ₹1.6 crore land deal case. Police said one Sudhakar Ghare has been named in the complaint, news agency ANI reported.Sunanda claimed that Ghare, with the help of fake papers, had sold her land for ₹1.6 crore. A case has been lodged under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).This comes amid Shilpa’s husband and businessman Raj Kundra’s arrest in connection to the alleged production of pornographic films. He was apprehended on July 19 along with 10 others, including his business associate Ryan Thorpe, and was remanded to 14 days’ judicial custody on Tuesday. Kundra had appealed for bail but the Mumbai Esplanade court on Wednesday dismissed the plea.Also Read | Raj Kundra's bail plea rejected by Esplanade Court; 'Is he a terrorist,' asks lawyerThe 45-year-old businessman has been charged for cheating, and obscene and indecent advertisements and displays of the IPC. He has also been booked under relevant sections of the IT Act and the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act, Mumbai police said.Meanwhile, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) on Wednesday imposed a penalty of ₹3 lakh on Shilpa, Kundra and his company Viaan Industries for a three-year delay in the mandatory disclosure to stock exchanges. According to ANI, SEBI stated that the penalty has to be paid severally as well as jointly by the couple – who are promoters of Viaan Industries.Also Read | Shilpa Shetty and Raj Kundra charged with ₹3 lakh penalty by SEBI: ReportAs per the latest updates in Kundra’s arrest, Mumbai Police has handed over the case lodged against three producers of Viaan Industries, and actor Gehana Vasisth to the property cell of the crime branch, ANI reported. Notably, Vasisth is out on bail in the same case and has done multiple projects for the HotShots app where Kundra is claimed to have distributed pornographic content.On Tuesday, Mumbai Police crime branch said that they are yet to give clean chit to Shilpa in connection with the porn racket. The Crime Branch is looking at all possible angles, and have also appointed forensic auditors to analyse the transactions in bank accounts owned by the actor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shilpa-shetty-s-mother-lodges-cheating-complaint-in-rs-1-6-crore-land-deal-case-101627552177923.html
29-07-2021||Other||ZP defends use of RAT tests in Pune rural, despite high case load||PUNE Over the past few days, Pune rural has been reporting a higher share of the number of new Covid-19 cases in Pune district as compared to both the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad civic bodies. Despite a heavy case load being reported from villages, the administration has lowered its RT-PCR testing numbers, in comparison with the rapid antigen tests (RAT). The ratio of RTPCR and RAT tests, which has to be maintained at 70:30, is now at 50:50, or even 60:40, with RAT tests dominating in Pune rural. RAT tests have been known to give false negatives and RTPCR tests are considered to be the gold standard for testing. As per the district information office, on Tuesday, while the district reported 960 new Covid-19 cases, of which 544 cases came from Pune rural. On Monday, Pune district reported 718 new cases, of which councils and villages reported 417 cases. On Sunday, Pune reported 1,100 new Covid-19 cases, of which 673 cases came from the villages and councils. The share of RAT tests among the overall covid testing has been much higher. With the a higher number of RAT tests, the positivity rate may appear lower, as it may also include false negatives. This is why the state government has made it mandatory to consider only RTPCR positives before announcing any relaxations or lower the restrictions in any district.However, the district administration has defended the use of RAT tests for mass testing and super spreaders testing. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO), Zilla Parishad, said, “This is because of the mass testing that we conduct at market places and among super spreaders for early detection and isolation. During the survey conducted in June and July, among super spreaders in rural areas we found the positivity rate to be lower than 3% and sometimes when we get a positive patient, there is demand from the relatives to get their results earlier. However if someone is symptomatic, or is a high-risk contact of a Covid-19 positive person we go for RTPCR test.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/zp-defends-use-of-rat-tests-in-pune-rural-despite-high-case-load-101627552734315.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||A memorable swansong to the tunes of pure emotions||The stage of our school was majestically bedecked to mark a grand celebration. This wasn’t the first time I was sitting on a stately couch meant for dignitaries nevertheless I was nervous like never and overcautious to check my formal gestures lest my inner edginess should get into public sphere. The announcement of my name by the chief compère sent ripples of excitement among the audience, awaiting my address. Amid the applause, my fidgeting hands rechecked the list in the flap-pocket, feeling the accentuated heartbeats beneath the garlands weighing down my neck. Standing at the podium, my gaze swept rapidly around, scanning the audience of all ages, including my family and friends, who had gathered to observe my retirement day. My entire professional life seemed to have condensed into a hall, thanks to the pure-hearted participation from those in attendance. Many of them had already taken turns at the microphone to express their genuine feelings about me, ranging from anecdotes to heart-warming poetry to amusing sher-o-shayari on peculiarities of my fundamental traits. A few subordinates even tapped the once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to take a satirical jab at my well-known gung-ho approach to getting work done in the stipulated time. With my clumsy hands, I fished out the list consisting of names of all those who deserved my sincerest gratitude for standing by me through thick and thin. On top of the list shone the names of my parents who’d sacrificed their basic needs to ensure quality education to their eldest child with the hope that he would help the family rise from poverty. Eventually, an emotionally stirring moment came requiring me to spell the contribution of my late wife whose name literally stuck on my lips, converting the longstanding lump in my throat into a downpour of tears, belying my commanding disposition; same was the case with my three children in the front row. However, my new abbreviation for the term GPF, usually attributed to General Provident Fund, lightened up the emotional heaviness in the air. I pointed at my peers and announced that they were indeed my GPF or Gift of Priceless Friends, who would never let me run bankrupt. A self-written verse with which I concluded the speech drew cheers and claps: Har kisi ko apne aaghosh mein leta hai, yeh waqt hai bada balwaan, Jissne meri bhi ‘jawaani’ budhi karr di, aur ‘budhaapa’ karr diya jawaan! (Time takes everything in its powerful fold so is my youth, now my old age is taking a ‘young’ lead). Just as I was about to sit in the car to leave, the emotional clerk of our school held my hand, urging me not to leave. Silence for half a minute and he let out the secret of how I’d helped him financially. Bidding adieu, I announced on purpose in my signature sonorous voice that their retired headmaster, now with a new word ‘ex’ prefixed to his designation, would visit his old peers frequently. A theatrical declaration coated with formalism from my side led to reluctant and unbelieving smiles on the faces of the staff, quite understandably. ak.bhardwaj3103@gmail.com The writer is a Mukerian-based retired headmaster of a government school||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/a-memorable-swansong-to-the-tunes-of-pure-emotions-101627551894903.html
29-07-2021||Patna||Bihar assembly passes three more bills||Bihar assembly has passed three more bills on Wednesday. Bihar Engineering University Bill, 2021 proposes to bring all the government and private engineering colleges in the state under one umbrella, with the chief minister as the chancellor. Bihar deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad, who also holds the finance portfolio, moved the Bihar Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) (amendment) Bill, 2021 for amendments in fiscal targets for 2021-22, as recommended by the 15th Finance Commission and the government of India.“Bihar has been able to maintain fiscal management since 2006, when the legislation was first made, and avoided overdraft, which was last taken in 2004...Since 2020, the entire country is grappling with Covid-19 pandemic and the impact has been intense. Bihar has also been affected by it, but still maintained fiscal discipline,” said Prasad.RJD’s Lalit Yadav said, “In 2005, per capita loan in Bihar was a mere ₹5,000, but it has now gone up to ₹1.35 lakh. For a poor state, it is not good.”The third bill passed was the Bihar goods and services tax (amendment) Bill, 2021 which amends the Bihar goods and services tax (amendment) Act, 2017 in line with the amendment in the Central GST Act, 2017 through the Finance Act, 2021, which came into effect from July 1, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-assembly-passes-three-more-bills-101627541573939.html
29-07-2021||Delhi||New Delhi among 25 smart cities with cycle-friendly infrastructure||The New Delhi area, which is under the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC)’s jurisdiction, is among the top 25 smart cities in the country that have cycle-friendly infrastructure, according to a report released by the union housing and urban affairs (HUA) ministry.Last year, the HUA ministry launched the Cycle4Change challenge, an initiative to promote sustainable alternatives to private motor vehicles. On Wednesday, the ministry announced the first stage results in which 11 cities were awarded India’s cycling pioneers and 14 others cities, including New Delhi, were recognised for their initiatives. These 25 were selected out of 107 cities that had participated in the event.While 11 cities, including Bengaluru, Chandigarh, Rajkot, etc. were adjudged top cities for their initiatives, New Delhi finds mention in the list of 10 “cycling pioneers” cities.Also Read | Bommai remains tight lipped on new cabinet, says decision after Delhi visitWhile announcing the list of awardees on Wednesday, Durga Shanker Mishra, secretary HUA ministry, said, “2020 ignited India’s cycling revolution. Cities and citizens joined hands for the first time, to test, learn, and scale up ideas to become cycling havens. The results have been resounding: more people are cyclin,g; city officials and public representatives are leading by example—cycling to work—and we are backing the city’s efforts with investments.”In New Delhi, the NDMC roped in the artist community in creating a vibrant cycling plaza. As part of the challenge, the NDMC conducted a week-long pilot to demonstrate and test a 6km-long corridor from India Gate to Lodhi Colony. The civic body roped in artists to paint the streets in a neighbourhood, Lodhi Colony, to create a vibrant cycling plaza.Last year, while the coronavirus disease brought cities to a halt, there was a surge in the number of people cycling in cities when the lockdown restrictions were relaxed. Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP) is the knowledge partner with the ministry in its Cycle4Change challenge.In the next phase of the challenge, these 25 cities will take the idea of a cycling-friendly city by adopting policies, setting up dedicated departments and creating city-wide plans.“Create streets for cycling and cyclists will come. We saw clear signs of this in cities across India in the past year. But this is just the beginning. Cities must now scale up these interventions to make cycling safe and fun for everyone,” Shreya Gadepalli, South East Asia Programme Lead, ITDP.“NDMC’s collaboration with local designers and artists to make Lodhi Estate attractive to cycle around was lauded by citizens. It must now scale up the Cycles4Change initiative to make every corner of New Delhi safe and fun for everyone to cycle, and become a model for every Indian city to emulate,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-delhi-among-25-smart-cities-with-cycle-friendly-infrastructure-101627535813305.html
29-07-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai to visit flood-hit areas of Uttara Kannada today||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai is scheduled to visit the flood-hit areas of Uttara Kannada district on Thursday, a day after assuming his office.Basavaraj Bommai met former chief minister BS Yediyurappa in Bengaluru in the morning ahead of his visit to the flood-hit areas, news agency ANI tweeted.The Karnataka chief minister said repair and restoration work would be done on a war footing.The districts of Uttara Kannada, Belagavi, Haveri and Dharwad were grappling with floods owing to heavy rainfall.Basavaraj Bommai took oath as the chief minister of Karnataka on Wednesday, after BS Yediyurappa stepped down on Monday. Bommai is the son of former of former Karnataka chief minister and Janata Dal leader SR Bommai.In his cabinet meeting on Wednesday, Bommai review the flood situation in Uttara Kannada as well as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/basavaraj-bommai-karnataka-chief-minister-uttara-kannada-flood-hit-areas-visit-101627533837090.html
29-07-2021||Mumbai||Part of Mumbra Bypass road in Maharashtra’s Thane caves in; traffic hit||A portion of the Mumbra Bypass road in Maharashtra’s Thane caved in on Thursday morning. Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) officials said the incident was reported around 1.35 am when a four to five feet long patch of the Thane bound lane caved in on the Rana Nagar stretch of the road. Officials from the Mumbra Traffic Police and TMC’s Regional Disaster Management Cell were rushed to the spot and the lane has temporarily been closed for traffic. Also Read | Maharashtra forest dept proposes to seek Ramsar tag for Thane Creek“Around 60% of the Thane bound lane on the bridge that passes over Mumbra Retibandar has been closed for traffic while repair work is done. Personnel have been deployed in order to manage the traffic during this time,” deputy commissioner of police Balasaheb Patil, Thane Traffic Police, said.More than 50,000 heavy vehicles ply on this road towards Bhiwandi, Taloja, Panvel and JNPT. Vehicles going towards Delhi, Agra, Ahmedabad and Chennai also use this bypass. The closure of a part of the lane might affect the traffic along Kalwa bridge, Thane Belapur Road, Mulund Airoli link Road, Kalyan Shil Phata Road, Mumbai Nasik Highway, Mumbra city, Ghodbunder Road and Eastern Express Highway as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/part-of-mumbra-bypass-road-in-maharashtra-s-thane-caves-in-traffic-hit-101627534553201.html
29-07-2021||Lucknow||UP village opens gymnasium only for women; DM calls it state’s first||A dedicated gymnasium for village women has been inaugurated in Bijrol village of Baghpat district of Uttar Pradesh. Baghpat district magistrate Rajkamal Yadav, while inaugurating the gym last Saturday, said it was the first such dedicated gym for girls in the state and six more gram panchayats of the district had sent him requests for similar gyms in their areas. The gym has six equipment for multiple exercises. Yadav said over ₹6 lakh was spent to develop the gym. “We can expand it further after seeing the response,” he said. Fitness enthusiast Priyanka Sharma of the village has been deputed as trainer in the gym. Sharma had demanded a gym for the village in a ‘Jan Chaupal’ with Meerut divisional commissioner Surendra Singh way back in March.“It was for the first time in my career that a village girl demanded a gym,” said Singh who immediately approved it and directed Yadav to work on it. The gym is being run in two shifts -- 5am to 11am and 4pm to 6pm. Sharma, herself a mother of three children with a passion for fitness and sports, said, “I have a dream to bring a medal for the country like Mirabai Chanu.” She said many village women joined the gym to lose weight. “We seldom get the opportunity to attend a gym because of hectic home life but availability of gym in the village would help us access it for fitness,” said Rekha and Anita of the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/upvillage-opens-gymnasium-only-for-women-dm-calls-it-state-s-first-101627533713345.html
29-07-2021||Other||‘Key conspirator’ in BJP’s leader’s killing in J&K arrested: NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has said it has arrested the key alleged conspirator in the killings of Bharatiya Janata Party leader Anil Kumar Parihar and his brother, Ajit Kumar Parihar, in Jammu and Kashmir Kishtwar in November 2018.The Jammu and Kashmir Police first probed the case before NIA took over the investigation.The federal agency said the accused, Malik Noor Mohammad Fayyaz, 51, a resident of Doda district, was arrested on Wednesday. Fayyaz was produced in a special court in Jammu and sent in NIA custody for three days.Also Read | Land transfer okayed for flats for displaced Kashmiri Pandit employees in ValleyThe NIA earlier in May 2020 charged sheeted seven accused persons, including three Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM) terrorists Osama bin Javid, Haroon Abbas Wani, Zahid Hussain, who were killed by security forces, in the case. Four others arrested accused in the case are Nisar Ahmed Sheikh, Nishad Ahmed Butt, Azad Hussain Bagwan, and Rustam Ali.The NIA said the investigation in the case to “unearth the larger conspiracy hatched by the terrorists of HM and overground workers... reviving the terrorism in the region... led to the identification of...Fayyaz”.“Investigation has revealed that he was the co-conspirator for reviving the terrorism in Chenab Valley. He had also visited Assam and Nagaland along with... Javid for procurement of the weapons for the said purpose,” the NIA said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/key-conspirator-in-bjp-s-leader-s-killing-in-j-k-arrested-nia-101627531372890.html
29-07-2021||Other||ASHA workers in Bengal’s Darjeeling threaten to stop work if not paid on time||A large section of Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) in Darjeeling district of West Bengal has threatened to stop work if their honorarium is not paid on time. On Tuesday, they staged a demonstration in front of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) office and submitted a nine-point charter of demands which include timely payment of their honorarium. Sefali Bhattacharya, secretary of Health Workers Union, SMC said, “Though we risk our lives and work hard amid the Covid-19 pandemic, we have to beg for our honorarium. We have not yet received June’s money. Why should we plead for the money we are entitled to?” Also Read | Study says Covid-19 lockdown negatively impacted women’s nutrition in IndiaThere are 216 ASHA workers and 35 first tier supervisors in Siliguri town. They have been working as frontline workers in reaching out to people in the fight against Covid-19. Bhattacharya said, “If we are not paid on time, we will stop our work.” This comes at a time when the Darjeeling district administration has been reporting a spike in daily Covid cases. “The daily count of Covid-19 cases has been the highest in Darjeeling among the districts in north Bengal over the past few days. On Wednesday, out of the 815 new cases reported in West Bengal, 62 were from Darjeeling,” said a health official from the district. The demands of ASHA workers include vaccination for their families and ₹1 lakh for Covid-19 treatment. ASHA workers in Mirik block also demonstrated last week demanding a timely payment. SMC commissioner Sonam W Bhutia said: “We have already prepared the bill and they should be getting their money in a day or two.” Praloy Acharya, chief medical officer of health Darjeeling district, said, ”There are about 550 ASHA workers in the entire district. There are some problems in regard to their payment under urban areas, but in the rural belt, they are paid on time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ashaworkers-in-bengal-s-darjeeling-threaten-to-stop-work-if-not-paid-on-time-101627530893474.html
29-07-2021||Delhi||Light rains likely in parts of Delhi-NCR today; to intensify over weekend||Light rains are likely to continue in parts of Delhi and national Capital region (NCR) on Thursday, which will intensify over the weekend, India Meteorological Department said. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of India Meteorological Department’s regional weather forecasting centre, said another spell of moderate rainfall is likely to hit the city between July 30 and 31.Also Read | Widespread rain likely over NW India till July 30: IMD“There is a forecast of moderate showers in Delhi and NCR again from July 30, so the cumulative rainfall recording for July this year could be even higher. We will have to see if it breaks any more records,” said Srivastava.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet Weather, a private weather forecaster, said despite a late start to monsoon, Delhi has managed to exceed the rainfall usually seen in July.“With just a few spells of rain, we have managed to record a surplus of nearly 200% rainfall already and we still have a few more days for the month to end. A low pressure area (LPA) over north Bay of Bengal has intensified into a well-marked LPA over the same region. This means that in the coming days, intense showers will be recorded in Delhi’s neighbouring states as well,” said Palawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/light-rains-likely-in-parts-of-delhi-ncr-today-to-intensify-over-weekend-101627528132993.html
29-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai local to allow those fully vaccinated? Minister says decision in 2-3 days||Maharashtra may soon allow people who are fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to travel on its local trains unrestricted. State cabinet minister Aslam Shaik said on Wednesday that a decision can be taken in two or three days."As a minister, I am also of the view that person whose two doses are completed should be allowed to travel in Mumbai local, we have also informed Chief Minister about this. After studying the report by the task force, a decision on Mumbai local will be taken in next two to three days," Shaikh, who is the guardian minister of Mumbai, said while speaking to mediapersons.He added that a detailed discussion took place in one of the cabinet meetings recently about allowing fully vaccinated people to travel in suburban trains and BrihanMumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses.The Maharashtra government started easing the Covid-19 curbs in the state as cases of the disease showed a decline. But, in view of the second wave of Covid-19 and delta plus variant spreading fast, some of the curbs were brought back. The state imposed stricter norms by reducing the five-level relaxation plan to three after cases of delta plus variants were found last month.The local trains, considered lifeline of Mumbai, were allowed to run but never completely opened for public. They are currently operational for just essential service employees.The demand for resumption of suburban train services for the general public has been gaining steam. Many citizen groups and political leaders have urged chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to allow general public to travel on these trains.To check travellers to board the trains using fake ID cards, the Maharashtra government introduced a QR code based universal travel pass.The fresh set of instructions to allow local trains to resume service, but only for specific category of people, were issued in June by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The notification stated that local trains will remain available for "medical, few essentials", and authorised the civic administrations to put additional restrictions they deem fit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-to-allow-those-fully-vaccinated-minister-says-decision-in-2-3-days-101627527041262.html
29-07-2021||Mumbai||Bombay high court to hear Raj Kundra's bail plea today in pornography case||The Bombay high court will on Thursday hear the bail petition filed by businessman Raj Kundra, who has been arrested in connection with creation of pornographic films. The court had on Tuesday refused to give any relief to Kundra, husband of actor Shila Shetty, and adjourned the hearing on his bail plea to July 29.The court has asked the investigating officer to remain present during the hearing in the pornography racket case.Kundra was arrested on July 19 along with 11 others on charges related to alleged creation of pornographic films. Kundra and his associate Ryan Thorpe are currently under judicial custody. They were sent to the judicial remand for 14 days by a magistrate's court on Tuesday.He moved the magistrate's court for bail, which rejected his petition on Wednesday.During the hearing on Kundra's bail plea in the high court on Tuesday, his lawyers Aabad Ponda and Subhash Jadhav argued that the police failed to follow the procedure laid down in law and ought to have first issued a notice under section 41A of the CrPC instead of arresting the businessman directly. Public prosecutor Aruna Kamat Pai refuted the claim and said a notice was indeed issued to Kundra before he was placed under arrest.The high court then directed Pai to file an affidavit on July 29 in response to the petition.Kundra also said in his plea that the material which the police claimed to be pornographic did not depict direct or explicit sexual acts. His petition claimed that the short movies appeal to the prurient interest of persons at best.But the high court refused to grant any relief to Kundra without giving a chance to the prosecution to respond to the petition. “No ex-parte ad-interim relief,” the bench said.Kundra has been named as the key conspirator in the pornography racket case by the Mumbai Police, which has slapped charges against him under Sections 420 (cheating), 34 (common intention), 292, and 293 (related to obscene and indecent advertisements and displays) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) besides relevant sections of the IT Act and the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-to-hear-raj-kundra-s-bail-plea-today-in-pornography-case-101627516540997.html
29-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi assembly's 2-day monsoon session begins today; farmers' protest on agenda||The Delhi legislative assembly begins its two-day monsoon session on Thursday, more than four months after the first part of the session was adjourned sine die on March 12, earlier this year. As per the List Business for House sitting on Thursday, the Delhi assembly is expected to see stormy proceedings on its very first day as the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) intends to raise a host of different issues in the House -- including the recent appointment of Rakesh Asthana as the police commissioner of Delhi, the farmers' issues and the three contentious central agricultural laws, and the conferment of Bharat Ratna on late environmentalist Sunderlal Bahuguna.Also Read | Delhi assembly to discuss appointment of Rakesh Asthana as police commissionerThe central government on Tuesday appointed Rakesh Asthana as Delhi police commissioner, giving him a one-year extension on the new post days before his retirement. Asthana assumed charge as the commissioner on Wednesday, amid accusations that the appointment was made allegedly in violation of Supreme Court guidelines.AAP MLA Bhavna Gaur will table a motion at the Delhi assembly for conferring Bharat Ratna on environmentalist and Chipko Movement leader Sunderlal Bahuguna, a demand earlier raised by Delhi chief minister and AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal.Also Read | Confer Bharat Ratna on late Sunderlal Bahuguna: Kejriwal writes to PMThe opposition, too, is looking to corner the Delhi government on a multitude of issues, including the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) management in the national capital, poor public transport network, and water crisis, among others. According to reports, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) functionaries are likely to clash with their AAP counterparts at the Delhi assembly today over the issue of waterlogging in the national capital.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta has said that the party's local chapter will lead a protest on this day against the AAP government's alleged corruption and "scams" outside the assembly premises. The BJP unit in the national capital intends to corner the AAP government over issues such as the "DTC scam", and alleged corruption in the free ration distribution and education schemes, reports said.The BJP has eight MLAs in the 70-member Delhi assembly, dominated by the ruling AAP, which has 62 members in the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-assembly-s-2-day-monsoon-session-begins-today-farmers-protest-on-agenda-101627515541080.html
29-07-2021||Delhi||PWD asks city residents to report instances of flooding||The Delhi Public Works Department (PWD) has asked residents to report instances of waterlogging on its helpline numbers — 011-23490323 and 1800-11-0093 — officials said on Wednesday.The department issued a public notice on Wednesday asking people to call on the helpline numbers if they come across waterlogging or flooding, a day after the city was lashed by heavy rains, which threw traffic out of gear and left traffic on vital stretches crawling.“Delhi government has set up a unified control room (toll-free number 1800-11-8595) for all departments to deal with complaints of waterlogging in the Capital this monsoon.The PWD has also set up a monsoon control room (toll-free number 1800-11-0093) for complaints.“These control rooms will work 24 hours,” the notice read.The department also said that it has installed CCTV cameras at vulnerable points across the Capital to conduct real-time monitoring of waterlogging during monsoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pwd-asks-city-residents-to-report-instances-of-flooding-101627512805089.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana mayor pulls up officials for dropping the ball on smart-road project||Rapping officials for dropping the ball on the smart-road project, the mayor on Wednesday flagged several anomalies that had caused waterlogging on the Malhar Road on Wednesday and directed officials to rectify them at the earliest. The rainfall on Wednesday exposed the chinks in the civic body’s planning as the road became waterlogged as usual despite the installation of sewer lines in the area. Around ₹38 crore is being spent on developing the Malhar Road into a smart road, and the Sarabha Nagar market retrofitting project. The deadline of the project is September-end. During an inspection, mayor Balkar Sandhu, municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and councillor Mamta Ashu pointed out that the interlocking tiles were not level, and there were depressions in the interlocking at a few places, which was causing the upcoming smart road to become waterlogged. A shopkeeper in the area pointed out that carving out a walking area outside commercial units had left little space for parking. The mayor said,” Action will be taken against officials as well if they fail to monitor the quality of work. We carried out the inspection when it was raining heavily to identify the problem areas. While we are working to eliminate the persisting waterlogging issues across the city, the problem should be nipped in the bid in projects that are still underway.” The smart road project at Malhar Road includes establishment of a storm-water sewer, 24/7 water supply, underground wiring, cycle tracks, and beautification among other components.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mayor-pulls-up-officials-for-dropping-the-ball-on-smart-road-project-101627504551182.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana roads waterlogged again after incessant rain||The monsoons are here and so is waterlogging. With the city receiving incessant rain on Wednesday, both motorists and pedestrians had a tough time negotiating the waterlogged roads.  Even in areas that received moderate rain, the water accumulated on the roads. Waterlogging was witnessed at Chandigarh Road, Jamalpur, Gill Road, Miller Ganj, and the Jalandhar Bypass among other areas. The slick roads also caused traffic snarls at several points. Slamming the civic body for failing to find a solution to this long-pending issue, Premjit Singh, a resident of Sector-39, said, “Every monsoon we file complaints about waterlogged roads and overflowing sewer lines. However, nothing is done to rectify the issue. The foul smell of the sewer makes it difficult to leave our houses.” A shopkeeper at Gill Road, who requested anonymity, however, holds a bleak view and says there is no point holding one’s breath hoping for a resolution “as the MC has not even been able to resolve the waterlogging issue outside its Zone C office!”A cycle parts manufacturer in the Miller Ganj area, Namandeep Singh said,”It is difficult to cross Gill Road if the city receives heavy rainfall. One cannot even step out of their vehicle due to waterlogging. Tall claims have been made by the authorities to resolve the problem, but no concrete steps have been taken.” Mayor Balkar Sandhu said that the MC is working to resolve waterlogging at chronic points. “The issue has already been resolved at old GT Road near the Clock Tower, Rani Jhansi Road, Panj Peer Road, and Dholewal Chowk among other areas. The problem at Gill Road, Chandigarh Road and other areas will also be resolved soon. Sewer lines have been cleaned due to which the accumulated water drains out quickly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-roads-waterlogged-again-after-incessant-rain-101627504311696.html
29-07-2021||Other||Ludhiana records 75.2mm rain, exceeds July average||With the monsoon weather systems active in the region, the city on Wednesday received incessant rain over the last 24 hours and breached the average rainfall records for July. The city recorded 75.2mm rainfall in the last 24 hours, of which 46mm rainfall was received in the day and 29.2mm last night, as per the Chandigarh meteorological department. The meteorological experts of PAU 285mm rainfall has been recorded in the city so far since July 1, which had exceeded the monthly average of July (216mm). The weather forecast is expected to remain the same during the next 24 hours with light to moderate rain in the region. The day and night temperatures were the same as the rain brought down the heat. Only a difference of 0.8°C was logged between the maximum and minimum temperature. Meteorologist KK Gill said, “It is rare for the maximum and minimum temperatures to be equivalent. The maximum temperature was 27°C, while the minimum temperature was 26.2°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-records-75-2mm-rain-exceeds-july-average-101627504134046.html
29-07-2021||Other||Slight uptick in Covid cases in Ludhiana, no fatalities||The district recorded 11 coronavirus cases on Wednesday, registering an uptick from an average of two to three daily cases over the last week. No deaths were reported in the district.It is for the first time in eight days that daily Covid cases are in double-digits. The last time that cases were recorded in double digits was July 20 when 10 fresh cases had been detected on the district. The active cases in the district stand at 54. So far, 87,284 people have contracted the virus in the district, of which 2,093 have succumbed.Dist to get 30k vaccine doses today Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said the district administration will receive 30,000 doses on Thursday, all which will be utilised within 24 hours.During his weekly Facebook Live session, Sharma said around 14.5 lakh people had been vaccinated in the district and directions have been issued to all the officials to plan out a strategy to setup inoculation camps across Ludhiana. He said that the positivity rate had fallen to 0.07%. However, residents must remain cautious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/slight-uptick-in-covid-cases-in-ludhiana-no-fatalities-101627503950240.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||HT interview: Political thought process behind farmers’ agitation, says INLD supremo OP Chautala||Out of jail after serving 10-year imprisonment in a job recruitment scandal, former Haryana chief minister and Indian National Lok Dal supremo Om Prakash Chautala, 86, faces the daunting challenge of reviving his party’s dwindling political graph hit as much by a string of electoral reverses since 2004 as by a cleavage in the once-formidable Chaudhary Devi Lal clan. Though still barred from contesting elections, the Jat chieftan has lost no time in throwing his lot behind the ongoing farmers’ stir against three central farm laws – seen as a part of his gameplan to regain the lost ground in the Jatland. In a freewheeling interview to Hindustan Times on Wednesday, Chautala spoke about the current political landscape and the road ahead while exuding confidence in his organising skills to bounce back before the 2024 Lok Sabha and state assembly elections. Edited excerpts: How much the split within the INLD has dented your long-term political goals? Politics is not about profit or loss. It is true that some selfish individuals deserted us. They are repentant now. Many such individuals are joining us back. But your vote share went down significantly after the split in INLD and formation of Dushyant Chautala’s JJP. How do you plan to repair the damage? The INLD workers did not let us down. Their efforts strengthened the party. My job is now to visit each and every village to reinvigorate the organization. The INLD has been out of power since 2004. Why has the party’s base shrunk? Everything can’t be judged from poll point of view. Our party in fact has strengthened. We are not worried about ups and downs. We were on the course to form the government in 2019 but were hampered by the betrayal (of Dushyant) and the subsequent split in the INLD. Your grandson Dushyant Chautala claims to be the flag bearers of Chaudhary Devi Lal’s legacy. What’s your take?There is no dispute over the legacy of Chaudhary Devi Lal. Certain selfish individuals used his name to serve their own political ends. People will never forgive such individuals. Those who used to swear by Devi Lal’s name and considered him as their grandfather adopted a new grandfather, Ram Kumar Gautam (JJP MLA from Narnaund). But the new fake grandfather has deserted them. Are you still hurt over the way Dushyant, and his father split your party? Have you forgiven them? Ups and downs are a part of politics. We are not hostile against anyone if they are willing to accept their mistakes. Is there a possibility that the Chautala family can reunite? My party is my family and its united. If anyone wants to join us with nation’s interest in mind, they are welcome. Would you make a Ghar Wapsi call to INLD deserters who left you for JJP or any other outfit? In fact, lot of such deserters are coming back in our fold. They have realised their follies and want to make amends. What’s your take on the BJPs post-poll alliance with Dushyant Chautala’s outfit? This is an unprincipled alliance and symbolises politics of opportunism. It has been forged just to fulfil selfish political ends. It will collapse the day it fails to serve the self-interests of the two allies. How do you view the political situation in the state particularly in light of the farmers’ protest? It’s not merely farmers’ agitation. It’s a mass movement involving farmers, workers, employees and all castes and communities. The agitation has acted as a bond for all communities. This agitation will bring a big change in the political scene. What’s the way to resolve the ongoing farmers’ agitation? This agitation has bonded communities together. Forces propagating caste politics will get defeated. What will be the outcome of this struggle is something which future beholds. Farmer organisations have given limited access to politicians during the agitation by not allowing them to share the dais. How do you view it? Do you really think this agitation is progressing without the support of political parties? There is massive support from all quarters. For instance, INLD workers have set up two hospitals for providing free of cost treatment to the protestors. There is a political thought process behind this agitation. The INLD had been a BJP ally and formed government in coalition. How different was the BJP then? Like-minded people come together in politics. If you can recall, the INLD had given unconditional support to the BJP led government at the Centre. We did so because we were impressed by Atal Behari Vajpayee’s thought process and personality. He was an incomparable person. You have been talking about forming a third front at the national level. Do you think it is realistic in current circumstances? Nothing is impossible in politics. People are fed up with this regime and are ready to make a change. But there is no alternative. I am planning nationwide visits to meet leaders of likeminded political parties for the formation of a third front. How do you view the rise of the BJP, once a marginal player, in state politics? People trusted the BJP and overwhelmingly voted for them. But they have broken that trust. It’s a worthless regime. Since the ruling BJP-JJP MLAs and MPs are unable to venture out anywhere in the state due to constant opposition from farmers, they blame the opposition parties for fuelling this. What’s your reaction? The alliance has failed to live up to the expectations of the people. There is widespread discontentment amongst the villagers. How do you view the polarisation of non-Jat communities in the state which powered the BJP to poll victories? Has there been a decline in the influence of Jat community? There is no such polarisation of non-Jats or Jats. We are a secular nation. It’s only the people’s power and influence which decide poll outcomes. My party counts on the Jan Shakti, not Jat Shakti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ht-interview-political-thought-process-behind-farmers-agitation-says-inld-supremo-op-chautala-101627503652816.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Praveer Ranjan to join as Chandigarh director general of police||Praveer Ranjan, a 1993-batch IPS officer of AGMUT cadre, will be the new Chandigarh director general of police (DGP). His transfer orders were issued by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Wednesday. He was previously posted in Delhi and likely to join next week. He will be replacing Sanjay Baniwal, a 1989-batch officer, who had joined Chandigarh Police on June 28, 2018, on a deputation of two years. In September last year, he was promoted to DGP grade (level 16 in the pay matrix). Baniwal’s order of posting is yet to be issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/praveer-ranjan-to-join-as-chandigarh-director-general-of-police-101627503410203.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Reinstate Panchkula civil surgeon, Haryana CM reiterates following Vij’s objection||Following health minister Anil Vij’s objection to reinstatement of suspended Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has reiterated his order to bring her back.A fortnight ago, Khattar had ordered that Dr Kaur, a Haryana Civil Medical Services (HCMS) officer, be reinstated pending an inquiry and sent the file to Vij for issuing the orders. However, sources said, the health minister had returned the file to the CM with objections. Vij is learnt to have written that if Dr Kaur is reinstated, it will be difficult for him to enforce discipline in the department. In response, the CM seems to have put his foot down by reiterating his orders. Dr Kaur was placed under suspension on July 6 on the order of the health minister, even though as per the Rules of Business of the state government, only the CM is the competent authority to place a Class-1 officer under suspension and also revoke such orders.While an ex post facto (done after an action has been taken) approval was accorded on file by the CM, questions were raised about the tearing hurry shown by the health minister in ordering Dr Kaur’s suspension without sending the file to the competent authority. Haryana speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta had confirmed the suspension was a fallout of personal reasons, as the civil surgeon had apparently “not followed” some directions given by the health minister.Two days later, Dr Kaur had written a letter to the additional chief secretary, health, requesting reinstatement. Despite repeated attempts, Vij did not revert for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/reinstate-panchkula-civil-surgeon-haryana-cm-reiterates-following-vij-s-objection-101627502990487.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Trader mows down biker during Audi test drive in Chandigarh, arrested||The 20-year-old motorcyclist, who was hit by a speeding Audi test car on Monday, succumbed to his injuries at PGIMER on Tuesday night.Ranji Singh Pannu, a resident of Sector 15, who was driving the luxury car, has been arrested. According to police, the accused is the son of a former IFS officer, Baljeet Singh Pannu, and the family owns a mall in Amritsar.The deceased, Arun Kohli, lived in Khuda Ali Sher, Chandigarh. He worked for a pharmaceutical company. His friend, Ankita, 20, of Khuda Lahora, was also injured in the accident. Investigators said Ranji was out for a test drive of an Audi e-tron SUV with representatives of a car agency on Monday. To check the vehicle’s speed range, he sped it up and ended up hitting Arun’s motorcycle near the Sector 3/4-9/10 roundabout.Both Arun and Ankita, who was riding pillion, got injured and were rushed to GMSH, Sector 16, where doctors referred Arun to PGIMER. However, he died during treatment.Ranji was booked under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code and later released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/trader-mows-down-biker-during-audi-test-drive-in-chandigarh-arrested-101627502510637.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Rape allegation: Akali delegation meets top cop, demands Bains’ arrest||A delegation of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders, including former ministers, met commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal on Wednesday, and demanded the immediate arrest of Lok Insaaf Party chief Simarjeet Singh Bains, who has been accused of rape.The delegation includes SAD district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon, former ministers Maheshinder Singh Grewal, and Hira Singh Gabria, and former SAD MLA Harish Rai Dhanda.“Recently, the police had launched a programme where they had promised to help rape victims get speedy justice and rehabilitate them. Is the 44- year-old woman who was tortured by the MLA not a rape victim? Police must act or we will continue our agitation,” said Grewal, adding that he did not think that the police were working under pressure.Lauding the victim’s bravery, Dhanda said, “Not only did Bains subject the victim to rape and exploitation, but also threatened and intimidated her. We will not rest till justice is delivered.”Dhillon said at a time when the state machinery is denying justice to a victim, it is the court of law that comes to the rescue and restored the faith of the people in the system. However, despite the court’s orders the police is yet to act.The Akali leaders had recently staged a dharna in front of the police commissioner’s office and also gheraoed the residence of food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu.Allegations a conspiracy to tarnish my image: BainsMeanwhile, Bains called the allegations “a political conspiracy by the SAD” to tarnish his image. He said he had full faith in the judicial system.On the SAD’s call for his arrest, Bains said,”No court ordered my arrest. The police have been directed to register a case and investigate the matter. Meanwhile, I will continue to work in my office as usual.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rape-allegation-akali-delegation-meets-top-cop-demands-bains-arrest-101627502153326.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Modi govt has surpassed British in divide-and-rule policy, says AAP||Aam Aadmi Party’s Punjab president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann on Wednesday said the Narendra Modi-led central government has gone ahead of the British rulers in the divide-and-rule policy as it is resorting to a variety of tactics to sabotage the farmers’ movement against the three agriculture laws. Mann, who moved an adjournment motion in Parliament for the seventh consecutive time, later said the ongoing farmers’ agitation for repeal of the contentious laws was creating a huge awareness among the people of the country. “It is imperative to oust the Modi government to create India as envisioned by Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar and Sir Chottu Ram. The Modi government was appalled by the nationwide success of the farmers’ movement and its agencies are trying to divide the farmer leaders,” he said in the press release. He appealed to the farmer leaders to be aware of the divide and rule policy, saying their unity was essential to the repeal of the “black” laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/modi-govt-has-surpassed-british-in-divide-and-rule-policy-says-aap-101627502149999.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Tell Punjabis why you whittled down 18-point agenda: SAD to Sidhu||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday said newly appointed Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu should tell Punjabis as why he has whittled down the 18-point agenda handed over by the party high command to 5 points to provide relief to the sand and liquor mafia in the state. Talking to mediapersons, SAD spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said it was intriguing that Sidhu had a change of heart after the Congress ministers linked with sand and liquor mafia switched over to his camp and he has given up his supposed fight against illegal activities. “This is the reason why this demand disappeared from Sidhu’s agenda put up before the chief minister yesterday. Sidhu may have sold off his conscience to secure the support of tainted Congress legislators but Punjabis will not forget all the wrongs done to them. The state witnessed one of the worst hooch tragedies in recent times wherein 130 persons died due to spurious liquor. Demanding justice for the victims who died due to the spurious liquor distributed by Congress leaders does not seem to be on Sidhu’s agenda,” Cheema added. Also, Sidhu seems to have forgotten that the Congress MLAs who were behind the illegal distilleries at Ghanaur and Khanna are among his biggest supporters and that is why he is not demanding action against the liquor mafia, the SAD leader said. “Same is the case with regards to the sand mafia as one of its kingpins, who has even occupied forest land to establish a stone crusher, not in Sidhu’s line of attack any longer. It seems all their sins have been washed away after they joined the new PPCC president’s camp,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tell-punjabis-why-you-whittled-down-18-point-agenda-sad-to-sidhu-101627502090615.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||‘Flag war’ with Pak on cards as India likely to increase height of Tricolour at Attari||The Indian authorities are likely to increase the height of the Tricolour installed at the Attari border from 360 to 410 feet before reopening the Beating Retreat ceremony for spectators, a move that may result in an intensified flag war with Pakistan. The ceremony was suspended in March last year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak with the neighbouring country following the suit on the Wagah side. The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), which is carrying out beautification and plantation work outside the Swarna Jayanti Dwar of the joint check-post (JCP) in Attari near the zero line, has written to the Union home ministry seeking nod for increasing the height of the national flag.The present 360-foot-high flag was installed in March 2017 at a cost of ₹3.5-crore. In a tit-for-tat move, Pakistan hoisted a taller flag (400 feet) adjacent to the Wagah check-post on the opposite side in August that year. A senior NHAI official, who didn’t want to be named, said, “We have written to the MHA for increasing the flag height from 360 to 410 feet as development work is undergoing near the international border.” Earlier, the NHAI had written to the Amritsar Improvement Trust managing the present flag for no-objection certificate.A trust official said they had asked the NHAI and the Border Security Force (BSF) to approach the district administration for shifting or increasing the flag height. The NHAI has already set up a raised rounded platform opposite the Swarna Jayanti Dwar for shifting the present flag. A BSF official, privy to the development, said, “A taller flag with compatibility to high-velocity winds is likely to be installed at the raised platform before the re-opening of the Beating Retreat ceremony. It has been the demand of thousands of tourists visiting the border.”It will be the country’s tallest national flag if the MHA gives the go-ahead to increase its height. Currently, the tallest Tricolour (365 feet) is installed at Belagavi in Karnataka.The Pakistan government reopened its side for spectators two months ago, but India is yet to take a decision on it. The NHAI has constructed two selfie points for spectators who will be able to watch the military drill on both sides. Also, the ground outside the JCP is being covered with grass and colourful tiles.NHAI’s Amritsar project director Sunil Yadav said, “Our development project is likely to be completed in a month.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/flag-war-with-pak-on-cards-as-india-likely-to-increase-height-of-tricolour-at-attari-101627502034855.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||ED attaches multi-crore Punjab irrigation scam kingpin’s assets||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday attached the assets to the tune of ₹42 crore belonging to contractor Gurinder Singh Bhapa, the alleged kingpin in the multi-crore irrigation scam, who was booked in the case by the Punjab vigilance bureau in 2017. The ED is also looking into the role of government officials and politicians in the scam, it is learnt. ED officials said the investigation was underway and other movable and immovable assets of Gurinder are under scrutiny. In 2018, the agency had lodged an ECIR (enforcement case information report) and initiated a probe in the case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) charges. As per the VB investigations, irrigation works worth ₹1, 000 crore were awarded to Gurinder through “tailor-made tenders”. The VB started a probe in April 2017 after the change of government and an FIR was registered four months later. Gurinder was arrested by VB in December that year and he accused ministers and bureaucrats of helping him bag the tenders.As per the VB, senior irrigation department officials drafted the tenders for contracts of repair of drainages worth over ₹3000 crore from 2012 to 2017 in a way that the terms and conditions suited Gurinder the most. The names of two former ministers in the then Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party (SAD-BJP) government with irrigation portfolio, their personal assistants and three IAS officers had also surfaced. On July 16 this year, the Punjab and Haryana high court directed the state government to look into the allegations of a “shoddy probe” in the case.Executive engineers Gulshan Nagpal, Bajrang Lal Singla, chief engineers Paramjit Singh Ghuman, Harvinder Singh and Gurdev Singh Sian were named as co-accused in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ed-attaches-multi-crore-punjab-irrigation-scam-kingpin-s-assets-101627502030150.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Climate change behind frequent cloudbursts: Experts||While detailed studies on cloudbursts and flashfloods in the trans-Himalayan region are yet to be conducted, weather experts in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh attribute the increase in their frequency to climate change. Cloudbursts and heavy rains have now become an annual feature during monsoons, not only in the Himalayan states but also in the plains, which leave a trail of death and destruction. IMD director Sonam Lotus said, “There’s no record of cloudbursts, but instances of thunderstorms and severe weather conditions have certainly increased.” “It has been observed by climate experts that severe weather events have increased due to the accelerated pace of global warming,” he said. Another expert, Prof Shakil Romshoo, dean for research at University of Kashmir, said, “There is no such data on cloudbursts in the entire Himalayan region in India because it is very difficult to record them.” He cited ‘very few’ observation stations in J&K and Ladakh as one of the reasons behind insufficient studies on such phenomena. “Cloudbursts basically is a phenomenon that happens for a short time, usually in small valleys. For its formation, a small valley is a prerequisite,” he said. “It is one of the climate extremes and has been reported all over the world. The incidents have increased because of climate change,” he added. He said that Europe and North America have had sufficient instruments for a long time and their studies have shown that the frequency of climate extremes has increased. He, however, added that with the advent of internet and communication technology, people get to know about such incidents in real time. “Had Kishtwar cloudburst happened 30 to 40 years ago, the people in Jammu would have come to know about it a month later. However, having said so, we cannot deny the fact that climate extremes have increased due to climate change. These are loud and clear indicators of climate change,” he said. Recent studies have shown that temperature in Ladakh has increased by 3 degrees Celsius in the past four decades, thus impacting the region’s snow and rain cycles, he added. Major climate extremes||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/climate-change-behind-frequent-cloudbursts-experts-101627501971600.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Jai Ram inaugurates development projects in Karsog||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday inaugurated and laid foundation stones of development projects worth ₹55 crore in Karsog assembly segment of Mandi district.Addressing public meetings at Ashla and Karsog, the CM said currently, work on 51 water supply and irrigation schemes was in progress in Karsog. He also announced to upgrade primary health centre in Ashla to a community health centre, opening of a veterinary dispensary in Ashla, upgrade of the Richani high school to a senior secondary school, and Bagh Chauwasi middle school to a high school.He said the state government has built 13 link roads and around 12,802 cases of social security pension have been approved in the area. Thakur said that ₹ 1.28 crore has been spent on construction of houses in Karsog and at least 499 people have been benefitted under the Integrated Horticulture Scheme. He also said that 5,320 youths have been provided training under the Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana since 2019 of whom 3,021 have also been given jobs. He said that a target to train 22,000 youths had been fixed under the scheme till 2023. Congress slams CM, seeks probe into MP’s deathThe Congress on Wednesday slammed CM Jai Ram Thakur, who is on a foundation-laying spree in his home district to improve the prospects of his party for the upcoming bypoll. Leader of the opposition Mukesh Agnihotri sought a CBI probe into the death of Lok Sabha member Ramswaroop Sharma, who was found hanging at his official residence in Delhi on March 17. “The CM should tell people of Mandi as well of the state as to why Ramswaroop Sharma committed suicide,” Agnihotri said. Accompanied by Congress’ senior leader and Dalhousie legislator Asha Kumari, he also accused Thakur of sheltering mining and liquor mafia in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jai-ram-inaugurates-development-projects-in-karsog-101627501970285.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||116 Covid infections detected in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday recorded 116 fresh Covid infections taking the state’s tally to 2,05,499 while the death toll mounted to 3,504 after two more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 32 were reported in Mandi, 25 in Chamba, 22 in Kangra, 15 in Shimla, six in Bilaspur, four in Kinnaur, three each in Kullu and Sirmaur, two each in Hamirpur and Solan and one each in Lahaul-Spiti and Una. Recoveries reached 2,01,026 after 84 people recuperated while the active cases have climbed to 953. Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 46,331 cases followed by Mandi (27,837), Shimla (25,642), Solan (22,384), Sirmaur (15,366), Hamirpur (14,522), Una (13,417), Bilaspur (12,885), Chamba (11,994), Kullu (9,063), Kinnaur (3,304) and Lahaul-Spiti (2,749). 160 test positive in J&K
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Land encroachment: Himachal HC seeks records of cases filed against govt||The Himachal Pradesh high court has sought records pertaining to the cases that have been filed against the government and where interim orders are operating against it. A division bench comprising acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed this order while hearing a petition against encroachment on government land in Chamba and non-execution of eviction orders by the state. The HC has also directed to submit as from what date the interim orders are operating and what efforts the government has made to get the encroachment vacated.Petitioner Tek Chand has alleged that encroachment over the government land in Panjoi was started by a few people and such encroachments have now surpassed 50 and they have built houses and shops on the same and have also got electricity connection without submitting requisite documents. He said land of school has also been encroached upon and illegal activities are going on in and around the school in these shops. He alleged that he made several complaints and eviction proceedings were initiated against the encroachers, which are pending for long. The petitioner said the state has issued the eviction order against the encroachers, but has not yet dispossessed the encroachers. Chamba DC maintained that he has stated eviction proceedings against 47 encroachers and eviction orders were passed against all of them. However, the eviction orders were executed against 26 persons only as 21 persons filed appeals before the appellate authority-cum-divisional commissioner, Kangra, and in these appeals stay orders were passed in July 2017 and March 2018. He submitted that matters have been fixed for August 16, 2021, and the application for vacation of interim orders and for early hearing will be filed within four days.The additional advocate general assured the compliance with court orders and also informed the HC that the question of issuing notices for damages for illegal occupation of the premises of the lands will also be considered by the government by the next date.The court posted the matter after four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/land-encroachment-himachal-hc-seeks-records-of-cases-filed-against-govt-101627501910394.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Day on, Dalit man captured by bride’s relatives released||A 22-year-old Dalit man, who was forcefully taken from a gurdwara by his fiancée’s disapproving family members just as they were about to tie the knot, was released near the canal in Daudhar village on Wednesday – a day after the incident. The victim, Jagga Singh of Moga’s Butter village, belongs to the Dalit Boria Sikh community, while his fiancée Rashpinder Kaur hails from the affluent Jatt-Sikh community. The couple fell in love while studying together and decided to elope after they were unable to convince Rashpinder’s family to accept the alliance.“On Tuesday, the bride and groom-to-be were waiting for their Anand Karaj (a Sikh marriage ceremony) to be performed at the Gurdwara Sahib on Jagraon-Moga highway in Kothe Baggu village, when at least 12 masked men dragged the couple out of the gurdwara and took them away around 1pm. They also attacked those who had accompanied the couple,” said Jagga’s father Puran Singh.The accused are former Buttar village sarpanch Jaswinder Singh, Honey, Bant Singh and Rashpinder’s father, Jalore Singh. Seven of their accomplices remain unidentified.The incident was captured on a CCTV camera at the gurdwara. One of the groom’s relatives was also able to recorded the attack.A case was registered under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 365 (assault), 357 (use of criminal force to wrongfully confine a person), 148 (rioting) and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code.Investigating officer Kamaldeep Kaur said the youngster was assaulted before being released. Efforts are on to find his fiancée.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/day-on-dalit-man-captured-by-bride-s-relatives-released-101627501791487.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||2017 Aikom murder case: Minor son tells court he heard gunshot in their Mohali house||In a fresh twist to the 2017 Aikom murder case, the victim’s minor son has told the court that he heard the sound of a gunshot from his father’s bedroom on the fateful night. Seerat Kaur, wife of the victim, Aikom Singh Dhillon, 40, is the main accused in the case. She is facing the charges of shooting Aikom dead on the intervening night of March 18 and 19, 2017. His body, stuffed in a suitcase, was found in their BMW car outside their rented house in Phase 3B1 the next day. Her defence counsel, NPS Waraich, has maintained that Aikom died by suicide at his father’s house in Phase 3B1. During the resumed hearing in the case on Wednesday, the couple’s 14-year-old son recorded his statement and also went through cross-examination in the court of district and sessions judge Rajinder Singh Rai. Seerat was also present in the court room. In his statement in court, the minor boy stated that a day before the incident, he accompanied his parents, along with his sister, to Singh Shaheedan Gurdwara in Sohana where his father asked his mother to pledge not to meet her friend, but she refused to do so. After returning home, he, his sister and their pet dog were in their bedroom, when he heard his parents quarrelling outside. Thereafter he heard shrieks of his father and immediately also heard the sound of a gunshot. As his bedroom door was locked from the outside, he could not step out. But when his mother came to his room, he enquired about the sound and she asked him to go to sleep. The next morning he saw his mother’s maternal aunt and uncle at their house, and Seerat handed over something in a pouch and a mobile phone.Counsel for the complainant, Darshan Singh, who is Aikom’s brother, said the boy narrated the incident in sequence. Before recording his statement, he took the permission of the court to meet his mother. He identified her in court and submitted that she was present at their house in Phase 3B1 on the night of the crime. As per evidence, a day later, an auto-rickshaw driver had seen Seerat trying to load a suitcase into a BMW car, with blood oozing out of it. Aikom’s body was later recovered from it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2017-aikom-murder-case-minor-son-tells-court-he-heard-gunshot-in-their-mohali-house-101627501730017.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||30mm monsoon showers spell trouble for Chandigarh’s periphery||Waterlogged roads and houses were the order of the day in various parts of the tricity on Wednesday following 30mm showers.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), 17.2mm rainfall was recorded till 8.30am and another 13.6mm through the rest of the day.The continuous rain resulted in waterlogging in several areas, especially in Chandigarh’s periphery, including Dadumajra, Maloya and Khuda Lahora.A road connecting Chandigarh to New Chandigarh near Maloya was barricaded by the police as water in the Patiala Ki Rao rivulet overflowed onto the road. Waterlogging was reported in some sectors as well, particularly in Industrial Area, in the morning hours.Located on the banks of Patiala Ki Rao rivulet, several houses in Khuda Lahora Colony 1 were inundated with rainwater. Residents were left panicked as the muddy water entered their homes early in the morning.“Within half an hour, water was knee-high inside the houses and on the streets. It receded by 6am, but again entered the houses around 11.30 am. It finally cleared out by 1pm,” said Rohit Thakur, a local.Residents complained that a bridge over the rivulet, connecting to the botanical garden, caused floods in the areas. PC Rana, general secretary of the Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA), said, “The rivulet bed has risen because of silting over the last 15 years. Desilting of the rivulet and the bridge’s removal is urgently required. The authorities had the bridge removed partially, but still water gets blocked and overflows into the colony.”Water from overflowing Patiala Ki Rao rivulet also entered houses in Nayagaon and New Chandigarh in Mohali.Several housing societies, roads and markets in Zirakpur were inundated following the morning downpour. The worst-affected were some housing societies in Dhakoli, including Sushma Square, Golden Sand Society and Maple Apartment, where knee-high water was standing through most of the day.The boundary wall of Highland Society in Baltana collapsed due to the rain.Zirakpur MC’s executive officer Sandeep Tewari said teams were on duty since morning. “Most of the rainwater comes from Panchkula side and since Zirakpur is a low-lying area, it is affected the most. At most places, we drained out the water with the help of pumps,” he added.Similar scenes were also witnessed in Panchkula, where residents complained of damage to furniture and vehicles as rainwater entered their houses.Naresh Saini, vice-president of the Sector 19 RWA, said nearly 200 houses in the sector were impacted: “People could not sleep at night due to the rainwater on their floors. Their electronics and furniture were damaged.”“The Citizens’ Welfare Association has been requesting the municipal corporation to clean and repair road gullies in the city before monsoon. But even this year, MC failed to act,” said SK Nayar, president of the association.Sukhna Lake’s water level three feet below danger markWith constant rain upstream, the water level in Sukhna Lake rose by nearly four feet in the last 48 hours.It touched 1,159.90 feet on Wednesday, only three feet below the danger mark of 1,163, when the flood gates of the lake have to be opened.Last year, the opening of the flood gates had led to flash floods in Baltana area of Zirakpur.“We were keeping a close watch and have already alerted the authorities in Mohali. The water level in the lake rose in the morning hours and then stabilised. The level increase or decrease will depend on intensity of rainfall in the hilly catchment area,” said CB Ojha, UT chief engineer, said.Ghaggar reaches danger markThe Ghaggar river in Dera Bassi reached the danger mark of seven feet, prompting Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan to review the necessary arrangements in low-lying areas near the river.The Dera Bassi sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) was directed to sound alert in downstream areas of the river, chalk out an evacuation plan in case of flooding and be ready with evacuation centres.Dayalan also reviewed the arrangements made by food and supply, irrigation, power and drainage departments, besides municipal corporation and police for tackling flooding.In Panchkula, the administration has imposed Section 144 of the CrPC near rivers to prevent accidents.Mercury plunges to 26.8°CDue to the showers, the maximum temperature dropped from 31.2°C on Tuesday to 26.8°C on Wednesday, six degrees below normal. At 25.6°C, the minimum temperature was two degrees above normal.An IMD official said monsoon activity will intensify over the next 48 hours due to which the temperatures will remain on the lower side.Since monsoon’s onset on June 13, Chandigarh has received 241mm rainfall, against the normal of 385.5mm, a 38% shortfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/30mm-monsoon-showers-spell-trouble-for-chandigarh-s-periphery-101627501491023.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: NGT adjourns compliance in waste management case till Aug 10||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Wednesday adjourned hearing in the solid waste management compliance case till August 10. The Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC), along with other local bodies in the country, was given a deadline of April 4, 2020, to comply with waste management rules, 2016. On February 28, the NGT had ordered, “Compliance with the rules requires taking several steps mentioned in Rule 22 from Serial No 1 to 10. Any such continued failure will result in compensation at the rate of ₹10 lakh a month per local body for a population of 10 lakh and above.” During the last case hearing on December 14, 2020, the NGT observed that a consolidated monitoring report has to be presented before this tribunal every six months. The first such report was to be filed by June 30. In its hearing scheduled for July 28, this report was to be taken up. “Most of the statutory timelines have expired and directions of the Hon’ble Supreme Court and (NGT) to comply with solid waste management Rules, 2016 remain unexecuted in Chandigarh,” said, Vinod Vashisht, convener, CFORWO (City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations). The compliance of waste management rules requires taking several steps such as identification, procurement and setting up of sites for solid waste processing, sanitary landfill, ensuring door-to-door waste segregation/collection/transportation, construction and demolition waste management and bioremediation or capping of old and abandoned dump sites. “While Chandigarh is on track on eight steps as prescribed under Rule 22, on solid waste processing and bioremediation/capping of legacy waste, it is still completely off-track. In a nutshell, the city’s waste chain end-processing is still in a big mess,” said Vashisht Chandigarh MC has been struggling to process city’s legacy waste of around five lakh metric tonnes (MT). The city generates around 550-600 MT of solid waste daily. But hardly 60-70 MT of it is being processed currently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-ngt-adjourns-compliance-in-waste-management-case-till-aug-10-101627500590164.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Now, watch the Olympics on LED screen at Mohali Sports Stadium||Punjab sports and youth services minister, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, inaugurated selfie points in all districts of Punjab along with an LED screen for live streaming of the Olympics at Sports Stadium in Mohali on Wednesday.The cabinet minister said that this is a great opportunity for the fans to express their gratitude towards their sporting heroes. This selfie point has an LED Screen, on which various live events of the Olympics 2020 will be broadcasted. He urged the people of Mohali to visit and encourage participating players.Sodhi also informed that with the launch of a mobile application called “Khedo Punjab”, designed under the guidance of principal secretary sports Raj Kamal Choudhary and director sports DPS Kharbanda, sportspersons and budding players of the state can register online and can choose any game of their interest besides identifying their international/national/state goals, which will finally help in building competitive enthusiasm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-watch-the-olympics-on-led-screen-at-mohali-sports-stadium-101627500470417.html
29-07-2021||Other||Punjabi varsity yet to release June salaries, pension||Patiala With the fund-starved Punjab University failing to release salaries and pension of its 5,800 employees and retired staff for June, sources said it plans to meet this committed expense using the fee collected from students. The monthly salary budget of the university is pegged at ₹35 crore.“Employees had received arrears of government provident funds, but the varsity has failed to release the June salary, even as July is about to end,” said a varsity official on the condition of anonymity. “In such a scenario, the university has no choice than to depend upon fee collection from students admitted in undergraduate and postgraduate courses,” he added. According to budgetary proposals for this fiscal, the varsity expects to generate ₹250 crore from its own sources of the annual revenue of ₹342 crore, including government aid. These revenue sources mainly include examination fee, tuition fee, funds and security amounts of students, fee from distance education courses, registration and revaluation charges etc.Varsity registrar Prof Varinder Kaushik could not be contacted. PUTA president Nishan Singh Deol said they are in a dialogue with the varsity’s top brass for early disbursal of salaries. “The varsity must ensure that salaries and pensions are disbursed within the first week of the every month,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjabi-varsity-yet-to-release-june-salaries-pension-101627500110035.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University to start classes for ongoing batches from Aug 11||Classes for ongoing batches of Panjab University (PU) and its affiliated colleges is scheduled to start on August 11, as per the academic calendar for the 2021-22 session released on Wednesday. Classes for first-year undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) students will start from September 1 and September 13 respectively. However, it yet to be decided whether classes will be held online or physically. The PU academic calendar was released after changes were made in accordance with the University Grants Commission (UGC) academic calendar. For first-year UG and PG students of PU and its affiliated colleges, late admission will be allowed from September 11 to 25 and September 18 to 27 respectively, by the chairperson (departments)/principal (in colleges) with late fee of ₹1,000 per student. In case of ongoing batches, late admission will be allowed from August 24 to 2 September with ₹1,000 late fee. With V-C’s permission, late admission for first year UG and PG students will be allowed from September 27 to October 30 and September 28 to October 30 respectively, with ₹3,000 late fee. For ongoing batches, the late admission with VC’s permission will be allowed from September 3 to 30 with ₹3,000 late fee.Semester exam from December 17 According to the academic calendar, the odd semester exam of ongoing batches and first year UG/PG students will start from December 17 in PU as well as affiliated colleges. The winter break will be from January 28 to February 2, 2022. For both ongoing batches and first year students, the even semester will start on February 3, 2022 and the semester exams will be held from May 26 next year. The summer vacation is tentatively scheduled from July 6 to 31, 2022. PU again reschedules entrance tests Panjab University on Wednesday again rescheduled its three entrance exams. Now, the entrance test for PU-LLB (3 years) will be held on August 14 instead of August 8. Details of the revised schedule is available on https://pglaw.puchd.ac.in. PU’s common entrance for undergraduate courses PU-CET (UG) will be held on September 5 instead of August 14. Details are available on https://cetug.puchd.ac.in. Moreover, PU- MBA (executive) Entrance will also be held on August 14 instead of August 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-classes-to-start-on-august-11-for-ongoing-batches-101627500049789.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to receive ₹1 crore grant for Cycles4Change challenge||Chandigarh has been selected as one of the 11 cities in India to receive a scale-up support of ₹1 crore for the India Cycles4Change challenge organised under the Smart Cities Mission.The grant was announced in a virtual event presided by Durga Shankar Mishra, secretary, Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA).KK Yadav, MC commissioner-cum-CEO-Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL), and NP Sharma, chief general manager, CSCL, attended the online event and received the award. “Chandigarh will also receive guidance from national and international experts to scale up the initiatives further,” Yadav said.In all, 107 cities had participated in the first round of the challenge, launched in June 2020, under which they had to implement and introduce low-cost changes to increase cycling infrastructure. Chandigarh was selected in the Top 25 in February this year.Yadav said a presentation was given to the jury members to cement Chandigarh’s place in the Top 11. “The monetary support will be utilised to increase cycling-friendly initiatives in the city. The programme will also involve a compilation of learnings from the 11 cities,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-to-receive-rs-1-crore-grant-for-cycles4change-challenge-101627499989806.html
29-07-2021||Other||Sack industries minister Arora for causing loss to treasury: AAP’s Cheema||Chandigarh Leader of opposition (LoP) in Punjab assembly Harpal Singh Cheema on Wednesday sought the dismissal of state industries minister Sunder Sham Arora from the cabinet for allegedly causing a loss of ₹125 crore to the exchequer in a land deal in Mohali. “A case should also be registered against him for his direct involvement in sale of 31 acre of prime land of the liquidated JCT Electronics in Mohali to a private realtor by Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC). The loss caused will find that the actual loss is ₹300 crore,” he claimed, adding that the CBI must conduct a time-bound inquiry into the matter under the supervision of the high court. Cheema added that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) does not trust the committee of tainted bureaucrats and the Punjab vigilance department. Cheema had raised the matter related to irregularities in industrial plot allotment by the PSIEC and the JCT Electronics land matter in the state assembly. “Such embezzlements and scams cannot be perpetrated by the officials, MLAs or ministers without the patronage of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, under whom all sorts of mafias are flourishing in the state,” he said. Cheema alleged that in a corruption case against former naib tehsildar, Varinderpal Singh Dhoot, the vigilance had deliberately not included minister Sunder Sham Arora in the case, who has direct involvement with Dhoot in various businesses; with his family members also having joint properties with Dhoot. Bir Devinder seeks CBI probe in land deal Chandigarh Former deputy speaker of Punjab Vidhan Sabha, Bir Devinder Singh on Wednesday demanded a CBI probe into questionable sale of 31 acre prime land of JCT Electronics in Mohali, for just ₹90 crore to a private realtor. “After legal opinion from the Punjab advocate general, Atul Nanda, submitted to the Punjab chief minister it has become abundantly clear that the state exchequer has certainly been robbed of ₹125 crore,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sack-industries-minister-arora-for-causing-loss-to-treasury-aap-s-cheema-101627499930534.html
29-07-2021||Lucknow||Barabanki accident: Journey home ends in tragedy, survivors recall nightmare||Hours after Indel Mahto, 25, called his father Fakira Mahto in Sitamarhi district of Bihar that he was on his way home, he, along with 17 others, was crushed under the tyres of a bus near Ram Sanehi Ghat in Barabanki district of Uttar Pradesh early on Wednesday when a truck hit the bus from behind, killing 18 people“He was happy and told me that he will be home by Wednesday night. I got a call from someone who said that he has died in a bus accident. I don’t know how to react to it,” said the father over the phone.Like Mahto, the other 140 passengers of the bus were labourers who worked in farms or industrial units in Punjab and Haryana. Most of them were returning home to Bihar after several months. They paid ₹1500 to 2500 to the travel agents who arranged the bus.Dinesh Mandal, relative of a passenger, said that his uncle Balram Mandal ,55, worked as a farm labourer in Ludhiana, Punjab. Balram was killed in the mishap. His body was found near the front wheels of the bus.“My uncle called home on Tuesday and said that he is returning home. He was planning to marry off his youngest daughter in September,” said Dinesh.Like Mahto and Mandal, most of the passengers alighted from the overcrowded bus when it broke down in Barabanki. While some walked to an eatery nearby, others, tired from the journey, lay down on the road, under or in front of the bus.Sunil Mahto, one of the passengers who sustained minor injuries, said, “The bus was so crowded that over 30 people were travelling while standing in the corridor. The people standing in the corridor alighted first and many of them lay on the road. There was a cool breeze, so they closed their eyes and slept. The conductor of the bus even suggested to us to rest by the roadside,” Mahto recalled.Within an hour of the bus breaking down, most of the passengers found a place either inside, outside , on or under the bus, waiting for the mechanic to arrive and fix the bus. But a truck hit the bus from behind. Santosh Kumar Pandit, 22, who was seated right behind the bus driver, said, “There was a loud noise and I was jolted to one side of my seat. I heard glass shatter and then people inside the bus started crying. I first thought that it was a bad dream, but when I opened my eyes, I found myself under three passengers who were sharing the seat with me.”According to the police, most of the people died on the spot after being crushed under the bus.Passengers at the back of the bus or resting on top of it sustained injuries. Pradeep Sahni, 21, another passenger, was resting on the roadside when the accident happened.“I saw the tyres of the bus rolling over people sleeping on the ground. I froze for a moment. It looked like a movie scene only the people who were killed or injured were all real,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/barabanki-accident-journey-home-ends-in-tragedy-survivors-recall-nightmare-101627499809950.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sends panel of 3 docs for post of director health services, Chandigarh||The department of health and family welfare of Punjab government, on Wednesday, sent a panel of three doctors for appointment of a new principal medical officer-cum-director health services (DHS), UT, Chandigarh.The incumbent director, Dr Amandeep Kang, who had joined the post on October 1, 2020, is retiring by September-end. With over 32 years in service, Dr Kang was earlier heading the gynaecology department of Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16. As principal medical officer-cum-director health services, Dr Kang has been at the forefront in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic and managing the vaccination drive in UT.The panel, sent by principal secretary, health and family welfare, Punjab, Hussan Lal, comprises Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur, Ludhiana deputy director vigilance Dr Suman and head of the department of modern medicine in GMSH-16, Dr Amarjit Singh.“With the approval of Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, a panel of three-doctors of deputy director rank has been sent for consideration for appointment of DHS, Chandigarh,” the letter received by Arun Gupta, principal secretary, home, UT administration, reads.It was also mentioned that the annual performance appraisal of the three doctors is annexed at ‘A’ category by the Punjab government.Following the procedure, Punjab governor-cum-UT administrator VP Singh Badnore will soon appoint one of the three doctors for the DHS post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-sends-panel-of-3-docs-for-post-of-director-health-services-chandigarh-101627499754741.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana to work for uniform liquor rates in tricity||Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh on Wednesday once again decided to work for uniform liquor rates across the tricity.During the meeting of the apex committee of tricity – the inter-state coordination committee, chaired by Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore,harmonising of excise duty was discussed.“No road map or timelines were fixed during the meeting, but there was a discussion regarding bringing liquor rates at par in the three cities. But, it is yet to be worked out whether Chandigarh will increase excise duty or Haryana and Punjab will decrease theirs,” said a UT official.Currently, liquor in Chandigarh is cheaper than Mohali and Panchkula. Both Haryana and Punjab governments along with liquor vendors in the twin satellites cities consider it as a cause of revenue loss for them.“The UT administration has traditionally kept excise duties comparatively lower than Mohali and Panchkula. This may be considered as one of the causes of smuggling of liquor from city to neighbouring cities and towns. If the duties are harmonised, then it is expected to bring down smuggling,” the official added. On the lines of excise duty, harmonisation of motor vehicle taxes and fuel prices in the tricity were also discussed.The meeting was attended by Haryana chief secretary Vijay Vardhan, Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan, UT adviser Dharam Pal, DGP Punjab, ADGP Haryana and other senior officials of the three administrations.The issue of beggary was also highlighted, wherein it was decided that proper schooling should be provided to children and their mapping exercise should be carried out to ensure that they continue to have education.Law-and-order discussedThe coordination committee also discussed various law and order issues like participation of both neighbouring states in tackling the crimes committed by interstate gangsters, snatchings and thefts in the tricity. It was also suggested to encourage the use of emergency response support system (control room number 112).Citing the example of recent protests in the city, Badnore directed to ensure compliance with the decision to prohibit entry of tractors within the tricity. It was also agreed that protestors from Punjab and Haryana need to be stopped at the respective borders with Chandigarh, with support of state governments. Peaceful agitations with prior permission need to be allowed to be held, but only at dedicated and earmarked areas in Chandigarh.The administrator exhorted that all levels of official hierarchies, right up to the beat level, should hold meetings at regular intervals and follow up action should be taken up accordingly.Haryana to present alternative route to airport: BadnoreOn the Haryana suggestion for an alternative shorter route to Chandigarh International Airport through Sector 48, Jagatpura, it was decided that town and country planning departments of three administrations will examine it.A UT official, said, “Many issues related to land acquisition have to be sorted. But first, we need concrete plans on the alternative route. Haryana was asked to present a concrete plan on the issue.” Badnore emphasised that all the three governments need to work in coordination to work on the direct approach road for connectivity with airport as well as on the ring roads around tricity.Earlier, the distance from Tribune Chowk to the airport was 2.71 km. Now, the existing route from Tribune Chowk to the airport is 14.52 km through Punjab (Mohali), which was causing difficulty to the residents of Chandigarh as they have to cover more distance and spend more time to reach the airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/interstate-coordination-committee-meeting-chandigarh-punjab-and-hry-to-work-for-uniform-liquor-rates-in-tricity-101627499753353.html
29-07-2021||Other||Gangster Daya Singh remanded in 5-day police custody||Amritsar The Amritsar-rural police on Wednesday procured five-day remand of gangster Daya Singh, alias Preet Sekhon, and his two accomplices, who were arrested after an hour-long siege from Chamiari village of Ajnala sub-division on Tuesday. Gangster Jarmanjit Singh, alias Nikka Khaduria, of Chamba Khurd village in Tarn Taran and one Gurlal Singh of Kamalpur village in Tarn Taran. The police also recovered five pistols, a rifle, three mobile phones, a cache of bullets, two internet dongles, and a Maruti Swift.Sekhon, who is the prime accused in the May-28 Patti shootout in which an Akali leader and his aide were killed, had been playing a cat-and-mouse game with the Punjab Police since December 2019. Amritsar rural police and the organised crime control unit had a tip-off that Sekhon had taken shelter in a house at Chamiari village. A team of 100-odd policemen sealed the entire village. Police have also accused Sekhon of committing six murders. “The trio accused was presented before a judicial magistrate in Ajnala court, who granted their five-day remand. During the remand, more recoveries and arrests are expected,” said Ajnala DSP Vipan Kumar.According to the police, Sekhon had allegedly killed his own sister and her mother-in-law in a Tarn Taran village in 2011. A case was registered at Tarn Taran Sadar police station and he came out of jail in 2018. Hailing from Sangna village in Amritsar, Sekhon had allegedly killed one Harjit Singh in Amritsar in December 2019. Sekhon was also wanted for shooting dead a bouncer in Amritsar in October 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gangster-daya-singh-remanded-in-5-day-police-custody-101627499689718.html
29-07-2021||Other||UP assembly polls 2022: No alliance with any party except with people of UP: BSP||: National general secretary of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) Satish Chandra Mishra has ruled out any pre-poll alliance with a political party, big or small, for the forthcoming Uttar Pradesh (UP) Assembly elections. He reiterated that his party just had a pact with the people of the state instead of a political party. Mishra was in Prayagraj on Tuesday to attend the “Prabudh Varg Sammellan” before moving to Pratapgarh on Wednesday, Mishra said that his party was not going to enter into any agreement with Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) and said that everyone knows on whose insistence his party was coming to UP to contest polls. Conceding that the BSP’s experience of poll alliances had been very poor, Mishra said the party does not want to even remember the pact that it had once entered with Samajwadi Party. He said that the party had contested the 2007 polls alone and succeeded in forming the government, and this time too, the party was determined to do it alone. He came down hard on the ruling BJP’s government of the state terming it as ‘jungleraj’ and claimed that every section of the society including the Brahmins, labourers, farmers and traders were unhappy under the present regime. Mishra said that the entire Brahmin community was now backing the BSP and it was sure to succeed in the 2022 assembly elections of UP. Accusing the BJP leadership of only using the name of Lord Ram to gain political benefits and not actually interested in constructing the Ram temple in Ayodhya, Mishra claimed that if the “neglected Brahmin community” comes with BSP they would have the key to power in the state after the 2022. In response to reports suggesting the AIMIM would be joining hands with the Samajwadi Party (SP) in the upcoming UP Assembly polls in 2022, AIMIM UP Pradesh president Shaukat Ali had recently said that no such statement had been made by his party leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-assembly-polls-2022-no-alliance-with-any-party-except-with-people-of-up-bsp-101627499569283.html
29-07-2021||Other||EIB to fund Agra metro rail project: UPMRC||: European Investment Bank (EIB) has given its consent to disburse loan for Agra Metro and thus paving way for tendering process for the proposed underground section of the priority corridor that is expected to commence shortly. The underground section of ‘priority corridor’ of Agra Metro includes TajMahal, Agra Fort and Jama Masjid metro stations. Casting of u-girders for Agra Metro Rail project in Agra began on Wednesday in presence of managing director of Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) Kumar Keshav who inaugurated casting at Bamrauli Katara Casting Yard in Agra.“European Investment Bank (EIB) which granted loans for the metro rail projects in Lucknow and Kanpur previously, has approved the loan process for the Agra Metro project also,” Keshav said.“This also means that the tendering process for the proposed underground section of the priority corridor would commence shortly and the civil construction for the underground section will also begin very soon” he said.After a brief pooja (prayer ceremony) UPMRC also commenced the casting of u-girders.U-girder is a platform that is prepared and placed on top of the piers (pillars) of the viaduct, on which the metro track is laid and is called a u-girder. These girders are pre-casted or prefabricated in the casting yard and are then placed with a crane over the pillars at a fixed time (at night) due to safety reasons. Total of 196 u-girders will be used for the elevated stretch of the priority corridor between Taj East Gate & Fatehabad Road.Keshav said, “Agra Metro Project was virtually inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the presence of Uttar Pradesh (UP) chief minister Yogi Adityanath on December 7, 2020. In just 7 months since its inauguration, Agra Metro Project team has completed 553 piles, 100 pile caps and 64 piers for the elevated section of the priority stretch of the 29.4 km long first corridor, which runs from Taj East Gate to Sikandara.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/eib-to-fund-agra-metro-rail-project-upmrc-101627499390391.html
29-07-2021||Other||UP governor, CM distribute essentials to anganwadi centres in Kanpur||LUCKNOW/KANPUR Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday distributed essential items to 75 anganwadi centres in Kanpur, where the latter praised the efforts put in by the workers to help control the spread of Covid-19 in the state.Addressing the programme held at Chhatrapati Shahuji Maharaj University, Kanpur, the governor said, “If every university in the state, college and private college adopts one village, then the picture of the villages can change. In UP, there are 58,000 village panchayats, while the number of universities, colleges and private colleges in the state is 60,000.” “If these educational institutes can adopt one village each, and implement the schemes of the Centre and the state government in the right manner for five years, then the picture of UP can change in five years,” she said.Speaking on the occasion, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said anganwadi centres were the foundation of the education system and efforts made by Chhatrapati Shahuji Maharaj University (CSJMU) and Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) to strengthen these centres were commendable. “Children in the 3 to 5 years age group coming to anganwadi centres require both nutrition and education. And cooperation by the affiliated institutions of these two universities for providing necessary material to anganwadi centres is a commendable step. This work will act as an inspiration in fulfilling the goal of Antyodaya,” he said during a programme organised at CSJMU in Kanpur. During the Covid-19 pandemic, anganwadi workers did a good job by associating themselves with monitoring committees, he added.The CM said the state government was working on a plan to develop anganwadi centres as pre-primary institutions, but the plan could not materialise at that time due to the Covid pandemic. But efforts made by these varsities helped in the rehabilitation of anganwadi centres. He said the process of adoption of TB-affected children was being carried out by the teachers and officials of CSJM University, which was also associated with social work.Seven affiliated institutions of AKTU were awarded certificates by UP governor and CSJMU chancellor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath for their cooperation in strengthening anganwadi centres. These seven institutes included Axis Institute of Technology and Management, PSIT; Kanpur Institute of Technology; Maharana Pratap Group of Institutions, Narayana Vidyapeeth Group of Institutions; Allen House Institute of Technology, and Kanpur Institute of Management Studies. “If social change is to be brought, then everyone has to be a participant. AKTU has done a commendable job of adopting anganwadi centres in different districts of UP,” said the governor. Earlier, CSJMU vice-chancellor Vinay Kumar Pathak welcomed everyone in the programme. He informed that the university and AKTU’s Kanpur based 40 affiliated institutions had provided assistance to make 75 anganwadi centres full of facilities. Industrial development minister Satish Mahana, minister of state for higher education Nilima Katiyar, Kanpur mayor Pramila Pandey and other public representatives, district administration officials among others were present in the programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-governor-cm-distribute-essentials-to-anganwadi-centres-in-kanpur-101627499389221.html
29-07-2021||Other||Maintenance tribunal has no power to pass eviction order of children: HC||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court has held that under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizen Act, 2007, the tribunal as well as appellate authority put in place by respective states, have no power to pass eviction of children from the property of a senior citizen parent. “The only power with the Tribunal and the Appellate Authority is to grant maintenance by taking into consideration the facts of each and every case and also to set aside the transfer of property in case the senior citizen is able to prove that a fraud was played by the children while executing the said transfer of the property,” the high court bench of justice Harsimran Singh Sethi said. The court was dealing with the plea of an Ambala senior citizen, who had appealed against the order of tribunal and appellate authority passed earlier this year. The petitioner father was living in a separate house in the same village, where the son and his wife lived. He wanted to shift to that house on the grounds that the present house, which initially belonged to his father, is being occupied by him now and is in a depleted form and needed renovation. He filed an application under the 2007 law, seeking the eviction of his son and daughter-in-law from the house they were residing in, which was dismissed. In the high court, he had argued that merely having another accommodation cannot be a ground to deny the benefit to the petitioner regarding eviction of his son and daughter-in-law. He also maintained that the tribunal was bound to pass the order of eviction once the application has been made under the 2007 Act. The court noted that petitioner and his son’s family are living in separate accommodation. The petitioner is a pensioner and also has agriculture land from where he is earning sufficient to lead a “dignified life”. “In the whole of the petition, there is not even a single averment that in order to live a dignified life as envisaged under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, the petitioner needs assistance of his children,” the court noted. “ A bare perusal of the above (judgments discussed) would show that neither by the Tribunal as envisaged under 2007, Act nor the Appellate Authority on an appeal preferred under Section 16 of the 2007, Act have jurisdiction to pass an order of eviction,” the bench said, upholding the tribunal’s order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maintenance-tribunal-has-no-power-to-pass-eviction-order-of-children-hc-101627499330771.html
29-07-2021||Bangalore||An unlikely link between Karnataka’s Basavaraj Bommai, Siddaramaiah||Bengaluru: Unlike BS Yediyurappa, who worked for more than 40 years to build the BJP in Karnataka, Basavaraj Bommai, joined the saffron party in 2008. Bommai who comes from the Janata Dal (United), is the second politician in the last two decades to have migrated from the Janata Party and get the chief ministerial post in the new party. Siddaramaiah, who migrated to Congress from Janata Dal (Secular) in 2006, went to become the chief minister after the Congress party swept the election in 2013.Son of former chief minister SR Bommai, Basavaraj started his political career with the Janata Dal and worked with senior leaders including HD Deve Gowda and Ramakrishna Hegde. Bommai was a strong leader from the Janata Parivar. Bommai Junior left the Janata Dal (United) and joined the BJP in February 2008.According to politicians and analysis in the state, the disintegration of the Janata Party into insignificant factions and the Gowda family dominating the only prominent faction, the JD(S); several leaders migrated to other parties.“The most important thing to understand is that Janata Party came as an opposition to the Congress and because of this, several leaders rooted among the people came to the forefront. The work at the grassroots levels in the state made them strong leaders. Many of the big leaders like HD Deve Gowda, SR Bommai and Ramakrishna Hegde came from the Janata background. But the Janata Party also produced junior leaders who are coming to prominence now,” said senior Congress leader, who didn’t want to be named.He said that the leaders with the Janata Party backgrounds are the backbone of both the Congress and the BJP. “If you look at the assembly, you will see who are strongly defending their parties. In the Congress Siddaramaiah, RV Deshpande and even someone young like Krishna Byre Gowda, are all from the Janata Parivar. If you look at BJP also the strong leaders like Bommai, (JC) Madhuswamy and V Somanna, they are all from the Janata Parivar,” he said.A Narayana, a political analysist and faculty at the Azim Premji University said that it is important to understand why good leaders emerged from the erstwhile Janata Party. “People with a liberal and progressive approach are against the BJP , a similar situation prevailed against the Congress in the 1970s. At that time, those who were well-read and progressive stood against the Congress party, this resulted in the Janata Party became an incubator for good leaders,” said Narayana.Even though Bommai and Siddaramaiah come from the Janata Parivar, they can’t be compared or be judged on the same platform, said another Head of Department of Political Science in a prominent institute in Bengaluru, who didn’t want to be named. “Their ideologies are certainly different now, so it is not fair to put them in the same bracket now. However, because of their background in Janata Party, they are certainly less communal. Even within the BJP, leaders who have come from the Janata Party or for that matter someone like Yediyurappa, who is a farmer leader, is way less communal in their politics compared to the RSS faction of the BJP,” said the professor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/an-unlikely-link-between-new-cm-siddaramaiah-101627499329134.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Officials playing dirty games to please CM: Vij||Haryana health and home minister Anil Vij, who is known for his outspokenness, on Wednesday accused a section of the state government officials of blocking works of his department to please chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar.“Some officials are obstructing my departmental works to please the CM, as if the CM and I are against each other. They are highly mistaken. The CM and I are good friends. Officials playing this dirty game will suffer heavily,” Vij, who is in-charge of seven cabinet portfolios and prides calling himself ‘Gabbar of Sholay’, dropped this bombshell via a WhatsApp message.During the day, Vij, 68, who represents Ambala Cantt assembly segment in the Vidhan Sabha refused to speak on the issue.While Wednesday’s utterances of Vij will be music to the ears of the Opposition, his move to publically admonish the bureaucracy for playing dirty games to please the CM is a testament of fault lines widening between the chief minister’s office (CMO) and six-time legislator Vij.According to people close to Vij, he has been ‘upset’ over the manner in which the CMO has been taking decisions pertaining to health and home departments that Vij holds.“The impression is also gaining ground that every key decision related to home and health is taken by the CMO. Vij appears to have been sidelined and slighted as well. For instance, during the second wave of Covid-19, the CMO was calling the shots and taking every important decision, while Vij was playing the second fiddle,” sources said, refusing to be identified.The turf war between Vij and the CMO is not new. Recently, the difference between Vij and Khattar had come to fore over continuation of director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava.Vij wanted the government to shunt Yadava as the Haryana DGP, but Khattar firmly backed Yadava’s extended tenure.DGP Manoj Yadava, the 1988 batch Haryana cadre IPS officer, had joined as the state police chief in February 2019, for two years.After Vij stoked the controversy, DGP Yadava had sought premature repatriation to the Intelligence Bureau (IB) after which the state government set into motion the process to select his successor. Now, Yadava is set to join the IB and the state government is expected to name the new DGP by this month.Vij was miffed with DGP Yadava and off late has been displeased with additional chief secretary (health and home) Rajeev Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/officials-playing-dirty-games-to-please-cm-vij-101627499210492.html
29-07-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A working man’s comfort food||A dish as beloved as only comfort food can be, kadhi’s primary ingredient is dahi (yoghurt) and besan (chickpea flour). But that’s not true for Dharmender and Vinod. In their mid-30s, the two labourers are making kadhi without dahi. “Each of us earns ₹400 everyday,” explains Dharmender. “Half of that is spent on the daily expenses… so we are skipping dahi.”Both, however, concede the central role of dahi. That’s how kadhi is made in their family homes in Raebareli, UP. “Kadhi tastes good when dahi is khatti (soury)… we use lemon instead.”This evening, the two men are preparing kadhi in their home. Having no fixed address, their living quarter consists of whatever building site they happen to be working on at the moment. They have been in south Delhi’s Green Park for one month. A bungalow has been demolished and an apartment complex will be raised on its place. The plot is screened off by a tin wall. It is in this setting that Dharmender and Vinod are cooking on a makeshift chulha—the wood for fuel has been obtained from the discarded furniture of the demolished bungalow. They agree to share the recipe.IngredientsFor kadhi2 cups water2 large spoons of besan2 lemonsturmeric powder, quantity “andaz se” (by intuition)Red chili powder, “andaz se”Garam masala, “andaz se”Garlic, 5-6 clovesSalt, “andaz se”Mustard oil, 2 small spoonsFor pakodis (dumplings)2 large spoons of besan1 sliced onionSalt “andaz se”Garam masala “andaz se”2 cups waterMustard oil (for frying)Kadhi:Pour 2 cups of water in a bowl. Add spices (excluding turmeric) and mix.Pour besan in a separate bowl. Add the water mixture, mix well.Squeeze a lemon into the mixture.Heat oil in a pan over the flame. When hot, drop the garlic cloves. When they darken, add turmeric followed by the besan and water mixture.Add salt, and simmer for 20 minutes.Pakodi:Prepare them first if you have a single burner.Add besan for the pakodis in a bowl. Add spices and sliced onion. Mix. Add water, mix and beat well.Pour oil into a pan. Heat the oil. When hot, lift up a blob of paste and release it into the oil. Make all the pakodis in this way, dropping them into the oil in quick successions. Turn the pakodis around and fry until browned. Now add them into the kadhi.Serve with steamed rice. Squeeze the remaining lemon into the kadhi just before eating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-working-man-s-comfort-food-101627498940984.html
29-07-2021||Other||Will act strongly against those trying to disrupt law and order: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the state government is working on developing Dhosi in Mahendergarh as a tourist spot. He was on one-day visit to Narnaul and Rewari, where he inspected sites for upcoming projects and interacted with party workers.While in Mahendergarh, Khattar said the government has prepared a design and plan for Institute of Management Technology (IMT) which will be built at Khudana village in district.“All preparations for the IMT project are being done. We are looking for 400 acre land. After getting it, we will start the work,” he said.“We hope the medical college under construction at Koreyawas village will be completed by end of the year and start operations from 2023 session,” the CM added.On farmers’ stir against Centre’s three farm laws, Khattar said some people are doing politics in the name of farmers.“Farm leaders are misleading farmers regarding the minimum support price. Haryana is the only state in country that is procuring nine crops on MSP. The new laws were brought to give option to farmers to sell their crop outside mandis if the prices are high in the open market,” he added.In Rewari, Khattar said his government will act strongly against those trying to disrupt law and order in the name of farmers’ protest. He said his government had earlier adopted a soft nature against these people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-act-strongly-against-those-trying-to-disrupt-law-and-order-khattar-101627499151538.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Maternity benefit law has supremacy over service regulations: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court has held that Maternity Benefit Act, 1961, will have supremacy over service regulations of a financial institution, if the same are in conflict with each other.“Section 27(1) specifically provides that the provisions of the Maternity Benefit Act will have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law or in the terms of any award, agreement or contract of service whether made before or after the coming into force of this Act,” the court said, referring to the provisions of law and adding that the bank regulations being inconsistent with the provisions of the law, the provisions of the Maternity Benefit Act would have an overriding effect.The HC was dealing with the plea of Bank of India, which has challanged labour commissioner order vide which the bank was told to allow maternity leave in place of sick leave for a period of 58 days availed by a woman working in the Gurugram branch of the bank.The woman had her second child in 2019 and had availed maternity leave. However, of total leaves availed, 58 days were converted into sick leave by the bank citing banking regulations.The woman had challenged the same before the labour commissioner, which had ruled in her favour.It was against this order that the bank had approached the HC arguing that banks are governed by the Bank of India (Officers’) Service Regulations, 1979 and that these regulations have been made in exercise of the powers under Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 by the board of directors in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) with the previous sanction of the central government and have the force of law.The service regulations will have precedence over the provisions of the maternity law, the bank had argued.“It is a social welfare legislation under which every woman employee is entitled to and her employer is liable to pay the maternity benefits... the bank has not been able to show as to how… (it) is not applicable to the petitioner bank,” the bench of justice Alka Sarin said, adding that the regulations may have been framed in consultation with the RBI, but a statutory regulation, is subject to the provisions of a Parliamentary Act. A subordinate legislation must be made in conformity with the Parliamentary Act, the court said, adding that the bank regulations do not provide the same maternity leave and other benefits to which a woman employee would be entitled to in terms of the law.To the argument that the bank is not covered under the Punjab Shops and Commercial Establishments Act, 1958, the court said the definition of commercial establishment in the 1958 law specifically includes banking, making it clear that it is covered by the Establishment Act.“Once the petitioner bank is covered within the definition of commercial establishment, the provisions of the Maternity Benefit Act will clearly apply to the petitioner bank as well,” the court said, dismissing the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/maternity-benefit-law-has-supremacy-over-service-regulations-hc-101627499030710.html
29-07-2021||Other||SGPC team visits Uttarakhand gurdwara to probe violation of maryada||Amritsar A three-member committee of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) formed on the directions of the Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of Sikhs, on Wednesday visited Gurdwara Nanakmata Sahib in Uttarakhand to investigate the violation of Maryada (code of conduct). The issue sprang up during a function where Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami was being welcomed.The Akal Takht office had shared videos, in which pro-BJP slogans are being raised by Dhami’s supporters on the gurdwara premises and women were seen performing folk dance of the state. A photo was also shared in which the head of the local Kar Sewa organisation is seen presenting the CM a silver ‘mukut’ (crown). The highest Sikh temporal seat received complaints against the gurdwara management for violating the maryada.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said the three-member committee includes additional head granthi of Akal Takht Sahib Giani Malkit Singh, head pracharak (preacher) of SGPC’s Dharam Prachar Committee Sarabjit Singh Dhotian and in-charge, religious investigations Ajit Singh.“The committee investigated the matter and recorded the statements of the management. Bowing to the demand of the Sangat, the present management committee of Gurdwara Nanakmata Sahib has resigned from its post,” she added.She said a five-member executive committee from among the Sangat has also been constituted, which includes Jarnail Singh, Sukhdeep Singh, Kuldeep Singh, Jasbir Singh and Amarjeet Singh, to manage the gurdwara till further orders.Kaur added that the SGPC inquiry team would soon submit its report to acting Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh.The Akal Takht office had shared videos, in which pro-BJP slogans are being raised by Dhami’s supporters on the gurdwara premises and women wereseen performing folk dance of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sgpc-team-visits-uttarakhand-gurdwara-to-probe-violation-of-maryada-101627499029844.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder urges Modi to reopen Kartarpur corridor||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reopen the Kartarpur Corridor in view of the improvement in the Covid situation, to facilitate people to visit the historic shrine in Pakistan. In a letter to the Prime Minister, Amarinder said his government would be happy to work in conjunction with the Union government to ensure adherence to Covid-19 protocols, including testing and vaccination of pilgrims using the corridor. The CM said the movement of devotees to Kartarpur through the corridor was suspended in March 2020 due to the Covid outbreak. “The Covid-19 situation in Punjab has shown signs of significant improvement in the past one month and I am happy to share that on Tuesday, no Covid-related death was reported, after almost a period of one year,” he wrote. He said that in the changed scenario, the people have obviously again evinced their desire to have “darshan” at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-urges-modi-to-reopen-kartarpur-corridor-101627498971234.html
29-07-2021||Other||Haryana records 23% more rainfall than normal||As per the rainfall report from the meteorology department of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University (Hisar), Haryana has reported 26.1mm rainfall in the past 24 hours.A maximum of 67.3mm rainfall was reported in Kaithal, 66.3mm in Kurukshetra, 57.8mm in Ambala, 49.1mm in Karnal, and 45.3mm in Yamunanagar.Dr ML Khichar, head of the agriculture meteorological department at the university, said the overall rainfall recorded in Haryana this season is 235.4mm which is 23% more than the normal 191.4mm.“With persistence of the weather systems, the activity of monsoon is likely to continue over the state till July 31, due to which light to moderate rain and thundershowers are likely to occur at most places in state. There is also the possibility of heavy rain in some places,” he predicted.Waterlogging in many districtsHeavy rain on Wednesday led to extensive waterlogging in urban and rural areas of the northern districts in state.Rain water entered many residential colonies in Kurukshetra and Panipat causing traffic jams. Residents of Noorwala Colony in Panipat, and Jogia Basti, Comrade Colony and Subhash Gali in Kurukshetra held protests terming this a failure of the administration and demanded action against officials concerned.Following the protests, authorities swung into action and instructions were issued to pump out water from these localities.The incessant rains also caused waterlogging in Gharaunda, Assandh, Indri and Nissing blocks, Pehowa, Shahbad, Ismailabad blocks in Kurukshetra.Due to rainfall, waterlogging and traffic snarls occurred in Hisar and Rohtak.Heavy rain in Ambala twin towns also lead to waterlogging and brought daily life to a standstill for almost the whole day. The rain started on Tuesday night and continued till Wednesday noon.As per the IMD, it rained 366% more than expected in Ambala. The district received 57.88mm rainfall compared to the expected 12.4mm on the day till 5pm.City MLA Aseem Goel was also seen in knee-deep flooded roads of Police Line with MC commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata.In Yamunanagar, other than the constant rain in divergent locations, Yamuna levels touched 1,59,757 cusec-mark at Hathnikund barrage at around noon after heavy rain in its catchment areas.DC Girish Arora said, “After it touched the 70k mark, an alert was sent to the stakeholders as per protocol. But later, it came down to 1.2 lakh cusec-mark.”Kurukshetra, Karnal farmers fear crop lossFarmers from Assandh and Gharaunda blocks faced problems of waterlogging as their crop was damaged. They said the government should compensate them.“My four acre got damaged and we are left with no other option but to uproot the crop,” said farmer Sandeep Kumar of Gharaunda.Karnal DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said there were reports of crop damage due to waterlogging in some parts of the district. He has written to the government for compensation or immediate relief to the farmers affected by this.However, district agriculture officers of Kurukshetra and Kaithal said no crop damage due to waterlogging is reported yet.‘Recent rain saved standing paddy’Rain and cloudy weather revived the standing paddy, cotton, bajra and other crops in Rohtak, Hisar, Bhiwani and parts of Jind, said experts.Rohtak deputy director (agriculture) Inder Singh said the recent rain in region will be a boon for the standing crop. “The recent rain has saved many standing crops,” he added.In many parts of Bhiwani’s Loharu and Siwani tehsils, farmers were unhappy due to poor monsoon as they could not grow any crop. Balbir Singh Takhan, state secretary of All India Kisan Sabha, said many villages in Siwani tehsil were not able to grow crops this time due to less rainfall.“There is no time to grow crops now. We demand the government to start an assessment and provide compensation to farmers. There is a drought-like situation in many areas,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-records-23-more-rainfall-than-normal-101627498969858.html
29-07-2021||Other||IIT-K sets up centre for energy policy and climate solutions||LUCKNOW: Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur (IIT-K) has established the ‘Chandrakanta Kesavan Centre for Energy Policy and Climate Solutions’ to assist policy makers with practical solutions to the problems of climate change. The aim of the Centre will be to spearhead the development of technology and policy solutions to help India and the world combat climate change.An agreement to establish this centre was signed on July 15 between IIT-K and Sudhakar Kesavan, an alumnus of the Class of 1976 from IIT-K.The Centre is named in the memory of Dr Chandrakanta Kesavan who was a role model for Indian women in science. She received her PhD in Acoustical Physics from Allahabad University in 1942, was a Fulbright post-doctoral scholar at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and worked as a pioneering acoustical engineer and administrator at All India Radio, India’s national broadcaster. The Centre also aims to conduct a Master’s programme with a specialization in ‘Energy Technology and Policy’, e-Masters in ‘Energy Technology, Economics and Policy’ for working professionals and communicate and engage with governments, businesses and NGOs.The Centre will be an autonomous organisation within IIT-K.Kesavan said, “I owe a large debt of gratitude to IIT-Kanpur. The five years I spent here were an extraordinary experience in every way. The educational experience was enriching, the faculty was extraordinary and the bonds of friendship with my classmates are as strong today as they were then. I believe that the Centre will be the preferred space for those seeking solutions and advice on matters related to energy technology, adoption strategies as well as policy and climate issues pertaining to decarbonization.”Prof Abhay Karandikar, director, IIT-K, said “In the light of growing importance of sustainable energy and climate change, this centre will promote and develop appropriate technology and policy solutions to help India and the world combat address challenges in energy and climate change.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iitk-sets-up-centre-for-energy-policy-and-climate-solutions-101627498789104.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing: SIT records statements of then Faridkot SSP, 10 other cops||The three-member special investigation team (SIT) led by ADGP LK Yadav probing the 2015 Kotkapura firing incident on Wednesday recorded statements of 11 cops, including then Faridkot senior superintendent of police (now commandant, 9th battalion, PAP, Amritsar) Sukhminder Singh Mann as witnesses. The SIT had summoned cops, who had given their statements to the previous SIT in the case. Apart from Mann, SP Tarun Rattan, DSPs Harjinder Singh Gill, Amarjeet Singh Sidhu, inspectors Kuldeep Chand, Paramjeet Singh, Bachan Singh and head constable Iqbal Chand were among who appeared before the SIT. The Punjab and Haryana high court had on April 9 quashed all reports filed by the previous SIT headed by the inspector general of police (now retired) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh in the case. The state government constituted the new three-member SIT that has been directed to complete the investigation within six months. On May 13, the Yadav-led SIT started the probe by recording the statements of cops injured in the incident, besides taking case records in possession from the local police station. Since then, Mann has been summoned more than six times by the SIT and his statements have been recorded multiple times. Conduct lie-detector outside Punjab, Chandigarh: Umranangal The SIT had recently called suspended inspector general of police (IGP) Paramraj Singh Umranangal at Chandigarh to discuss the condition for conducting lie-detector test on him. People privy to the development said that Umranangal had told the SIT that the test should be conducted outside Punjab and Chandigarh. “He is ready to undergo the lie-detector test in Delhi as well. But he put a condition that the medical facility should not be under Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government,” said an official not wishing to be named. On July 9, Umranangal appeared before the court at Faridkot and gave a written consent to undergo a lie-detector test in the Kotkapura case. The SIT had filed an application in a court last month, seeking permission to conduct the narco-analysis, polygraph test and brain electrical activation profile of Umranangal, former Punjab director general of police Sumedh Singh Saini and ex-Moga senior superintendent of police Charanjit Singh Sharma. However, Saini and Sharma had refused to undergo the lie-detector test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-firing-sit-records-statements-of-then-faridkot-ssp-10-other-cops-101627498729760.html
29-07-2021||Other||Interest waiver scheme for traders achievesonly 14.19% target||Lucknow: Worried over the poor response to its much publicised interest waiver scheme that has been in place since March, the commercial tax department has directed officials to make sincere efforts to ensure 100% recovery of tax arrears through the scheme that will continue till September 2.The department has told its senior officials that the important scheme announced by the state government has not achieved the desired results so far because of poor monitoring at their level.“Despite all the instructions in the past, only ₹44.19 crore have been received from defaulters till July 23, which is only 14.25% of the target even as the scheme will close on September 3,” additional commissioner (law) Sunil Rai has said in a circular issued to all zonal additional commissioners.He told officials to make point-wise review of the progress of the scheme trying to tap more and more defaulters and encourage them to clear their tax arrears availing of the scheme that sought to exempt the interest on the principal amount. Earlier, last month the state government had extended the scheme for traders, cable operators and other dealers for three months more in view of the continuing Covid-19 pandemic in the state. The scheme named one-time settlement scheme (OTS) sought to waive off the interest on the tax liabilities created against dealers registered under UP Sales Tax Act, Central Sales Tax Act, UP Entertainment Tax Act, UP Cable Television Network Act up to December 2020 provided defaulters paid the full principal amount at one go. The scheme was launched originally for three months from March 3 to June 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/interest-waiver-scheme-for-traders-achievesonly-14-19-target-101627498555744.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||24% pregnant women registered at Chandigarh’s antenatal clinics vaccinated||Around 24% of the pregnant women registered at government antenatal clinics in Chandigarh have got their Covid-19 vaccination shots, data with UT health department showed. As on Wednesday, as many as 3,000 pregnant women were registered at the antenatal clinics for routine check-up, of which 722 have taken their first dose of vaccine. The health department had, on July 13, started vaccinating pregnant and lactating women following the central government’s directions. “On an average, 40 to 50 pregnant women get inoculated every day at government vaccination centres. The average, however, increases to over 100 on Tuesdays when the women visit antenatal clinics for routine check-up. However, being extra cautious during their pregnancy, the women are hesitating to take the jab. But regular counselling sessions are proving fruitful as more women are now showing up to take the jab,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services, Chandigarh. Dr Kang added that the vaccination numbers are satisfactory. “Besides, the health care staff is visiting maternity wards of government hospitals and counselling women post their deliveries. The vaccines are safe for lactating and pregnant women,” said Dr Kang. On July 27, when the previous antenatal check-up session was held, as many as 154 pregnant women were inoculated. The week before, on July 20, a total of 133 women had turned up for vaccination. However, during other days of the week, the vaccination centres do not witness a rush of pregnant women. On Wednesday, only 36 pregnant women were vaccinated. So far, no case of adverse effect following the immunisation of pregnant women has been reported in Chandigarh, the data with the health department showed. “Women usually are concerned about the side effects of vaccine. We give them counselling about the importance of the vaccination and how they can consult health experts in case of emergency. Also, we are giving training to health staff so that they can also counsel the women and give them proper training,” said a doctor, who counsels pregnant women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/24-pregnant-women-registered-at-chandigarh-s-antenatal-clinics-vaccinated-101627498493993.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Capt asks PSPCL to cancel, revisit PPAs with pvt firms||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday ordered Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to cancel or revisit all one-sided power purchase agreements (PPAs) with private companies that are not contractually obligated to supply sufficient power to meet the state’s peak demand during the paddy sowing and summer season. The CM also directed the PSPCL to revoke the PPA of Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL), Mansa, one of the largest private thermal plants in the state, stating that the facility failed to perform in the current paddy season. The CM said the plant’s PPA is biased in favour of the company. He asked the PSPCL to examine all the PPAs signed by the erstwhile SAD-BJP government with the independent power producers (IPPs), which were established basically to meet the power demands of the state, especially during paddy sowing and summer season. “Terminate/revisit all the lopsided PPAs that are not beneficial to the state,” he said. As reviewing the PPAs signed by the previous Badal government was one of the poll-promise as well, the government has faced lot of heat on the issue as those opposing these PPAs has claimed that the agreements have been signed to favour the private companies running plants and is the main reason behind costly power in Punjab. A section of the Congress, including newly appointed PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, had repeatedly criticised the state government on the issue. The issue was also one of the five demands being raised by Sidhu and three working presidents of the Congress, during their meeting with the CM on Tuesday. The CM noted that the PSPCL had signed 14 PPAs with thermal/hydro power plants and 122 long term PPAs with solar/biomass Plants after 2007, to make the state power surplus with generation capacity of around 13,800 MW. However, in this current paddy season, all three units of TSPL failed to generate power for a few days during the peak paddy season. One unit of the TSPL failed completely to operate from March, and two units remained out of power generation for the last one month, he said. At present, only one unit of the TSPL is operational, he said, adding that these factors have caused huge power shortage in the state. The PSPCL has already issued a notice to the TSPL by imposing the penalty, but as the PPAs are one-sided, the penalty imposed will be meagre in comparison to the losses caused by the failure of these thermal plants. Further, according to the provisions of the PPAs, it is not compulsory for the IPPs to supply power during peak summer/paddy period. Hence, taking advantage of the loopholes in PPAs, the IPPs are claiming full fixed charges from PSPCL by supplying power in the off-season when the state requires it the least. The CM said to meet the deficit resulting from the failure of the TSPL, with a capacity of 3x660MW (1,980MW), the PSPCL had to purchase short-term power on exchange. The PSPCL had procured 271 crore units of power in June and July by spending ₹886 crore, he said. The CM said the PSPCL was also forced to utilise full power from the central sector generating stations so the crops of farmers could be saved, adding that the state was also compelled to enforce power regulatory measures from July 1 to July 11 on large supply (LS) industry of to meet the rising demand of farmers. This has not only resulted in inconvenience to consumers of the state but also imposed additional financial burden on the financially crunched PSPCL, the CM added. Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa said: “The announcement by the CM directing the PSPCL to cancel or revisit all one-sided PPAs signed under the SAD-BJP regime should have been the first action taken in 2017. I hope that the PSPCL will act quickly to ensure these unfair agreements are handled at the earliest.“I recommend that any and all agreements signed by the Punjab Energy Development Agency under the SAD-BJP dispensation should be investigated for irregularities immediately.” ”. Bajwa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-asks-pspcl-to-cancel-revisit-ppas-with-pvt-firms-101627498429800.html
29-07-2021||Lucknow||Mission 2022: BJP MPs to take out jan ashirwad yatras ahead of campaign blitz in Uttar Pradesh||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda has tasked party MPs from the state with launching yatras across rural Uttar Pradesh. The move comes ahead of the campaign blitzkrieg that the ruling BJP plans to launch in UP, where assembly elections are due early next year. The decision was conveyed to the MPs at a dinner meeting in Delhi on Wednesday. Termed “jan ashirwad yatras”, as party MPs would seeking blessings from the public ahead of the 2022 UP polls, they could be rolled out after the monsoon session of Parliament ends on August 13. Seven Union ministers from UP who have found a place in Narendra Modi government too have been directed to tour UP, party leaders said, adding that the new union ministers from the state could be visiting UP from August 16 onwards. Nadda, who chaired the meeting, asserted that the state government is fulfilling the party’s development agenda. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who arrived in Delhi on Wednesday evening, spoke about the development work undertaken by his government. “All party MPs have been asked to visit rural UP, take out a campaign, mingle with the masses and popularise the schemes of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre and Yogi Adityanath government in UP,” a party MP said after the dinner meeting held the Delhi’s Constitution Club. Before the yatras, Anna Mahotsav would be organised in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi could be virtually interacting with about 80,000 ration card holders from the state who benefitted from the Centre’s free ration scheme launched to provide relief to the poor hit hard by Covid. The virtual interaction may happen on August 5, BJP leaders indicated. The first batch of 40 party MPs from the state, including Rajya Sabha members, attended Wednesday’s meeting. These BJP MPs were from western, Braj and Kanpur regions of the state. Party MPs from three other regions, Awadh, Kashi and Gorakhpur, are scheduled to be part of a similar meeting on Thursday. The second batch would have as many MPs as the first, party leaders said. The BJP top leadership having decided to back chief minister Yogi Adityanath ahead of the assembly polls, continued to build ‘Brand Yogi’ praising his governance, party leaders said. In line with the party decision, Yogi Adityanath government has also prepared a booklet on the development initiatives undertaken by the government. The booklet titled ‘Iradey nek, kaam anek (good intentions, several initiatives)’ has a picture of Lord Ram. The Ayodhya temple issue also finds mention in the booklet. The party MPs would have a variety of tasks, including creating awareness among the poor about the need to take both the jabs as safeguard against Covid-19. A BJP leader said the party’s decision to task its MPs with ‘Mission UP 2022’ was in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s plan who has already asked MPs to venture out in their regions to rebut the Opposition claim on a variety of issues, from farmers agitation to the Pegasus issue. Nadda, who is set to arrive in Lucknow to plan strategies for the 2022 UP polls tentatively from August 7, is expected to meet district panchayat chairpersons and block pramukhs. The BJP swept these rural polls earlier this month. “Now that we have so many rural representatives, they too would be a key part of BJP strategy,” a party leader said. Union home minister Amit Shah is expected in Lucknow on August 1. Prime Minister Narendra Modi too is expected in the state at least twice in August for launching some big ticket projects like the Jewar international airport, to be developed as Asia’s biggest airport. Modi is also expected to launch the Purvanchal Expressway in August, a dream project of the Yogi Adityanath government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mission-2022-bjp-mps-to-take-out-jan-ashirwad-yatras-ahead-of-campaign-blitz-in-uttar-pradesh-101627498249702.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||No new death in Punjab for 2nd day in row, 65 test +ve||Chandigarh Punjab did not register any Covid death for the second consecutive day on Wednesday. According to a medical bulletin, the state registered 65 fresh cases pushing the infection tally to 5,98,947. The number of active cases also came down to 559 and positivity rate to 0.16%. Ludhiana reported 11 fresh cases, followed by seven in Ferozepur and six in Amritsar, the bulletin said. With 84 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,82,102, it said. Till now, 16,286 persons have lost their lives due to the virus. A total of 1,20,19,354 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state whereas 41,294 samples were tested on Wednesday, the bulletin said. The state administered 91,190 doses of the Covid vaccine on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-new-death-in-punjab-for-2nd-day-in-row-65-test-ve-101627498190103.html
29-07-2021||Mumbai||Stars can experience midlife crisis: Study by Indian, Nepalese astrophysicists explain why||Stars can experience a midlife crisis and transition into an inactive phase, according to a research paper by astrophysicists from Nepal and India. The study, published in the peer-reviewed Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society: Letters on Wednesday, provides a new theoretical explanation for the stellar mid-life crisis of stars that are approximately as old as the Sun in our solar system.The study was authored by Bindesh Tripathi, Dibyendu Nandy and Soumitro Banerjee at the Center of Excellence in Space Sciences India (CESSI) and Department of Physical Sciences, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Kolkata. While Tripathi is from Nepal, Nandy and Banerjee are from India. “Observations of sun-like stars show a sudden transition to an inactive phase. Stellar activity such as sunspots, flares, plasma wind output reduce for middle aged stars that are about 4.6 billion years old,” said Nandy, professor at CESSI. In their work, the scientists used simulations of magnetic field generation in stars and found that around the age of the Sun, the magnetic field generation mechanism can suddenly become sub-critical or less efficient. This allows stars to exist in two distinct activity states – a low activity mode and an active mode. This is the first work that can explain a variety of peculiar behavior observed in middle aged stars.Stars often experience magnetic braking due to a steady stream of magnetised plasma or charged particles, known as the solar wind, escaping from the star. This wind carries away angular momentum over time. Over billions of years, this outflow of plasma can slow down the rotation of the star. The slower rotation leads to less efficient generation of magnetic fields and less stellar activity. This means a reduction in the numbers of stellar spots, magnetic storms, and similar phenomena in the atmospheres of stars, which are intrinsically linked to the strengths of their magnetic fields, and the breakdown of the widely used technique of stellar gyrochronology. Gyrochronology is used by astrophysicists across the world to estimate the age of a star based on a measurement of their rotational periods. However, since the relationship between the rotational period of a star and its age breaks down when the star becomes middle-aged, gyrochronology no longer works for stars older than the sun, computational models by the IISER Kolkata scientists indicate. “Our dynamo simulations show that a middle aged star like the Sun can often switch to a low activity mode, resulting in drastically reduced angular momentum losses by magnetised stellar winds and the breakdown of gyrochronology relations,” said professor Nandy.Divya Oberoi, associate professor at the National Centre for Radio Astrophysics (NCRA), Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Pune, who was not a part of the study said, “This study finds that the solar dynamo, which is responsible for continuously generating the magnetic field on the Sun, exists in two states - its normal state where the Sun shows its usual 11-year solar cycle of appearance and disappearance of sun (or rather star) spots, and a sub-critical state where for all outwardly appearances, the dynamo cycle seems to have switched off and there is an extended period of subdued activity on the star. For our Sun, the most famous of these extended minima goes by the name ‘Maunder Minimum’ which lasted from about 1645 to 1715. It also suggests a very interesting explanation for how observing other middle aged stars like the Sun during one of these periods of low activity can lead to inconsistent answers for a commonly used technique to estimate the age of a star. If true, this represents a significant advance in our understanding of the observed variations in solar cycles.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/stars-can-experience-midlife-crisis-study-by-indian-nepalese-astrophysicists-explain-why-101627497829029.html
29-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra flood-relief package: Decision likely next week||The state deferred its decision on the relief package to the flood-affected people in Konkan and western Maharashtra. Although the state announced compensation at higher rates, an actual decision is expected early next week once assessment of losses is done.According to preliminary estimates, the losses due to the floods is estimated to be around ₹4,000 crore. Meanwhile, the toll in flood-ravaged districts rose to 213. Eight people are still missing in six districts. A total of 435,879 people have been evacuated from low-lying and vulnerable areas.The state cabinet took stock of the preliminary losses due to floods and heavy rain since last Thursday that ravaged Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Thane in Konkan; Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara in western Maharashtra. Crops across 3.38 lakh hectares have been damaged, while the damages to the electricity infrastructure is more than Rs1,200 crore. The estimated losses to the roads and bridges in the flood-affected districts is more than Rs1,500 crore.“The assessment of the losses to crops, livestock, housing structure is still at the preliminary stages as many villages in western Maharashtra are under water. More than 400,000 people are still living either in shelters or at their relatives. In such a scenario, it is difficult to arrive at the exact figures of the losses. In the past, the figures of the crop losses were found to be inflated. It was pointed out by the Centre, while granting the relief package for the losses. This time, we want to avoid such discrepancies,” said an official from Mantralaya.Urban development department minister Eknath Shinde said that the package will be announced once the assessment was completed. “Till then we have decided to give the preliminary assistance as per the NDRF norms,” he said.The state government has decided on increase the relief amount from the set NDRF norms. The compensation for the partial loss of the house is expected to be increased to Rs5,000 from Rs6,000 to Rs15,000, while the proposed compensation for the fully collapsed houses will be Rs1,50,000 from existing Rs95,100. Similarly, the immediate relief for the losses of household utilities and cash assistance has been increased to Rs10,000 from the existing Rs5,000. The disbursement of the immediate assistance of Rs10,000 has already begun in affected districts, said an official from the relief and rehabilitation department.The state government has already written to the central government for the revision in the financial assistance given to the calamity-affected people as the norms set are five years old. The demand was raised during a meeting between prime minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last month. The water level of the rivers in flood-affected districts came below their danger level. Panchaganga, which has been flowing over its danger level since Thursday, dipped near to its 43 feet danger level as its level at 5pm on Wednesday to 43.2ft. Still 47 weirs are in Kolhapur are submerged, while discharge from the rivers in the district is high.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is likely to visit flood-affected areas in Kolhapur on Thursday. His tour of flood-affected Satara district in western Maharashtra had to be called off on Monday after his helicopter could not land due to the bad weather. State government has allocated 2.57 hectares at Mahad in Raigad for the permanent base camp of NDRF. The land owned by the dairy commissioner of the state government has been handed over for the camp. The decision was taken after the NDRF companies took longer time to reach the flood ravaged Chiplun, Mahad due to the land slides and flooding on their way from their Pune base camp last week.“In current scenario, the rescue and rehabilitation teams take about 8 hours, which are crucial for operations to reach to spot from Pune or Thane. The coastal districts have witnessed three cyclones in five years and several other natural calamities. In this backdrop, we have moved the proposal in November 2020 for base camp of NDRF in Mahad. The proposal is pending with the Central government, but we have requested the state government to at least set up SDRF base camp at Mahad, which is at the centre point of three coastal districts. We expect the base camp to come up in next six months. It will be set up following the set norms,” said minister of state and Raigad’s guardian minister Aditi Tatkare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-flood-relief-package-decision-likely-next-week-101627497410201.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||2 Punjab tourism board officials booked for ₹90 lakh embezzlement||Two officials of the Punjab Heritage and Tourism Promotion Board (PHTPB) have been booked for embezzlement of funds to the tune of ₹90 lakh. The misappropriated amount is expected to be higher as the board officials have checked just one account so far. The accused have been identified as Rajni Pandey, the former senior accountant of PHTPB and SP Singh Dhindsa, who was working as a project coordinator-cum-manager, finance and account. Punjab tourism and cultural affairs’ department director Kanwalpreet Brar, who is the complainant in the case, said Pandey had been working as a senior accountant in PHTPB since April 2009 while Dhindsa was the project coordinator-cum-manager of finance and accounts. On March 23, 2021, Pandey tendered her resignation and left without settling her accounts or handing over the records. Later during scrutiny, some discrepancies were found in the board’s account in SBI bank.The account showed cash withdrawals of ₹50,000 and ₹90,000 made by Pandey but the same were not accounted for or entered in the cash book. With regards to ₹50,000, a cheque was shown as cancelled in the cheque register but the account showed that it had been encashed by Pandey. For the amount of ₹90,000, Pandey had, in a reply on March 15, denied embezzlement and claimed that it was an inadvertent mistake on her part and sought pardon. The complainant said that there were no proper records of the advance issued and there was an unexplained difference of ₹70 lakh. Even the lease amount of ₹1.50 lakh received on April 11, 2014, was not deposited in the bank. Also, a cash receipt book was missing. “The bare scrutiny of the bank statement of 2019 pointed out a number of suspicious and bogus transactions to the tune of ₹90 lakh,” the complainant alleged while adding that the amount is expected to be higher. A case under Section 409 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (fraudulently or dishonestly using a genuine) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the two accused at the Sector 39 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-punjab-tourism-board-officials-booked-for-rs-90-lakh-embezzlement-101627497349500.html
29-07-2021||Other||Meeting the challenge to decode a 400-yr-old DNA||LUCKNOW: Addressing the nation through a radio programme ‘Mann ki Baat’ on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi shared how Indian researchers uncovered the relics of a 16th-century Georgian queen, Ketevan the Martyr, from St Augustine Church in Goa in 2005 and how external affairs minister S Jaishankar permanently handed over the relic to the government of Georgia and its people in a recent programme. Sunday’s ‘Mann ki Baat’, however, acted as no less than a time machine for Neeraj Rai, a senior scientist and group head at the Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeosciences, Lucknow. He was the man who unravelled the mystery of the 400-year-old relic (in the form of a bone) lying buried in the ruins of St Augustine church in Goa and confirmed that it was of Ketevan, the queen of Kakheti, Georgia, who was murdered at Shiraz in Iran in 1624 and earned the title of ‘martyr’ because it is believed she gave up her life defending the Christian faith and refused to convert to Islam, even after prolonged torture. However, after her death, Ketevan was canonised as a saint by the Georgian Orthodox Church. Neeraj Rai, the BSIP scientist, said Sunday’s ‘Mann ki Baat’ took him almost 22 years back when the mystery of the Georgian queen’s relic came under international spotlight and the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) began its excavation in the ruins of St Augustine church in Goa. “I remember the time when I heard that the ASI had started excavation work to find the queen’s relic. It was fascinating and I always wanted to be a part of the discovery. At that time, I never thought that I would be the one to carry out its DNA analysis,” said Neeraj. However, after years of excavation work, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) eventually found the relic that was in the form of a bone. But the problem was that instead of one, they found three bones and now the question arose as to which one was of the queen. “We made the discovery in 2004-05. While excavating at around 8 to 10 metres deep in the ruins of St Augustine church, Goa, mentioned in literary evidence, we found three bones. Now the question was which one belonged to the queen,” said Dr Abhijit Ambekar, one of the archaeologists in the excavation team. BSIP scientist Neeraj Rai, who was a PhD student at the time with the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), took the subject as his PhD topic. “I started working on the relic in 2012 and started with DNA analysis,” said Neeraj. Prior to Rai, a few more researchers and scientists tried to decode the mystery but failed to extract the DNA from the holy relic. “The biggest challenge before me was to find out which was the queen’s bone. Initially, we tried to match the DNA samples with around 22,000 samples of the people of India that are in our data base. It was found that two bones matched with samples, but one didn’t match at all,” recollected Neeraj. However, he and his team then got 30 samples from Georgia and found the match. “Of the 30 samples which we brought from Georgia, two DNA samples from the people of Georgia matched with one of the three bones. Not only this, but we also tried to find out the gender of the person to whom the bone belonged. And it was found that this bone belonged to a woman, while the other two were of men. Hence, going by literary evidence and DNA analysis, we confirmed that the relic belonged to queen Ketevan,” Neeraj added. Along with Neeraj Rai, Dr Thangraj, director, Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnosis (CDFD) and professor Gyaneshwar Chaube, professor, zoology, BHU were also a part of the DNA analysis team. How did the bone come to Goa from Iran? According to literary evidence, in 1613 the emperor of Persia Shah Abbas I led an army to conquer the Georgian kingdom of Kakheti. King of Kakheti Teimouraz paid tribute to the emperor but maintained autonomy and the Christian orthodox religion. Since the emperor’s army was immense, the Georgians sued for peace. They sent the king’s mother, Queen Ketevan and her two sons to negotiate for peace. The emperor sent them back to the Georgian camp but half way, he had them arrested and taken in chains to Shiraz, the then Persian capital. Ketevan was told to convert to Islam but on resisting she was tortured and finally strangled to death on September 22, 1624. Four months later, a Friar named Ambrosio dos Anjos unearthed her body amid great secrecy and sent it to the Augustinian convent in Aspaan, further south in Persia.Around February, another Friar Manuel Madre de Deus came to Goa with the right hand and part of the right arm of the Queen. This is how the bone came to Goa. Ambrosio dos Anjos took the main share of her relics to Georgia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/meeting-the-challenge-to-decode-a-400-yr-old-dna-101627497350018.html
29-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to relax curbs in 25 districts||Maharashtra is likely to provide relaxations in 25 districts, including Mumbai, with low positivity and growth rate than the state average. The state is also considering the proposal to open suburban train travel in city for those who have taken both the shots of the Covid-19 vaccine.The state may allow shops to open for the entire day, except Sundays. The decision on relaxations is likely to be taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in the state task force meeting to be held on Thursday afternoon. It may also allow opening of hotels and cinema halls for those who are fully vaccinated. No relaxations will be given to 11 districts that have more than average positivity and growth rate. “The positivity rate and growth rate of 11 districts are still more than the state average, where the state government will not be able to give any relaxations. There is a need to provide relaxations in the rest of the 25 districts, having minimal positivity rate and growth rate. A joint proposal from the state health and relief and rehabilitation departments has been submitted to the chief minister, who is likely to take a final decision on Thursday,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope. Restaurants and gyms may also be allowed with stricter norms. “We have also proposed to allow people to travel in local trains if they have taken both the vaccines,” Tope said. Districts having growth rate more than the state average are — Sangli, Kolhapur, Satara, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Ahmednagar, Solapur, Beed, Raigad Pune and Osmanabad. Currently, the state’s average weekly growth rate is 0.11%. The state imposed stricter norms by reducing the five-level relaxation plan to three after cases of Delta-plus variants were found last month. The first two levels having maximum relaxations were removed till further order. As of now, malls and theatres have been completely shut across the state. Section 144 is applicable and not more than five people can gather at a public place while movements should be minimal post 5pm. Shops selling essentials are allowed to stay open till 4pm on a daily basis and those related to non-essentials are allowed to operate only on weekdays. Gyms and saloons are operational only till 4pm, with appointments and without air-conditioners. Restaurants can open till 4 pm only on weekdays, after which, only takeaways will be allowed. Food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal raised the issue in the state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday and said people want relaxations from Covid restrictions. “We have to seriously come up with a way out of the situation as people are very upset with the restrictions,” Bhujbal is said to have told the cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-relax-curbs-in-25-districts-101627497289012.html
29-07-2021||Mumbai||Why Western Ghats are seeing landslides||Anthropogenic activities such as settlements and cutting for road construction, fluctuations in vegetation loosening the soil layer, deforestation, unchecked mining, concentration of extremely heavy rain at particular spots are, according to geologists and experts, to blame for the series of landslides in Raigad, Ratnagiri and Satara districts of the state last week. Last week, a landslide occurred in Taliye village in Raigad’s Mahad killing over 82. Besides Taliye, landslides also occurred in Ratnagiri’s Pedhe and Khed, and Satara’s Mirgaon, Ambeghar, and Dhokawale tehsils. Two to three landslides have been reported from uninhabited areas, blocking roads and highways in Raigad district, officials said. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Monday said the state will appoint a panel of geological experts to study the causes of landslides in the Western Ghats, which have claimed more than 100 lives and displaced thousands over last week. Geologists, who have studied the Western Ghats, say construction activities such as highways lead to haphazard cutting of mountain slopes. Dr Praveen B Gawali, scientist at Indian Institute of Geomagnetism, an autonomous research institute under the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India, has studied parts of Western Ghats and identified landslide susceptible villages in Ahmednagar district. He said heavy rain-triggered landslides are on the rise along the ghats. “Anthropogenic activities have given rise to anomalous slopes and due to gravitational pull and rain, the overlaying material comes down. In the Western Ghats, if you have continuous rainfall for a couple of days, the soil gets soggy, leading to landslides. This time, the rain was very heavy, which was concentrated at a few spots [leading to series of landslides]. If it is evenly spread out, it does not lead to landslides,” said Dr Gawali. According to Gawali, change in vegetational cover is also responsible for landslides in the region. He added that in India, landslides occur mainly in Himalayan region, Western Ghats and in the Nilgiris. While the incidents in Himalayan region occur due to tectonic movements, the landslides in Western Ghats and Nilgiris happen mainly due to heavy rain events. “We see a lot of landslides in the Himalayan region because the Himalayas is the youngest mountain range. The sediments are not yet compacted; they are loose. There is a tectonic activity with the plate moving up, which causes instability. It doesn’t require any precipitation activity, landslides occur in dry season there. In the Sahyadris, it is different. It isn’t any plate movement that is causing it. The vegetational cover is also responsible. During the monsoon, there is greenery, but afterwards it dries. The soil is exposed to natural conditions, many natural process occur with dampness. With excessive rainfall, chances of the soil cover creeping down increases manifold,” he added. Ecologist Dr Madhav Gadgil, who headed the state appointed Western Ghat Ecology Expert Panel in 2010-11, said the committee’s recommendations to stop haphazard road construction, illegal mining, etc were not implemented by the state. “In 2011, we had submitted a report stating several activities that shouldn’t be carried out in such eco-sensitive zone. We had said that haphazard planning of highways by cutting mountains slopes, unchecked construction and mining activities should not be done. The windmill projects that have come up on the ghats have caused huge fractures on the mountains loosening structures. Similar issues are happening in Kerala and Maharashtra is seeing this. The recommendations of the committee were not followed by the government and these landslides are a result of these,” Gadgil said. Vijay Nahata, chairman of the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority, said all measures are fully followed before providing clearances to any project on the Konkan region. Nahata said, “Environmental clearances for new projects are provided based on several parameters. We are very cautious of the environment and ecology while doing so. The incidents of landslides mainly occur due to heavy and continuous rainfall in the region.” “The government can still implement the recommendations made by the committee. Activities that hamper the region need to stop and eco-restorations measures have to be adopted to tackle such incidents,” said Gadgil. Despite attempts, Aaditya Thackeray, minister for environment and climate change, was unavailable for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/why-western-ghats-are-seeing-landslides-101627497109004.html
29-07-2021||Mumbai||Lake level crosses 70%, Mumbai has water stock till April 2022: BMC||Owing to heavy rainfall in Mumbai and its neighbouring areas in the past two weeks, water levels in the seven lakes supplying drinking water to the city crossed 70% on Wednesday. The city now has a water stock of around 260 days that will last till April 2022.Civic officials said it was very likely that the city might not have any water cuts this year. However, it will continue monitoring rainfall throughout August. A BMC official said, “Total lake level going above 85%-90% is considered to be safe, even 70% is safe, but we also need to have rainfall in August to not have any water cuts.”According to BMC’s data, four lakes — Tulsi, Vihar, Tansa and Modak Sagar — have overflowed so far. These lakes have 100% water stock except for Tansa which has 99% stock. Tulsi Lake, located inside the city, was the first to overflow on July 16 followed by Vihar Lake on July 18 and Modak Sagar and Tansa on July 22.It was between July 16 and July 23 that the catchment areas received the maximum rainfall. On July 17, the overall water level in seven lakes was just 17% and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) was considering announcing a water cut. However, the water level had crossed the 50%-mark by July 22, 60%-mark on July 24 and 70%-mark on July 28. Last year on July 28, the total water stock in the seven lakes was 32% and it was 75% in 2019.Bhatsa, which supplies 55% of the total annual water requirement, has 64% water as compared to 36% last year at this time. Upper Vaitarna has 48% water as of Tuesday. Last year at this time, it had only 9%. The water level at Middle Vaitarna is 68% as compared to 32% last year at this time.The seven lakes are bifurcated into two systems — the Vaitarna system which supplies to western suburbs and island city, and the Bhatsa system which supplies to eastern suburbs. The lakes are situated in Mumbai as well as neighbouring Thane and Palghar districts. The civic body supplies 3,850 million litres of water daily against the city’s demand for 4,200 million litres. In order to meet the shortfall, BMC has been exploring several ways to increase water supply. Two weeks ago, the civic body signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with an Israel-based firm for the city’s first desalination project at Manori in Malad. Under this project, BMC plans to turn seawater into drinking water, and the pilot project is expected to be ready by 2025.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lake-level-crosses-70-mumbai-has-water-stock-till-april-2022-bmc-101627497048986.html
29-07-2021||Delhi||Fee hike: Delhi govt issues notice to pvt school, says it will take over||The Delhi government on Wednesday said it will issue a show-cause notice to Apeejay School in Sheikh Sarai for repeatedly failing to comply with the education department’s order on rolling back the fee hike introduced by them in the last two academic years, and said it will also take steps to take over the school management.“Directorate of Education (DoE) decided to issue a show-cause notice for taking over the management of Apeejay School, Sheikh Sarai, after the school repeatedly failed to comply with multiple orders of the Delhi government asking it to roll back its unjustified fee hike. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal approved the proposal of the Directorate of Education to take over the management of the school. The decision [was] sent to the LG (Lieutenant Governor),” said a statement released by education minister Manish Sisodia’ s office.In its response to the notice, the school described the allegations as prejudicial and incorrect.In a similar instance, the Delhi government announced on July 27 that it will take over the management of Swami Sivananda Memorial School in Punjabi Bagh after it received complaints of charging arbitrary extra fee.According to education department officials, the DoE inspected the financial statements of the Apeejay School, Sheikh Sarai, from 2012-13 to 2018-19. “After a detailed inspection, the department found that the total funds for the year 2018-19 amounted to ₹49,72,45,586, of which the expenditure was estimated to be ₹18,87,02,422, implying that there was a net surplus of ₹30,85,43,164, upon which the department concluded that the school had no actual need to increase the fees of the school. In the same regard, the directorate refused to accept the proposed fee structure of the school for the academic session 2018-19 and 2019-20,” the statement said.In May last year, the Delhi government sealed the two branches of Apeejay School in Saket and Sheikh Sarai for charging hiked fees from students in violation of the directions issued by the education department.The school approached the high court against the directorate’s order but the court endorsed the DoE stand asking the school to roll back the increased fees, officials said.The school said classes will continue. “All our actions and fees charged are as per the orders of the Delhi high court, and we are shocked at the prejudicial and incorrect statements made by the Delhi government while the matter is subjudice and especially during Covid-19. Our parents and students will remain unaffected, and we will continue our excellent virtual education in partnership with them,” the school spokesperson said in response to the government’s notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-issues-notice-to-take-over-sheikh-sarai-school-for-failing-to-rollback-fee-hike-101627495789430.html
29-07-2021||Delhi||Police solve five-year-old murder case, arrest four||The city police on Wednesday said they solved a five-year-old case, in which a then 25-year-old man was stabbed to death in central Delhi’s Patel Nagar, and arrested four people for the crime.The arrested persons were identified as Rohit (27), Rinku alias Bhupesh (27), Sachin alias Gaurav (28), and Deepanshu alias Montu (26), all residents of Karol Bagh in central Delhi.“The four had allegedly stabbed to death Usman Khan, who along with his friends had allegedly molested Rohit’s friend while they were coming out of Rock Garden on December 28, 2016. Khan was murdered just a few hours after the incident on the same day,” said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Rajesh Deo.DCP Deo said that around 8 pm on December 28, 2016, the Patel Nagar police received a call about a man found with stab injuries behind the Rock Garden gate number 1. He was rushed to a nearby hospital, where he died during treatment.During investigation, the DCP said, the team found that Khan and his friends allegedly had an altercation with a man for sexually harassing a girl. Police said later in the evening, the man returned with his three friends, caught Khan who was alone by then, and allegedly stabbed him before fleeing.“Our team members re-examined the case and activated the human intelligence network to collect details of the suspects. On July 27, they received information that one Rohit from Karol Bagh was the one who had an altercation with Khan and his friends before the murder. We arrested Rohit and his interrogation led to the arrest of the other three suspects,” said DCP Deo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-solve-five-year-old-murder-case-arrest-four-101627495788832.html
29-07-2021||Delhi||Cops deploy more boots on ground in Delhi after rains brings traffic to a crawl||A day after the city received over 100mm rainfall in just a three-hour span, which left roads inundated and traffic to a standstill, the Delhi traffic police department on Wednesday deployed all “boots on the ground” to ensure movement was managed efficiently. Though parts of the city saw snarls, especially immediately after the early morning showers, traffic officials said that the situation was “better compared to Tuesday”.Senior officials on Wednesday said strict directions were issued to all traffic circles to ensure more personnel were deployed to ensure smoother movement and to minimise snarls on arterial stretches.Traffic police chief Muktesh Chander after serpentine snarls on Tuesday around central Delhi after a DTC bus broke down on Red Cross Road, slowing traffic to a crawl around Parliament, where the monsoon session is underway. Officials said that Chander issued special instructions to ensure maximum deployment, especially during rainy days, to avoid a repeat of Tuesday’s scenario.“All circles were also asked to present accounts of the traffic situation in their areas every three hours. They were also asked to coordinate with other government agencies in the event of cave-ins and bus breakdowns, to clear passageways as soon as possible,” a traffic official said.Even though fewer traffic snarls were reported on Wednesday, it is important to note that Delhi’s Safdarjung weather station — data from which is considered representative for the city — recorded only 4.1mm rainfall till 5.30pm on Wednesday, as opposed to over 100mm of rain recorded in three hours, between 5.30am and 8.30am, on Tuesday. This meant that roads were relatively clear of water logging. However, instances of vehicle breakdowns and road cave-ins were recorded from parts of the city.Traffic police said that after the rain on Wednesday, a portion of Shahjahan Road near Jamnagar House caved in, after which the area was cordoned off and traffic movement was allowed only on a single carriageway.“The portion of the road has been temporarily fixed and traffic was being allowed here through the day,” the traffic department said.Snarls were also reported from Newada, Ashok Vihar, Dhaula Kuan, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) flyover, Ring Road (near Bhikaji Cama Place, South Extension, Defence Colony and Lajpat Nagar), Rajouri Garden, Dwarka Mor and Palam flyover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cops-deploy-more-boots-on-ground-in-delhi-on-wednesday-a-day-after-downpour-brings-traffic-to-a-crawl-101627495729426.html
29-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 3 dead, one hurt as car collides with cluster bus near Chhawla||Three men, including two brothers, were killed while another person was critically injured after the car they were travelling in had a head-on collision with a cluster bus in southwest Delhi’s Chhawla on Tuesday night. Police are on the lookout of the bus driver who fled the spot after the accident.The deceased have been identified as Akhil (35), who was driving the Swift car, two brothers Pradeep Singh (32) and Kuldeep Singh (30). The fourth person, identified by his first name Sahil (32), is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. His condition was serious till Wednesday night, said police.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said the accident took place on Jhatikra Mor near Chhawla police station around 10pm on Monday.A team was deployed to the accident spot, which found both the Swift car and the cluster bus in a mangled state. They learnt the four men trapped inside the car--three of them rescued by a marshal deployed in another cluster bus and its driver, along with some passersby, while Akhil was brought out by cutting the vehicle with a gas cutter--were injured and rushed to a hospital. Later, the police received a call from Rao Tula Ram hospital about admission of four injured men.“Akhil was declared brought dead while Sahil was injured and referred to a private hospital for better treatment. Pradeep and Kuldeep were referred to Safdarjung hospital and Venkateshwar hospital respectively, where they were declared brought dead,” said DCP Meena.Police said all the four were residents of Najafgarh and were into the business of real estate. On Tuesday evening, they had gone to see a property in Jhatikra and were returning home when the accident took place.A police officer said the accident took place on a road that did not have a divider. Prima facie, the officer said, it appeared that the car was moving at a high speed and the bus was trying to overtake another vehicle because of which it came on the wrong side of the road.“It appears that the car driver was trying to avoid a collision by taking a left turn. But since there was not enough space on the left and the bus was coming from the front, he may have lost control of the car and the vehicle ended up ramming into the bus,” said the officer.DCP Meena said that a case of rash and negligent driving causing death was registered and searches were on to nab the errant driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-3-dead-one-hurt-as-car-collides-with-cluster-bus-near-chhawla-101627495729986.html
29-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to hold special probe into renting of trommel machines by civic body||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday said the Delhi government will conduct a special investigation into the alleged corruption by the municipal corporations in getting trommel machines for cleaning the city’s main landfill sites in Bhalswa and Ghazipur.Addressing a press conference, AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said the BJP-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation is set to pay a yearly rent of ₹2.20 crore for trommel machines that can be bought for ₹17.70 lakh each. The proposal to rent these machines was passed by the standing committee on Tuesday, he said, adding that the AAP will file a complaint before the Delhi government to conduct a special audit under the Delhi Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2011.A trommel machine is a cylindrical apparatus for cleaning and segregating waste for further remediation. Currently 23 trommel machines are being used by the corporation at the landfill sites.“The BJP-ruled municipal corporations have accepted that they will now rent this machines at a rate that is three times higher than their present rent. The north corporation standing committee president Jogi Ram Jain lied that these machines are not on rent. But, if you read the standing committee’s agenda, it clearly states that these machines are on rent,” said Bhardwaj.“Earlier, the monthly rent of each trommel machine was ₹6.30 lakh and even then, questions were raised by their own auditor about the amount and how it was too high. Now, as per the new contract that was revealed on Tuesday, the rent which the corporation is ready to pay for these machines has been increased from ₹6.30 lakh to ₹18.36 lakh, which is three times more. Yesterday (Tuesday), during the standing committee meeting, our councillors protested outside its office and staged a sit-in protest demanding an inquiry,” the AAP leader said.The Delhi BJP rejected the AAP’s allegations and said the company which has been given the contract to operate these trommel machines have been asked to run them round-the-clock in three shifts. “The company handling the machines will operate them round the clock to dispose of the garbage. The company will also bring in its own loaders and trucks to remove the sand generated by the trommel machines. The AAP may order any inquiry, but nothing wrong will be found as the trommel contract is fully transparent,” said Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor.“The AAP is frustrated due to the L-G’s indication of a CBI inquiry in the DTC bus maintenance scam and strong allegations against the Delhi Jal Board over irregularities. As a political retaliation, AAP is trying to level false allegations on the north corporation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-hold-special-probe-into-renting-of-trommel-machines-by-civic-body-aap-101627495728826.html
29-07-2021||Delhi||Rains in Delhi likely to intensify over weekend, says IMD||The light to moderate rainfall in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) on Wednesday helped bring down the daytime temperature by nearly seven degrees with the weather department predicting showers on Thursday, which is likely to intensify over the weekend.On Wednesday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 27.6 degrees Celsius, seven degrees below the season’s normal. The minimum here was 25.1°C, two notches below normal.At the Palam weather observatory, the maximum temperature fell to 27.2°C, eight degrees below what is considered normal for this time of the year, and the minimum was 26.7°C.Met department recordings show that till 5.30pm on Wednesday, Safdarjung recorded 4.1mm rain, Palam received 26.8mm and Lodhi Road recorded 6mm rain. The Ridge station received 32.6mm rain, while the Aya Nagar observatory received 22.4mm rain.This month, Delhi has already broken the record for the wettest July since 2003, recording 381mm rainfall till Tuesday (July 27). In July 2003, the city recorded 632.2mm rain. Normally, weather records show Delhi logs 210.6mm precipitation in July.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of India Meteorological Department’s regional weather forecasting centre, said another spell of moderate rainfall is likely to hit the city between July 30 and 31.“There is a forecast of moderate showers in Delhi and NCR again from July 30, so the cumulative rainfall recording for July this year could be even higher. We will have to see if it breaks any more records,” said Srivastava.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet Weather, a private weather forecaster, said despite a late start to monsoon, Delhi has managed to exceed the rainfall usually seen in July.“With just a few spells of rain, we have managed to record a surplus of nearly 200% rainfall already and we still have a few more days for the month to end. A low pressure area (LPA) over north Bay of Bengal has intensified into a well-marked LPA over the same region. This means that in the coming days, intense showers will be recorded in Delhi’s neighbouring states as well,” said Palawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rains-in-delhi-likely-to-intensify-over-weekend-says-imd-101627495669427.html
29-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi assembly to discuss appointment of Rakesh Asthana as police commissioner||The Aam Aadmi Party legislators have said that they will discuss the appointment of Rakesh Asthana as the new Delhi police commissioner, which they claimed was done in violation of a Supreme Court judgment, in the two-day monsoon session of the Delhi assembly beginning Thursday.The Union home ministry announced the appointment of Asthana as the new Delhi police commissioner on Tuesday evening, three days before his retirement as the director general of the Border Security Force (BSF). He replaced Balaji Srivastava.“In 2019, the SC ruled that no officer with less than six months of tenure left should be named to a top police job. In fact, Asthana was the front-runner for being the CBI chief in May, 2019, but was dropped after the Chief Justice of India, NV Ramana, pointed to the same SC ruling,” said Sanjeev Jha, AAP MLA from Burari, one of the three legislators who said they will discuss the issue on Thursday in the assembly. The other two MLAs are Akhilesh Pati Tripathi and Som Dutt.The matter has been approved by the Speaker, and it is mentioned in the list of business for the day on Thursday.The BJP members, however, said the SC ruling only applied to selection of state DGPs. They said apart from raising the issue of shortage of teachers in schools, they will also highlight how the Delhi government’s alleged failed to manage the Covid-19 crisis during the brutal fourth wave in Delhi in April-May.“The Opposition will ask the Delhi government as to why the much renowned healthcare infrastructure in Delhi collapsed during the fourth wave, leaving people to fend for themselves. There were no beds in the hospitals, there was shortage of oxygen and ICU beds, despite Delhi having faced the three waves earlier and knowing its shortcomings,” said leader of opposition Ramvir Bidhuri.The Congress also raised objections to Asthana’s appointment on Tuesday, saying was in “direct contravention” of a SC judgment and asked whether any “quid pro quo” was involved. “Not just is it an issue of inter-cadre appointment; the issue expands to another instance of blatant disregard towards the Supreme Court of India and the laws of the land,” Congress Pawan Khera alleged.The AAP has 62 members in the 70-member Delhi assembly, while BJP has 8. The Congress has zero.An MHA spokesperson did not comment on the matter.The AAP legislators also plan to discuss the alleged failure of the city’s three municipal corporations, which are ruled by the BJP, in preventing waterlogging after heavy rains in the city this month. MLAs Akhilesh Pati Tripathi, Sanjeev Jha and Bhavna Gaur said the MCDs have failed to maintain drains that has led to chaos on roads.The assembly will also pass a resolution recommending Bharat Ratna — India’s highest civilian award — to environmentalist Sunderlal Bahuguna, a founding member of the Chipko movement. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on July 17, demanding that the honour be conferred on the environmentalist.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLAs are also expected to raise the issue of shortage of teachers in Delhi government schools on the first day. On July 4, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that 50% of the schools run by the civic bodies do not maintain pupil-teacher ratio (PTR) as mandated under the Right to Education (RTE) Act. However, the civic bodies claimed that the ratio was well within the legal limit.The assembly secretariat has made it mandatory for all the 70 Delhi MLAs to get tested for Covid-19 before attending the session on Thursday. Those who do not have a test report will have to reach the assembly premises before the session starts at 11am to get a rapid antigen test, a senior official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-assembly-to-discuss-appointment-of-rakesh-asthana-as-police-commissioner-101627495668867.html
29-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi high court stays imposition of costs on police in Delhi riots case||The Delhi high court on Wednesday stayed the imposition of ₹25,000 in case costs on the Delhi Police till the next date of hearing in a case related to north-east Delhi riots, even as it refused to interfere with the trial court’s observation against the probe in that case.On Monday, the police moved the high court against the trial court’s order of imposing a cost on it and calling the probe “farcical” and “callous”. The order came on a plea filed by a man named Nasir (single name), who was shot in the left eye during the riots that broke out in February 2020.In his order, additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav pulled up the police for lack of efficacy and fairness in the investigation and said the probe was done in a most casual, callous, and farcical manner.“We can’t expunge the remarks without hearing you (police). Costs may not be deposited till the next date of hearing,” said justice Subramonium Prasad while posting the matter to September 13.The court issued a notice to the city police and also sought the response from Nasir within 10 days.Additional solicitor general S V Raju, appearing for the police, said at present, their main grievance was against the imposition of costs and the strictures. He also submitted that an FIR pertaining to the incident was lodged and the case thoroughly investigated; the accused was found to be not present at the spot at the relevant time.Advocate Mehmood Pracha, representing Nasir, claimed that the police’s stand was misleading and his client was under “tremendous pressure to withdraw his pleas” before the court.But the police argued that the imposition of a fine, which was to be recovered from the station house officer (SHO) of Bhajanpura police station and his supervising officers, was unwarranted and uncalled for.The police said the July 13 order of the trial court was in violation of the principles of natural justice as it was passed without giving due opportunity to the DCP (deputy commissioner of police) to make his submissions, and that very serious remarks were made by the court against the investigation even prior to the commencement of trial.Communal clashes broke out in north-east Delhi on February 24, 2020, after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 700 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-stays-imposition-of-costs-on-police-in-delhi-riots-case-101627495609382.html
29-07-2021||Delhi||Rakesh Asthana takes charge as Delhi police commissioner||Rakesh Asthana, a 1984 batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer from the Gujarat cadre, on Wednesday took charge as the Delhi Police commissioner at the force’s headquarters on Jai Singh Road. Asthana replaced Balaji Srivastava, who was given the additional charge of the police commissioner after the retirement of SN Shrivastava 27 days ago.In his first media briefing, Asthana said he believed in the basic concept of policing that includes maintaining law and order and preventing crime for establishing peace in society.“I have taken charge as the Delhi Police commissioner today (Wednesday). I believe in the basic concept of policing, that is, maintenance of law and order, prevention of crime. That is the basic thing which we are supposed to do. If these things are done properly, peace prevails in society. There are certain specialised problems, for which there are separate standard operating procedures (SOPs). We will work accordingly,” said Asthana soon after he took over from Srivastava at the commissioner’s office.Asthana’s appointment was announced late Tuesday evening, four days before his retirement as the director general of the Border Security Force (BSF). His inter-cadre deputation from the Gujarat cadre to the AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh-Goa-Mizoram and Union Territory) cadre and extension of his service by one year was also announced on Tuesday.Escorted by two police vehicles, Asthana reached the Delhi Police headquarters at 1.45pm in a white sedan, the official police commissioner’s vehicle, and was greeted with a bouquet of flowers by Srivastava at the main reception area, where the police’s top officers and mediapersons were present. Ashtana was accorded the ceremonial guard of honour, after which he entered the headquarters building, flanked by all special commissioners of police.While other special commissioners left for the commissioner’s meeting hall named ‘Vimarsh’, Srivastava, and two special CPs Sundri Nanda and Praveer Ranjan, accompanied Asthana to the commissioner’s office where he took over charge.Asthana then briefed the media during which he also praised the Delhi Police for its “brilliant past and performance in handling complicated cases and situations”. He said he hopes to work in tandem with everyone to ensure the betterment of society.“Delhi Police has a brilliant past. A lot of good work has been done by the city police in the past. A lot of complicated cases have been solved. A lot of complicated situations have been handled by the Delhi Police. I believe in team work and I hope that with this team work, we will be able to put the best foot forward for the betterment of society and prevalence of peace,” he said.Before taking the charge as Delhi Police commissioner, Asthana was the director general of BSF and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). He has earlier worked as the special director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). During his stint in the CBI, he was engaged in an unsavoury spat with then CBI director Alok Verma with both of them levelling allegations of corruption against each other. In Gujarat, he has served as commissioner of police in Surat and Vadodara.Asthana graduated and did his post-graduation from St John’s College, Agra, the police said in a statement.In another development on Wednesday, Praveer Ranjan, a 1993 batch IPS officer who was heading the Delhi Police’s crime branch as a special commissioner, was appointed the director general of police (DGP) Chandigarh. Ranjan will replace 1989 batch IPS officer Sanjay Bainiwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/asthana-takes-charge-as-delhi-police-commissioner-101627495549354.html
29-07-2021||Delhi||Minor abducted, raped by 24-year-old repeat offender in Wazirpur||A 24-year-old man, who was absconding for nearly a year after fleeing custody in a case related to the rape and murder of a minor girl in Uttar Pradesh’s Rampur, was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly kidnapping and raping a nine-year-old girl in a jhuggi near Wazirpur Industrial Area in northwest Delhi on Sunday afternoon.Police said the suspect, identified as Salim alias Chhotu, was homeless in Delhi after his escape from custody in Rampur and was employed as a cleaner in factories in Wazirpur Industrial Area. Police found out about his antecedents after his arrest.“Salim was in a jail in Rampur, when he was infected by Covid-19 and got admitted to a local hospital. On August 28 last year, Salim fled the hospital after which a separate case under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) was registered by the Uttar Pradesh Police. He had been absconding since then,” said deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani.According to a senior police officer associated with the case, Salim came across the girl, who was with her parents and two brothers, at a confectionery shop in Shalimar Bagh. He said Salim allegedly lured the girl by promising to buy her new clothes and sweets.“Salim boarded an e-rickshaw with the girl and took her to a vacant shanty close to the railway tracks in Wazirpur Industrial area. He held her captive for a couple of hours and raped her, after threatening to kill her with a knife... Later, he dropped the girl near her home and threatened to kill her if she told anyone about the crime,” the officer said.Police said the girl, after returning home, was rattled and did not tell anyone about her ordeal despite her parents asking about it. In the evening, the girl complained of pain in the abdomen and was taken to a nearby hospital where the doctor said that she was sexually assaulted and called police.“We registered a case of kidnapping, rape, and criminal intimidation under IPC sections 363 (kidnapping),376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) and Section 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at Shalimar Bagh police station. Counsellors talked to the girl and extracted information about the suspect. However, she was clueless about his identity as she had never met him before. She only remembered the vacant shanty near railway tracks ,” the officer said.DCP Rangnani said investigators scanned over 200 CCTV cameras to identify the suspect. “He was arrested from Wazirpur Industrial Area on Tuesday,” said the DCP.The girl’s father works as a truck cleaner and mother is a tuberculosis patient, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/absconding-arrest-for-rape-murder-24-yr-old-held-for-abducting-raping-another-9-yr-old-in-delhi-101627495548810.html
29-07-2021||Gurugram||Peacock killed in DLF-5 after being hit by car||A three-year-old male peacock was killed after being hit by a speeding car on Monday evening in DLF-5, the police said. However, a case is yet to be filed into the incident.The police said that they received a call around 10.30pm from a man who identified himself as a supervisor, following which a team from the Sushant Lok police station and wildlife officials recovered the carcass.According to the CCTV camera footage of the incident, which has been accessed by HT, the incident took place at 6.45pm, when a white car of Mercedes made a turn towards the Camellias residential society from the Golf Drive inside DLF-5.Rajesh Chahal, a wildlife inspector, said that the peacock died on the spot and an autopsy of the carcass was done on Tuesday. “The post-mortem examination report revealed that the bird was hit on its head and neck portion and died on the spot, but all the feathers of the bird were intact. The bird was consigned to flames with full national honours at the Sultanpur National Park on Tuesday,” he said.Peacock is listed under Schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, as is the National Bird of India. Officials said that killing a peacock is a serious offence that can attract a prison sentence of three to seven years or a fine of up to ₹25,000 or both.Chahal said they tried reaching out to the mobile number from which they received the call, but it was switched off due to which they could not record a statement of the supervisor.Sanjeev Balhara, an assistant commissioner of police, said that they have not received any complaint, from either a resident or wildlife department officials. “We will take action against the driver of the car that hit the peacock once the statement of the person who informed is recorded. The wildlife department is also conducting an investigation. We have received the car’s registration number and the owner has been identified as a resident of Aralias in DLF-5,” he said.Balhara said that the driver was speeding, entered the complex through Gate Number 2 and took a left turn towards the residential area.A circular, sent by DLF’s customer engagement team on Tuesday informing the residents regarding the incident, stated, “As you are aware the peacocks, partridges and other exotic birds have made the sanctuary their home and we are richer and blessed to have their beauty and presence in the DLF Golf Links. To prevent such unfortunate incidents again, we are reiterating that speeding on the Golf Drive is not permitted. We urge the residents and their guests to strictly adhere to the set speed limits.”Requisite signage will be installed on the Golf Drive in consultation with the forest department, to bring awareness about the wildlife around us, the circular stated.Despite repeated calls and messages, officials of DLF did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/peacock-killed-in-dlf-5-after-being-hit-by-car-101627495252065.html
29-07-2021||Mumbai||With a rising daily Covid caseload Beed, Solapur emerge as new areas of concern for Maharashtra||Two districts in Maharashtra — Beed and Solapur — are among 22 districts across India marked out by the Centre as “areas of concern” for recording an increasing daily Covid-19 caseload trend for the past four weeks. Drought-ridden Beed showed a meagre prevalence of the virus during the first wave but has since recorded over 97,600 cases and 2,600 deaths to date. It also clocks some of the state’s lowest vaccination rates. Solapur, which abuts Pune, Sangli and Kolhapur — all three districts of concern in the state — has recorded over 185,000 cases and 4800 deaths to date.“We have noted an increasing trend in these 22 districts, week on week basis. This is a cause of concern,” joint secretary of health ministry Lav Agarwal said in a media briefing on Tuesday. Besides Maharashtra, the other districts are from Kerala (7), Manipur (5), Meghalaya (3), Arunachal Pradesh (3) and one each in Assam and Tripura. The Union ministry of health and family welfare has said that these are “areas of concern” and are constantly talking with the states about containment and early detection efforts. “What was striking in Beed is the limited exposure to the virus during the first wave, due to stringent lockdown measures that were implemented,” said Dr Radhakrishna Pawar, the district’s health officer. “The first serological survey carried out in August last year showed merely 0.1% exposure in the population. The second survey carried out in June this year showed that nearly 41% of people had developed antibodies. The cases will keep rising till there is immunity by natural infections or vaccinations,” he said adding that they are anticipating a much severe third wave. On July 1, Beed recorded 103 cases. The number went up to 211 on July 20 and 244 on Wednesday. The district reached a peak in August last year with the highest daily caseload touching 350. This year, Beed recorded a peak in May with the highest daily caseload reaching 1,515. Beed’s vaccination coverage is among the lowest. The district has administered 699,483 doses as of July 28, of which merely 9500 people are in the age group of 18 to 44 and a little over 100,000 people above 45 years are fully vaccinated. “Our target adult population is 29 lakh, but we have just about achieved 18% vaccine coverage,” said Pawar adding that there has been an acute shortfall of doses, and vials run within hours of arrival. While most positive cases were recorded in urban blocks of Beed during the first wave, officials are now recording cases among the rural population. There are instances of clusters of cases coming from villages. For example, Sabalkhed village in Beed recorded 50 cases over the past two weeks. Health officials say that lockdown restrictions are mostly on paper now, and people have given up on adhering to protocols. “Physical distancing and covid appropriate behaviour like wearing masks are completely absent now, which is driving the positivity,” said Beed based chest physician Dr Anil Barkul. On July 1, Solapur district recorded 515 positive cases. The number went up to 615 on July 20 and 529 on Wednesday. In the last seven days of June, Solapur’s average daily positive cases were 354. “Our daily positivity rate hovered between 4% to 4.5% in June, but it gradually started rising in July between 5.5% to 6%,” said Dr Shitalkumar Jadhav, Solapur’s district health officer. The district is carrying out an average of 13,000 tests daily, but 60% of these are the Rapid Antigen Tests while 40% are RTPCR. Its vaccination coverage is also at the lower end with a target population of 36 lakh and only 914, 838 doses administered so far. “About 1.5 lakh people are fully vaccinated in the district,” said Jadhav. He said that five talukas- Karmala, Madha, Pandharpur, Malshiras and Sangola- are contributing to most cases. These talukas are neighbouring to districts like Satara, Sangli and Ahmednagar and there is free movement between these areas after travel relaxations. “A lot of shepherds have been visiting from Satara and they have been holding small religious gatherings too. Besides, there is routine travel of farm labourers and others for work,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/beed-and-solapur-emerge-as-new-areas-of-concern-for-maharashtra-with-a-rising-daily-covid-caseload-101627494348774.html
29-07-2021||Other||Woman kills self while husband, in-laws undergo Covid treatment||A 38-year-old woman, who recovered from Covid-19, allegedly died by suicide while the husband and in-laws were undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in Vasai. According to the police, the victim was under home quarantine and her in-laws are still admitted in an isolation ward of a hospital in Vasai. Her husband is on ventilator support and his condition is said to be critical. Inspector Abdul Haque Desai of Vasai Gaon police station said, “The incident came to light after a relative visited their home at Madinaka, Vasai. After knocking several times, there was no response. He then broke the door open and found the victim hanging from the ceiling.” “The woman was discharged on Saturday. She allegedly died by suicide on Tuesday. A suicide note has been found where she has apologised for the act,” said Desai. The body has been sent for postmortem. Police registered a case of accidental death and are investigating further.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-kills-self-while-husband-in-laws-undergo-covid-treatment-101627493869295.html
29-07-2021||Pune||Pune student bodies step forward to help flood victims||Students and student organisations from the city have come forward to help the flood-affected people from Chiplun, Sangli and Kolhapur districts. They have decided to provide drinking water and sanitary cleaning material to the flood-hit parts after the people there informed about scarcity of the same.Members of one of the students’ organisations which has taken the lead, “Youth the Power to Change”, are packing kits containing cleaning material. Rohan Shetty, president of the organisation, said, “Ever since the floods in Chiplun, Sangli and Kolhapur districts, we have been in continuous touch with our friends and other people there. With the waters now receding, the major issue faced by the people is how to clean their houses and shops. As there is no cleaning material available to them, we decided to make cleaning material kits and send them to Chiplun. Each kit includes a small bucket, scrubber, detergent powder and other necessary items.”Along with cleaning kits, the organisation is also sending 1000 litre of packaged drinking water for the benefit of the flood-hit people. A few collection centres have been set up around the city where Punekars including students can come forth and donate cash or material towards the cause.Another youth organisation which goes by the name, “Vande Mataram Sangathana” is focusing exclusively on the distribution of drinking water through public contribution. The organisation has decided to collect 1 lakh litre of packaged drinking water through public donations. “We have started the initiative since yesterday and appealed to students and Punekars to come forward and help the flood victims. The situation has got so worse that Chiplun will not have clean drinking water for the next three weeks. Punekars have responded whole-heartedly to our appeal and within a day’s time, we have collected 31,000 litre of packaged drinking water,” said Sachin Jamage, state executive president of the organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-student-bodies-step-forward-to-help-flood-victims-101627491349688.html
29-07-2021||Pune||Despite STAC guidelines, PMC fails to keep Pune roads pothole-free||Despite a High Court’s order, the STAC (Standing Technical Advisory Committee) report and Urban Street guidelines, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is failing to maintain the city’s roads, with potholes frequently showing up, causing an inconvenience to citizens. The road department accepted the fact that after a gap of four to five years, this year, more potholes have emerged in July. PMC officials attributed the scenario to the 24x7 water project and laying of cables by various agencies. Civic activist Qaneez Sukhrani said, “I had filed a public interest litigation (PIL) against PMC over the pothole issue in 2006. The Bombay high court had directed the PMC to constitute a technical advisory committee of experts in the field of road engineering and construction, in order to advise the PMC on its road strategy.” The STAC committee was constituted by PMC in 2007. It took many years of the committee stopping and re-starting until the report was finalised in 2013. Sukhrani said, “As a result of both orders, detailed matters relating to road design, construction, quality aspects, specifications, and maintenance management were laid down.” Vivek Velankar, a member of the STAC, said, “Despite having all the documents and technical guidance, the PMC is not following it. The contractors and officers are not bothered about resurfacing road works being carried out as per guidelines. They do shabby work and citizens become the victims.” Following heavy rains last week, most roads in the city, particularly in the peth areas, are laden with potholes. According to head of the road department, VJ Kulkarni, as road digging happened on a massive scale due to development projects, roads are getting damaged. Once a road loses its original status, it’s really difficult to retain it in a good condition. “After the water project, we would need to take on a road project. We will need to chalk out a plan for more than Rs1,000 crore for roads, as almost 18,00km of roads are getting dug-up under this scheme,” Kulkarni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/despite-stac-guidelines-pmc-fails-to-keep-pune-roads-potholefree-101627490268366.html
29-07-2021||Pune||Residents frustrated over poor, unsafe road conditions in Pune locality||Pune: Pedestrians face a tough time commuting from Gangadham to Kondhwa road as the entire stretch is in poor condition. Residents said that road repairs and extension work is going on for last two years and still it is not completed. The local residents’ forum has raised the issue with Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pune traffic police department many times, but to no avail. “We live on the Gangadham to Kondhwa road stretch passing through the Aai Mata Mandir chowk. Many new residential housing societies have come up on this stretch in the last few years. The road widening work is a long pending issue. It has not been completed since last two years. We have many times written to the authorities to complete the road extension work as it is dangerous for traffic movement,” said Atul Jain, resident and member of Kondhwa Development Forum. There are various issues which the residents have raised, including road widening pending since more than five years, no streetlights and bottleneck near the Aai Mata Mandir chowk, vegetable and roadside vendors encroaching road and leaving less space for traffic movement. Heavy vehicle movement and its parking also poses risk to pedestrians and vehicle users. Another resident Bipin Gandhi said, “I daily travel by this road for my work and it’s a nightmare with traffic jams during peak hours, garbage lying on road and encroachment by illegal hawkers. If we are paying taxes to PMC, then it is their responsibility to provide us with better and safe roads to travel.” Jyoti Dhotre, ward officer of Kondhwa-Yewalewadi, has assured the residents’ forum to take necessary action to repair the road and make safety arrangements. “We have received a letter from residents on the Gangadham-Kondhwa road issue and we will be working on it,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/residents-frustrated-over-poor-unsafe-road-conditions-in-kondhwa-101627488348179.html
29-07-2021||Pune||Pune district receives excess rainfall in July||Pune: After a lull beginning of southwest monsoon and a dry spell of almost three weeks, Pune district has reported rainfall in excess for July. The cumulative rainfall from June 1 till July 28 is also in excess as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Last week, Pune city and district reported heavy rainfall and spell of intense rainfall. As per IMD, heavy rainfall activity is likely to continue in ghat areas near Pune city. Between June 1 and July 28, Pune city reported an excess of 32.5 mm rainfall. The actual rainfall reported was 336.4 mm rainfall. After a negative departure of rainfall, Pune city has reported an excess by the end of this month. Speaking about the rainfall activity, Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department, IMD Pune said that ghat areas will continue to see isolated heavy rainfall spells till the end of this month. “For Pune city, rainfall activity will partially increase from July 29 evening till July 31. The rainfall in Pune city will be light to moderate as per model predictions,” said Kashyapi. He said that four subdivisions of Maharashtra will continue to receive good rainfall till the end of this month. “Vidarbha, Central Maharashtra, Konkan and Goa will receive light to moderate rainfall in the next few days. Isolated places at Marathwada may receive light rainfall as well,” said Kashyapi. Marathwada, Central Maharashtra, Konkan and Goa have received excess rainfall in July. Whereas Vidarbha has received normal rainfall in this month. Between June 1 till Wednesday, the rainfall over Marathwada, Konkan and Goa and Central Maharashtra is also in excess as per the weather department. Vidarbha has also reported normal rainfall this time. As per IMD, Maharashtra state has received excess rainfall by 29 per cent between June 1 and Wednesday. Actual rainfall reported was 651.7 mm and normal rainfall was 505.1 mm. In July as well, Maharashtra reported 27 per cent in excess. Actual rainfall reported was 328.9 mm and normal rainfall was 297.5 mm during this month as per IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-receives-excess-rainfall-in-july-101627485347906.html
29-07-2021||Pune||Traffic snarls hit busy Pune peth areas||Pune: Commuting within afternoon hours in peth areas is turning out to be a chaotic experience for residents due to traffic jams leading to very slow movement for two-wheeler users and pedestrians. Road repairs, potholed stretches, non-functional signals at some places and continuous spells of rains are making commuting difficult in the core parts of the city. Once you overcome heavy traffic issue in the core parts of the city, roads connecting Pimpri-Chinchwad — University road, Khadki Bazar road — are also witnessing heavy traffic between 3pm and 5pm due to Covid restrictions with majority of offices closing down in the city during the same time. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) traffic Rahul Shrirame did not respond to calls despite many attempts. A junior official on request of anonymity said, “Since last one week traffic in the core part of the city has increased due to multiple reasons. Due to the reopening of shops, more people are seen on the roads. Road repairs is also one reason as vehicles are not able to move freely and heavy rains have created potholes. Even, many signals are not working.” Shivpriya Mote, resident of Tapkir galli on Appa Balwant chowk, said, “Residents living in these lanes face trouble even to walk on the main road. Pune Municipal Corporation should find a solution to decongest the roads.” Parisar, a non-governmental organisation that had presented a city mobility plan to PMC, said Laxmi road, Kumthekar road and a few main roads of peth areas should be made “no-vehicle zones” to ease traffic congestion. “It is not possible to add new development plans in these old areas of the city. Decongestion of traffic can give breathers to people who often visit these shopping areas. PMC should come out with norms of short and long-term parking under pay and park policy,” said Ranjit Gadgil, programme director, Parisar. “Due to free parking, many people are keeping their vehicles parked for long hours. Those who shop in these areas and have to park vehicles for five to six hours should park their vehicles in long-term parking while people who come for shopping should allowed parking in short-term parking zones,” said Parisar. PMC had planned to make Laxmi road walking plaza, however, plan never worked out and it remained on paper. PMC has also not taken any step to implement pay and park policy in the city. “Pune traffic police will be taking a few steps in coming days to reduce traffic congestion,” said the junior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/traffic-snarls-hit-busy-pune-peth-areas-101627485047867.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Mentally unstable man held for defiling scriptures at Ludhiana gurdwara||A 40-year-old man was arrested for defiling religious scriptures at Gurdwara Baba Vishavkarma Sahib at Street 12, Dasmesh Nagar, on Tuesday. The accused, Jaspal Singh of Dasmesh Nagar, removed the sacred cloth covering the scriptures and scattered the holy books around the room. The gurdwara’s granthi, Chatar Singh of Daba Lohara village, said Jaspal came to the gurdwara around 6pm and went to the room where the scriptures are kept on the first floor. “I realised that the accused had not come downstairs. Suspecting foul play, I decided to inspect the room and found our scriptures scattered. I raised the alarm and apprehended Jaspal.”The accused was booked under Section 295 ( injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class) of the Indian Penal Code. Division 6 station house officer Amandeep Singh Brar said the accused was suffering from a mental illness and is undergoing psychiatric treatment at Model Gram..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mentally-unstable-man-held-for-defiling-religious-scriptures-at-gurdwara-101627473526633.html
29-07-2021||Delhi||Sisodia seeks suggestions over reopening of Delhi schools, colleges||With fewer Covid-19 cases being reported in the national capital and several states reopening schools, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday invited suggestions from stakeholders, including parents and teachers, over the reopening of educational institutes in the city.Schools and colleges in the national capital have been closed since March last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Classes briefly resumed in a staggered manner between January and February before being suspended again due to the fourth wave of the pandemic in the Capital.With reduced Covid-19 caseload and academic loss, many parents and students have sought to know about the reopening of schools, Sisodia said.Also Read | ‘Khela hobe’, says Mamata even as she skirts Delhi leadership queries“Over 500,000 parents attended the ongoing parent-teacher meetings in Delhi government schools. During my visit to many of these schools, parents and teachers expressed interest in knowing if educational institutions will reopen anytime soon. They also wanted to know that if schools were to reopen, how we would go about it. Before the government takes any decision on the matter, we want to hear suggestions from parents and teachers on the matter,” Sisodia said at a press briefing on Wednesday.He said parents, teachers, and students could send in their suggestions in a 100-word email to delhischools21@gmail.com, and officials would deliberate on them.“We have teachers express concerns over academic losses. Even college students reach out to us saying that they have missed out on college life for over a year and their campus life has been limited to a room in their homes. This is why we are asking everyone to send in their suggestions to us on the matter,” he said.Several states, including Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Odisha, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, and Gujarat, have either partially reopened schools or are in the process of doing so beginning next month.Daily Covid-19 cases in Delhi have remained under 100 for the past few weeks with a positivity rate of less than 1% over the last two months. On April 20, the city reported a record 28,395 cases and on April 22, the case positivity rate was 36.2%, the highest so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sisodia-seeks-suggestions-over-reopening-of-delhi-schools-colleges-101627464151064.html
29-07-2021||Chandigarh||Nine dead, seven missing in Himachal||Manali-Leh highway blocked due to landslides; 80 people stranded at Chitkul in Kinnaur rescued  Nine people died and seven are missing in Himachal due to weather-related mishaps, officials said on Wednesday. Seven people died and three went missing after a cloudburst flooded Tozing Nullah and washed away two cars, as many tents of labourers and an earth-moving machine in Lahaul and Spiti district while heavy rain since Tuesday night triggered flashfloods and landslides in other parts of the state. In Chamba, an earth-moving machine helper was killed after being swept away in a flashflood triggered by heavy rain at Chaned on the Chamba-Pathankot highway. Rescuers have retrieved the body of the deceased identified as Sunil Kumar. Another person died in Salooni area of Chamba after falling from a cliff. The deceased is identified as Nikku. A 25-year-old woman, Poonam, and her four-year-old son, Nikunj, have been reported missing after being swept away in the Brahmaganga rivulet, a tributary of the Parvati river, in Manikaran valley of Kullu district. Officials said they were passing by the rivulet when the water level suddenly rose. A tourist from Delhi, Dinita, 25, and a local resident, Vijender, were also missing. The Parvati valley was in full spate and people residing on the banks in Manikaran have been shifted to safer places. Lahaul and Spiti deputy commissioner Neeraj Kumar said seven bodies have been recovered. The deceased have been identified as Neerath Ram, 42, from Takoli, Sher Singh, 62, Ram Singh, 49, and Mehar Singh, 49, from Bhimsei of Mandi district and M Sharif of Reasi district of Jammu and Kashmir. Two bodies are yet to be identified. Rescue teams, comprising members of the BRO, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), were trying to trace those missing. Kumar said an armyman, Mohan Singh, 38, and his family members were rescued from Chhatting village. He was undergoing treatment at the regional hospital in Keylong. His family members are safe and have been sent to Jahalma. Besides, three people identified as Taj Ram, Desh Raj and Aitam Ram have also been rescued. NDRF help sought in Lahaul and Spiti“We have requisitioned a unit of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) which is on its way,” the DC said. Several roads in the high-altitude tribal district are blocked due to landslides. State disaster management director Sudesh Mokhta said a landslide near Kirting village of Lahaul subdivision had blocked state highway number 26. At least 50 vehicles are stranded in the area and efforts to restore traffic are on. Another landslide occurred on the highway at Hawai Mod near Kukumseri village. An incident of flashflood was reported at Keylong village, which blocked the Leh-Manali highway. The BRO is engaged in clearing the stretch. The mobile network and electricity supply has also been affected in the district. The Kullu-Manali highway is closed at multiple spots due to landslides. Earlier, the district authorities rescued 80 people stranded at Chitkul in Kinnaur after Sunday’s incident of shooting stones that claimed nine lives. According to the state emergency operation centre, a flashflood was reported in Udaipur’s Changut village and Udgos Nullah at 6pm on Tuesday, washing away an old house and damaging a Bailey bridge. A tractor was also washed away and loss to farmland has been reported. People residing on the banks of the rivulet have been shifted to safer places. Another flashflood was reported in Mooring Nullah in Udaipur that stalled traffic on state highway number 26. A flash flood occurred at Hukka Nullah of Rakchham in Sangla in Kinnaur district but no major loss to property was reported. In Shimla town, a landslide occurred near Tenzin Hospital, damaging a car. Meanwhile, DGP Sanjay Kundu said heavy rains are lashing the state leading to landslides, rockslides, flashfloods, washing away of roads and bridges and public as well as tourists are advised to avoid unessential travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/one-dead-10-missing-after-cloudburst-in-himachal-s-lahaulspiti-101627448308771.html
