30-07-2021||Delhi||GST amendment Bill passed in Delhi assembly||The Delhi Assembly on Friday passed the Goods and Services (Amendment) Bill 2021, which the government claimed is aimed at smoothening the taxpaying process, strengthening accountability and minimising room for tax evasions, amid protests from the BJP legislators.“One of the key features of this amendment is the removal of the requirement of compulsory submission of audited annual accounts and reconciliation statements for the registered taxpayers, which had earlier made traders dependent on chartered and cost accountants. Further, in case of detention, seizure of goods..., the goods can now be released on the payment of penalty, as against the earlier practice of paying up the tax too. Third, the interest charged in case of delay in filing GST was previously charged on gross amount which has now been changed retrospectively (from 1.7.2017) to the net amount,” said deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who tabled the Bill on Friday -- the last day of the Monsoon session of the Assembly.When Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators in the House protested that they were not consulted about it, Sisodia said that these amendments were approved in the meeting of the GST Council, chaired by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, held in March this year.“There have been small changes in 15 sections in the Bill, and Schedule II, paragraph 7 is being omitted from the Bill. These changes have been incurred after looking at the experiences and receiving feedback of the business people and these amendments have been approved in the 39th GST council meeting after wide deliberations,” said Sisodia.He further said, “To stop tax evasion, the GST council has ascertained that attachment of property and bank accounts is permitted not only of the taxable person but also of the other beneficiaries. This amendment is targeted at those individuals who set up fake firms under names of other individuals and get away with claiming taxes.”The Bill was eventually passed with a majority in the 70-member assembly which has 62 AAP legislators and eight from BJP.Bed and breakfastOn Friday, the Delhi assembly also passed a Bill allowing registration of “bed and breakfast” establishments within 30 days, as against an earlier time frame of up to 90 days.“In the light of the pandemic, the declining tourism sector will get a boost from these positive changes in the ‘Bed and Breakfast scheme’ of the Delhi government. Under the existing ‘Bed and Breakfast scheme’, 1,630 rooms in 347 houses are registered so far in Delhi. The registration process for any house currently takes up to 90 days under the scheme. With this Bill, we aim to reduce it to a maximum of 30 days,” said Sisodia, who tabled the Bill.He further said, “The number (of bed and breakfast facilities) will increase once the scheme is implemented and boost tourism. House owners can now get their certificates online. There is no need to go to the government offices for this purpose.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gstamendment-bill-passed-in-delhi-assembly-101627669752615.html
30-07-2021||Mumbai||Longest serving MLA from Maharashtra Ganpatrao Deshmukh passes away||Former minister and Maharashtra’s longest serving elected representative Ganpatrao Deshmukh passed away on Friday at the age of 94. He was critical for the past few days.Deshmukh, a member of the Peasants and Workers party (PWP), has set a record of being elected 11 times from Sangola constituency in Solapur and was an MLA for 55 years till 2019. In his entire career in electoral politics, Deshmukh contested 13 Assembly elections till 2014 and lost only twice – in 1972 and 1995. In 1995, he lost to a Congress candidate by a margin of merely 192 votes.In 2019, he announced his retirement from active politics and did not contest the Assembly polls.In the 2014 Assembly election, Deshmukh had defeated Shahaji Bapu Patil by more than 25,000 votes.Interestingly, Deshmukh was mostly in the opposition, barring 1978 and 1999 when he briefly served as a minister – first in the Sharad Pawar-led government and the second time when the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) formed the government with support from PWP.Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari condoled demise of the veteran. He said, “I was saddened to know about the demise of the senior-most leader of PWP and the longest term member of the state legislature Ganpatrao Deshmukh. A model people’s representative, Shri Deshmukh maintained his chord with farmers, workers and ordinary citizens all his life. He was an epitome of simple living and high thinking. A man of peace and restraint, Shri Deshmukh was a fearless leader, having friends across the political spectrum. In his demise the state has lost an institution in the state legislature.”“We have lost a simple man from politics. He has set a record of electing maximum times in Maharashtra, but for me it is important that he lived his life with simple and high thinking. He has also set an example that will remain a benchmark in the political world for years to come,” chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said in his condolence message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/longest-serving-mla-from-maharashtra-ganpatrao-deshmukh-passes-away-101627669453651.html
30-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Kalra says registration certificates of Khan Chacha, Town Hall cancelled||Businessman Navneet Kalra on Friday informed the Delhi high court that the registration certificate to run his restaurants, Khan Chacha and Town Hall, in Khan Market has been cancelledby the policeover alleged hoarding and black marketing of oxygen concentrators. Kalra, through his counsel, had argued that there was no provision to suspend registration certificate merely on the grounds of registration of FIR.Delhi Police on May 7 said that in a search operation during the second wave of the pandemic, 524 oxygen concentrators were recovered from Khan Chacha and Town Hall in Khan Market, and Nege & Ju in Lodhi Colony, which are owned by Kalra.Kalra was subsequently arrested on May 16 and granted bail on May 29. On July 20, Kalra, through his counsel, moved high court challenging the suspension of license of the two eateries in the upscale Khan market.On Friday, the court was informed that a final order had been passed and the registration certificates were cancelled by an order of July 23. Taking note of the submission, the judge said he can challenge the cancellation order in in accordance with law.Kalra had challenged the May 11 order-cum-show cause notice issued by the Joint Commissioner of Police (Licensing) O P Mishra and the subsequent suspension of the registration certificate to run the two eateries in Khan Market.“After taking into account the written and oral submission of the licencee and the serious nature of violation of the terms and conditions of the registration certificate, I...hereby cancel the registration certificate of...Khan Chacha... with immediate effect,” said one of the orders signed by Mishra on July 23.The businessman had contended that the suspension was illegal and contrary to the provisions of the Delhi Eating houses Registration Regulations as it did not confer power of suspension at the stage of issuance of a show casue notice.“The order of suspension is also bad as recovery of oxygen concentrators made from the restaurant premises is no ground nor is it given as a ground for suspension of licence. The order of suspension adversely affects the business, reputation and livelihood of all employees working in the restaurant,” the plea had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-kalra-says-registration-certificates-of-khan-chacha-town-hall-cancelled-101627669211280.html
30-07-2021||Other||Odisha anti-corruption sleuths trace assets worth ₹3.79 cr from Class 3 employee||The anti-corruption sleuths of Odisha on Friday found assets worth over ₹3.79 crore, including 1.5 kg gold, from the house of a private secretary of a member of Odisha Staff Selection Commission that conducts recruitment to Group C posts in state government, officials said.Vigilance officials said Biranchi Narayan Sahoo, 58, private secretary to member of Odisha Staff Selection Commission Jagannath Lenka, was found to be in possession of assets worth ₹3.79 crore including a double-storeyed building worth ₹1.42 crore in Bhubaneswar.Bhubaneswar vigilance SP Prakash R said two single-storeyed buildings in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack, 14 plots in Bhubaneswar, Khurda and Puri, a four-wheeler, insurance premia worth over ₹56 lakh and ₹25 lakh in cash from his and his relative’s house were seized during the raid. Besides, gold ornaments weighing around 1.5 kg worth over ₹60 lakh were also found in his house.“We are yet to calculate how much of it was disproportionate to his known sources of income,” said the vigilance SP.Sahoo joined government service as a lowly junior stenographer in the forest department in 1981. He was transferred to Odisha Staff Selection Commission in 1994 as a senior stenographer. The Odisha Staff Selection Commission was established in 1993 to select candidates for Group-C posts such as field assistants, inspectors of supplies, assistant training officers, laboratory assistants, junior librarians, excise sub-inspectors, district culture officers, industries promotion officers, junior typists, traffic sub-inspectors, junior stenographers, welfare extension officers, marketing intelligence officers, amins, junior MVIs and junior engineers.In 2006, he became private secretary to the member of the Staff Selection Commission. Member Jagannath Lenka said he can not say how Sahoo amassed so many assets.Vigilance officials said recruitment-related applicant admit cards and other incriminating documents have also been recovered during the searches.In 2017, Odisha topped the country in cases of criminal misconduct under the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988. The state vigilance filed 222 criminal misconduct cases under the Act in 2017. As per section 13 of the Act, a public servant who habitually accepts any gratification other than legal remuneration is liable to be charged under it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-anti-corruption-sleuths-trace-assets-worth-rs-3-79-cr-from-class-3-employee-101627668613632.html
30-07-2021||Mumbai||Day 1 of door-to-door drive: 37 get vaccinated in Mumbai||Thirty-seven beneficiaries who are bedridden due to medical or physical illnesses were vaccinated at their homes, the Day-1 of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination drive, on Friday. These also include 14 senior citizens living at an old age home — Wagh Nursing Home in Jogeshwari (East). With help from a non-profit organisation, Project Mumbai, BMC kick-started the door-to-door vaccination drive on a pilot basis in the K East ward corresponding to areas in and around Andheri (East). Four vials were used for the drive on Friday. Each vial contains 10 vaccine doses. Two separate teams of medical professionals were on the field with two separate ambulances, for the pilot drive. Both ambulances were equipped with oxygen support. Each team comprised a doctor, a nurse and a member of the BMC staff to accompany the team. As per the BMC, the drive will now start across Mumbai. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, in charge of BMC’s public health department, said, “From Monday, we will start the drive in all wards of Mumbai. Each ward will have at least one team on the field for the door-to-door visits.” On Friday morning, Daya Joshi, 79, a resident of Vijay Nagar in Andheri (East) became the first beneficiary to get vaccinated at home. Shishir Joshi, from Project Mumbai, said, “We called beneficiaries and asked them what time they were free to arrange a visit at home. The first beneficiary was free at noon. We also had an orientation session with the two teams in the morning, before they went on the field.”Dr Niteen Joshi, Daya Joshi’s son, said, “My mother went through a coronary illness. There are three other members in our family, and all are vaccinated except my mother. Now she has received her first dose as part of the door-to-door drive. Our housing colony had earlier circulated a message about this drive, and we signed up for my mother. The entire process was very smooth.” The two teams started their day by visiting the same locations together, to draw from each other’s experience. Later in the day, the two teams split up and began to visit separate beneficiaries. The teams waited in the homes of the beneficiaries for a short while after they were vaccinated, before moving to the next home. They approached each home with contact information about the nearest municipal hospital and dispensary, a phone number of the nearest physician associated with BMC. The civic body’s ambulance was also on standby in case of emergency, according to official information. One of the main reasons why BMC kick-started the door-to-door only in one ward on Friday was to draw learnings from its experience on the field and fine-tune its standard operating procedures when the drive becomes large scale across Mumbai Monday onwards. Kakani said, “The most important aspect is that beneficiaries need to have a consent letter from their physicians ready beforehand. If that is not available when our team visits their homes for vaccination, the trip will be futile.” As per requirement, each beneficiary needs to have a consent letter from a physician certifying they are fit for vaccination. The beneficiary should also ensure a family physician can watch over the person during the 30-minute observation period after vaccination. “These are challenging in some cases, as every beneficiary may not have a doctor who can watch over them for 30 minutes after vaccination,” Shishir Joshi said. For Friday’s drive, the medical teams’ phone called about 90 beneficiaries who had signed up for the drive. About 15 of them were already vaccinated, as many had taken their first dose, and a handful did not have all documents in place. Hence a total of 37 beneficiaries were vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/day-1-of-door-to-door-drive-37-get-vaccinated-in-mumbai-101627668131798.html
30-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra administers over 10 million doses in July, so far||In another milestone, Maharashtra has administered over 10 million doses in this month so far — its highest number in a month. Earlier this month, the state achieved a feat of going past 40 million doses since the drive started on January 16. According to the state health department’s data, this month (till July 29), 10,643,344 doses have been administered.State health department officials said that steady stock supply from the Centre and greater awareness among the population has boosted their numbers. State immunisation officer, DN Patil said, “This is another milestone for us. We have administered over one crore (10 million) doses in a month for the first time.”In June, the state had touched 9.86 million (9,864,317) doses. Maharashtra saw a 55.13% jump in vaccination numbers in June from the previous month due to the availability of doses from the Centre. In May, the state had administered 6.35 million (6,358,454) doses. However, the jump in the number of doses in July from the previous month is not high. July (till 29th) only saw a 7.89% increase in doses from June.Senior state officials said that though the Centre is providing steady doses to the state, the numbers have to increase in proportion to the state’s population. The state has the infrastructure to administer one million jabs a day, said, officials. “We have demanded 30 million doses every month as we have the manpower and infrastructure to utilise that much stock. Such a proposal has also been passed last month in the state legislature. Our daily average is about 300,000 doses, which is slow, but it is due to low stock,” the official said requesting anonymity.Meanwhile, on Friday the state had administered 656,156 doses till 7pm, as per the Co-WIN portal data. Of the doses administered, 32,784,013 were first doses and 10,967,047 beneficiaries are fully vaccinated. In all, 43,751,060 doses have been administered till 7pm, as per the Co-WIN data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-administers-over-10-million-doses-in-july-so-far-101627667892377.html
30-07-2021||Other||‘Border issue can be solved on basis on 1875 notification alone’: Mizoram panel||Amid brewing tension with Assam over the state’s border following Monday’s clashes, a boundary committee constituted by the Mizoram government declared on Friday that the dispute can be resolved on the basis of an 1875 notification itself that started the inner line permit (ILP) in the area, HT has learnt.The decision was taken at the first meeting of the committee constituted last week and headed by deputy chief minister Tawnluia. It includes four ministers, members of NGOs, political parties, the chief secretary and state police chief. “The demarcation of Mizoram’s boundary/border on its northern side is to be found only in the Inner Line of 1875. Hence, the committee will continue its stance that the Mizoram-Assam boundary be desirably resolved on the basis of this document alone,” stated a resolution issued by the committee on Friday. The committee said border issues can’t be resolved through force and the matter should be resolved through dialogue. It approved the steps taken by the state government to address the issue and urged it “to continue taking steps courageously”.“As the border issue is intertwined with ethnic issues, it is our appeal to the people that they remain united in this matter and show fortitude in the face of any inconveniences arising out of this situation,” said the committee. It appealed to Mizo people not to create hardships for non-Mizos in the state because of the current border situation “The boundary committee intends to protect our land as it was occupied by our forefathers to its utmost ability and asks the people of Mizoram for their solidarity and support,” the committee said. Stating that most illegal drugs entering Assam was coming via Mizoram, the Assam government issued an order on Thursday saying all vehicles entering the state from Mizoram will be thoroughly checked. Responding to the order, Mizoram’s home department issued a release on Friday saying that the move will create unnecessary hardships for “innocent citizens” travelling from Mizoram to Assam. “There is no such restriction on the movement of non-residents of Mizoram travelling within Mizoram through the Mizoram-Assam border. This order (the one issued by Assam) may however be viewed as another way of creating an opportunity to harass all vehicles and passengers from Mizoram by Assam Police,” the release said. Countering Assam’s allegations, the release said that in the past 10 years, large quantities of illegal drugs coming from Assam have been seized in Mizoram and 395 persons from the neighbouring state were arrested in the matter. “The issue of drug trafficking can be better solved by better communication between the states... instead of threatening and harassing innocent civilians without any reasons,” said the release. The Assam-Mizoram border dispute is based on two notifications issued by the British. The first one issued in 1875 was framed under Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation of 1873 that demarcated Lushai Hills (the earlier name of Mizoram) from the plains of Cachar (in Assam), both of which were part of Greater Assam. The notification also introduced the inner line permit regime (ILP) that regulates the entry of outsiders to the area, now Mizoram, till this date. Since the decision was taken in consultation with Mizo chiefs at that time, Mizoram wants the border delimitation done on the basis of the 1875 notification. In 1933, another notification was issued through which delimitation of the earlier boundary between Lushai Hills, the former princely state of Manipur and Cachar in Assam was modified. Mizoram doesn’t accept this notification based on which it was declared a Union territory in 1972 and a state in 1987 as it wasn’t done in consultation with Mizo groups and because some parts of the region went to Assam. Following Monday’s clashes, an undeclared economic blockade is prevailing at Lailapur in Assam along the NH306, the lifeline to Mizoram that passes through Assam, and several trucks carrying essential goods have been stranded. On Friday, Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga tweeted saying, “Essential commodities and Covid-19 related medical equipment for Oxygen Plant should never be blocked!” He appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to intervene and sort the border issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/border-issue-can-be-solved-on-basis-on-1875-notification-alone-mizoram-panel-101627667834255.html
30-07-2021||Other||Unaccounted transactions of ₹400 cr to fore after searches on paan masala group||KANPUR The income tax department has detected unaccounted transactions of more than ₹400 crore after it carried out searches on a paan masala manufacturing and real estate group based in Kanpur and Delhi, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said on Friday.The department also found over ₹52 lakh cash and 7 kg gold during the searches, it said.The 31 premises of the firm were searched in Kanpur, Noida, Ghaziabad, Delhi and Kolkata. The said group has been earning huge revenues through unaccounted sale of paan masala and unaccounted real estate business. This income was laundered back into the concerns through a vast link of shell companies, according to a press statement issued by the I-T department. Digital and paper evidence found during the search revealed a nationwide network of such shell companies created by the group. The directors of these companies are persons of with no financial means, claimed the press release. “While some of these persons are not even filing income tax returns, some others who file returns, do so of extremely meagre amounts,” said Surabhi Ahluwalia, spokesperson, CBDT.Field investigations further revealed that these paper companies did not exist at the addresses mentioned and never conducted any business.“Surprisingly, these companies advanced so called loans and advances to the real estate group amounting to ₹226 crore in just three years. A network of 115 such shell companies has been found. Forensic analysis of the digital data is in progress. The main ‘directors’ also admitted that they were only ‘dummy directors’ and signed on the dotted lines as and when required in return for commission for their ‘services’,” according to the press statement.During the search, the I-T teams also discovered hideouts where troves of documents containing details of unaccounted money and their process of laundering, reads the press note.The team uncovered the modus operandi, including the role of ‘cash handlers’.The modus operandi is similar with respect to the business of paan masala. They too have laundered back their unaccounted income through an extensive network of such shell companies.Unaccounted loans and premium received from such paper companies exceeding ₹110 crore in three years have been detected.Forensic analysis of evidence is in progress. So far, 34 bogus bank accounts of shell companies have been found. Deductions claimed under Income Tax Act, 1961 with respect to treatment of biodegradable waste are under scrutiny. It has also been discovered that through some of these paper companies based in Kolkata, bogus sale and purchase of manure has been shown, amounting to ₹80 crore, so that cash can be deposited into bank accounts, the press note stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unaccounted-transactions-of-rs-400-cr-to-fore-after-searches-on-paan-masala-group-101627667771865.html
30-07-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 may affect sperm count among patients, say doctors||Though Covid-19 is a respiratory disease that primarily affects the lungs, it can also temporarily affect the process of spermatogenesis— formation of sperms leading to low sperm count — among patients. It takes two-three months to regain normal count, post-Covid-19 recovery, said, doctors.Previous studies have shown that viral diseases like Hepatitis C, Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), herpes and Ebola, affected spermatogenesis, sperm count, hormone levels and sperm motility. Doctors said the same pattern is also being observed among male patients infected with Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19.“Covid-19 causes fever which affects the spermatogenesis in a patient. We have observed that post-infection, the sperm count among the recovered patients decreases, but it is temporary. Thus, we always advise couples who want to conceive through IVF treatment to delay their procedure,” said Dr Richa Jagtap, clinical director, consultant reproductive medicine, Nova IVF Fertility, Mumbai. “It can be said that Covid-19 affects fertility, but it is just temporary.”Dr Kshitiz Murdia, chief executive officer and co-founder of Indira IVF also shared a similar observation. “We have noticed that men are more susceptible to the Covid-19 infection which impacts short-term sperm quality. But within two-three months, they recover completely. I have not observed any permanent damage among any patient,” he said.During viral infections, the body temperature increases in reaction to the pathogen, which may cause a blood-testis barrier — the immunological barrier which gives way into the male reproductive tract. This can affect the reproductive capacity of the patient, said doctors.“A few researchers have shown that reproductive organs have ACE2 (angiotensin-converting enzyme 2) receptors which provide an entry point for Sars-Cov-2. Researchers across the globe have found the virus in the reproductive organs in infected males. So, there is a possibility that the virus may lower the sperm counts but more studies are needed,” said a researcher from National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health (NIRRH).A study — Impaired spermatogenesis in Covid-19 patients published in the science journal, Lancet stated that impairment of spermatogenesis was observed in Covid patients, which could be partially explained as a result of an elevated immune response in testis. “Our results demonstrated the impaired spermatogenesis caused by Covid-19. Even for the patient who showed a sperm count above the lower reference limit, the impairment of spermatogenesis cannot be entirely excluded,” concluded the study.Sexologists claim that depression and stress among Covid-19 patients during their treatment can also contribute to their short-term infertility. It also affects their sexual performance.“Covid-19 causes depression and anxiety among patients which can also be a contributing factor in decreasing their sperm counts. It also impacts their sexual desires, arousal and eagerness for intercourse. But the patient is critically ill and suffered severe damage to the lungs, he recovers within two-three months,” said Dr Prakash Kothari is founder, professor, head of the department of sexual medicine at KEM Hospital, Parel.Doctors have suggested that Covid-19 recovered patients consult doctors if they face any kind of changes in their sexual behaviour or while planning pregnancy after recovering from infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-may-affect-sperm-count-among-patients-say-doctors-101627667712014.html
30-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Notice to 33 illegal structures on Worli-Koliwada seashore||In a major drive against illegal structures, allegedly constructed by reclaiming sea, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has issued notices to 33 owners in Worli-Koliwada. The civic body has cited the change in monsoon patterns in the city for a couple of years and said that these structures located on the seashore are a safety hazard to residents.The civic body conducted site visits following complaints of illegal construction and to ensure that human lives are saved timely by stopping illegal construction on the seashore.A BMC official said, “We have issued notices to 33 structure occupants and more 10 to 15 notices will be issued in a day or two. Our main contention is that several illegal structures are built beyond the retaining wall in the Worli-Koliwada area by reclaiming the sea. During heavy rainfall, the sea has remained choppy, and water has entered into these houses, hence there is a threat to human lives.”The BMC official added, “We have for now issued notices to understand which structures are illegal and which have protection due to it being legal. Even if a structure is legal but is vulnerable to the sea, we may have to vacate such houses. A decision regarding these structures will be taken at the state government level, considering such vulnerable locations are present even in landslide-prone zones in the city.”However, the residents have said that the BMC has no business in sending notices to legal structures.Kishore Velye, a resident who has got notice said, “We have been residing in Worli Koliwada since 1985 and we have all the documents to prove it. How are we illegal in this case? Also, the retaining wall to which the BMC is referring was built around 2004. So, why did they not build in such a way that all houses are covered by it? If they tell us to relocate, we cannot simply go somewhere considering our business and work is here.”Meanwhile, BMC officials said they are not going to demolish any house yet. Proper scrutiny will be done, and demolition will be carried out only on the basis of illegality and threat to human life, civic officials said. In the past one month, over 30 citizens have been killed in several monsoon related incidents including landslides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-notice-to-33-illegal-structures-on-worli-koliwada-seashore-101627667411719.html
30-07-2021||Pune||Pune ring road to curtail pollution by nearly 25%, says Maharashtra minister||The proposed ring road in Pune will aid in the reduction of pollution by nearly 25 per cent, and also augment the socio-economic development of the region, Maharashtra urban development minister Eknath Shinde said on Friday. He added that the proposed project will also enhance the road connectivity to the state’s second largest city.The circular road that will be toll-free and is estimated to be used by at least 70,000 vehicles daily, will service 29 villages and connect all the highways skirting past Pune, Shinde further said.“As a result of significant expansion and urbanisation, millions of vehicles arrive in Pune every day, causing air and noise pollution,” he said, adding that the ring road will mitigate the traffic issue.The minister pointed out that vehicles travelling to Saswad, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Konkan and Mumbai pass through Pune thereby causing traffic snarls, and air and noise pollution. “The ring road will also considerably reduce travel time and distance…It will entail the acquisition of roughly 1554.64 hectares of land," he added.A recent National Emissions Inventory (NEI) report had revealed that automobile emissions contribute to 91 per cent of Pune’s air pollution.The Pune ring road will have 14 multilevel interchanges and eight major bridges to aid in smooth traffic management. Stretching 173.7km, the road will also have 18 viaducts, 17 tunnels and four roadways over bridges, officials from the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) earlier said.Officials further stated that the project will be executed in two phases – east and west, at a cost of ₹26,831 crore.The MSRDC has, however so far, managed to complete the land measurement of over 51 per cent of the total area to be acquired for the western side of the ring road. As far as land acquisition of the eastern part is concerned, the process has begun and officials have also commenced to hold meetings in the affected villages.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-ring-road-to-curtail-pollution-by-nearly-25-says-maharashtra-minister-101627666728119.html
30-07-2021||Mumbai||ICICI bank theft, murder: Ex-manager stole ₹3.38 crore to clear dues||The 36-year-old key accused arrested for theft and murder at ICICI Bank, Virar on Thursday, has confessed to committing the heist and stealing gold worth ₹3.38 crore to clear over ₹1 crore arrears. The police have also seized his Swift Dzire car, which was found a few metres away from the spot.According to police, the bank was half shuttered and just two women employees were inside the bank, at the time of the incident. “The accused Anilkumar Rajdev Dubey, a former manager, entered the bank, headed straight to the locker and threatened the women employees to open the safe. Dubey carried a backpack to steal 6.76 kg of gold jewellery worth ₹3.38 crore, which was mortgaged by customers for a gold loan. After women employees raised an alarm, Dubey assaulted them and tried to flee. The locals chased, nabbed the accused and took away the bags from him,” said senior inspector Suresh Warade. The security guard was not present, as the night duty guard was to take charge, he added“Assistant branch manager Yogita Nishant Chowdhary, 36, was killed, while cashier Shraddha Devrukhkar was injured in the incident. The condition of Devrukhkar, who is undergoing treatment at Sanjeevani Hospital is serious,” said senior inspector Suresh Warade of Virar police station.“Dubey has been arrested under section 397 (robbery and dacoity), 307 (attempt to murder) and 302 (murder) on a complaint filed by Nitin Ambre, manager of the bank on Friday,” said Warade.He was produced before the Vasai court on Friday and has been remanded in police custody for a week, said the officer. Dubey’s current employer Axix Bank has also sacked him with immediate effect. “As a responsible institution, Axis Bank has zero tolerance towards unscrupulous elements and is committed to fully cooperate with the relevant authorities in resolving this issue. We have taken strict disciplinary action immediately,” said a spokesperson of the Axis Bank. Meanwhile, Sadanand Date, commissioner, Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar (MBVV) commissionerate felicitated two women and a man for nabbing Dubey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/icici-bank-theft-murder-ex-manager-stole-3-38-crore-to-clear-dues-101627666991795.html
30-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 15% water cut in SoBo, zero supply in few areas of western, eastern suburbs on August 3||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday announced that several areas in the island city including western suburbs and few areas of eastern suburbs will have 15% water cuts and several areas including Kurla, Andheri, Ghatkopar, Ram Mandir and Goregaon will have complete water cut on August 3.The BMC said maintenance work is being carried out at Veravali water reservoir in Jogeshwari (East). In a statement, it said that it is conducting necessary maintenance work to ensure the force of water supply is increased in several areas of the city. However, for this connection of two pipelines will have to be undertaken, during which water connection will be discontinued in several areas.The BMC has appealed to citizens to co-operate with the civic body and store required water.The statement of BMC said around 20 wards in the city will remain impacted due to this. In areas between Mumbai Central to Churchgate followed by Bandra, and areas between Malad to Dahisar there will be 15% water cut on August 3 between 8.30am in the morning to 10.30pm in the night.Further, areas between Goregaon to Andheri including Kurla and Ghatkopar will have zero water supply. Owing to the maintenance work, several areas in the city might also receive water in low force.Meanwhile, the water level in seven lakes supplying drinking water to the city is 73.86%, which means there is sufficient water supply to last in the city till April 2022. The civic body supplies 3,850 million litres of water daily against the city’s demand for 4,200 million litres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-15-water-cut-in-sobo-zero-supply-in-few-areas-of-western-eastern-suburbs-on-august-3-101627666691716.html
30-07-2021||Pune||Former MLA Ganpattao Deshmukh passed away||PUNE: Eleven times MLA Ganpatrao Deshmukh (96) passed away at Solapur on Friday. He used to represent Sangola assembly constituency. Deshmukh was senior most MLA from Shetkari Kamgar Party. He worked with the first Maharashtra chief minister Yashvanrao Chavan to former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Deshmukh declined the request from his supporters to contest the last election citing his age. Deshmukh was known for his simplicity and preferred to travel by MSRTC bus. During his last days, he was admitted at a private hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/former-mla-ganpattao-deshmukh-passed-away-101627666391087.html
30-07-2021||Other||CBSE Class 12: Girls outperform boys in 50 dists of Prayagraj region||Girls have outperformed boys in CBSE class 12 results in Prayagraj region that comprises over 50 districts of Uttar Pradesh, as per the data shared by regional office of CBSE here on Friday.This year, however, due to second wave of Covid-19 the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has promoted all students of Class 12 sans exam.“With the overall pass percentage of the region being 98.59%, the pass percentage of girls was 99.17% while that of boys was 98.24%,” said regional officer (RO) of CBSE, Shweta Arora. In Prayagraj region, a total of 1,37,667 students of 1219 schools were registered in Class 12 and awarded marks as per the CBSE formula.Giving a breakup of the results of five major districts of the state that come under the Prayagraj region, the RO said in Prayagraj there were 74 schools registered with CBSE and a total of 10,180 students were awarded marks. The pass percentage was 99.22%. The pass percentage among girls was 99.42% while of boys it was 99.10%, she added. Likewise in terms of Lucknow district, there were 146 schools that were registered and a total of 17154 students were awarded marks. A total of 98.89% students passed and here too the pass percentage of girls was higher than boys. 99.60% girls passed the exam as against 98.36% boys. In Varanasi district, 100 schools were registered and 17633 students were awarded marks. 99.02% of them passed and the pass percentage among girls was 99.35% while that of boys was 98.82%. In Kanpur district, 92 schools were registered and a total of 10620 students were awarded marks. The overall pass percent was 99.22%. The pass percentage among girls was 99.67% while that of boys was 98.92%. In Gorakhpur district, 78 schools were registered and 11379 students were awarded marks. The overall pass percentage was 98.32%. The pass percentage among girls was 99.03% while that of boys was 97.91%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbse-class-12-girls-outperform-boys-in-50-dists-of-prayagraj-region-101627665613819.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab reports 49 new cases, zero deaths, 55 recoveries||Punjab on Friday reported 49 new Covid cases, taking the total count to 5,99,053, officials said.No Covid-related death was reported on Friday, they said.The toll, which stands at 16,292, includes two deaths which were not reported earlier, according to the bulletin.There are 544 active cases in the state, it said.Of the new cases, eight were reported from Jalandhar, six from Ferozepur, and four from Ludhiana among other places.With 55 recoveries, the number of cured people reached 5,82,217, according to the bulletin.A total of 1,20,94,239 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.Meanwhile, Chandigarh reported four new Covid cases as the infection tally rose to 61,952, according to the medical bulletin.The death of a 36-year-old man took the toll to 810.The number of active cases is 36, while 61,106 people have so far recovered from the infection, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-punjab-reports-49-new-cases-zero-deaths-55-recoveries-101627664196554.html
30-07-2021||Other||‘C’garh govt’s total outstanding debt crossed ₹70k cr at end of 2019-20’: CAG||The report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, released on Friday, stated the total outstanding debt of the Chhattisgarh government stood at ₹78,712 crore at the end of 2019-20.The report further pointed out that using borrowed funds for meeting current consumption and repayment of interest on outstanding loans is not sustainable in the long run. Further, the CAG also recommended that the borrowed funds should be utilised to create assets to stimulate growth.“The Revenue Expenditure (of the state) increased by 14.08 per cent during 2019-20 compared to the previous (financial) year, whereas the Capital Expenditure decreased by 3.79 per cent during the same period,” the report stated, adding that the Revenue Expenditure increased mainly due to the increase in salaries and wages, pensions, interest payments and subsidies.Capital expenditure of the state showed a significant decrease during the last two years with a decrease of ₹1,098 crore in 2018-19 and ₹337 crore in 2019-20, it said.The state government registered a nominal decrease of 1.88 per cent in its revenue receipts during 2019-20 compared to the previous year. The own tax revenue and non-tax revenue increased by 3.22 and 3.00 per cent respectively and could not achieve the level anticipated in budgetary projections. The state continued to be dependent on the Government of India with 53 per cent of the revenue coming from the state’s share of union taxes and duties and grants-in-aid, it said. Debt repayment increased significantly in 2019-20 as compared to 2018-19 and total debt receipts also increased by ₹5,217.43 crore when compared to 2018-19. “The total outstanding debt of the state government at the end of 2019-20 was ₹78,712 crore”, it added. “Borrowed funds should ideally be used to fund capital creation and developmental activities. Using borrowed funds for meeting current consumption and repayment of interest on outstanding loans is not sustainable in the long run and would impact the creation of assets,” the report underlined.The report further recommended, “state government should explore various measures to mobilise additional resources to improve its fiscal parameters in line with the targets specified by the Finance Commission and its own FRBM projections.Capital expenditure needs to be enhanced and borrowed funds should be utilized to create assets to stimulate growth. Government should review and analyze the reasons for delays in the completion of capital projects and initiate expeditious measures to enable the departments involved, to overcome the hurdles in this regard,” the report added.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cgarh-govt-s-total-outstanding-debt-crossed-rs-70k-cr-at-end-of-2019-20-cag-101627664533167.html
30-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees fall in daily Covid tally at 6,600; Mumbai’s new cases decline too||Maharashtra on Friday recorded 6,600 fresh cases and 231 more deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the caseload and death toll to 6,296,756 and 132,566, respectively, according to the state health department’s bulletin. As many as 7,431 patients recovered from the viral disease on Friday and the cumulative count of recoveries has climbed to 6,083,319, the bulletin said. The active cases have further declined to 77,494.Friday’s infections are 642 less than that of Thursday’s when 7,242 people were detected Covid-19 positive. However, the toll on Friday is 41 more than that of Thursday’s when 190 deaths were recorded.The state capital Mumbai’s daily Covid-19 tally and toll went down on Friday as 322 fresh cases and seven deaths were reported. With this, the caseload and death toll stand at 734,434 and 15,880, respectively. On Thursday, the city saw 341 cases and 13 deaths. It has been over two weeks that the daily cases in Mumbai remain below the 500-mark.Authorities in Maharashtra have so far tested 47,760,862 samples for Covid-19 of which 200,924 were tested on Friday. There are nearly 480,000 infected patients in home quarantine and 3,289 in institutional quarantine across the state, the health department’s bulletin also showed.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope announced on Thursday that the state government was planning to bring in relaxations in the ongoing lockdown-like restrictions in districts where the rate of infection is lower than the state average. Tope said 25 districts come under this category, adding a formal order on relaxations will be issued in the upcoming days.On the other hand, the health minister also said that 11 districts including Pune, Solapur, Sangli, Satara are reporting a high number of cases and will continue to remain under the ongoing restrictions and the local administration can further tighten them if required.Maharashtra has administered vaccine doses to 43,082,939 eligible beneficiaries till now of which 32,394,275 have received the first dose and the remaining 10,688,664 have received the second dose too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-sees-fall-in-daily-covid-tally-at-6-600-mumbai-s-new-cases-decline-too-101627659868210.html
30-07-2021||Other||3 suspected drones spotted in J-K’s Samba district||(PLAYBACK) HT Correspondent JAMMU: Suspected drones were spotted again in Jammu and Kashmir, this time at three different locations in Samba district late on Thursday evening, officials said. “The first suspected drone was spotted in the Bari Brahmana area, the second was seen in Chilyari area along the Indo-Pak International Border and the third one was spotted in Ghagwal area of Samba near Jammu-Pathankot national highway,” said Samba Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Rajesh Sharma. Sharma said, “they were blinking objects at the three locations and we suspected them to be drones. The BSF opened few rounds of fire at the one that appeared over Chilyari along the border.” He informed that searches were launched in all three places on Thursday evening and continued till Friday morning but nothing incriminating was found. The SSP ruled out the possibility of drones having dropped arms, ammunition or IEDs in these areas. However, a high alert has been sounded in the entire Samba district. On July 23, the police shot down a hexacopter carrying a “ready to be used” 5 kg improvised explosive device (IED) in Kanachak area of Akhnoor sector along the Indo-Pak border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-suspected-drones-spotted-in-j-k-s-samba-district-101627662431933.html
30-07-2021||Patna||FIR against temple board for Covid norm violation||An FIR was lodged against board members of a temple in Kankarbagh for allegedly gathering for a a recently held religious function in violation of Covid-19 protocol, officials said on Friday. Complainant Kumud Ranjan, an executive posted at Patna sadar, said he came to know that a religious function was held on July 27 at Shree Sai Temple in Kankarbagh by the trustees on occasion of the temple’s foundation day. “During the function, many photographs were taken. On getting information, I, along with Kankarbagh police, visited the temple and inquired temple priest Vivekanand Pandey and showed him the photographs. The priest confirmed those photographs,” Ranjan said.The FIR was lodged under several sections of Indian Penal Code and Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/fir-against-temple-board-for-covid-norm-violation-101627661830840.html
30-07-2021||Other||Minor rape-murder case: POCSO court awards capital punishment to accused||A special Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) court on Friday awarded capital punishment to an accused in the rape and murder case of a 10-year-old girl in November last year.The court also ordered the state government to pay ₹8 lakh to the kin of the victim as compensation.On November 14 last, the accused, Baliram Singh (45), a married man and resident of Gangoli village under Dehri police station limits, raped the minor in his house after luring her on account of showing her idols of deities.The accused strangulated the minor and killed her after she started crying and bleeding profusely. He then hid the body in a box. The village residents, however, caught the man on suspicion and handed him over to the police. He confessed the crime during interrogation, after which police recovered the minor’s body. The man was arrested and sent to jail.A case under Sections 376 (punishment for rape), 302 (punishment for murder) and 201 (disappearance of evidence of offence) of Indian Penal Code and Section 8 (punishment for sexual assault of a minor) of POCSO Act was registered by the victim’s grandmother. The charge sheet in the case was filed on November 20, 2020.Declaring it as the “rarest of rare criminal acts”, the court awarded capital punishment to the accused, special public prosecutor, Hira Prasad Singh, said.Senior advocate RP Singh represented the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minor-rape-murder-case-pocso-court-awards-capital-punishment-to-accused-101627661773403.html
30-07-2021||Patna||STF arrests 6 criminals for demanding ₹1.40 crore extortion||Avinash KumarAvinash.kumar@htlive.com The Bihar special task force (STF) has arrested six persons on charges of murderous attack, demanding extortion of ₹1.40 crore from two Katihar traders and threatening them of dire consequences, officials said Friday. Police recovered two pistols, live cartridges, empty cartridges, SIM and a mobile phone used in the crime.According to ADG (Operation) S M Khopde, all the arrested persons belong to Katihar district.Police said that the arrested criminals fired at the business establishment of a noted trader on July 26 at Sonaili Bazar under Kadwa police station area, when the trader refused to pay extortion money of ₹1 crore. Earlier on May 18, the miscreants demanded ₹40 lakh as extortion from another trader in the district and threatened him of dire consequences. Following a complaint, police lodged two separate cases against the accused under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 384 (extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation), 170 (impersonation) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/stf-arrests-6-criminals-for-demanding-1-40-crore-extortion-101627661773969.html
30-07-2021||Other||CBSE Class 12 results: Quantum leap in Patna zone, 98.91 % pass||PATNAThousands of students in the state who had registered for Class 12 examination conducted by the Central Board for Secondary Education (CBSE) heaved a sigh of relief as majority of them passed with flying colours, results of which were declared on Friday afternoon.The overall pass percentage of students of Patna region, comprising Bihar and Jharkhand, stood at 98.91%, which is 24.34 % higher than previous year.Altogether 90,614 students appeared in the exam from Patna region, of which 89,569 students cleared the exam.Bihar registered overall pass percent of 98.65 %. According to CBSE’s regional office, a total of 53,658 students appeared from Bihar. Of these, 52,934 students passed the exam.CBSE has not released merit lists this year in view of exceptional circumstances triggered by Covid-19 outbreak.CBSE’s Patna city coordinator Rajiv Ranjan Sinha, said, “Results are satisfactory. Students have been benefitted with the board’s moderation policy. Patna region registered a high leap in overall pass percentage this year which remained below 75% in previous years.”“Results of a couple of schools were not published today due to miscellaneous reasons. All pending results will be published in the first week of August,” he said. Meanwhile, several prominent schools including Notre Dame Academy, Kendriya Vidyalaya Bailey Road, St Karen’s High School, St Karen’s Secondary School, DAV Public School (BSEB Colony), Loyola High School registered 100% result with their students performing excellent in the exams. At Notre Dame Academy, Anuska Roy of Arts stream bagged the first position in the school by securing 99%. She has fetched 99 marks in each subject. Stuti Banka of commerce stream obtained 98.8% followed by Srishti Nath who scored 98.6% in science.Abhinav Kumar of St Karen’s High School emerged as the school topper by scoring 99% in science (Maths), Shivam scored 97.6% in science (Biology) and Priyanshu Kumar 97.6% in commerce. Similarly, Shreshtha Tiwary of St Karen’s Secondary School secured 97.8% in science (Maths) while Aman Bhaskar scored 97% in science (Biology) and Ishani Mohan 90.6% in commerce.At Loyola High School, Harsh Vardhan Singh scored 98.20% in science (Maths), Mehul Pratap Singh 96.60 % in science (Biology), Soumya Anand 95.20% in commerce and Priya Shandilya 97.40% in Arts stream. All 397 students passed the exam while 104 students scored above 90%.Prerna Singh of St Michael’s High School secured 98.6% in science, closely followed by Arpit Raj who scored 98% in commerce.At Baldwin Academy, Renuka Vaidehi emerged as the school topper with 96% marks in humanities followed by Naincy Raj and Deepika Tanuvi who scored 95.80% and 95.20% respectively in science. Altogether 19 students scored above 90% while 57 students above 80%.At Ishan School, Kankarbagh, Srishti Sinha and Kumari Arpita obtained 96.6% and 95% respectively in science stream followed by Sakshi Jaiswal 94.2% in commerce.Students of several other schools have also performed well in Class 12 exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbse-class-12-results-quantum-leap-in-patna-zone-98-91-pass-101627661772699.html
30-07-2021||Other||Interim office of Dolphin centre opens at PU after a long wait||PATNAThe long awaited interim office of the National Dolphin Research Centre (NDRC) was inaugurated by minister for environment, forests and climate change Neeraj Kumar at the Dolphin research laboratory of the Zoology department of Patna University on Friday.It will run under Dr Gopal Sharma, regional head of the Zoological Survey of India (Bihar & Jharkhand), and his team comprising PU teachers and researchers. Last year, ahead of Assembly elections, chief minister Nitish Kumar had laid the foundation stone of the centre in the PU campus. Dolphin man RK Sinha, presently the vice chancellor of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University (Jammu & Kashmir) who was awarded Padma Shree in 2016 for his contributions to dolphin research, carried out pioneering activity for nearly over three-and-a-half decades in the same laboratory. He was also present on the occasion and said it was an emotional moment for him to see the Centre was finally taking shape. Sinha is also a member of the Steering Committee for implementation of Project Dolphin, announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15, 2020.Bihar accounts for 50% of the world’s river dolphin population, highly endangered species under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, and declared the National Aquatic Animal in 2009.Sinha said the NDRC would be a big step forward for the conservation of the mammal, especially after announcement of Project Dolphin last year on the lines of Project Tiger.Minister Kumar said Bihar, having the highest population of Gangetic Dolphins, will get a substantial share of funds committed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for research on dolphins. The NDRC is a long-pending project, but it got further delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic. The erstwhile Planning Commission had sanctioned a sum of ₹28.06 crore for it in 2013 and subsequently the state government also released a sum of ₹19.16 crore for the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/interim-office-of-dolphin-centre-opens-at-pu-after-a-long-wait-101627661771979.html
30-07-2021||Patna||4 minors killed after truck rams into house, CM announces ex-gratia||Four minors were killed and three injured after a speeding sand-loaded truck rammed into a roadside house on Dumra-Punaura road under Madhuban police station in Sitamarhi on Friday evening, police said. The injured children were taken to a hospital for treatment, Sitamarhi superintendent of police (SP) Harkishore said.The truck driver fled the spot after the accident, he said.“The children were playing inside the house when the accident occurred. Under the impact of the collision, the mud house totally collapsed. All four children inside the house died. The driver fled the spot. However, we have seized the truck,” said the SP adding that efforts are on to catch the driver.Following the incident, irate locals staged a road blockade by burning tyres and demanding ex-gratia to the kin of the deceased. They also pelted stones at the police team, which was taking the injured to the hospital.According to the police, the truck driver lost control over the steering, turned turtle and then hurtled into the roadside house, killing the three children on the spot while one other succumbed to his injuries. The house is owned by one Md Zakir Ansari, police said. On getting information, police reached the spot and carried out a rescue operation. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar expressed grief over the accident and announced ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh to the kin of deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/4-minors-killed-after-truck-rams-into-house-cm-announces-exgratia-101627661771320.html
30-07-2021||Other||Bokaro: Six get 30-yr RI for minor’s gang rape||RANCHIA local court in Bokaro district has sentenced six people to 30 years of rigorous imprisonment for raping a minor girl in a remote village on March 1, 2019. The girl was 17 years old and a student of Class X of government school at the time of incident. After a 14-day trial that commenced on July 14 this year, the additional district judge and special judge of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO), Janardan Singh, announced the sentences on Thursday.There were a total of 12 accused in the case. While one of them is still absconding and yet to be produced before the court by the police, trial against five others is being held by juvenile board as they were minors. Special public prosecutor S K Jha said, “The court held the six accused guilty under sections 376 D (gang rape) and 366 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code and under section 6 (g) of POCSO Act (aggravated form of penetrative sexual assault). The court awarded 30 years of RI and slapped a fine of ₹50,000 under the POCSO Act on each of the six convicts — Shiva Pashi, Chottu Challia, Sohit Bilhor, Dilip alias Mansa Kumar, Rajvallabh Pasi and Suresh Angeria. The court also imposed an additional fine of ₹10,000 on all six under section 366 of the IPC. The Rs. 3.6 lakh amount would be paid to the girl.” As per the prosecution, the incident occurred around 11 pm on March 1, 2019, when the accused entered the house of the girl after overpowering her grandfather who was out to relieve himself. Jha said the men took away the girl forcibly at gunpoint in front of family members.“They took her to a densely forested area about a kilometre away from her house and took turns to rape her till she lost consciousness. She managed to reach home next morning. Though the family is extremely poor, the girl had shown exemplary courage and filed a police complaint,” said Jha.She underwent a medical examination, got her statement recorded before the court and also identified the accused in test identification parade (TIP) conducted by the police in the presence of a magistrate, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bokaro-six-get-30-yr-ri-for-minor-s-gang-rape-101627661770798.html
30-07-2021||Other||4 arrested for Katihar mayor’s killing||The police have arrested four people, including a mother-daughter duo, in connection with the killing of mayor of Katihar Municipal Corporation Thursday night, officials said on Friday.Shivraj Paswan, 40, was shot dead by assailants on Thursday night when he was on his way back home. He was declared dead at Katihar Medical College Hospital (KMCH), police said.A total of 11 persons have been named as accused in the case. The four arrested have been identified as Pintu Paswan, 32, Shambhu Paswan, 28, Kumkum Devi, 50, and her daughter Manisha Devi, 28. Paswan, who was said to be close to Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan, is the second party leader to have been killed this year. In May, Anil Oraon, who contested on LJP ticket from Manihari assembly seat in Katihar, was abducted and killed. His body was recovered three days after he was abducted on May 2.Additional Director General of Police (ADGP), headquarters, Jitendra Kumar, said, “Police have lodged an FIR against 11 persons on the basis of the written statement of the brother of the deceased. So far, four accused have been arrested, and raids are on to nab the rest.” Katihar district magistrate (DM) Udyan Mishra said the mayor was returning home on his bike without his bodyguards when he was shot.Superintendent of police Vikas Kumar said all accused are from Katihar. Asked whether nephew of a BJP MLA is also one of the accused, he said, “We are verifying details of the accused named in the FIR lodged by the brother of the slain mayor.” “Old enmity could be a reason behind the incident, but we are probing all angles,” he said.Paswan was elected mayor after his predecessor Vijay Singh won the assembly election on JD(U) ticket from Barari seat in Katihar. Meanwhile, the Opposition slammed the government saying it has lost its grip over the law and order situation.“The Bihar government has lost people’s trust,” said RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari.Chirag Paswan, who had recently called on the mayor at his residence during his Ashirwad Yatra, said,“Any condemnation is less for such an incident. This is proof of how the confidence of criminals in Bihar is on the rise. Nitish Kumar should control the crime in Bihar.”Deputy chief minister Tar Kishore Prasad, who hails from the same region, would be visiting Katihar to meet the slain mayor’s family, sources close to him said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-arrested-for-katihar-mayor-s-killing-101627661714918.html
30-07-2021||Other||Tejashwi meets Nitish to push for caste census, says CM positive||PATNAIn a renewed push for a caste census, Bihar’s leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, along with Congress and left leaders, on Friday met chief minister Nitish Kumar in the state Assembly to seek his support in raising the issue before Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The last caste-wise enumeration was done 90 years ago, in 1931. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at the Centre has ruled out a caste count, other than among scheduled castes and tribes, in the Census 2021. Kumar’s party Janata Dal (United) is a key constituent of the NDA at the Centre and in Bihar.In a press briefing after meeting the CM, Tejashwi Yadav said Kumar supported the need for caste census and listened to their demand that an all-party delegation should meet the Prime Minister to press for the same. “The Bhartiya Janata Party too had supported the resolutions favouring a caste census passed by the state legislature twice. It is a question of prestige of the state Assembly,” the opposition leader said.“The chief minister has assured us he would write to PM on August 2 to seek time after returning from New Delhi,” Tejashwi said.Kumar left for the national capital on Friday to attend his party JD(U)’s national executive meeting on Saturday. Yadav said he had apprised the CM about the caste census carried out by the Karnataka government in 2018 and demanded a similar decision be taken in Bihar in case the PM does not give time to meet an all-party delegation. “The CM assured us he would look into the matter by getting all papers related to caste census done in Karnakata and its legal aspects,” he said. Congress legislature party leader Ajeet Sharma, who was also part of the delegation, said the meeting with the CM was positive. CPI, CPI-ML(Liberation) leaders also attended the meeting. Though Kumar did not mention his meeting with Opposition leaders, he too has been pushing for a caste census, saying it will help in better decisions for the people’s development and welfare. “We will request the Centre that a caste-based census should be done at least once,” said Kumar. “I have been saying this for a long time. It will give a clear idea about the population of different castes and help plan for them. An attempt was made in 2010, but it was not done properly. It was completed in 2013, but was never published,” he said. Both JD(U) and RJD have thrived on the plank of social justice for traditionally backward castes.Meanwhile, BJP MLC Sanjay Paswan said the demand for a caste census as totally unwarranted. “Those demanding caste census are playing divisive politics. There is a need for count of the poor,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tejashwi-meets-nitish-to-push-for-caste-census-says-cmpositive-101627661714324.html
30-07-2021||Other||5 fresh Covid cases, no death in Lucknow||LUCKNOW Five fresh Covid cases surfaced while no death due to the virus was reported in Lucknow during the last 24 hours. The fatality count remained at 2,651, as per the health department. Two patients recovered from corona infection and there were 55 active cases here at present.Kalyan Singh still criticalFormer chief minister Kalyan Singh, who is undergoing treatment at Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), is still critical.“A team of doctors from various specialties is keeping a close watch on his health. The former chief minister is still on life support and his health parameters are being closely observed,” said RK Dhiman, director, PGI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-fresh-covid-cases-no-death-in-lucknow-101627661711606.html
30-07-2021||Other||Shah to lay foundation of state forensic sciences institute on Aug 1||LUCKNOW: With the objective to prepare a pool of forensic experts for police and to cater public sector organisations, the work for the state-of-the-art state institute of forensic sciences worth ₹188 crore would start soon after its foundation-laying by union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday, said senior UP police officials here on Friday. Additional chief secretary (ACS), home, Awanish Awasthi and director general of police (DGP) Mukul Goel along with Lucknow commissioner of police DK Thakur had visited the land identified for the project at Piparsand, Sarojininagar on Thursday to examine the preparation for Sunday. A senior official said the layout of the institute was prepared close on the lines of the Gujarat Forensic Science University. The institute would have departments related to physics, firearms and explosives, cybercrime, DNA, chemistry, poison, zoology and behavioural science. He said the project was equipped to fulfill the requirement of forensic experts to strengthen criminal justice system and create a pool of forensic experts required by the police for advance investigations. In the long run, the experts produced by the university may cater to other independent organisations, he added. He said the institute was not specifically for those who were already in ‘khaki’ but would be open to all those who needed to educate themselves, as well as those willing to make a career in similar fields. He said the initial plan was to offer two courses— M Sc forensic science full time two-year post graduate degree course and post graduate diploma in forensic science one year course. The official said the forensic institute may help the police in different ways by learning the crime trend, pattern, deriving a viable solution to curb the crime, help the common man learn about different criminals’ psychology and cyber security and cyber forensic methods. Later, the experts of the institute may surface as a think tank for the state government to provide suggestions on different aspects of crime and policing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shah-to-lay-foundation-of-state-forensic-sciences-institute-on-aug-1-101627661111525.html
30-07-2021||Other||39% drop in vehicle registrations in 2020: PMC ESR||PUNE Though Pune is a city with one of the highest number of two- wheelers in the country, from 2018, the number of new vehicles being purchased in the city has been coming down.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Friday, tabled its Environment Status Report (ESR) for year 2020-21 before its general body. As per the report, there is a 39 per cent decline in the number of two-wheelers registered in 2020, as compared to 2019.In 2019, 244,201 new vehicles were registered with the RTO, while in 2018, 277,263 new vehicles were registered.That number fell 151,016 new vehicles in 2020, as per the ESR. Mangesh Dighe, environment officer, PMC, said, “We need to analyse this trend, which is a welcome trend. There are multiple reasons, the main one being the Covid pandemic, but there might be other reasons as well.”An officer from the RTO, speaking on condition of anonymity, said, “Last year people avoided purchasing vehicles mainly due to new cab services. The cab services are very useful and available at any time. You don’t need to drive, park or maintain the vehicle. Hire a cab on a single click.”The ESR data also pointed out that the vehicle purchasing trends are also changing, with sales of electric vehicles picking up. In 2020, a total of 1,460 EVs were purchased in Pune.The ESR also pointed out that once metro operations start, there would be a further change from personal vehicles to public transport.New vehicles in PuneTotal number of new vehicles registered with Pune RTO as per PMC’s environment status report2018 - 277,2632019 – 244,2012020 – 151,016Total number of vehicles in Pune - 3.153 million||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/39-drop-in-vehicle-registrations-in-2020-pmc-esr-101627661110851.html
30-07-2021||Other||No clarity on easing of curbs in Pune leaves traders, residents confused||PUNE Mixed statements by governing ministers of the MVA government on relaxations of Covid norms in Pune left residents and business operators in the city in a state of confusion on Friday.After chairing the weekly Covid review meeting, home minister Dilip Walse-Patil said that though relaxations in Pune are “not allowed” by the public health department, the chief minister and the deputy chief minister would take a call on this matter. However, speaking prior to the Covid review meeting, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar claimed that as per the new “unlock policy”, relaxations will only be given to districts where the positivity rate is 1% or less. On Thursday, health minister Rajesh Tope had announced proposed unlock measures for 25 districts, where the Covid positivity rate is less than the state average. He had specified that Pune is among 11 districts where level 3 restrictions would not be eased. “Relaxations will be given to the areas where the positivity rate has dropped to around 1%. At the last meeting, we discussed the possibility of increasing the timings of business operations till 8 pm. The CM is positive about this. Currently, on Saturday and Sunday everything is closed. We considered giving some relaxations on Saturday. Following Covid norms is very essential,” said Ajit Pawar in Pune on Friday. “Health minister declared that the level 3 curbs in 11 districts would remain the same. Pune is also one of them. However, deputy CM Ajit Pawar has spoken to the CM about allowing some relaxations in Pune. The decision is expected in the next two days. Decisions regarding the changes in shop timings could also be taken,” said Dilip Walse-Patil in Pune on Friday. The positivity rate in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), for the duration of July 22-July 28 was recorded at 3.37%. Earlier, when the state government had announced the five-level restriction plan, the three administrative units in the district had different levels of restrictions based positivity rates and oxygen-bed occupancy. Initially, PMC and PCMC were under level 3 restrictions and level 4 was imposed in the rural parts. Carrot on a stick for business ops in PuneSince Ajit Pawar hinted at relaxations last week, traders and business operators were looking forward to a concrete decision this week. Instead, the statements by leaders have created confusion. “Shop owners have become restless now. They are angry. We are conducting a district-level meeting of all the trader associations on Friday evening. It has become impossible to plan a reopening in such uncertainty,” said Mahendra Pitaliya, secretary, Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP). The uncertainty of the decision has created a problem for hoteliers, who were hoping for extended timings from August 1.“We had met the deputy chief minister and had requested him to make a decision. He had assured us that a positive decision would be made. So many restaurant owners started to prepare for the extended operations from August 1. Many called in extra staff from their hometowns. Now again, there is no clarity.. The positivity rate in Pune has dropped below 4%. So what is the problem now?” said Ganesh Shetty, president Hoteliers Association of Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-clarity-on-easing-of-curbs-in-pune-leaves-traders-residents-confused-101627660930826.html
30-07-2021||Other||Class 12 CBSE results: Pune region scores 99.35 passing percentage||PUNE The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) declared its results for its Class 12 exams on Friday, with an overall passing percentage of 99.37 per cent. The examination was to be held in May this year, but due to a rise in Covid cases, the board cancelled the exams used an alternative assessment for the results. The results were declared at 2 pm online. Of a total of 16 regions, CBSE Trivandrum scored the highest passing percentage with 99.89 per cent. Pune region scored a 99.35 passing percentage. The pass percentage of girls this year was 99.67 per cent, while that of boys was 99.13 per cent. A total of 1.45 million students registered for the Class 12 CBSE examination were assessed through the board’s formula method. Sanskriti School Bhukum scored a 100 per cent passing percentage, with Shyam Jayakannan the topper from the school scoring 97.8 per cent. “I am extremely happy with my board examination result. I had not expected my score to be the school’s highest, especially since the scores from Class 10 and 11 were also to be considered during evaluation. I am overjoyed,” he said. School principal Damini Joshi said, “Our school’s class 12 students have proven themselves once again and performed very well in this unusual and unprecedented year. They adopted the new system wholeheartedly and worked exceptionally well against all odds. We are very proud of all our students who adapted themselves to the new norms beautifully and also of their parents who supported them equally.”Delhi Public School (DPS) Pune also scored a passing percentage of 100, with a total of 117 students out of 149 students scoring above 90 per cent. Samhitha P stood first in the school with 98.4 per cent. She was followed by Raghav Shukla with 98 per cent. Bharti Bhagwani, principal, GG International School said, “Steadfast, resolute, and determined we all kept together. However, I must add that uncertainty will always exist, even after the pandemic has run its course. Conducting successive exams, incessant online sessions and constant counselling are the most pivotal academic moments in the lives of the students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/class-12-cbse-results-pune-region-scores-99-35-passing-percentage-101627660630803.html
30-07-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 1,078 new Covid cases, 19 deaths||Pune: Pune district reported 1,078 new Covid-19 cases and 19 deaths in 24 hours on Friday. This took the progressive count to 1.088 million of which 1.053 million have recovered, 18,739 deaths and 16,001 are active cases currently in hospitals undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw over 71,000 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 675 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 327,673 and with 11 deaths reported the death toll went up to 6,229. Pune city reported 247 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 503,562 and reported three more deaths on the day the toll stood at 8,879 while PCMC reported 156 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 257,105 and with five more deaths reported, the toll stood at 3,358. Pune also saw 71,779 vaccinations on the day as per Co-WIN dashboard on Wednesday and totally 6,235,978 vaccines have been administered in total including 4,660,714 first dose and 1,575,264 are second dose. A total of 637 sites conducted vaccination on the day of which 464 are government and 173 private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-078-new-covid-cases-19-deaths-101627660570743.html
30-07-2021||Other||Parents’ association demands immediate implementation of 15% cut in school fees||PUNE Members of the Parents’ Association of Pune, on Friday, demanded that the 15 per cent school fee reduction be implemented immediately.Dr Prashant Khande, member of the All India Parents Association, said, “The discussions by the Parents Teachers Association (PTA) should be with all parents. Also the fee for each academic year should be stated elaborately, that is, details of tuition fee, lab fee, and library fee should be given.” “The school fee should be decided by an independent committee which will be formed by the government. This will ensure that the fees are regulated and no school overcharges parents and students for the same,” said Khande.Jayashree Deshpande, president, Parents’ Association of Pune, said that parents have come together in the fight against school fee hikes.“Through the chain fasting protest in front of the Education Commissioner’s office we intended to gain the attention of the ministers so that a concrete step is taken against the fee hike by schools. And we received good response from officials and productive discussions have taken place. Now it is time to implement the reduction in fees by 15 per cent,” said Deshpande. She added that the association has time and again highlighted that an audit of schools should be done.“Audit of schools should be done to check if the fee hike is justified. This will ensure that there is a check on the schools and their functioning,” said Deshpande.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/parents-association-demands-immediate-implementation-of-15-cut-in-school-fees-101627660450721.html
30-07-2021||Other||Agra roads bad after three days of rain||Agra Rain lashed the city for the third consecutive day on Friday, lowering temperature and providing relief to people after a spell of hot and humid weather all through July. The maximum temperature dropped to 30.4 degree Celsius in Agra city on both Thursday and Friday, with the sky overcast. On Friday, Agra received 30.6 mm rain till the evening. However, the rainfall exposed the poor condition of drainage system and potholes surfaced on roads as the water receded. There were craters too and in some places, the road surface caved in and big holes appeared, making it dangerous to drive. The water also took long to recede and the situation was bad, particularly in localities adjacent to major drains in old Agra. The Agra Nagar Nigam had made tall claims about cleaning of drains but the rain for three consecutive days exposed the pitiable state of drainage. Still, mayor Naveen Jain claimed that the situation was not that bad and though waterlogging was reported, the water receded in a few hours. “A control room has been set up at the nagar nigam office and teams sent to areas facing waterlogging for long. Pumps were used and most of the major roads became motorable despite heavy rain. This was the outcome of attention given to drainage system. Still, there are complaints which are being addressed,” said the mayor. “Similar scenes are witnessed in the national capital Delhi and commercial capital Mumbai and are common in the rainy season. Yet, we are prepared to do the needful and damaged roads would be repaired as part of a drive from September 15,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agra-roads-bad-after-three-days-of-rain-101627659610653.html
30-07-2021||Pune||Sufficient oxygen storage to tackle anticipated third wave: Pune admin||Pune: In view of the third Covid wave, the district administration has put in place oxygen plants and cryogenic oxygen tanks which would suffice for three times the oxygen requirement of the district which was needed during the peak of the second wave. The district administration has said that the current number of oxygen cylinders, dura cylinders and cryogenic tanks is more than the estimated numbers required in the estimated third wave. The shortage of oxygen and following deaths had been a major source of concern during the second wave in April. As per the district administration, there is likely to be no shortage of oxygen in case the much anticipated third wave hits the city and even harder than the second wave. In the second wave, the district’s highest requirement for oxygen went up to 361 metric tonnes a day. Now, oxygen storage capacity has gone up to an expected 1183 metric tonnes, almost three times the highest requirement. As of now in the district, hospitals have a storage capacity of 957 metric tonnes while oxygen manufacturers have a capacity of 2,210 metric tonnes, refillers 607 tonnes, industrial oxygen manufacturers have about 152 metric tonnes which takes the total storage capacity to 3348.8 tonnes storage capacity for oxygen at the most. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar during his Friday weekly review meeting said, “The administration is ensuring that there would be no shortage of oxygen in case the third wave hits the district. As of now, we have 50 hospital-based generation plants which would be enough for the anticipated third wave. We also have more than required B&D type jumbo cylinders, 12 more than estimated to be required, 35 more dura cylinders, 412 more cryogenic tanks. Currently we have 16 functional oxygen plants and we have proposed 35 more such plants so that the generation capacity increases to 24,000 litres per minute for the district from the current 13,000 litres per minute.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sufficient-oxygen-storage-to-tackle-anticipated-third-wave-pune-admin-101627658770637.html
30-07-2021||Pune||Water storage in Pune’s four dams touches 88.20 per cent||Pune: As of Friday evening, the collective water storage of four dams that supply water to the city was 88.20 per cent full following good rainfall in the past few days. The count last year during the same period was 33.84 percent. Water resources department officials said that collectively the four dams — Khadakwasla, Temghar, Panshet and Warasgaon — is filled up to 25.71 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) against 9.86 TMC last year. Khadakwasla dam was 100 per cent full and over 3.53 TMC water was released through the spillway. It has 1.97 TMC water and Panshet dam 9.87 TMC. Panshet is 94.98 per cent full, Temghar 74.37 per cent full with 2.76 TMC water and Warasgaon has 10.86 TMC water and is 84.73 per cent full, according to officials. On Friday, dam discharge from Pavana dam was increased from 3,017 cubic feet per second (cusec) to 4,350 cusecs. Mulshi dam as of Friday was 73 per cent full and water has been discharged from the dam. All villages near the river banks are informed accordingly, officials said. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department of India Meteorological Department (IMD), said that there are no strong systems over Maharashtra. Over Bay of Bengal, there is a well-marked low pressure area which is likely to move towards the southern part of Uttar Pradesh. “In Pune city, cloudy weather is likely till August 1. During this time, light rains are likely in the city. Ghat areas in the city may experience isolated heavy rainfall on July 31,” said Kashyapi. Till Friday, Pune city reported one millimetre rainfall and Lohegaon 0.6 mm rainfall. From June 1 till Friday, Pune city has reported 341.8 mm rainfall which is 26.6 mm more than normal, said IMD officials. “Over Maharashtra, westerlies are strong, bringing moisture from Arabian Sea. Widespread rainfall is likely in Konkan and Goa in the next few days. Isolated areas will get heavy rainfall in ghat areas near Pune and Nashik. Isolated light rainfall is likely in Vidarbha and Marathwada in the next few days. From August 3, rainfall activity will reduce further,” said Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/water-storage-in-pune-s-four-dams-touches-88-20-per-cent-101627658291759.html
30-07-2021||Other||Groundwater level falling by 1 metre every year, says Lucknow mayor||HT Correspondentlkoreportersdesk@htlive.comLUCKNOW Mayor Sanyukta Bhatia on Friday emphasized on promoting water recharge facilities in high-rise and upcoming buildings as the groundwater level was falling by one metre every year.The Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) and the Jal Sansthan should give rebate to houses with water harvesting system, but charge extra from those houses, which despite having the space for it, had not made any provision for water harvesting, she said.The mayor said civic bodies can run an awareness campaign for promoting rainwater harvesting across the city, before making it mandatory.“LMC will have to take some measures to recharge groundwater because the groundwater level is falling by one metre every year as high-rise apartments are drawing water from the ground and 70% of the city water supply is from underground water,” she added.As per the directions of the chief minister, rooftop rainwater harvesting is mandatory in government and semi-government buildings, said Bhatia. “Jal Jeevan Mission section of the minor irrigation department has been entrusted with the responsibility of installing rooftop rainwater harvesting facilities on every government and semi-government building in six cities of the state,” she said.However noted environmentalist and professor in BBU Venkatesh Dutta said, “Rainwater harvesting is a nature-based solution to the problem of depleting groundwater table, but there is a rule of harvesting, which should be followed by everyone. Like, we should not allow seepage of contaminated water. At present, we don’t have any mechanism to check the quality of rainwater going into the ground. However, the state government has formed a district level groundwater council for every district to ensure rainwater harvesting to check depletion of water table.”He said, “In Lucknow, we have lost 70% of water bodies. If you lose big water bodies, then rainwater harvesting is always good to recharge the underground water aquifers.”Groundwater department director VK Upadhyay said, “There are around 2.08 lakh buildings with rooftop groundwater recharge facilities in the state. In Lucknow, according to our records, there are around 20,000 buildings with rooftop rainwater harvesting facilities. But we need to have more buildings to compensate for the water lost during the last so many years.”He added, “We are trying to encourage local bodies to create rainwater harvesting facilities in every park of the city. If done, this will ensure good recharge of groundwater table.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/groundwater-level-falling-by-1-metre-every-year-says-lucknow-mayor-101627657753645.html
30-07-2021||Pune||Man booked in Pune for impersonating former corporator||Pune: The Kondhwa police have booked a person for using the name of a former corporator and his identity card for official work with the PMC. The 44-year-old former public representative has lodged an FIR with the Kondhwa police station under IPC Section 419 and Information Technology (IT) Act. The FIR stated that the accused called the PMC commissioner and told him to requisition a bed for a Covid patient. He used his name and photo identity and stole the personal details and impersonated him to obtain favours from the civic administration, the FIR stated. PSI Prabhakar Kapure, the investigating officer, said that an offence for impersonation has been lodged against the accused and investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-booked-in-pune-for-impersonating-former-corporator-101627657630521.html
30-07-2021||Pune||Home minister orders probe into alleged audio clip of Pune woman police officer ordering free biryani||Pune: State home minister Dilip Walse Patil on Friday ordered a probe into the alleged audio clip doing rounds in the social media where a woman police officer is heard instructing her staff to get free mutton biryani from a prominent hotel located in her jurisdiction. There was no official communication from the police commissionerate regarding the audio clip which is believed to be a year old. In the audio clip, the officer also tells her junior that they do not have to pay for the food to the hotelier as the establishment is located under their jurisdiction when the latter points out that they have been paying cash for food as a policy. “I have heard the clip and this is a serious issue. I have sought a report from Pune police commissioner and the state government will take a decision after the report is submitted,” the minister said. In the audio clip, the woman officer is heard saying, “Drop the biryani with Sonawane and if there is any issue related to …. tell the concerned PI.. should I tell the PI. Why do we pay despite it being in our jurisdiction. Why do we pay in our jurisdiction.” Replying to her, the junior staffer says, “Before we have not done this. We used to pay cash,” he replied. The woman officer is heard telling the junior, “Paying cash. The PI can do it. Why pay in our jurisdiction.” The woman officer is also heard instructing the junior to get prawns. “Saheb likes mutton biryani and I like chicken. I don’t like soup,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/home-minister-orders-probe-into-alleged-audio-clip-of-pune-woman-police-officer-ordering-free-biryani-101627655410462.html
30-07-2021||Pune||Youth arrested for misbehaving with woman constable in Pune||Pune: The Wakad police have arrested a two-wheeler rider for abusing a woman police constable who fined him for not wearing the mandatory face mask. According to the police, the accused identified as Raju Prakash Bhati (27), a resident of Aundhgaon, was on his way to work when he was stopped by a police patrol team led by a woman constable at Rahatni. The rider was fined for not wearing face mask. Enraged over the development, Bhati hurled abuses at the constable Rohini Kiran Suryavanshi (34) posted with Wakad traffic division. Investigating officer K Maner said, “The constable stopped the accused for not wearing the mask and instead of cooperating with the police, he abused her and told that many constables like her visit him on a daily basis. The accused has been arrested and remanded in police custody.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/youth-arrested-for-misbehaving-with-woman-constable-in-pune-101627654870381.html
30-07-2021||Pune||Doctor’s clinic burgled in Market Yard, Pune||Pune: Unidentified persons struck at the clinic of a prominent doctor Sanjay Fattechand Oswal in Market Yard and decamped with cash and ornaments worth ₹1.50 lakh on Thursday. The incident took place in Gangadham Chowpatty area of the upmarket around 7.30 am. Dr Oswal (48) has lodged a complaint. According to the FIR, the burglary took place after the complainant had shut the clinic at 7 pm on Wednesday. The looted things include ornaments and laptop. Sub-inspector MB Giri, the investigative officer in the case, said that the unidentified thieves broke open the locks of clinic’s shutter with rods, gained unauthorised entry. The police are investigating CCTV camera footage of the area. The FIR has been lodged under IPC 445, 457 and 380. No arrests have been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/doctors-clinic-burgled-in-market-yard-pune-101627654451774.html
30-07-2021||Mumbai||Shilpa Shetty’s defamation suit: Mumbai high court refuses to gag media||MUMBAI: Observing that the right to privacy is required to be balanced with the freedom of the Press, the Bombay high court on Friday refused to grant an interim injunction against various news portals and publications accused by actor Shilpa Shetty of indulging in defamatory reporting of her reactions to the arrest of her husband Raj Kundra in the alleged pornographic film racket case.The court, however, said the fact that the actor was a public figure did not mean that she has sacrificed her right to privacy when it was pointed out that certain articles had questioned her parenting in light of the case.The bench did not pass any orders as some of the organisations were not represented and those who were represented informed that they had taken down the content from the digital platforms, to which the court asked them not to upload the same again. A bench of justice Gautam Patel, while hearing the interim application in a defamation suit filed by Shetty, was informed by senior advocate Dr Birendra Saraf and Dr Abhinav Chandrachud that while the actor was not seeking a blanket gag order on the media from reporting anything related to the case of her husband, she sought an interim injunction restraining various media platforms from reporting uncorroborated, defamatory and malicious news about her. Her husband, Raj Kundra was arrested by the property cell of Mumbai Police’s crime branch on July 19 in connection with an alleged pornography racket. The cell has alleged that Kundra controlled the operation of the mobile app used to upload pornographic videos for paid viewership and earned over ₹1.17 crore between August and December last year by means of subscription .Dr Saraf said that the actor took exception to news items which implied that she was indulging in the destruction of evidence pertaining to the case in which her husband was booked as well as the case was affecting her parenting. After some of the 29 defendants who were represented by advocates submitted that they had taken down the objectionable content and assured the court that they would not upload it again, justice Patel said in his order, “I believe some of the issues this suit raises will amount to scrutiny because it is not possible to say at this stage that all statements of all defendants are defamatory in nature.”Referring to the objectionable content reported by the accused publications, justice Patel said, “The material here seems to be prima facie drawn from an understanding of what investigating teams have said or indicated. The report is not of Shetty’s guilt or innocence, but of what an investigative agency suspects. I am not inclined to pass an order on this.” He added that no part of the order should be construed as a gag on the media. “I am making no order, but this is not refusal of interim or ad-interim relief.”When Dr Saraf pointed to the observations made by one of the publishers about Shetty’s parenting while reporting on the circumstances surrounding the case, justice Patel said, “That part is protected by her right of privacy under the wide protection recognised by the freedom of the press to be balanced with the right of privacy. It is possible that freedom of speech may have to be narrowly tailored. But it is not possible to ignore the constitutional pinning of privacy, nor to say that if a person is a public figure, that person is deemed to have sacrificed his right to privacy.” The application will be heard next on September 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shilpa-shetty-s-defamation-suit-mumbai-high-court-refuses-to-gag-media-101627654271131.html
30-07-2021||Other||‘No death caused due to non-supply of oxygen’: Goa govt tells Assembly||Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane told the legislative assembly that “no death has been reported to have [been] caused due to non-supply of oxygen.” Earlier in May, the minister had said that a shortage of oxygen was leading to deaths at the Goa Medical College and Hospital. In a written reply to Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat, who sought the know the “details of the total number of deaths of Covid patients who died in Goa Medical College Hospital due to shortage of oxygen supply,” Rane said that “at no point in time, the oxygen supplies at GMC ran out of stock and thus, no death has been reported to have caused due to non-supply of oxygen.”The reply is contrary to statements that the Goa government has made before the Bombay High Court at Goa before which it has admitted that “some deaths may have taken place due to “fall of pressure in the supply lines of oxygen to the patients.”“There were logistical issues involved in manoeuvring the tractor which carries the trolleys of oxygen and in connecting the cylinders to the manifold. During this process, there was some interruption, which resulted in a fall of pressure in the supply lines of oxygen to the patients. It is basically on account of these factors some casualties may have taken place,” the state government told the court back in May. It was Rane who first flagged the issue of dropping oxygen levels and called for a probe into the deaths during what he called were the “dark hours” at the Goa Medical College. Rane first claimed that on the night of May 10, 26 people died due to oxygen shortage and on May 11 it was 21 deaths and called for a probe into the deaths. The following three nights 15, 13 and 8 people were reported to have died before the state government finally shifted from using a system of oxygen being supplied through a cylinder manifold that needed to be changed using tractors to supply from a liquid medical oxygen tank. The Bombay High Court at Goa, which took up the issue of oxygen shortage, however, wasn’t willing to buy the excuse.“We have long passed the stage of determining whether patients are suffering from the lack of oxygen or not. The material placed before us establishes that patients are indeed suffering and even in some cases succumbing for want of the supply of oxygen, in the state of Goa,” the High Court, that is hearing the petitions filed by the South Goa Advocates Association among others, said.The Goa Association of Resident Doctors first flagged the issue of oxygen running out as early as May 3 (a whole week before reports of deaths due to oxygen shortage started being reported in the media).“The oxygen supply in various covid wards is not even close to sufficient. The central oxygen flow delivers very low flow oxygen at times and that is inadequate to keep NIVS and ventilators working effectively. Also, the oxygen cylinders being used for patients get over in the middle of the night and it takes at least 2-3 hours for replacement cylinders to come and sometimes more than that and for this time period, the patients are kept without oxygen with saturations dropping to less than 60%,” the resident doctors said in a letter dated May 2 to the Dean of the medical college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-death-caused-due-to-non-supply-of-oxygen-goa-govt-tells-assembly-101627653853637.html
30-07-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand BJP in poll mode, sets programmes for next 2 months||With only several months left for the Uttarakhand assembly elections in 2022, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) seems to have already rolled the dice by setting its state-wide programmes for the next two months in poll preparations, HT has learnt. The programmes were set during the core committee meeting of the party state unit on Thursday evening which was led by party national general secretary (organisation) BL Santosh in presence of chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, party state president Madan Kaushik, party state in-charge Dushyant Kumar and other senior leaders. During the meeting, Santosh, along with other state leaders, discussed the strategy for the upcoming polls and asked them to implement the roadmap for the same on the ground with all possible efforts. One of the party senior leaders who was present in the meeting, on condition of anonymity, said, “The central leader directed all the state leaders to get actively involved in the preparation for 2022 under which various issues were discussed.” “During that discussion, the issues of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Act and demand for new land law for the state also featured prominently as both of them are significantly connected to the people of the state. Santosh took feedback on both to which CM Dhami apprised him of the high-level committee formed for solving the issues related to Char Dham Devasthanam Management Act against which the priest community is protesting,” said the leader, adding that a “consensus was achieved to counter the Opposition parties on the issues and cautiously bringing a solution on the two before elections.” Party state president Madan Kaushik said, “The state unit would hold a three day Jan Ashirvad Rally in the state on 17, 18 and 19 August to increase the mass outreach. Our leaders would also visit various districts and go among the ground workers for the same.” Describing the meeting as a fruitful and important one, Kaushik said, “The Opposition parties are trying to mislead the youth of the state by creating a propaganda induced-environment. However, they won’t succeed in their motives.” “BJP is the only party in Uttarakhand to carry all-round development which it is already doing. People are with us and would once again reject Congress which is spreading false propaganda,” he said. The Congress, on the other hand, seems to be still trying to solve the differences among its leaders after the formation of the new state team under newly appointed state president Ganesh Godiyal. Ever since Godiyal was made the new state head by replacing former state president Pritam Singh, who is now the new leader of Opposition, all seems to be not well in the state unit. It was also evident with the fact the Singh skipped the first press conference taken by Godiyal after taking charge as new state head a couple of days ago. The party leadership, however, refuted reports of any differences in the party and said, “All leaders are united and working collectively towards winning the 2022 polls.” Party state in-charge Devendra Yadav said, “There are no differences whatsoever in the party. The new team has been formed and been implemented to prepare for the polls with all possible efforts.” On the party’s preparations for the upcoming assembly elections, Yadav said, “We have already held a core committee meeting on Wednesday in which the various committees formed for the polls were asked to chalk out their strategies within one week. They would submit a report on the same during the next core committee meeting on August 3 and 4.“The party is fully confident of winning the polls because people are fed up with the BJP government’s misgovernance and anti-public decisions in the last four and a half years of its tenure,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-bjp-in-poll-mode-sets-programmes-for-next-2-months-101627653251363.html
30-07-2021||Indore||Covid-19 in MP: Indore to carry out sero survey of over 1,800 below 18||A sero survey will be conducted in Indore in Madhya Pradesh, the worst coronavirus-hit district in the state, to check for antibodies in children below the age of 18 to combat a possible third wave of infections, an official said on Friday. Indore Divisional Commissioner Pawan Kumar Sharma told reporters that blood samples of 1,848 children from 25 wards will be taken as part of the survey which is expected to start within a week. He said the children have been divided into 1-6, 6-9 and 9-17 age groups for the survey. A sero survey shows if a person had been exposed to Covid-19 and if antibodies were being produced in the individual's system. Indore has a Covid-19 caseload of 1.53 lakh, including 1,391 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/covid19-in-mp-indore-to-carry-out-sero-survey-of-over-1-800-below-18-101627652456058.html
30-07-2021||Pune||PMC plans elevated roads on Mutha riversides||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to check feasibility and environment impact assessment (EIV) of proposed Mutha riverside elevated roads from Vitthalwadi (Sinhgad road) to Nanded City and Shivane to Karvenagar to address traffic issues. The civic body had to stop its proposed riverside road from Vithalwadi to Pune-Mumbai National Highway (NH-4) bypass in 2013 after orders from the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal (NGT) as it violated environmental rules. PMC plans to develop road on both sides of Mutha river. The proposed Vithalwadi-Nanded City elevated road is 4-kilometre long and 24 metres in width running parallel to Sinhagd road and the elevated road on other bank of Mutha riverside will starts from Karvenagar to Shivane villages. It is around one kilometre and 24-metre wide. After the Supreme Court had given an order to stop the proposed Vithalwadi- Pune Mumbai National Highway (NH-4) bypass stretch, PMC is exploring an elevated stretch between Vithalwadi and NH-4 stretch. It plans to extend elevated road from NH-4 to Nanded City and Karveganar to Shivane as the latter is now within PMC limits after merger of villages. Mahadu Thopate, deputy engineer, PMC project department, said, “The road department has proposed two elevated roads from both sides of Mutha river. In Sinhgad road area, we have extended the elevated road from Vithalwadi to Nanded as earlier it was up to NH-4 highway. The decision has been taken as PMC limits have extended up to Khadakwasla.” “In Karvenagar side, we will develop one kilometre stretch to Shivane villages. It is part of Kharadi-Shivane project. Both roads can be laid as it falls in blueline areas. We have decided to conduct pre-feasibility and environment impact assessment (EIA) study, floated tender and has given six months to the agency to study and submit report to PMC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-plans-elevated-roads-on-mutha-riversides-101627652650341.html
30-07-2021||Ranchi||21 people test Covid-19 positive in Jharkhand village in 2 days as state fears threat due to variants||The Haradag Khurd village in Garhwa district, Jharkhand has been put on high alert after 21 people tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in two days after migrant workers returned to the village from Madhya Pradesh. Health officials from the state said that 19 people were found with the infection initially while two more cases were found later.All 21 infected people, including eight children between two and 12 years of age, have been admitted to the Sadar hospital in Garhwa, news agency PTI reported citing state officials. Also, all contacts of the patients have been identified and isolated, the officials further said.A single worker, among the many who returned from a colliery area in Madhya Pradesh, was initially found positive for Covid-19. It is suspected that the villagers might have contracted the infection from the worker. Also, the Delta variant of the virus has been detected in the region in MP from where the workers had returned.Also read | Covid-19 R-value rising steadily in India; Kerala, N-E states tops listMeanwhile, the state’s additional chief secretary of health Arun Kumar Singh said that the administration was taking all possible steps to contain the spread. He further said that all officials in the area were kept on high alert following the outbreak."Initially 19 villagers were found positive. All of them have been admitted to Garhwa Sadar hospital. We are taking all possible steps to contain the spread of the virus and have kept officials on high alert in the area," PTI quoted Singh as saying on Friday. Following this, the civil surgeon of Garhwa Dr Kamlesh Kumar confirmed that two more people tested positive for the disease.Meanwhile, the state itself reported 27 new single-day infections on Thursday as the total confirmed cases so far reached 347,049, PTI reported citing a daily bulletin from the health department. Also, one person succumbed to the illness in the last 24 hours as the death toll climbed to 5,126. The sudden detection of 21 new cases in a short span of two days has raised concerns among health officials as the state has been witnessing a lesser number of daily cases in the past few days.“Our surveillance team is visiting villages and we are taking all possible steps to contain the spread...Special precautions are taken in the village Haradag Khurd with a population of about 300 villagers,” deputy commissioner of Garhwa Rajesh Kumar Pathak said.Dr Kumar said that the sample of the first villager testing positive in the village was collected during a routine sample collection at a railway station. “The health machinery swung into action and 25 persons including all his family members were subjected to tests along with two other families with whom he interacted,” he then said. Out of these samples, 20 other people tested positive, he added. State officials said that the samples would be sent to the Regional Genome Sequencing Laboratory (RGSL), Institute of Life Sciences (ILS) in Bhubaneswar for genomic sequencing as the state presently does not have the machinery for sequencing.According to data from the government, 194 out of the 328 positive cases last month were due to the B.1.617.2 or the Delta variant while the Alpha and the Kappa variants accounted for 29 samples each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/21-people-test-covid-19-positive-in-jharkhand-village-in-2-days-as-state-fears-threat-due-to-variants-101627650559102.html
30-07-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Is the Party Over?||“It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness…” — Charles Dickens, A Tale of Two Cities “Isn’t it time you wrote a column on the death of Page 3?” a friend enquired recently. What she was alluding to, of course, was not any particular newspaper column or page, but that melding of unbridled confidence, consumerism and celebrity culture that had followed in the wake of India’s economic liberalisation in the Nineties. You remember the Nineties, don’t you? When it seemed as if India was on the radar of every big international corporation and capital for its markets; when beauty pageants began popping out Indian Miss Universes faster than the city’s most-celebrated fertility specialists; when once high-minded mainstream newspapers reserved their most seductive voice for their supplements, where who wore what and left the party with who would be given equal column space as the day’s headline; when nothing succeeded like excess and Mumbai was the mecca and the money machine for a multitude of shiny new professionals — fashionistas, gym instructors, etiquette coaches, wellness gurus, lifestyle consultants , party animals, celebrity chefs, TV anchors, event organisers, wine critics, starchitects, model coordinators, talent scouts, and food stylists. Hostesses would thoughtfully caption and deliver high-resolution pictures to newspaper editors, in time for the next day’s edition, the morning after their big bashes even before they’d wiped off their mascara; A-list businessmen would open their hearts and homes to anyone with a camera and a microphone with abandon; and divas would plot their next photo spreads and the downfall of their rivals in the gossip columns with Mafiosi precision. Page 3 had come to symbolise all that was shiny, commercial and aspirational in Mumbai; if it was a mood, it was buoyant; if it had an attitude, it was “in your face”. And in its favour, it could be said that it fostered a great churning and breaking down of barriers. No longer was fame and fortune the preserve of the wealthy or high-born — Page 3 meant that you could just as well be a gallerist or a tattoo artist, as long as your hair was interestingly streaked, and you had the right attitude. ****************************************************** Paris had its Café Society and New York its Andy Warhol and Studio 54 sets, and throughout history there have been categorisations of social groups and styles such as The Jet Set, The Beautiful People, Hippies, Yuppies, Old Fogies, Foodies and Hipsters — terms afforded to collections of people or trends that represent a homogenous lifestyle, in a public context. So, what had preceded the advent of Page 3, in a new city just beginning to find its feet on seven recently joined islands? Certainly, you could say that with its nightclubs and bistros, cabaret acts and jazz yatras, Mumbai had exuded a cosmopolitan, artsy vibe. In the south, English theatre groups were making waves with their ideas and offerings and next door at Kala Ghoda, the Progressive Artist Group was making its presence felt. At Café Samovar, a whole breed of new-wave filmmakers, poets, journalists and artists could be called a quasi-cultural movement in its own right; at the other end of the city, Prithvi Theatre and Bhaidas auditorium were fostering a flourishing parallel cultural scene of their own; and, of course, the Juhu Gang of hip young film folk attracted comment and coverage; but none of these had quite galvanised or defined the city as much as the Page 3 phenomena, on account of the media and monetisation opportunities that it offered. Because, unlike the new wave art film movement or English theatre groups or the Juhu Gang, Page 3 was backed by big bucks; it had been the goose that laid the golden egg and the party looked like it would never end.****************************************************** It could be argued that even if the pandemic had not upended the Page 3 Ball, its days were already numbered, with the rise of social media. Once the bold and the beautiful realised that the tools for their hype and PR lay in their own manicured hands, things began changing. Now, businessmen, socialites and self-styed celebrities could achieve world domination with the click of a button and an air-brushed picture of themselves with their latest cat, cars or quotes directly on Instagram, Twitter or Facebook. Overnight, this resulted in a Tower of Babel where everyone began posting, clicking, uploading and live streaming their private lives, all at once, in a race that seemed to be won by the quickest, loudest, craziest, zaniest, or most extreme. It was a virtual free-for-all platform, and it could have gone on forever, except for a few factors — firstly, it militated against India’s deeply held values of austerity. After all, it is not for nothing that the Father of the Nation is admired as much for his simplicity and non-materialism as his non-violence. Conspicuous consumption and unbridled exhibitionism of one’s lifestyle has long been frowned upon in these parts, and Indian culture and traditions have always extolled people to embrace self-denial and abstemiousness; but more importantly, the rise of the BJP-RSS, the Moral Police and armies of trolls began to make the existence of Page 3 an untenable proposition. Liberalisation might have ushered in the ways of the West, but the fate met by the likes of Vijay Mallya, Nirav and Lalit Modi and later Rhea Chakraborty were lessons not lost on anyone. Gradually aware of backlash in a country where the have-nots far outnumbered the haves and the socio-political environment signalled otherwise, people began to think twice before sharing pictures of their lavish weddings and exotic holidays, their bespoke wine collections and Birkin bags. So, even before Covid appeared on the scene, only the very tone deaf or desperate or foolish wanted to be seen partying or celebrating or having a good time; Page 3 began to asphyxiate; then came along Covid and hammered the last nail in its coffin.****************************************************** So, what will replace Page 3 if or when things go back to normal? My take is that having spent the past year-and-a-half indoors and largely alone, people will be reluctant to go back to their old party-hearty ways. The looming threat of infection and illness will make many continue to embrace more private lives, contract their social engagements and confine themselves to more selective lifestyle options. Celebrations will be more contained and survivor’s guilt, along with concerns for the environment and inner well-being will call for new ways of life and style. Of course, I could be wrong. Deprivation and hardship during World War 1 gave rise to the Roaring Twenties across the world, and in that regard, Page 3 might once again rear its head. But I’m certainly not holding my breath on that one...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-is-the-party-over-101627651211228.html
30-07-2021||Pune||NFAI acquires over 450 rare glass slides of early Telugu cinema||PUNE: The National Film Archive of India (NFAI) has added more than 450 glass slides of films to its collection. The acquisition films like V V Rao’s trendsetting social drama about widow remarriage “Malli Pelli” (1939), B N Reddi’s “Vande Mataram” (1939), starring Chittor V Nagaiah, and popular swashbuckling hit “Keelu Gurram” (1949) featuring Akkineni Nageshwara Rao and Anjali Devi, another hit N T Rama Rao starrer “Daasi” (1952), critically acclaimed adaptation of Sharat Chandra Chattopadhyay’s classic Devdas Vedantam Raghavaiah’s “Devadasu” (1953) starring Akkineni Nageswara Rao, Savitri and Lalitha in the central roles and many more. All these glass slides are in black and white covering 70 Telugu films from 1939 to 1955. Last year too NFAI acquired nearly 400 glass slides. NFAI has a collection of over 2,000 glass slides of Hindi, Gujarati and Telugu films. As per a NFAI press statement, “We are delighted to have these glass slides as they are an integral part of the early cinema viewing experience. Made by pressing a film positive between two thin glass squares, these slides were used for announcing new attractions before the commencement of a film or during intervals in theatres. The film positives used to prepare the glass slide were miniatures of the film poster or publicity material for newspapers and magazines.” The glass slides represent the pictorial history of early Telugu cinema from the late 1930s to the mid-1950s and feature frames tracing the gravitas of Telugu films during the early decades of Indian talkie. Prakash Magdum, director, NFAI, said, “Glass slides are exquisite records of Indian cinematic heritage, and we are happy to preserve these in our archival collection. In the wake of fast-changing technologies having these glass slides in such huge numbers is a rare and significant discovery. I appeal to all film lovers to come forward and deposit film footages, photographs, posters, lobby cards and other such material so that it can be preserved.” Commenting on the significance of the collection, Arti Karkhanis, incharge of documentation at NFAI said, “These glass slides give a bird’s eye view of the publicity scenario in the Telugu industry in its formative years. It has a great reference value for film researchers, and we will soon digitise them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nfai-acquires-over-450-rare-glass-slides-of-early-telugu-cinema-101627650130199.html
30-07-2021||Kolkata||Centre, Bengal govt is no show at SC hearing on post-poll violence, deferred||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday will take up a petition seeking a judicial probe into post-poll violence in West Bengal after two weeks as no lawyer appeared for the Centre or the West Bengal government despite the court issuing them notices on July 1.A bench of justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari noted the absence of lawyers. “The office report states that respondent 1 (Union of India) and respondent 2 (State of West Bengal) have been served with the petition but are not represented through any counsel,” the bench said on a petition filed by Ranjana Agnihotri and Jitender Singh.The Election Commission was the only party that was present through advocate Amit Sharma. But the bench noted that the necessary parties to the case were Union and state government, who were missing. The bench allowed the petitioner’s lawyer to again serve the petition on the two governments and directed that the case be put up after two weeks. Advocate Hari Shankar Jain, who appeared for the petitioners, moved an application to make the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) along with five other central commissions as party to the petition. But the bench kept the application pending in order to ascertain the view of the Centre and state. The petition also named West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee as one of the respondents but the court refused to issue notice to her. The petition urged the court to direct the Election Commission to take action against the Trinamool Congress for violation of the model code of conduct and attached text of speeches by TMC leaders during the election campaign to back up its accusation that they indulged in communal politics.The petition filed through advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain sought orders to the central and state government to protect the future of Hindus who, it said, were forced to flee the state during the violence and sought an independent enquiry into the incidents of loot, rape, and murder that had put the life, dignity and liberty of women and children in peril. On July 1, the court sought responses from the Centre, bengal government and the Election Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/centre-bengal-govt-is-no-show-at-sc-hearing-on-post-poll-violence-deferred-101627648990748.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||PSEB declares Class 12 result, pass percentage up to 96.48%||The Punjab School Education Board declared the Class 12 results on Friday with a pass percentage of 96.48% as compared to last year’s 90.98% and 86.41% in 2019. Of the 2,92,663 eligible students, 2,82,349 passed. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the board could not conduct the exams and followed the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) pattern to evaluate scores. The result was calculated on the basis of the 30:30:40 formula, considering the marks in Classes 10, 11, and 12. While 30% weightage was given to the results of Classes 10 and 11, 40% weightage was given to the Class 12-unit test/mid-term/pre-board exams. Also read: CBSE Class 12: Result of 65,000 students pending, to be declared by Aug 5The results will be uploaded on PSEB website www.pseb.ac.in and www.indiaresults.com after 10am on Saturday. Girls keep up trend, outshine boys Addressing mediapersons, PSEB chairman Yograj said that in keeping with the trend of recent years, girls outshone boys as the pass percentage of girls is 97.34%, while the pass percentage of boys is 95.74%. In the commerce stream, the pass percentage is 94.87%, in humanities it’s 97.10%, while in science it’s 94% and in the vocational stream it’s 98.51%. Students of meritorious schools performed well with a pass percentage of 99.74%, while the government school pass percentage was 98.05%, aided schools 96.71 %, associated schools 93.25% and affiliated and Adarsh schools 93.21%. The board chairman said that the pass percentage of urban schools and rural schools was similar with the former recording 96.63% and the latter 96.37%. Ropar tops state in pass percentage Rupnagar district topped the state by securing a pass percentage of 99.57% followed by Patiala at 99.08% and Muktsar at 99.06 %. Fazilka district scored a pass percentage of 91.06%. “If any child is not satisfied with the result, he/she can write to the school authorities concerned who will refer the matter to the board with the school ID within 15 days,” Yograj added. RESULT AT A GLANCE Total students: 2,92,663 Students passed: 2,82,349 Grade-wise count Above 90 % ( A+): 22,175 students 80% to 90% (A): 88,150 students 70% to 80% (B+): 1,19,802 students 60% to 70% (B): 48,843 students 50% to 60% (C+): 3,289 students 40% to 50% (C): 88 students Below 33% (E): 713 students||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pseb-declares-class-12-result-pass-percentage-up-to-9648-101627647970659.html
30-07-2021||Dehradun||Unfilled mining pits pose threat to Uttarakhand villages||Unfilled pits left after soapstone mining are endangering lives amid threats of landslides, say residents of Uttarakhand’s Bageshwar district.“Mining owners and contractors have left pits unfilled in our village and they have been filled with water and resulted in cracks in the hill. Villages are scared as they fear landslides due to this,” said Neema Dhami, the village head of Dhapti village in Bageshwar.Mining work is suspended during the rainy season and owners of the mines have to fill the pits after mining soapstone by the end of June. This year, some pits have been left unfilled after digging.Also Read | Kanwar pilgrims to get Ganga water on Haridwar bordersDhami said the villagers have raised the issue with sub-divisional magistrate Rakesh Tiwari and handed over a complaint demanding early filling of the pits to avert any untoward incident.In neighbouring Pampo village, residents echoed Dhami. “Local administration is not taking action against such contractors therefore such people do not hesitate in violating the norms. The administration should ensure the pits are filled and provide compensation to affected villagers,” said Puneeta Tamta, a former village head of Pampo.Tiwari said a team has been send to the villages and its report for further action is awaited. “Action will be taken accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/unfilled-mining-pits-pose-threat-to-uttarakhand-villages-101627647071177.html
30-07-2021||Bhopal||Man impersonates cop, dupes petrol pump owner of ₹50,000 in MP||Jabalpur police in Madhya Pradesh have registered a fraud complaint against a man for impersonating as the additional superintendent of police and cheating the owner of a petrol pump of ₹50,000. Jabalpur superintendent of police Siddharth Bahuguna has ordered an inquiry in the matter. Bahuguna said, “A man called at Pananagar police station on Thursday and introduced himself as the additional superintendent of police without taking his name. He then asked the police constable to go to a nearby petrol pump and connect him to the pump owner. Constables Narendra Patil and Rupendra Kumar gave the number to pump owner Praveen Mishra. The man then asked Mishra to transfer ₹50,000 in an account.” Also Read | Monsoon to enter active phase with heavy rains over central, NW IndiaMishra checked the phone number on an app which also showed the it as registered on an ASP’s name. Mishra transferred the money and informed police station in-charge RK Soni. When police traced the contact number and account number, it was found to be registered in the name of one Dhanshyam, a resident of Alwar, Rajasthan. Now, a team will be sent to Alwar to identify the accused. SP Bahuguna has also ordered a probe into the role of Pananagar police station personnel as to how and why did they believed the caller and did not inform the station in-charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/man-impersonates-cop-dupes-petrol-pump-owner-of-rs-50-000-in-mp-101627646830808.html
30-07-2021||Mumbai||'Return excess amt charged from Covid patients': Thane civic body to hospitals||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) in Maharashtra has sent notices to several city-based hospitals, asking them to refund the excessive amounts charged by them from Covid-19 patients for their treatment.The civic body said that the collective excess amount charged by such facilities stood at more than ₹1.14 crore. If the hospitals fail to return the amount, they may lose their registration, the TMC warned them. TMC's medical health officer Dr Vaijayanti Devgekar has issued the notices to the hospitals, which have failed to produce treatment bills for verification by a civic team assigned for the task.The corporation said audit has revealed that over two dozen hospitals are yet to give refund to the patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/return-excess-amt-charged-from-covid-patients-thane-civic-body-to-hospitals-101627645585454.html
30-07-2021||Patna||CAG report shows sorry state of Bihar PSUs||Only 18 out of 79 state public sector undertakings (PSUs), including nine from the power sector, in Bihar have finalised their accounts in the last three years. Seventy-five of them have 1,321 arrear accounts since 1977-78, according to the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India report for the year ending March 31, 2019. The report was tabled in the Bihar legislative assembly on Thursday.According to a mandatory provision under Bihar Finance Rules, companies have to finalise their accounts at the end of the fiscal so that they can be audited. If a company has not done so for 20 years, it is said to have 20 arrear (outstanding dues) accounts.The CAG, as per due process, reports all discrepancies to the departments concerned and seeks explanations. If unconvinced with the explanations, CAG details its objections in its annual report. The report will now be referred to the Public Accounts Committee of Vidhan Sabha.“The state government’s total investment in the 79 PSUs was ₹44,922.71 crore, with the bulk-- ₹40,473.20 crore--in the power sector. Of the 18 PSUs that finalised their accounts up to 2018-19, 10 earned a profit of ₹310 crore, while seven incurred losses of ₹2,778.54 crore, with the overall loss of the 18 PSUs totalling ₹2,467.56 crore in 2017-19,” says the report, which was explained by principal accountant general (PAG) Ramavatar Sharma at his office.Also Read | CAG report flags low job generation under MGNREGA in BiharThe report said that audited final accounts of the Bihar State Food and Civil Supplies Corporation Limited had arrears since 2003-04, which prevented the company from receiving food subsidy of ₹212.50 crore. “The delay in finalisation of accounts may result in risk of fraud and leakage of public money, apart from violation of the provisions of the relevant statutes. As on March 31, 2018, ₹773.44 crore had been invested in 42 state PSUs for over five years. While the Bihar government has already decided to wind up 31 of them, no action has been taken against the remaining 11 companies,” it added.According to the report, though the Bihar government provided ₹197.93 crore as subsidy to the Bihar State Sugar Corporation Limited for payment of wages etc. during the last three years, the company did not finalise its accounts for the last 34 years. “Several non-functional companies have had arrear accounts for 42 years (since their inception). The shortcomings regarding accounts of Bihar State Hydroelectric Power Corporation Limited from 2006-07 to 2009-10, South Bihar Power Distribution Company Limited and North Bihar Power Distribution Company Limited for 2017-18, Bihar State Food and Civil Supplies Corporation Limited from 1999-2000 to 2002-03 are so serious that CAG declines to give an opinion,” the report said.The CAG report also highlighted how the Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Limited paid its contractors ₹66.25 crore prior to technical sanction, ₹4.08 crore to design consultants without execution of agreement and appointed a supervision consultant on a nomination basis without recording full justification for single-source selection in violation of the Bihar Finance Rules, 2005. “The agency charge on non-admissible items by the Bihar State Road Development Corporation Limited also led to a burden of ₹61.73 crore on the state exchequer. The company also lost ₹1.34 crore by not organising its investments to avail higher interest rates on fixed deposits,” said the report.Govt redeems own landThe report underlined how the transport department recovered the entire outstanding loan (principal) of ₹874.81 crore from the Bihar State Road Transport Corporation (BSRTC) by taking over its physical property, including some land valued at ₹615.60 crore, which was already owned by the Bihar government--a misrepresentation of facts. BSRTC was given a loan at the rate of 13% per annum, while the average cost of borrowed funds for the government ranged between 6% - 10%, to pay wages and emoluments to its retired/deceased employees by the order of the Supreme Court and high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cag-report-shows-sorry-state-of-bihar-psus-101627645331529.html
30-07-2021||Other||Goa Assembly conducts marathon sitting of 17 hours till 4:30 am||The Goa Legislative Assembly created a record of sorts by holding a sitting for ‘unprecedented’ seventeen hours. The house finally got adjourned after 4:30 am on Friday that included a single continuous twelve-hour-long sitting which started at 4:30 pm on Thursday after the tea break. Opposition legislators questioned the state government for its ‘hurry’ in trying to ‘compress’ what is usually a three-week-long session into three days. “What is going on makes one wonder whether our chief minister is a doctor? If the assembly continues until 4:30 (am) what will happen to the health of those taking part? Which doctor prescribes this type of a routine that you are trying to compress an agenda of ten days in three days?” Opposition lawmaker, Vijai Sardesai, said. It was the second consecutive day when the Goa Legislative Assembly ended late. The previous day’s proceedings also ended past 2 am. While Parliament, as well as state assemblies, are known to have ended proceedings after midnight, the session of the Goa legislative assembly continuing until 4:30 am has been unheard of. In 2019, the Gujarat assembly concluded at 12:09 am in what was then considered a record for the state. BJP MLAs, however, said that the ‘shortened’ three-day assembly session was a necessity, a conscious decision to reduce the numbers that were taken to reduce the chances of avoiding an outbreak of Covid-19 and the consequent blame the government would have to face were that to happen. On Friday, opposition legislators led by Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat asked the government to table the 11 bills that were listed for consideration and passing on the final day but summon a special session to have them passed. “What message do you want to send by tabling and passing 11 bills, including the Mining Corporation Bill, and having them passed without any discussion?” Kamat said. The Goa government has however stuck to its guns. “The decision to hold a three-day session was taken by the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) and the Bills are important,” chief minister Pramod Sawant told the house. The length of the session was, however, too long for some legislators to handle who had long dozed off by the time the proceedings came to a close.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-assembly-conducts-marathon-sitting-of-17-hours-till-4-30-am-101627643891656.html
30-07-2021||Pune||What’s the buzz in Pune: July 30-August 7||Shower gel-making workshopLearn to make sulfate and paraben-free shower gel. Learn about ingredients used, the sterilisation process and how to make a gel base and variants.Registration fee: Rs2,250 per person (including videos and detailed PDF).To register call +91 8306363530 / 9428110033When: July 30 Where: OnlineEmbroidered art workshopEmbroider your own art statement at the beginner-friendly class. Learn the basics of this classic craft. Learn how to prep your embroidery hoop, how to create and transfer your design onto fabric, how to start and end your embroidery project, and how to create essential embroidery stitches, such as the running stitch, backstitch, split stitch and more. Cost: Rs1,400/- (inclusive of kit) When Aug 1; 11am-1:30pmWhere: Urja Art Studio, WakadAbstract portrait paintingBanjara Gypsy presents this workshop with artist Chandrima Mandal. The artwork must incorporate two faculties: first it must utilise the concept of portraiture in some way; and second it must be abstract, meaning it must deal with the realm of ideas, or at least avoid a purely objective or representational approach to reality.Online link will be shared post registration. Enrol now for the class. It will be funTo register contact Banjara Gypsy on +91 9632940054 When: August 1 onwardsWhere: OnlineOrigami workshopLearn from home with NiksOrigami. Learn to fold new intermediate-level Origami bookmarks. Learn four or more bookmarks in each session. Both sessions will teach different bookmarks.To register go https://www.facebook.com/Niksorigami or @Niksorigami on InstagramWhen: July 31; Session 1: 4-6 pm; Session 2: 8-10pm Where: OnlineSketching and pencil shading Learn sketching and pencil shading with us in a structured 14-day course. Learn concave forms. You will learn how light and shadows operate on concave forms like cups and bowls, as well as how to create the illusion of convexity in your drawings. You will learn how to scale the basic shading process in order to shade complex subjects. Open to all above the age of 10. Cost: ₹3,500 per person (14 classes)When: July 30-August 5; 4pm – 5pmWhere: Online Resin art workshop In this Resin art workshop our instructor will walk you through the process. You will learn what resin is and what you should pay attention to when working with epoxy resin. We give you a step-by-step guide on how to create your first resin work. Charges: Rs1,800 per personTo register contact - 8097020702 When: August 1; 2:30 pmWhere: OnlineIndia Bake ShowJoin us for 30 ‘live’ masterclasses on emerging techniques across baking and cake decorating from top chefs and cake artists. Each masterclass will be delivered ‘live’ with a Q&A by the trainer. Charges: ₹895 per personTo register go to https://homebakers.co.in/india-bake-show-2021When: August 5-8; 10am-6pm Where: OnlineEnglish workshop for childrenAre you worried about your children losing interest in education due to the pandemic? This August we are conducting various workshops for children to get accustomed to online classes and learn To register contact 91 8754499967 When: August 1 onwardsWhere: online||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/whats-the-buzz-in-pune-july-30-august-7-101627642633746.html
30-07-2021||Pune||Global village idiot: Everyday things we miss about pre-pandemic life in Pune||I miss being stranded at an airport. Miss it. Miss sitting there, staring at the flight information boards, as if my staring would change the weather and get my flight to take off on time. Miss walking aimlessly past the same stores, miss being bored out of my skull window shopping for the same kind of homogeneous branded luxury items. Miss sitting down at an airport bistro, ordering a shrimp chowder or a wholesome potato soup, just so that I can munch on the fresh-baked warm slabs of bread. When I first started flying being at an airport used to be a test of patience. I was never sure what I was supposed to do, or how I was supposed to behave. But, over the last decade, I had come to a place where I very much enjoyed being at an airport, enjoyed being at home at an airport.I miss being on a flight. A long-haul flight. Short flights are fine to get where I want quickly, but long-haul flights are the whole point of international travel for me. Miss exploring the inflight entertainment system before the flight even takes off, just to plan what I will watch on the 16-hour journey. Miss setting up the aisle seat at the right inclination and keeping everything handy (book, blanket, headphones). Miss making friends with my neighbours. Miss reading the menu so I can anticipate the meals they will serve - anticipation is an important step to the enjoyment of a meal. Miss taking walks down the aisles and stretching in the galleys, catching up with cabin crew, learning about their backgrounds, processes, routines, aspirations, families. Walking an aircraft is a test of one’s memory, but for those in airline training, it is an opportunity to learn more about different aircraft and airline procedures.I miss going to a restaurant. Miss greeting and being greeted by the staff- there’s so much variety across the world in that simple minute of common interaction. Miss the table settings, the quaint cutlery, napkins and serviettes, the menus. Miss placing an order, miss the banter with the service staff - though that’s mainly in USA where it’s an art form. Europe has its own flavour of something in the vicinity of a banter, though not at all places; it’s not quite as natural in Asia, where it tends to be more based on familiarity or common culture, though the focus is to get the order done. Pune is an exception, except that you have to go to the little eateries in old Pune to enjoy the banter, where it flows as naturally and freely as a birth-right.I miss taking a walk down MG Road, going into Café Yezdan, and then onto the little shops selling home-made salami and sausages, circling back to East Street to grab a chocolate cake from Kayani (I like their Shrewsbury, but Ross bakes a mean chocolate sponge). I miss Jaws Cafe and the Jazz Garden and watching ‘live’ bands give meaning to life. Miss the tinkling sound of conversation between sets. Miss the feel of a city night life. Miss listening to new artistes making their debuts, and miss waiting for the seasoned maestros to hit their peak in the wee hours at Sawai Gandharva festival.And that’s the way it’s going to be. A generation is often summarised by what they lament missing and I find that we are living in a moment that is seeing the passing of many things that many generations have liked, and are missing, and may forever miss from hereon. A way of life is passing, a sort of historical epoch, induced by the changes forced upon us by the coronavirus pandemic. And while the pandemic may wax and wane at its leisure, and governments may dance the dance to keep politics and economy suitably poised, life it is a changing for us, the common citizens of the very common world.And it is this change that is our ultimate test yet. We are all going through the same test in our own ways, but this is a different exam, a very different exam. Human societies have evolved and grown and changed and adapted in all ages and centuries; but usually, the changes and restrictions and difficulties happened to sections of society, and at different times, and in limited numbers. As of March 2020, almost all sections of all societies across the globe have experienced curbs on almost all activities that usually define a normal life. Simultaneously. And while curbs are being lifted, it is sporadic and random and very dependent on the level of development and financial ability of each nation. Governments are going to do what governments always do: negotiate with each other to find the best possible terms for their peoples.For the common individual, the option is a complete reinventing of daily life and priorities. And it is much tougher to reinvent without realisation that it’s not a temporary situation. Which is why I started by listing all the things I am going to miss as a way of life.Yep. This is a very different exam I am sitting for. It’s taken me 16 months to realise that. I wonder how long it’ll take me to figure out the questions…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-everyday-things-we-miss-about-pre-pandemic-life-in-pune-101627642271471.html
30-07-2021||Bangalore||Bangalore Talkies: What does Karnataka’s new CM like to dine on?||What does Karnataka’s new chief minister, Basavaraj Bommai like to dine on, I asked my journalist friends in Bengaluru. Through a variety of channels, the answer was the same. He likes Uttara Karnataka’s banana leaf lunches. The ingredients are well-known: jolada-rotti (jowar rotis), badanekayi palya (brinjal sabzi), kadalekai chutney (groundnut chutney) and curd. The CM “used to eat non-veg ten years ago, but now is a pure vegetarian,” his office says.North Karnataka or Uttara Karnataka looms large in the food memory of Bangaloreans. Its green forests, verdant vegetation, delicious foods and gentle people are revered in poetry, prose, the books of Kuvempu, movies and music. The food in Uttara Karnataka in particular fits all the flavour profiles that make Karnataka cuisine special. It is both robust and subtle, incorporating masalas that are doused over meats and vegetables. There are also a variety of salads, called kosambari, that are served with meals. There is a dizzying array of pickles, enough to make Andhra Pradesh jealous. Then there are powders, condiments and sandige or fritters.In Bengaluru, there are many humble darshinis or eateries where you can have the famous jolada-rotti with all the aforementioned accompaniments. I recommend Kamat Yatrinivas in Gandhinagar, if you can find parking. The last time I ate there was before the Covid-19 pandemic. On the top floor here around lunch time, you are shown a table without a word. The items are then served one by one by men carrying those stainless steel vessels where one handle carries four containers. Being a hotel, these men offer more items than the simple home-food listed by the CM’s office.Here at Kamat, there are two powders, one deep brown made with black sesame seeds and other reddish one with ground peanuts. There is chutney with groundnuts and coconut. There is some raita, the famous Karnataka kosambari made with yellow moong dal, shredded carrot, chopped cucumber garnished with black mustard seeds, green chilies, and if you like, diced coriander. There is also a soppu saaru made with greens. Saaru in kannada is some sort of gravy, like sambhar. There is also a dal-type preparation, usually made with sprouted green moong, which is very healthy.The prime mover of this meal is the famous jolada-rotti made of jowar flour. At Kamat, you can peek behind the dining room to see industrial quantities of jolada rotti being prepared by two or three persons. One rolls deftly and the other tosses it over the griddle at lightning speed. It puffs up and is then served. White in colour with a low glycemic index, this is a great bread for those with diabetes. There is usually a slab of butter that is offered with the jolada-rotti.If jolada-rotti is the Gangubai Hangal of Karnataka meals, the accompanying tabla player, Sheshagiri Hangal in Gangubai’s case, is the badanekayi ennegai. This literally means stuffed brinjal in oil (enne means oil). It is a luscious spicy preparation, that is vaguely reminiscent of paneer butter masala. There are those who argue that jolada-rotti is not the main player but the side dish. After all, the jolada-rotti only transports the delicious stuffed brinjal from leaf to mouth, they say. But these are quibbles. One cannot exist without the other. They are like pita bread and hummus, a symbiotic relationship that sings.The brinjal that is used for this is the matta gulla, the tender purple ones with streaks of white. This is stuffed with a masala and then cooked in a gravy made with ground coconut and a variety of spices. If potatoes define Punjabi cuisine, then the brinjal defines Karnataka food. They make a variety of dishes with this vegetable.Bommai hails from north Karnataka, from the Hubli-Dharwad belt. I had assumed that he would pick the Dharwad peda, also very delicious. But it turns out that he is not very fond of sweets. There is another famous sweet from this region called Godhi Huggi, in which whole wheat kernels are cooked with jaggery, ghee, milk and garnished with cashew nuts and cardamom. It resembles the kheer or the payasam in consistency but tastes very different.One of my favourite dishes is called Karindi. It could give all the fermented foods that have become popular a run for their money. It is made with flax seeds which are lightly roasted and then grounded. Separately, you make a ginger-garlic paste. You cut some carrots and cucumber into long thin slices, add salt and turmeric and mix everything. You then add water and pour it into a glass jar. Cover with a piece of cloth and put a rubber band around it to hold it in place. You then place it under the sun till it reduces to half its volume. This will take a few days in north Karnataka. Then you can use this fermented karindi, which is spicy-sour, along with your regular north Karnataka meals. You may never look at Korean kimchi again once you try the Karnataka karindi.As for Mr Bommai, here is raising a jolada-rotti to you. May the roads of Bengaluru be less pot-holed in your government.Shoba Narayan is Bengaluru-based award-winning author. She is also a freelance contributor who writes about art, food, fashion and travel for a number of publications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bangalore-talkies-what-does-karnataka-s-new-cm-like-to-dine-on-101627641310706.html
30-07-2021||Delhi||Flood alert issued in Delhi after Yamuna breaches ‘danger mark’ amid heavy rains||The Delhi administration on Friday issued a flood alert in the national capital after the Yamuna River breached the danger mark of 205.33 metres amid heavy rainfall in the upper catchment areas, officials told news agency PTI. Evacuation of people living in the Yamuna floodplains has also been stepped up.The water level in the river was recorded at 205.10 metres at the Old Railway Bridge at 6am on Friday, an official from the irrigation and flood control department said. After that, the level gradually started to rise by reaching 205.17 metres at 7am, 205.22 metres at 8am, and finally reaching 205.33 metres at 11am.A flood alert is issued when the Yamuna river surpasses the ‘warning mark’ of 204.50 metres.#WATCH | Water level of river Yamuna crossed the danger mark following parts of Delhi received rainfallVisuals from Loha Bridge area pic.twitter.com/4bjzRIGtyLAs many as 13 boats have been deployed in different corners of the national capital, and 21 others are on standby, the official further stated. All concerned departments of the Union territory’s (UT) administration have also been alerted.Delhi Police and east Delhi district administration has been evacuating people living in Yamuna floodplains because adjoining Haryana is discharging more water into the river. These persons are being moved to shelter homes of the Delhi government in the Yamuna Pushta area, the official said.As per information from the Delhi flood control room, the discharge rate at the Hathnikund Barrage reached its peak at 1.60 lakh cusecs on Tuesday afternoon – the highest this year till now. Water discharge from the barrage typically reaches Delhi in two to three days. One cusec is equivalent to 28.32 litres per second.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), widespread to fairly widespread rainfall is likely to continue over northwest India, including Haryana and Delhi, today. The MeT department has also issued an orange alert for moderate rains in Delhi-NCR on Friday.Heavy rainfall in Delhi has led to multiple waterlogging situations throughout the city, and even traffic disruptions. On Wednesday, after moderate to heavy rains lashed the city, the water on the streets increased to knee-deep level and even inundated many important stretches, including flyovers and underpasses.This was followed by the city receiving the season’s heaviest rainfall on Tuesday morning, recording 100mm rain in just over three hours (5.30am to 8.30am).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/flood-alert-issued-in-delhi-after-yamuna-breaches-danger-mark-amid-heavy-rains-101627640594235.html
30-07-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh sees rainfall, thundershower at several places||Light to moderate rain and thundershowers occurred at most places in Uttar Pradesh, according to the meteorological department on Friday.Heavy to very heavy rains occurred at isolated places in the state.Rainfall has been reported from Kheri, Auraiya, Jalaun, Muzaffarnagar, Hamirpur, Bareilly, Fatehpur, Kanpur city, Bulandshahr, Mainpuri, Etah, Bijnor, Moradabad, Etawah, Saharanpur, Jhansi, Gorakhpur, Chitrakoot, Prayagraj and Ghazipur. Lakhimpur Kheri recorded the highest maximum temperature of 35.5 degree Celsius.The weather department has forecast that rain and thundershowers are very likely at many places in the state over the next three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-sees-rainfall-thundershower-at-several-places-101627639221979.html
30-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 63 new Covid-19 cases, 3 more deaths; active cases climb to 580||The national capital’s daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) saw an increase on Friday as 63 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 1,436,207, according to the health department’s bulletin. As many as 34 patients recovered and three more succumbed to the viral disease in the said period. With this, the cumulative count of recoveries and deaths has climbed to 14,10,575 and 25,052, respectively. The active cases in Delhi have also climbed to 580, the bulletin said.Delhi on Thursday recorded 51 cases, 70 recoveries and zero deaths. This was the third time since the onset of the second wave of the pandemic that no deaths due to the viral disease were seen in a span of 24 hours in the national capital. On Wednesday, 67 people were detected as Covid-19 positive, 61 recovered and three died.Also Read| Covid-19 in Delhi: DCW survey identifies 791 women widowed due to virusMeanwhile, a total of 70,111 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours of which 46,649 were RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and the remaining 23,462 were rapid antigen tests. The containment zones in Delhi have come down to 296. However, the number of Covid-19 patients under home isolation has increased to 177, compared to 169 on Thursday.Delhi reports 63 new #COVID19 cases, 34 recoveries, and 3 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases: 580Total recoveries: 14,10,575Death toll: 25,052 pic.twitter.com/2hLbCcJsjZAuthorities have vaccinated 9,894,030 eligible beneficiaries against the coronavirus disease till now of which 7,333,976 have received the first dose and the remaining 2,560,054 have received both doses. More than 72,000 (72,505 to be exact) were inoculated in the last 24 hours, the health department’s bulletin also said.Also Read| Covid-19 R-value rising steadily in India; Kerala, N-E states tops listDelhi continues to grapple with a shortage of vaccine doses, with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government saying on Thursday that the stock of vaccines will last for just four more days.On Thursday, the balance stock of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Serum Institute’s Covishield stood at 217,030 and 609,610 respectively, the government’s vaccine bulletin said, adding only 20 per cent of Covaxin stock could be used for administering the first dose because it was limited and had only 20 per cent. On the other hand, Covishield could only be used for the second dose till July 31, because it was limited too and several beneficiaries in the 18-44 years would be due for the second dose in the upcoming weeks, the vaccine bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-63-new-covid-19-cases-3-more-deaths-active-cases-climb-to-580-101627635700811.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Papier-mâché to help promote Urdu in J&K||When art meets language, the result is colourful poetry. Kashmir’s traditional art of papier-mâché will soon be used to promote Urdu language and vice-versa. The National Council for Promotion of Urdu Language (NCPUL), New Delhi, and Craft Development Institute, Srinagar, have come together to offer a six-month certificate course in papier-mâché in Jammu and Kashmir. Also read: Tokyo 2020: PV Sindhu triumphs over Akane Yamaguchi to enter semi-finalThe first batch of 40 students will undertake the papier-mâché course in two shifts from October and the medium of learning will be Urdu. An important part of the initiative will be the focus on calligraphy. “The course will help students learn Urdu and they will also get trained in the art and skill of papier-mâché and calligraphy,” said SM Khurram, a research officer at the council. Skilling up for youngsters Papier-mâché is the detailed art of making different shapes of products using paper pulp and then painting those shapes. It involves the application of paper pulp over wooden moulds, sun drying, polishing and painting the final shape with rich colour motifs. The art is believed to have entered Kashmir with Sufi saint Mir Syed Ali Hamadani bringing artists with him from central Asia and teaching this art to Kashmiris in the late 14th and early 15th century. Earlier this month, skill development department secretary and Craft Development Institute director Nazim Zai Khan and NCPUL director Akeel Ahmad signed an agreement, finalising the execution of the course. “The signing is one step forward towards promoting Urdu through handicrafts, increasing awareness, knowledge, skill and employability of local youngsters with mutual understanding of both institutions,” a J&K government spokesman said. Technical, financial and linguistic help Khurram said that CDI has the technical expertise to run the vocational course, while the NCPUL will provide financial and linguistic help. “In the art of papier-mâché, calligraphy is also included. Nowadays, papier-mâché is widely used for decorating homes. The aim is that the students not only learn Urdu but also acquire a skill. So that they can earn after doing the course,” he said. Craft Development Institute faculty member Hina Qazi said that the students will get a skill set of all things related to papier-mâché besides learning about the language. “We are hiring master artisans of papier-mâché to teach the students besides other faculty. At the end, the students will produce products that will be exhibited,” she said. Khurram said that standard study material and books are being put together for the course. “We are translating some quality material and books by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Commonwealth Education Learning on papier-mâché from English to Urdu,” he said. Paper pulp to mesmerising motifs Papier-mâché is made using pulp from scrap paper that is first soaked in water and then beaten in a mortar using a wooden pestle. The paper paste is then given different shapes on a mould and dried in the sun. The raw moulded objects are then given a finish by artists using metal tools and then painted over with mesmerising motifs, colours and shapes. Calligraphy forms an important part of both the Urdu language and papier-mâché painting. Papier-mâché products include vases, boxes, trays, replicas of animals and birds and religious symbols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/papiermch-to-help-promote-urdu-in-jk-101627638312237.html
30-07-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM Bommai suggests mandatory testing, tightening borders to check Covid-19 spread in state||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said that there is a need to tighten the state’s borders and suggested compulsory testing for Covid-19 to check the spread of the disease in the state, as the daily Covid-19 infections have been increasing marginally over the week. Bommai is currently in Delhi to meet with the central leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), his first visit to the national capital after assuming office.“We have to tighten our borders. We have to make compulsory testing and vaccination,” he told reporters before meeting Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, news agency PTI reported.Also read | Covid-19 R-value rising steadily in India; Kerala, N-E states tops listAlso, the CM will hold a video conference with the district collectors and health officials of Dakshina Kannada, Chamarajanagar, Mysuru, Kodagu, Chikkamangaluru and Udupi districts after his visit, to discuss the rising Covid-19 cases. He has already spoken with the collectors of Dakshina Kannada, Chamarajanagar, Mysuru and Kodagu regarding the matter, PTI reported.Currently, the passengers travelling by road are being checked. But those that are travelling by train also need to be tested for the disease, Bommai said. “We need to take measures to further strengthen our health infrastructure. The priority is to stop the spread of the disease,” he added. Further, the CM also directed the district collectors and superintendent of police to take up the responsibility of checking and said that he had already spoken to the state chief secretary regarding the issue.The CM's remarks about tightening the borders came as neighbouring Kerala is battling a high number of daily Covid-19 infections in the state. Additionally, the state is also tackling a Zika virus outbreak since earlier this month, in which more than 60 people have been affected so far.Meanwhile, since Monday (July 26), the single-day infections in Karnataka have remained above at least 1,500 cases. On Thursday, over 2,000 people tested positive for the disease as the total confirmed infections so far reached 2,901,247, a bulletin from the state health department showed. The death toll currently stands at 36,491 with 35 new deaths in the last 24 hours. Also, there are 23,253 active cases of the disease currently present in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-bommai-suggests-mandatory-testing-tightening-borders-to-check-covid-19-spread-in-state-101627635121290.html
30-07-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee’s national plans pose new challenge to CPI (M)||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s plans to form a coalition against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the 2024 national polls pose another challenge for the Left Front amid rumblings within the grouping following its drubbing in the March-April assembly elections. The Left Front lost power to the Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the state after 34 years in 2011. It could not even win a single seat as Banerjee swept back to power for the third time in May.Cracks have emerged in the Left Front as its constituents have blamed the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI (M)’s election strategy, especially the decision to forge an alliance with the cleric Abbasuddin Siddiqui’s Indian Secular Front, for the latest electoral debacle. The alliance raised questions about its secular credentials even as Muslims voted for the TMC en masse.Also Read | Bengal govt to set up mangrove resource centre in SunderbanAgainst the backdrop of Banerjee’s efforts, the Communist Party of India (CPI), one of the main constituents of the Left Front, has adopted a resolution saying it will support any party or platform that challenges the BJP and considers it the main adversary. “Our central and state leadership have resolved in back-to-back meets that the CPI will support any party or coalition that treats the BJP as the main threat...wants to overthrow it. It does not matter if the Congress or TMC or regional forces such as the Samajwadi Party are in such a coalition,” said Swapan Banerjee, CPI’s state secretary.The resolution comes as the TMC has tried to reach out to Congress even as the latter contested the assembly elections with the Left parties. In 1996, the CPI (M) prevented Jyoti Basu, the then Bengal chief minister, from becoming the Prime Minister and also refrained from joining the United Front government at the Centre. The CPI joined the government, and its leader Indrajit Gupta became the Union home minister.Observers have cited the 1996 experiment and said joining an anti-BJP platform or supporting one may help in the revival of Left parties.Banerjee has also asked the Left parties and Congress to decide who their main adversary is. “The Congress and the CPI (M) are responsible for what has happened to them in Bengal. They have to decide who is their principal enemy. Is it the TMC? Or it is the BJP?” she asked after meeting Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi in Delhi this week.Also Read | PM unveils education schemes on NEP’s anniversaryNaren Chatterjee, the state secretary of the Forward Bloc, a constituent of the Left Front, said If Banerjee wants an anti-BJP platform, she should give more space to parties opposed to communal politics and capitalist imperialism. “Can we expect our candidates in the coming municipal and panchayat polls to get a level playing field?”Manoj Bhattacharya, the state chief of the Revolutionary Socialist Party, another constituent of the Left Front, said it is too early to read much into Banerjee’s intentions. “What she is planning may ultimately help (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi. It is too early to predict or take a call.”CPI (M) state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra this month focused his attack on the BJP and said voters were confused during the March-April polls. His party earlier accused the BJP and TMC of having a secret understanding. On July 27, CPI (M) leader Asok Bhattacharya told a TV channel that voters saw the TMC as the real anti-BJP force.On Wednesday, CPI (M) Central Committee member Sujan Chakraborty said there is no doubt the BJP is the main enemy but there is no question of having an understanding with the TMC. He blamed the TMC for bringing BJP to Bengal.Academic Udayan Bandopadhyay said the CPI (M)’s stand against the TMC has no strategic or ideological basis. “In the 2011 polls, when the TMC ended the Left’s 34-year-long rule, the BJP’s vote share was 4%. In the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP secured 17% votes because Left supporters voted for the BJP. The same thing happened in 2019, when votes that the Left lost went to the BJP. It is time for the CPI (M) to realise that TMC has been recognised as the only anti-BJP force in Bengal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-s-national-plans-pose-new-challenge-to-cpi-m-101627633150031.html
30-07-2021||Mumbai||Trial run of Pune Metro held today||The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) on Friday conducted the first trial run of the Pune Metro on the Vanaz-Ramwadi route. Maharashtra Metro Rail ( Maha-Metro), which is executing this project, held the trial on the Vanaz to Ideal Colony route in the presence of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. MahaMetro’s managing director Brijesh Dixit said, “We are planning Metro operations between Vanaz and Garware College by October or November.”Also Read | Noida: Now, fast trains to stop at Sector 81 Metro station from August 2Pawar said, “There is lot of enthusiasm about the Metro. To avoid crowds, considering Covid restrictions, we flagged off the Metro early Friday at 7am.”The MahaMetro is executing the Pune Metro rail project, which has two corridors - one from Vanaz to Ramwadi, which is an elevated line, and the other from Pimpri Chinchwad to Swargate, which is elevated till the Agriculture College in Shivajinagar and underground after that.With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/trial-run-of-pune-metro-held-today-101627629429139.html
30-07-2021||Bhopal||Cubs kill prey, learn to survive with tiger’s help in MP’s Panna reserve||Four 10-month-old cubs, who lost their mother five months ago, have made their first kills under the rare guidance of a tiger taking care of them at Madhya Pradesh’s Panna Tiger Reserve, showed pictures taken via camera traps and released on the occasion of World Tiger Day on Thursday.The visuals showed the tiger has prevented animals from coming close to the cubs and that it also hunted for them. Officials said camera trap videos have helped them find out how the cubs learn to hunt in the wild. They added said they will continue to study their behaviour and monitor their growth over the next four months as it is rare for a male tiger to take care of cubs. “The survival of all the cubs without mother in the forest without any human interference is rare of rarest. This study will help us in learning more about behaviour of tigers,” said Alok Kumar, the principal chief conservator of forests.Also Read | BJP MP Pragya Singh Thakur seeks renaming of localities in, around BhopalUK Sharma, the reserve’s field director, said the cubs have killed three animals over the last 25 days at night. He added seeing them with the tiger fostering them is a learning experience to understand the softer side of the tigers. “We found the cubs are unable to hunt by chasing the prey. As of now, they are attacking cattle resting in the forest at night.”The visuals have come as a relief for forest officials as they show the cubs are following a proper growth trajectory even though they do not have their mother to train them. Normally, a cub starts hunting in eight to 10 months.A second official, who did not want to be named, said normally a cub learns to prey under the guidance of the mother. “...after losing their mother due to illness, Tiger P243 is taking care of the cubs. He was hunting prey to feed the cubs and also taught them the skill of hunting,” said the second officer.Forest officials said they also noticed the tiger has started maintaining distance from the cubs. “Unlike earlier days when he used to be always with the cubs, the tiger has moved away from them to provide space to the cubs to learn the skill of surviving in the forest,” Sharma said.Camera traps have been installed in the area where the cubs roam around with the tiger to understand their behaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/cubs-kill-prey-learn-to-survive-with-tiger-s-help-in-mp-s-panna-reserve-101627628588856.html
30-07-2021||Patna||Two cops suspected in theft of 4k cartridges from Bihar Police armoury surrender||Two cops, suspected of their roles in the theft of 4,000 cartridges and nine magazines from the Bihar Police armoury three years ago, surrendered in a Samastipur local court on Thursday evening. The cops -- havildar Vijay Giri and Sanjay Sharma--were on the run since the offence was registered against them on July 1, 2018, in Muffasil police station in Samastipur district. Altogether 3,817 cartridges of 9mm, 110 bullets of rifle, 49 of AK47 and 26 of Insas rifle were missing from the armoury between June 2015 and June 2018. Samastipur police lodged FIR against 12 policemen, including then sergeant major Mithilesh Kumar Singh, armoury in-charge Bhola Prasad Choudhary, ASI Umashankar Singh, havildar Bachandeo Srivastava, and Ramashankar Singh. During the investigation, police found direct role of former subedar Bhola Choudhary, Deonandan Das, Rajendra Giri, Umashankar Singh and Ashish Anand in the case. Havildar Ramashankar is said to have died during investigation. It may be mentioned here that this is not the first incident of arms and ammunition going missing from a police station or police lines armoury in the state. On July 2, 2018, a cache of firearms, including a .303 rifle, two 9mm pistols and at least 150 rounds of bores, were missing from the armoury of police lines at Siwan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/two-cops-suspected-in-theft-of-4k-cartridges-from-bihar-police-armoury-surrender-101627628229024.html
30-07-2021||Mumbai||Bombay high court to hear Shilpa Shetty’s plea against media today||The Bombay high court will hear on Friday a plea by actor Shilpa Shetty seeking to restraint online and print media from publishing allegedly defamatory content about her linked to her husband Raj Kundra’s arrest in connection with a pornography film racket. She has pleaded that media organisations were publishing “incorrect, false, malicious, and defamatory content against her” following Kundra’s arrest and were causing “irreparable harm and damage to her reputation” by sensationalising news to attract viewership. Also Watch | Shilpa Shetty & Raj Kundra fined ₹3 lakh by SEBI; Know whyThe plea seeks an injunction against further publication of “completely false, erroneous, derogatory and defamatory information” and to remove the “objectionable content” on websites and portals and an unconditional apology for it.Apart from the media organisations, the respondents in Shetty’s plea include Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube. In all, 29 entities have been named in the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-to-hear-shilpa-shetty-s-plea-against-media-today-101627627628658.html
30-07-2021||Other||C’garh govt launches scheme to provide ₹6,000 per year to landless families||Chhattisgarh government launched Rajiv Gandhi Grameen Bhumihin Krishi Majdur Nyay Yojana, under which financial assistance of ₹6,000 per year will be given to the landless families in the state. The scheme will be implemented from financial year 2021-22 and a provision of ₹200 crore has been included in the supplementary budget of 2021-22, which was passed in the legislative assembly on Wednesday. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, speaking about the scheme, said, as part of the series of Nyay schemes implemented for farmers and cow-keepers, the government has decided to launched Rajiv Gandhi Grameen Bhumihin Krishi Majdur Nyay Yojana for landless agricultural labourers of the state. Also Read | Chhattisgarh govt passes controversial bill to take over private medical college“We have made a provision of ₹200 crore for this scheme in this supplementary budget this year,” said Baghel. Under the scheme, the families which do not possess agriculture land and are dependent on agricultural labour or MGNREGA work (for livelihood) in rural areas will be given assistance of ₹6,000 per year, he added. Other sections of rural population, such as barbers, dhobis (washermen), blacksmiths, and priests will also be covered under the scheme The Centre consented to buying 6 million metric tons of rice from the state but took only 2.4 million MT, and the state government had to auction the remaining stock at a loss, Baghel claimed. “Despite this, we have been supporting farmers in every situation, even by taking loans,” he said. Lack of certain facilities posed a challenge during the first and second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, but now the government has been making efforts to ensure the availability of better medical facilities across the state, he said, adding that a provision of ₹957 crore has been made for the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cgarh-govt-launches-scheme-to-provide-rs-6-000-per-year-to-landless-families-101627624868348.html
30-07-2021||Bhopal||BJP MP Pragya Singh Thakur seeks renaming of localities in, around Bhopal||Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Pragya Singh Thakur has written to Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and requested him to rename half a dozen localities in Bhopal as per her promise to voters in her Lok Sabha constituency. “I promised my people that I will remove the blot... Some invaders came to India to destroy our rich culture and tradition. They distorted our history and changed the name of cities and other places,” she wrote.Thakur’s office said her request includes renaming Islampura as Jagdishpura, Idgah as Guru Nanak Tekri, and Obaidullahganj, a town near Bhopal, as Shivpur. Thakur has also sought the renaming of Bhopal’s Habibganj Railway Station after late former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.“For generations, we never raised our voices against this suppression. But now I have decided to change the names of places which bring back only bad memories…. The names like Lalghati, which is named after a bloody war, and Halali Dam, which again embraces the idea of mass killing, should be changed immediately,” said Thakur.”Also Read | Madhya Pradesh says no admission for students facing criminal chargesBJP legislator Rameshwar Sharma, who has echoed Thakur’s demand and has been visiting these localities and telling people to use the new names, said they did not need the government’s approval for renaming them. “Did the invaders take our permission before changing the name of our cities and why do we need any. We are renaming the places according to sentiments of local people.”Congress legislator Arif Masood, who represents Bhopal Central in the assembly, said if they want to change names because of bad memories, then maybe they should start with the name of Kurukshetra first where thousands of people died in a war. He called the demand for renaming places “petty politics” to divert attention from the real issues including deaths due to Covid 19 and poor health infrastructure. Masood said they have asked the chief secretary to stop the renaming exercise that has been started.State urban development minister OPS Bhadoria said a committee considers proposals to change names of places. “This committee follows the due processes and takes into account comments from experts and the public so that members of any community do not feel offended. Their voices will also be heard.”BJP spokesperson Hitesh Bajpai said Thakur’s demand is harmless. “Everybody has the right to raise such a demand. Thakur won the (2019 Lok Sabha) election as people voted for her and now, she wants to rename some bad names. What is wrong with it? Who wants to live at a place called Lalghati, where invaders killed a son of Rani Kamlapati and covered the whole area with blood?”Syed Anas Ali, who leads a forum dedicated to the promotion of the city’s heritage, said Thakur and Sharma were targeting places associated with a particular community. “This renaming should stop here otherwise young generation will never know about the real history of Bhopal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/bjpmpseeks-renaming-of-localities-in-around-bhopal-101627623848221.html
30-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi's Yamuna close to danger mark after water discharge from Haryana||The water level in the river Yamuna rose nearly up to the danger mark on Friday, following heavy rainfall and water discharge from Haryana.The water level recorded at Delhi’s Old Yamuna Bridge at 9am was 205.26 metres, close to the danger mark of 205.33 metres.According to officials of Irrigation and Flood Control Department (I&FC), the water level reached close to the warning mark of 204.50 metres on Thursday when the water level reached 203.74 metres at 8pm. It was 203.37 metres at 10.30am on Thursday.Also Read | Trans-Yamuna village misses out on vaccination amid jurisdiction issuesOn Friday, at 6am, the water level was recorded at 205.10 metres. At 7am, it was 205.17 metres and 205.22 metres at 8am.The river’s water level rose after 20,485 cusecs of water was released from Haryana’s Hathini Kund Barrage in the Yamuna at 6am. Consequently, 20,485 cusecs was again released at 7am, while 19,056 cusecs was released at 8am.Officials said that during the monsoon, a larger volume of water is released from the Hathinikund Barrage. This is when there is heavy rainfall in the hilly regions and the capacity of the dam has been reached.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-yamuna-flows-close-to-danger-mark-after-water-discharge-from-haryana-barrage-101627622647956.html
30-07-2021||Mumbai||IIT Bombay student racing team wins big at Formula Student UK||The student racing team of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bombay is the first Indian team to win in the overall winners category at an international Formula Student competition. The team secured the overall winner position at the Formula Student United Kingdom. Formula Student is Europe’s most established educational engineering competition organised by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers-- a global association of mechanical engineers. The race is held at the Silverstone circuit in England. However, with travel restrictions to the UK due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the student team from IIT Bombay participated in the event virtually for the second consecutive year.“We couldn’t go to the UK for dynamic events, so we took part in the concept class competition, which was meant for teams that couldn’t travel and had only static (virtual) events,” said Asit Karmakar, assistant manager of the racing team at IIT Bombay. Also Read | Gaming and learning mobile app by IIT-K grads an instant hit among massesApart from the win in the overall category, the team also topped the design event of the competition, beating 64 teams from 18 countries. The team defended its title in the category last year.Shaurya Sarna, project manager of the team, said, “We learn so many concepts and develop our fundamentals, but this is where we apply them. Towards the competition, we knew what was at stake. These competitions are not to show the best design or business plans you have, but to prove that sound reasoning was involved while making them. This helped us put our best foot forward and transfer all the knowledge from the graduating batch to the next one. We dearly wished for this to happen at Silverstone, but the feeling of making our country proud made us feel content.” The team entered the competition with its latest car E-12, which is the 12th version of the car which has been made in conjunction with industry giants such as NRB Bearings and Mahle. The car has a space frame chassis with carbon fibre body panels. It is a rear-view drive design and the car produces 800Nm of torque and weighs 230k. The car accelerates from 0-100km/hr in 3.11 sec with top speed reaching 150km/hr.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iit-bombay-student-racing-team-wins-big-at-formula-student-uk-101627618867639.html
30-07-2021||Other||Orissa HC orders satellite mapping of illegal aquaculture around Bhitarkarnika||The Orissa high court has directed the Odisha government to begin satellite mapping illegal aquaculture around Bhitarkanika National Park, declared the state’s first critically vulnerable coastal area by the union ministry of environment, forests and climate change last year.A division bench of the high court headed by chief justice S Muralidhar ordered that the matter would be heard in a special sitting of the court on August 14 after satellite verification of areas in Chilika lake showed that more areas of the waterbody were under aquaculture than what the respective district administrations had submitted before the court.Also Read | Heavy rain likely over east, west, central India; red alert for these statesThe Supreme Court in April 2017 had asked the chief justices of high courts in 15 states to take up the issue of conservation of ecology of 26 major wetlands. Following the judgement, the Orissa high court had filed a writ petition suo motu in cases of Chilika lake and Bhitarkanika National Park. The high court then issued orders to the state government in January 2019 to evict prawn farms from these two wetlands.During the hearing of the PIL filed by the court suo motu in 2017, the high court found that the satellite verification of the areas of the Chilika under encroachment of prawn gherries was far more than what the district administration submitted in their affidavits.While Puri district collector had reported area under illegal prawn culture was 15,827 acres,satellite verification showed 25,870 acres in the lake was encroached upon. In Ganjam too, satellite verification showed more area being illegally farmed than what the district collector mentioned in his affidavit.Amicus curiae in the case Mohit Agrawal said while Kendrapara district reported presence of 391 acres of illegal prawn culture around Bhitarakanika National Park, the satellite verification would make thing clear as to how much area was under encroachment. The amicus curiae points said satellite verification in Kendrapara district has still not been undertaken despite high court orders on May 31.During the hearing, the amicus curiae informed the court that illegal prawn gheries were eating up mangrove forests, which played critical role in preventing storm surges during cyclone. He said unless equipments such as diesel generator sets, aerators, water pipes and electricity wires are seized, the illegal gheries would in all likelihood spring up at the same place soon after their removal.The amicus curiae told the court that to save Chilika and Bhitarkanika wetlands, it is necessary to lodge criminal cases so that the encroachment and pollution activities did not recur.Farmers in Bhitarkanika have long been protesting the illegal prawn gheries which they alleged are destroying the biological diversity of the sanctuary. They alleged that injections for protection and growth of the prawns is destroying the fertility of the soil and contaminating the water bodies as the harmful antibiotics and chemicals like chloramphenicol, neomycin and sulfamethoxazole are getting into the waters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/orissa-hc-orders-satellite-mapping-of-illegal-aquaculture-around-bhitarkarnika-101627618267454.html
30-07-2021||Other||Odisha court sentences 30 to jail in 2008 Kandhamal riots case||A court here on Thursday sentenced 30 people to two-year jail and fined them ₹1,000 each in one of the cases on the 2008 Kandhamal riots in Odisha.The court of judicial magistrate first class in Kotagarh pronounced its verdict in the case of assault of Atulya Parichha, a Christian young man of Bandapipili village of Kotgarh in September 2008. Parichha alleged that his house was attacked by a group of people. Subsequently, local police registered a case under various Sections of IPC.Government prosecutor Sabita Samantray said one of the accused has already died while six are still missing. In August 2008, Kandhamal witnessed one of the most violent communal riots of the state following the killing of VHP leader Swami Laxmanananda Saraswati by Maoists. More than 40 Hindus and Christians were killed during the riots triggered by the murder.After the riots broke out, 828 FIRs were lodged of which 790 cases were found to be genuine. The state government set up two fast track courts which have now been disbanded and the cases are being heard by other courts in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-court-sentences-30-to-jail-in-2008-kandhamal-riots-case-101627618147369.html
30-07-2021||Other||Bombay HC adjourns appeal against Tejpal acquittal to August 2nd week||The Bombay high court at Goa on Thursday adjourned to the second week of August the appeal against the acquittal of former editor of Tehelka magazine Tarun Tejpal after his counsel sought more time. When the matter came up for hearing, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who argued for the state of Goa, sought leave to file appeal against the acquittal. “The way in which the trial court has proceeded leaves much to be desired. At least the judiciary is not expected to proceed. I think not granting leave is not even an option,” Mehta told the bench of justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar. Also Read | The regressive mindset behind the Tarun Tejpal judgmentAt the previous hearing, Kapil Sibal, who appeared for Tarun Tejpal, sought time to file his reply saying the defence was yet to receive copies of the amended memo of appeal filed by the state against the acquittal. In its appeal, the Goa government assailed the judgement of additional sessions judge Kshama Joshi calling it ‘perverse’ and “influenced by extraneous inadmissible materials and testimonies, graphic details of the past sexual history of the victim”. The former editor of Tehelka magazine was accused of raping a junior colleague in an elevator of a five-star hotel in Goa during the THiNK festival in November 2013. The complainant alleged that Tejpal raped her in a lift in the hotel on November 7 and attempted to assault her again on November 8. Tejpal, who refuted the charges in court, was acquitted by the fast-track court on May 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-adjourns-appeal-against-tejpal-acquittal-to-august-2nd-week-101627617007324.html
30-07-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand weather: Heavy rainfall predicted for next 24 hours||Several districts in Jharkhand, including the capital Ranchi, have been receiving heavy rainfall since Friday morning. Normal life is likely to remain affected for the next 24 hours as the weather department has predicted heavy to extremely heavy rainfall in several parts of the state. While no untoward incident has been reported as yet, the weather department has issued red alert----isolated heavy to extremely heavy rainfall----for almost two-thirds of the 24 districts in the state. “The current spell of rain in the state is due to the low pressure system that has built up over Bay of Bengal. Currently its impact is being felt largely across the north eastern and central districts of the state. It is likely to remain so over the next 24 hours. Gradually, the system will move towards the northern and the northwestern parts of the state before shifting over Bihar,” said Abhishek Anand, director in-charge, meteorological department, Jharkhand. Also Read | Heavy rain likely over east, west, central India; red alert for these statesA few districts in the northern and central area, including Koderma, Dhanbad, Jamtara and Lohardaga, received more rainfall than the rest of the state, ranging from 22% to 52% above the normal in the past 24 hours.The weekly outlook for the state shows the spell of heavy to extremely heavy rainfall is expected to continue for around a week in several parts of the state. “During the week (July 30 to August 5), rainfall is likely to remain fairly widespread. Isolated heavy to extremely heavy rainfall is also likely to occur during the first half of the week. Cumulatively, large excess rainfall occurrence is predicted in this week,” said Anand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-weather-heavy-rainfall-predicted-for-next-24-hours-101627616107223.html
30-07-2021||Patna||Land broker shot dead in Bihar’s Purnia; investigation on||A land broker was shot dead in Bihar’s Purnia town on Thursday evening. The deceased, 40-year-old Guddu Miya, was also an active member of the Bittu Singh gang. An irate mob blocked the Purnia-Saharsa road at Madhubani and reportedly pelted stones. They were demanding an immediate arrest of the killers.Purnia superintendent of police (SP) Daya Shankar said investigation was underway. Police sources said the deceased was wanted in several criminal cases and the killing could be a fallout of rivalry.Tension prevailed in the Madhubani locality where people have reportedly confined themselves inside their houses. Heavy police forces have been deployed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/land-broker-shot-dead-in-bihar-s-purnia-investigation-on-101627615507226.html
30-07-2021||Patna||Darbhanga varsity in Bihar refutes rumours of turning women’s college co-ed||The administration of LN Mithila University (LNMU) in Bihar’’s Darbhanga on Thursday sought to allay fears regarding any change in the academic affairs of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Women’s Institute of Technology (WIT).According to sources, there was speculation on the campus that the LNMU administration was mulling a proposal to convert WIT into a co-educational institute. However, LNMU administration had neither confirmed nor denied the rumours. Activists of All India Students Association (AISA), an affiliate of CPI-ML, then launched a stir at the university headquarters four days ago and forcibly locked the offices on Thursday, seeking redressal of their grievances concerning various issues, including sacking of incumbent registrar Dr Mustaque Ahmad, while alleging corruption charges against him.Various other student bodies also lent their support to AISA. Also Read | Rebuked by parents for online game addiction, Bihar teens attempt suicideRecently, Plurals Party president, Pushpam Priya Choudhary also visited the WIT campus and wrote to chief minister Nitish Kumar seeking his intervention in case of the possible conversion of WIT into a co-educational college due to financial constraints. “If the state government allotted a grant, it could be a good cause for girls pursuing technical education,” the letter said.“Some misleading facts with respect to WIT, which had come to the fore, are baseless...” said LNMU proctor Prof Ajay Nath Jha in a statement on Thursday. According to proctor, a five member delegation of AISA held talks with the university administration. Thereafter, the AISA activists called of their strike, following assurances by LNMU about their key demands.According to district president of AISA, Prince Raj, the strike was lifted after LNMU administration gave a written undertaking to do the needful in order to improve academic ambience on the campus at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/darbhanga-varsity-in-bihar-refutes-rumours-of-turning-women-s-college-coed-101627615387144.html
30-07-2021||Mumbai||Malls, multiplexes, restaurants may reopen at 50% capacity in Maharashtra||Malls, multiplexes and restaurants could soon reopen at 50% capacity in Maharashtra, while shops and establishments will likely get extended hours of operation. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray met senior health department officials and state Covid-19 task force members on Thursday to look at easing relaxations in 25 districts, including Mumbai, where positivity and growth rates are low. A formal order on partial lifting of curbs will be issued in a couple of days, said state health minister Rajesh Tope. The government will hold further discussion with railway authorities on allowing the general public on suburban local trains in Mumbai.The minister said there was a “positive” discussion on easing curbs. The demand to allow the general public on suburban local trains has been gaining steam for some weeks now.Also Read | The pandemic has fed on existing inequality, and generated moreThere has been a demand to at least allow people who have taken both doses of the vaccine. The government is also looking at opening up trains for more categories. Also, it is facing a practical challenge of checking commuters’ vaccination certificates.“There were varied views with regard to local trains. Some said it should not be allowed as third wave is expected, while others said if trains are shut, then there is crowding in buses. So, our objective that transmission does not increase is being defeated. To allow those who have taken two doses [of vaccines] we will need a mechanism to check certificates. These challenges will be discussed with railway authorities and a decision will be made by the CM,” Tope said.Meanwhile, the state on Thursday recorded 7,242 cases and 190 deaths, taking the tally to 6,290,156 and toll to 132,335 respectively. The active cases in the state stood at 78,562. In the last 24 hours, the state tested 190,182 samples and had a positivity rate of 3.8%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malls-multiplexes-restaurants-may-reopen-at-50-capacity-in-maharashtra-101627613106838.html
30-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Moderate rain likely today, says IMD||Delhi is likely to witness moderate rain on Friday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. Met officials said that there is a forecast of "light to moderate" showers on July 30-31.The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be 24 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 32 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Thursday was 24 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature was 32.1 degrees Celsius, two degrees below the normal.Also Read | From heatwaves to rainfall records:An extreme July for Delhi’s weatherDelhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 69. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 63 in the satisfactory category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".On Thursday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “Active rainfall spell is likely in the next two days. Active Rainfall spells are likely to influence AQI further positively through the washout process. Good to Satisfactory AQI is forecasted next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-moderate-rain-likely-today-says-imd-101627612747106.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Now, Chandigarh Housing Board allottees can access dues’ details online||Allottees of Chandigarh Housing Board schemes at Sectors 49, 51-A and 63 can now see dues pending against their unit on the board’s website.All details of around 17,000 allottees of small flats, around 1,700 allottees of affordable rental scheme and around 4,500 allottees of commercial units have been made available on www.chbonline.in.Apart from generating the live account statement for their unit, allottees can see the details of licence fee, ground rent paid, penalty for late payments and balance due on real-time basis.Discrepancies can be brought to the notice of the account officer concerned, along with a copy of payment receipt.“CHB hopes that these efforts will be of great convenience to allottees of Sector-63, 49 and 51-A (specific schemes) in keeping a track of their payments and dues. They don’t need to visit the CHB office for this anymore,” said Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB.He added that a good number of allottees/applicants had started making online payments, which entailed no additional charges.A similar facility for allottees of residential flats of other schemes/sectors is being prepared and will be made available soon. However, all residential allottees can see details of payments made by them so far.Know the process - Visit www.chbonline.in- To generate an account statement, click on the “residential button” under Allottee Login/Online Payment- Input category, location, dwelling unit number and phone number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-chandigarh-housing-board-allottees-can-access-dues-details-online-101627590060146.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Woman held for duping couple of ₹87 lakh for Chandigarh Housing Board flat, booth||A woman, who duped a couple of ₹87 lakh after promising to get them a Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) flat and booth through her connections with the UT administrator, has been arrested. The accused, Manjit Kaur, a resident of Sector 49, was nabbed on the complaint of city resident Madan Gopal Gupta.Gupta’s advocate complained to the police that Manjit told his client and his wife that she was close to UT administrator VP Singh Badnore and also a member of the CHB allotment committee. Assuring them of a meeting with the board officials, she offered them an MIG flat and booth in Sector 51 under the senior citizen quota against a payment of ₹87 lakh.To deposit the payment, she gave her own bank account number and assured the couple that she was authorised to allot the properties resumed by the board. However, despite making the payment, no flat or booth was allotted. Therefore, Manjit was booked under Sections 420 (cheating) and 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested. Police also recovered fake documents showing her as a member of the CHB committee and authorising her to make allotments.The complainant alleged that Manjit had got a temple constructed in Sector 51, where she used to meet devotees and makes false allotment assurances. “She is aware of the resumed properties in the city and thus used to defraud people after taking them to visit the flats and booths,” the complaint stated. According to police, Manjit was previously also booked for duping a resident of ₹1.30 crore. She was presented in court and sent to two-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-held-for-duping-couple-of-87-lakh-for-chandigarh-housing-board-flat-booth-101627589759651.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab focuses on first vaccine dose despite Centre’s directive to prioritise the second||Punjab continues to focus on administering the first Covid-19 vaccine dose even as the Union government has asked the state to inoculate people with second jab on a priority basis. Of the fresh 2.5 lakh vaccine shots the state received following the Centre’s directive, more than half were used as the first dose. On Wednesday, 46,435 jabs were given for the first dose and 44,755 as second. Of a total of 1,02,291 doses given on Thursday, 54,913 were first doses, the health department’s media bulletin revealed. This despite the fact that the state health department had directed the officials concerned to administer 80% of the total jabs for second dose following the Centre’s instructions. Citing a communiqué from the Union health secretary, the Punjab health director had written to all civil surgeons to shift the focus to the second dose. The Union health secretary had expressed concern that the state was going “very slow” on the administering the second dose. “The CoWIN data as on July 17 shows that 9,36, 758 beneficiaries are due for second dose of Covishield and 78,062 beneficiaries are due for second dose of Cavaxin,” the letter read. Punjab Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said, “The district heath authorities were asked to keep the second and first dose in the 80:20 ratio. But the figures from the last two days suggest that the ratio is nearly 50:50. A fresh advisory is being issued to them.” A senior health department official said of a total of nearly 97 lakh doses administered so far in the state, 35 lakh should have been given as second dose. “But the number is mere 19 lakh,” he said. Some experts have even suggested to the officials to stop giving the first jab to those aged below 45 for a few days and focus on the second dose only.Vikas Gupta, a 32-year-old employee with a Mohali-based private firm said, “I got the second dose on Wednesday after trying for 10 days. One can well imagine the plight of those who are not educated or cannot spare enough time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-focuses-on-first-vaccine-dose-despite-centre-s-directive-to-prioritise-the-second-101627589639223.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Employees, pensioners hold protest march to CM’s residence against 6th Pay Commission||Hundreds of government employees and pensioners on Thursday held a state-level protest in Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s hometown Patiala against the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission whose report they said was “useless and anti-employee”. The protesters under the banner of the Punjab-UT Employees and Pensioners Joint Front, started a protest march from the local grain market to Amarinder’s residence before they were stopped by police near YPS Chowk. Hundreds of police personnel from nearly 10 districts were deployed to maintain law and order situation in the city.Jagdish Singh Chahal, a convener of the front, said the pay commission has come up with ambiguous recommendations the state government is not bothering to reconsider before implementing them.“The government made false claims with the employees and pensioners of providing heft increments and allowances. Instead of increasing remunerations, the government has planned to impose salary cuts through the pay commission,” he said.The protesters also demanded regularisation of contractual employees, reimplementation of old pension scheme and release of pending arrears of dearness allowance. The government should stop rationalisation of posts in different departments and implement the state pay scales instead of central scales besides reducing the probation period of newly recruited employees, they said.The protest led to traffic jams on roads, especially those leading to the CM’s residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/employees-pensioners-hold-protest-march-to-cm-s-residence-against-6th-pay-commission-101627589579920.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||PPCB seals 2 steel units in Ludhiana, imposes penalty on 8 others for violation of norms||The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has sealed two steel units and imposed environmental compensation of ₹12 lakh on eight others as they were making use of sulphuric acid in violation of norms. The units that were sealed are Ravindra Alloys Industries on Jaspal Bangar Road and Sond Impex in Phase-IV, Focal Point, while those attracting ₹1.5 lakh fine each are Ganpati Fasteners; Ashoka Industrial Fasteners; Bansal Industries; Ashoka Industrial Fasteners; Amarjit Steel; Vishnu Wires; Ashish International and Abhey Steels In a press statement, principal secretary (science, technology and environment) Anurag Verma said the PPCB had received a complaint regarding use of HCl acid by these units for pickling process and carried out random inspection. Verma said during inspection, a number of irregularities were found at these units. “The industries had an inappropriate disposal mechanism in place. Show-cause notices were issued by the board to these units. A medium scale unit Vallabh Steels at Nandpur was operating without obtaining valid consent of the board. In case of minor violations, the board officials have been asked to revisit the units,” he added. He urged all the industries to comply with the pollution control norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ppcb-seals-2-steel-units-in-ludhiana-imposes-penalty-on-8-others-for-violation-of-norms-101627589521815.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Defence accounts officer booked after home guard’s suicide bid in Panchkula||An Indian Defence Accounts Service (IDAS) officer was booked for misbehaving with a home guard, posted on traffic duty, after the latter tried to end his life in Panchkula on Thursday.The home guard, Piyush, claimed he took the extreme step after he was transferred at the behest of the officer for stopping her car for a traffic light violation in Panchkula on July 17.Haryana home minister Anil Vij also directed Haryana DGP (crime) Muhammad Akil to look into the matter.The DGP identified the female officer as Panveer Saini, currently posted at the North-West Headquarters of the Union ministry of defence (MoD) in Chandigarh.Piyush, who consumed poison in the suicide bid, was taken to the Sector-6 Civil Hospital, where he is out of danger.Talking to the media, Piyush said on July 17, he stopped a car after it jumped the red light. The woman sitting inside the car introduced herself as a senior officer and started arguing with him. When he tried to capture the incident on video, she misbehaved with him and tried to snatch his phone, obstructing him from doing his duty.Thereafter, the officer made some calls and within 30 minutes, he was transferred to police lines.“She jumped the red light and then misbehaved. She was wrong, but I had to apologise. Even then she made sure that I was transferred to police lines. On Thursday, she filed another complaint,” he said.Distressed for the past 12 days due to his transfer, Piyush said he could not tolerate the complaint filed against him: “My only misbehaviour was that I stopped the car of a VIP... They harassed me so much that I had to take this extreme step.” ACP Vijay Kumar Nehra said the home guard was transferred to police lines pending an inquiry. “The officer had complained against him. The traffic police cannot shout or argue with people. They should simply issue a challan if there is any violation,” he said.DGP Akil confirmed that he got verbal instructions from Vij to look into the matter. “A probe is underway into the officer’s complaint against the home guard. However, I also ordered an FIR for obstructing a public servant from duty. Another action is to be taken for violating traffic rules. Challan should be issued immediately,” the DGP said.The officer has been booked under Sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharging his duty) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code, and her driver under the Motor Vehicles Act.The home guard also named a home guard official and blamed DCP Mohit Handa for his condition. “The home guard official always hurls abuses and uses vulgar language. But DCP Handa does not listen to us. Without knowing the full story, he punished me,” Piyush claimed. The DCP did not revert to calls.On these allegations, the DGP said, “An inquiry was underway against the home guard official as well. All facts will be looked into and appropriate action will be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/defence-accounts-officer-booked-after-home-guard-s-suicide-bid-in-panchkula-101627589519306.html
30-07-2021||Lucknow||Yogi tells BJP workers in Baghpat to go among people, prepare for Uttar Pradesh assembly polls||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday exhorted Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers in Baghpat district of western Uttar Pradesh to strengthen the party up to the booth level and start preparing for the assembly elections. He also asked them to go among the people to resolve their problems and popularise government schemes. The Uttar Pradesh assembly elections are due early next year.The chief minister, who arrived in Baghpat on Thursday morning, met party office bearers and workers. He discussed various issues related to the elections and demands of the people in the district. He advised the party workers to assist people and officials in dealing with Covid-19 and serve the people in mission mode.There is very less time left for the assembly elections, for which preparations should be started from now, the chief minister said, according to a BJP spokesman. During a meeting, BJP’s Baghpat MP Satyapal Singh sought approval of several development proposals for Baghpat and the CM assured him that all demands will be considered, the spokesman said, adding that Adityanath said the work on a medical college in Baghpat will start in December.After the chief minister’s helicopter landed at police lines around 11am, he went straight to the district hospital where he reviewed the facilities and interacted with doctors. He appreciated the efforts of the district administration and health officials in containing Covid-19 cases during the second wave and directed them to keep their preparations ready to deal with the possible third wave.Later, briefing him about issues and problems in the district, party office bearers demanded a roadways bus stand in Baghpat, conversion of the J V Jain College of Baraut into an agriculture university, expansion of the Baghpat sugar mill’s capacity, increase the state advisory price of sugarcane and clear the dues of farmers.The chief minister assured them that their demands would be taken care of.He directed the party office bears to be present at fair price shops of their respective areas where mega distribution of free ration would be done on August 5.He said that youths of Baghpat were hard working and a large number of them had been recruited in the police force because of their dedication.People were deprived of development for 60 to 65 years, but the situation changed when many schemes were implemented in the past seven years, he said.“The development and growth of Baghpat is visible now,” the chief minister said. He appealed to people to get vaccinated against Covid-19.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-tells-bjp-workers-in-baghpat-to-go-among-people-prepare-for-uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-101627589159674.html
30-07-2021||Other||Five Mohali DSPs shifted to other districts in major reshuffle||In a major reshuffle of 130 deputy superintendents of police (DSPs) in Punjab on Thursday, five DSPs were shifted out of Mohali, three were brought in from other locations and two were transferred within the district. The DSPs sent to other districts include DSP Deep Kamal, who has been posted as ACP, Gill village, Ludhiana; DSP Ramandeep Singh, posted as DSP Ropar; DSP (traffic) Guriqbal Singh, posted as DSP (NRI wing), Punjab; DSP (NRI wing) Deepinder Kaur, posted as DSP (crime against women), Sangrur; and DSP Gursharanjit Singh, who has been transferred to Mansa. Those coming in from other districts are DSP Deepak Rai, the new Kharar DSP; DSP Manvir Singh, now DSP Headquarters; and DSP Manoj Gorsi, now DSP Dera Bassi.Within Mohali, Kharar DSP Rupinderdeep Kaur has been posted as DSP (security airport) and Dera Bassi DSP Gurbakshish Singh has been given the charge of DSP (security).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-mohali-dsps-shifted-to-other-districts-in-major-reshuffle-101627588860570.html
30-07-2021||Lucknow||Lack of cell phone towers: 143 areas in east UP’s Sonbhadra district in a blind spot||As many as 143 areas in Sonbhadra district of eastern Uttar Pradesh lack cell phone network towers, leaving many villages and even a few police stations in a blind spot from the communications perspective.Situated in picturesque surroundings, the Jugail police station in the district is one of those affected by the problem. As a result, police personnel like station officer inspector Arvind Mishra and others have to go 12 km to catch the cell phone signals from the nearest tower on a hill at Chaura in the Jugail area. Chaura is on the Uttar Pradesh-Madhya Pradesh border.“This is true. Jugail police station and the adjoining areas lack cell phone network. We have to go far from the police station to catch the network,” says Mishra.He adds that he can’t contact the beat constables when they go patrolling in the villages, neither are they able to get in touch with him. Machi is another such police station.Like Jugail police station, some of the 143 areas that do not have a cell phone network include Rampur Barkonia, Machi, Parsoi, Kanhara, Bairpur, Teritain, Pachpendia, Panaura, Aamdih, Chanani, Kuldomari, a few locations each in Ghorawal, Windhhamganj and Duddhi.At several of these places, the locals have to trudge four to five kilometres to catch the network.Mahendra Mishra, a resident of Gothani in Jugail area of Sonbhadra, says, “I have to go five km from my village to get mobile signals. Imagine the kind of ordeal we go through daily!”Jagat Vishwakarma, who often visits these locations, says residents in many pockets of Jugail, Maachi, Myorpur and Duddhi face inconvenience due to the problem.“Whenever I visit these areas, my cell phone becomes just like a toy due to the lack of a network. In many far-flung pockets, the mobile network comes and goes,” he says. Additional superintendent of police (Sonbhadra) Rajiv Singh says, “A letter has been written to BSNL (Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd) for taking the steps required to provide a mobile network in the police stations in the far-flung and rough terrain of Sonbhadra.” Locals and police personnel flagged the issue before the district administration several times in the last few years. The Sonbhadra district administration has started efforts to resolve the issue of lack of cell phone networks in 143 areas of which 63 are on tough terrains in far flung pockets, says a senior official. District magistrate Abhishek Singh held a meeting with BSNL officials recently and asked them about measures to address the issue, says the official. A senior BSNL official told them a survey was carried out at the instructions of the then district magistrate S Rajalingam by a team of officials with technical expert of BSNL over nine months ago to find out if there was a really lack of mobile network in several pockets of the district. The survey revealed the need to install 143 cell phone network towers in the remote areas.Chief developmental officer (Sonbhadra) Amit Pal Sharma says, “Mobile network towers will be set up in the far-flung areas of the district in near future. Various steps have already been taken.” Sharma says district magistrate Abhishek Singh is taking keen interest in addressing the problem and things are moving fast.A senior official says the communication required for setting up the towers has already been done with the department of telecommunication and the Union ministry of home affairs through the UP government. The officer says the district administration is mulling over using funds from District Mineral Foundation (DMF), if required, for setting up the towers. According to a senior official of the telecom department, on an average, it costs around ₹80 lakh to set up a mobile tower. Junior telecom officer (Sonbhadra) DK Singh says, “The department will provide technical support required for setting up mobile network towers in the remote areas whenever the district administration asks for it.” Soon after towers are set up, the network problem will be solved, he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lack-of-cell-phone-towers-143-areas-in-east-up-s-sonbhadra-district-in-a-blind-spot-101627588859424.html
30-07-2021||Other||Scrapping, revising PPAs will be an uphill task||Patiala The Punjab government’s direction to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to revise/cancel Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) with independent power producers is likely to be an uphill task on the two major counts of legality and financial implications. In terms of money, the agreements provide for the PSPCL to bear fixed costs of power generation for three years, before it can terminate the contract. This amount, say experts, will be astronomical and run into thousands of crore rupees. Legally, the agreements are so loaded in the favour of the private companies that a challenge to Punjab’s action will definitely be upheld, experts claim. In Andhra Pradesh, the Supreme Court has rebuked the state government over the scrapping of similar PPAs. A PSPCL official told HT, “In a letter to the Andhra Pradesh chief secretary, the Union power secretary has advised the state to desist from revisiting PPAs in the renewable energy sector, citing the hit on investor confidence and he country’s renewable energy targets. We have to keep this in mind.”Punjab failed to act on previous legal opinion Even as the PPAs, signed during the previous government, have been long flagged as lopsided and faulty, the state government failed to act on two previous legal opinions by its advocate general Atul Nanda. In his latest opinion tendered in the first week of this month, Nanda had observed, “Before I enter into a legal examination on the queries of law, I must record my concern as to the manner in which these PPAs have been structured and signed. The language of both these PPAs puts the PSPCL in an extremely weak bargaining position, loaded with astronomical fixed charges, with all rights under the agreements tilted in favour of private power producers. The documents reads like a one-sided agreement in favour of the private power producers and against the PSPCL.”“On February 18, 2020, I had given a detailed opinion with regard to two PPAs, signed with the Talwandi Sabo Power Limited and Nabha Power Limited, where I had pointed out the error/irregularities in the power requirement, quantities, based on which those PPAs were wrongly entered into. I had also, in detail, advised legal steps to reverse the financial effects of those PPAs,” he observed.“Under these agreements, Punjab is to pay exceptionally high fixed charges to private thermal plants at Talwandi and Rajpura; much higher, when compared to the Reliance Energy owned thermal plant at Sasan. This plant was set up around the same time and is of a similar make as of Talwandi Sabo,” said Vinod Gupta, an expert in power sector and spokesman, All-India Power Engineers’ Federation.“We have started due diligence and a team has been tasked to study the PPAs and present a report within the next week,” said A Venu Prasad, chairman and managing director, PSPCL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/scrapping-revising-ppas-will-be-an-uphill-task-101627588379038.html
30-07-2021||Lucknow||Nadda asks Uttar Pradesh BJP MPs to counter Opposition criticism on farm laws||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda on Thursday tasked the second batch of party MPs from Uttar Pradesh (UP) with countering Opposition criticism against the new farm laws and to visit the rural parts of state with achievements of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre and Yogi Adityanath government in the state. The move comes in the run-up to the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, which are due early next year.On Wednesday, Nadda and chief minister Yogi Adityanath had addressed the first batch of party MPs from UP at Delhi’s Constitution Club.The party chief had then tasked MPs and the newly appointed Union ministers from the state with taking out Jan Ashirwad Yatras, possibly from August 16. Emerging from the Thursday’s meeting, the newly appointed Union minister of state for housing and urban development Kaushal Kishore said BJP MPs would talk of the achievements of the Modi-Yogi governments and expose the “opposition canard” on issues, including farm laws. Kishore is the BJP MP from Mohanlalganj on the outskirts of Lucknow.Asked about Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait’s statement that if the government did not budge on farm laws, farmers would converge on Lucknow, Kishore said, “This isn’t a statement by a farmer leader. It’s a statement by Rakesh Tikait who doesn’t represent all the farmers.” All the new ministers, including Maharajganj MP Pankaj Choudhary, were tasked with taking out yatras.“All of us would visit at least three to four Lok Sabha areas other than our own and talk about our government’s achievements,” said SP Baghel, the BJP MP from Agra who was made Union minister of state for law and justice earlier this month. Earlier at the meeting, chief minister Yogi Adityanath also urged the party MPs to effectively counter the Opposition. “Adityanathji spoke of how sugarcane dues of a record number of farmers have been paid over the last four-and-a-half years in UP and blamed the Opposition for misleading farmers on farm laws,” a party MP said after the meeting. A BJP booklet ‘Iradey nek, kaam anek’ too was given to party MPs in which various initiatives of Modi-Yogi governments have been listed, party leaders said.Cartoon posted by official Twitter handle of UP BJP unit generates heatWhile the party MPs were being briefed by BJP top leadership in Delhi, a cartoon tweeted by the official twitter handle of UP unit of the BJP generated much heat with Opposition parties dubbing it a veiled threat to all opposition parties by the ruling party. The cartoon on farmers’ protest showed a character named bahubali alerting another person carrying a mace on which kisan andolan (farmers’ agitation) is mentioned, advising caution while visiting Lucknow where chief minister Yogi Adityanath sits. The BJP clarified that the cartoon wasn’t against farmers.“Having run out of issues, the Opposition is now picking up non-issues. The cartoon has nothing to do with farmers and actually had the Opposition been in right frame, they would surely not have picked a cartoon to make a political issue,” said UP BJP’s social media coordinator Ankit Singh Chandel. “There was nothing political about the cartoon but yes, if one wants to know the larger message, it is this: Our governments are pro-farmer and have repeatedly said they are willing to discuss any issue. But, at the same time, those who are trying to defame the farmers should remember that there is rule of law in UP,” Chandel added. “This shows the BJP mindset. They are now even threatening farmers and all opposition,” said Samajwadi Party MLC Sunil Singh ‘Sajan’. UP Congress spokesperson Anshu Awasthi targeted the BJP.“BJP has lost the plot completely but the farmers who they are threatening now, would uproot them from power in 2022 UP polls.”Aam Aadmi Party’s Vaibhav Maheshwari too was critical of the cartoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nadda-asks-uttar-pradesh-bjp-mps-to-counter-opposition-criticism-on-farm-laws-101627588258886.html
30-07-2021||Other||Kharar to get potable water from Kajauli’s Phase 5,6||Former Congress minister Jagmohan Singh Kang said Kharar will get its share of potable water from Kajauli water works under Phase-5 and 6. Mohali is expected to get the water in October this year from the same pipeline. Kang said Captain Amarinder Singh has passed the project of Kajauli water works where Kharar City will get five million gallon water a day (mgd). “After prolonged persistence and follow up, this hard work has paid off and the Punjab government has decided to supply drinking water not only to Kharar city but also 1MG /Day to Morinda.” As pipeline for raw water from Kajauli waterworks of 80 MGD capacity has already been laid by GMADA, raw water from this pipeline will be made available for Kharar and Morinda, Kang added. Water treatment plant of capacity considering the demand of next 15 years will be constructed near Jandpur village and land for the same is available with Kharar MC. The approximate cost of the project will be around ₹35 crore which will include construction of water treatment plant, construction of raw water tanks, construction of clear water tanks and pump chamber, installation of pumping machinery, laying of transmission pipelines and construction of overhead service reservoirs (OHSRs). Treated water from water treatment plant will be pumped to overhead service reservoirs in different parts of town and from these overhead service reservoirs, surface drinking water will be supplied to different areas of the town through already laid water supply lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kharar-to-get-potable-water-from-kajauli-s-phase-56-101627588138809.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Ghaggar crosses danger mark: Six evacuation centres set up in Dera Bassi||In the wake of the Ghaggar swelling to its danger mark following the constant rain on Wednesday, the district administration has set up six evacuation centres in the Dera Bassi sub-division for people living in the low-lying areas near the river.SDM Kuldeep Bawa said the centres were located at Government High School, Lalru; Jashan Palace, Lalru; Government Primary School, Sanoli; Government Primary School, Ibrahimpur, Zirakpur; Sports Stadium; and Government Senior Secondary School, Dera Bassi. “All essential items, such as food, water and medicines, will be stocked at these centres. Necessary apparatus like boats, JCB machines and pump sets are also being hired. Officials of the drainage department have been instructed to clear all drains of the areas near the river in a time-bound manner,” the SDM added. Kharar SDM Aakash Bansal said the water level in seasonal rivulets Patiala ki Rao and Jayanti Devi Ki Rao was under control.“Police and sarpanches have been asked to maintain vigil at the vulnerable points of these seasonal rivulets. Besides three flood control rooms have been set up in the sub-division,” he added. Two flood control room helplines (0172-221-9505 and 0172-221-9506) are running at the district level as well, said Mohali SDM Harbans Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ghaggar-crosses-danger-mark-six-evacuation-centres-set-up-in-dera-bassi-101627587907842.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Dera Bassi man booked for duping employer of lakhs||Police have booked a man for grabbing the sales proceeds received from selling his employer’s seven cars.The accused, Inderjit Singh, a resident of Karkore village, Dera Bassi, has been booked on the complaint of Ravinder Kumar, alias Babla, of Fatehgarh Sahib.The complainant said he ran a car sale-purchase business from his office in Royal Estate, Zirakpur.Inderjit had been working for him for the past six years. In August 2020, while he was down with Covid-19, the accused took his seven cars for sale. But neither handed over the money received from the sale nor returned the vehicles.Investigating officer sub-inspector Ajit Singh said following an investigation by the Zirakpur DSP, a case under Section 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against the accused, who will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dera-bassi-man-booked-for-duping-employer-of-lakhs-101627587904815.html
30-07-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Door-to-door Covid vaccination trial run today||The Mumbai civic body has identified 4,488 bed-ridden citizens whom it will vaccinate at their homes.Its door-to-door vaccination will start on a pilot basis from Friday in the K/East ward, corresponding to the Andheri (East) area, said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday. This trial will help the civic body improve the drive when it kick-starts across Mumbai in the first week of August. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of BMC’s public health department said on Thursday, “We chose this area because it has more hospitals, especially the civic-run Seven Hills Hospital. In case of emergency after vaccination, we will be in a better position to rush beneficiaries to this facility.” “Through this, BMC will able to observe and enhance its procedures, when the drive becomes large-scale across Mumbai,” Kakani added. Over the past few weeks, the BMC has identified 4,488 beneficiaries across the city who are bed-ridden due to medical, and/or physical conditions. These have been divided into 216 health posts across 24 wards in the city. Each health post will cater to around 15 beneficiaries. Kakani said, “We are trying to identify clusters as well, to avoid wastage. If there is only one beneficiary per building or block, there are chances of wastage of the vial.” A team of three staffers, including a doctor, a nurse and a paramedic, will visit these beneficiaries in their homes. For 30 minutes after vaccination, the team will stay with the beneficiaries for observation. “We have a 30-minute observation period, which is crucial especially in cases where we are going door to door,” Kakani said. The prime concerns for BMC when doing door-to-door vaccinations is how to manage the 30-minute observation per beneficiary, while covering maximum beneficiaries to ensure an opened vial does not go waste. One vial has 10 doses of the vaccine. In a statement on Thursday, BMC said it will take help from non-governmental organisations as well during the door-to-door vaccination drive. On Thursday morning, BMC received 180,000 vaccine doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-door-to-door-covid-vaccination-trial-run-today-101627587779726.html
30-07-2021||Other||Protest in Barnala over adding more sections to cheating case||Barnala Locals and members of farmer unions blocked the Bathinda-Chandigarh national highway in Dhanaula, seeking the addition of more sections in a cheating case. On Tuesday, a month after her 23-year-old husband Lovepreet Singh, was found dead under mysterious circumstances, Beant Kaur, 21, who is in Canada on study visa since August 2019, was booked under Section 420 (cheating) on the complaint of her in-laws. However, the protesters were seeking section 306 (abetment to suicide) and other Sections of the IPC in the FIR.Dhanaula police station in-charge Harsimranjit Singh said that the family has been asked to give more proof before they could implicate members of her family. “A SIT will probe the matter and the relevant sections will be added on the basis of a viscera report,” said the SHO. Lovepreet’s father Balwinder Singh of Khote Gobindpura village claimed that he had spent ₹25 lakh on her studies, but his son Lovepreet was upset as she did not take him abroad as promised and eventually stopped communicating with him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/protest-in-barnala-over-adding-more-sections-to-cheating-case-101627587778557.html
30-07-2021||Other||Punjab starts process to build covered foodgrain storage of 63 lakh tonne||Chandigarh Three months after the Centre directed the state to phase out the covered area plinth (CAP) storage, or open plinths, for storing foodgrain, within three years, the state has rolled out the process to build a capacity of 63 lakh tonne. The state government, however, has not yet agreed to the Centre’s proposal of constructing covered godowns without tenure or rent/lease guarantee. Officers of the state’s four procurement agencies, the Pungrain, the Punsup, the Markfed and the State Warehousing Corporation, discussed the phase-out plan on Thursday. The idea is that 95 lakh tonne open plinth storage in Punjab will be done away in proportions of 25%, 35% and 40% over three years. Grain stored in open plinths are vulnerable to the vagaries of weather and the cost runs into crores.Of the state’s storage capacity of 262 lakh tonne, only 42 lakh tonne is covered under the private entrepreneurship guarantee (PEG) scheme of the Centre. These godowns are being run under the Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode. “We asked for the Centre to give guarantee in terms of tenure and rent/lease as my department apprehended that otherwise there would be no takers among private players. The Centre turned down our proposal and asked us to build godowns without the guarantee, so we have started the process,” said Rahul Tiwari, principal secretary, food and civil supplies.  Tiwari added that the Centre was told that state can’t spend at least ₹4,500 crore for the approved capacity and had decided to involve private players. According to him, of the 63 lakh tonne storage capacity mandated by the Centre, 12 lakh tonne would be constructed and operated by the four state procurement agencies. For the remaining 51 lakh tonne, it is proposed that private players be involved. “Each agency has been asked to construct 1 lakh tonne storage capacity each year for three years, for which they would raise the funds,” Tiwari added. The department has decided to draw up a proposal and take it for cabinet’s approval, following which the tendering process will begin. Sixty locations have been identified for building covered godowns, and most of these are where open plinths exist at present. A storage capacity of 19 lakh tonne silos storage has also been sanctioned in the state for which a separate proposal is being rolled out. As 45% of the total (640 lakh tonne) foodgrain stock in the country is stored in Punjab (at least 300 lakh tonne) and there is no space in state godowns to store more, Punjab has also asked the Centre to increase movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-starts-process-to-build-covered-foodgrain-storage-of-63-lakh-tonne-101627587538565.html
30-07-2021||Other||ASI team for preserving structure found underneath Golden Temple||Amritsar The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has termed the structure, found underneath the premises of the supreme Sikh shrine Golden Temple on July 17 as ‘old’ and ‘historic’. A team of the ASI had examined the structure on July 20 on the request of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) and the district administration and has submitted its report to deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira. Deputy archaeologist AK Tiwari had led the ASI team.Khaira said, “The ASI report says that the building remains are not on its list of declared heritage sites. It has asked the Punjab government to look into it under the Punjab Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1964. The tourism department has been asked to start the steps that the team has recommended.”A senior ASI official said, “These are remains of the building which were constructed in the late medieval period of the Indian history of 16th, 17th and 18th centuries. It is made of Lahori brick with lime plaster.” Notably, Sikh Gurus’ period, the era of Sikh Misls and the Sikh empire coincide with this period. The official added, “The Punjab government must preserve these remains. We will be available for any help.”The government had razed this structure in 1988. Historians consider this structure as the temains of Gianian Da Bunga which was gifted by Maharaja Ranjit Singh to the family of Giani Sant Singh, the then head granthi of Golden Temple. Descendants of Giani Sant Singh have also claimed that this was their residence till 1988. SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur said, “The tourism department will send its team for a survey. We will act according to its report. We have also written to Guru Nanak Dev University’s historians and heritage experts for support. We want no confusion on the issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/asi-team-for-preserving-structure-found-underneath-golden-temple-101627587298269.html
30-07-2021||Other||Disha Patani buys ₹5.9-cr flat; Rani purchases ₹7.12-cr house in Mumbai’s Khar||Despite the slowdown in the realty sector, actors continue to buy apartments. The latest in the list are Disha Patani and Rani Mukherjee who purchased apartments in a high-end project at Khar.Patani, who recently starred in Bollywood movie ‘Radhe’ purchased a 1,118.9-square feet (sq ft) apartment at Rustomjee Paramount on the 16th floor, which has which two car-parking space, for ₹5.95 crore. Mukherjee bought a flat in the same project, for a larger area of 1,485 sq ft, at ₹7.12 crore. Her flat is on the 22nd floor and which has which space for two cars.According to the registration documents scanned by real estate analytics research firm Zapkey.com, Patani and Mukherjee paid ₹17.85 lakh and ₹21.37 lakh as stamp duty, respectively, for these transactions.“Both the actors took advantage of the Maharashtra government’s scheme under which buyers have to pay just 3% of the stamp duty instead of the usual 5%,” said Sandeep Reddy, co-founder, Zapkey.comRustomjee Paramount, a high-end project being constructed by Keystone Realtors Private Limited, consist of 3BHK (bedroom, hall, kitchen) and 4BHK apartments with amenities such as a mini theatre, spa and salon, a banquet hall, business centre and sky lounge.“It is a premium project with high-end lifestyle amenities and a great community,” said Boman Irani, managing director, Keystone Realtors Private Limited.”Last August, the state government had announced to reduce stamp duty levied on sale of apartments to 2% from September 1 to December 31, 2020, and then hike it to 3% from January 1 till March 31, 2021. The move played a significant role in boosting the sales of both primary and secondary markets. The state, however, refused to extend it further despite several requests.Veteran actor and Bollywood superstar Amitabh Bachchan had purchased a 5,704 sq ft duplex apartment for ₹31 crore in Atlantis building at Andheri in the western suburbs of Mumbai. Sunny Leone and Anand L Rai – the director of Bollywood blockbuster ‘Tanu weds Manu’ – were other Bollywood personalities who have purchased apartments at Atlantis. While Leone paid ₹16 crore for her 4,365-sq ft apartment, Rai had to shell out ₹25.3 crore for his 5,917-sq ft house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/disha-patani-buys-5-9-cr-flat-rani-purchases-7-12-cr-house-in-mumbai-s-khar-101627587118261.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||IIT Ropar picked to ready DPR for upgrade of Chandigarh’s waste processing plant||Stepping up the process of upgrade of the solid waste processing plant in Sector 25, the general house of Chandigarh municipal corporation on Thursday awarded the work of preparation of a detailed project report (DPR) and request for proposal (tender document) to IIT Ropar. The IIT will be submitting the report within a month and a half. MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “The IIT has sought three months for submission of the DPR and request for proposal (RFP) but we expect it to be submitted in a month and a half.” Earlier, the MC had sought quotations from Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar, and Thapar Institute of Technology, Patiala. Thapar Institute didn’t participate, but PEC and IIT Ropar submitted their quotations. The MC opted for IIT Ropar’s bid as it was lower than PEC’s. While PEC sought ₹80 lakh for the work, IIT Ropar submitted a quote of ₹26.77 lakh, plus institute overheads (20%) and taxes (18%). During the debate over the issue in the house, joint commissioner Sorabh Arora, said, “IIT Ropar has better experience in preparing such DPRs and RFPs. It has been associated with the Punjab government on such issues.” DPR of dry, wet and horticulture waste IIT Ropar, along with its quotation, also submitted that it would formulate a DPR and RFP for conversion of dry waste into energy technology, for wet waste management at the existing composting plant by enhancing its capacity and for the processing of the horticulture waste. It will also explore other technologies for horticulture waste management. It will make technical and financial assessment of the project. After finalisation of DPR and RFP, the MC will float tenders and then allot the work. After more than a year of debates, presentations and study tours, the MC General House on July 15, in special house meet, finally had decided in favour of “waste to energy” technology for upgrading the solid waste processing plant in Sector 25 (Dadumajra). In the meeting, it was decided that the MC would seek quotations from IIT Ropar, PEC and Thapar Institute for preparation of the DPR and RFP for the project. The city produces 550-600 metric tonnes of waste daily. Of this, around 200 MT is dry waste, 150 MT is wet (kitchen) waste, mixed waste is 75MT and horticulture waste runs into 100 to 125 MT. However, the plant’s current waste processing capacity is only 70-80 MT. In June last year, the civic body had taken over the plant from the Jaypee Group due to its inability to process the waste completely. But since then, the MC has neither improved the plant’s working nor upgraded the technology and most of the daily waste is still being dumped at the Dadumajra landfill. MC to construct ₹76.40 crore banquet hall The fund-starved MC on Thursday decided to construct a banquet hall after razing the existing Janj Ghar in Sector 47. The banquet, fitted with latest amenities, will have ground, first and second floor. There will also be a basement for parking of vehicles and other purposes. The MC will seek funds from the UT administration or ask the administration itself to build it. The MC has already approved a banquet hall in Industrial Area, Phase 1, but the work is still to start due to fund crunch. When Congress councillors objected to it, mayor Ravi Kant Sharma assured that the MC will get funds from the UT administration. Commenting on the need for the project, councillor Davesh Moudgil, “People will no longer have to go to Zirakpur. MC will also earn revenue from it.” The MC House also decided to undertake special repair and maintenance of back service lanes in Sector 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 at a cost of ₹3 crore. BJP, Congress spar over attack on mayor Heated exchange was witnessed between Congress and BJP councillors when the latter alleged that the Congress was behind the attack on mayor and senior BJP leader Sanjay Tandon in Sector 48 on July 17. Moudgil said to Congress councillors, “Don’t turn democracy into mobocracy. Congress workers were in the mob that attacked the mayor.” Joining him, BJP councillor Gurpeet Singh Dhillon, said, “I am a farmer. Farmers don’t indulge in such shameful acts.” Mayor Sharma added, “Jawab toh humme har tarha ka dena ata heipar hum Constitution ke saath chalte hei (we can give a fitting reply, but we go by the Constitution)” In response, Congress councillor and leader of opposition Devinder Singh Babla, said, “Such attacks should not happen. But what about the atrocities committed on farmers. What about their rights being taken away?”“For the last six months, they are sitting in Delhi, but the government is not listening to them,” said Satish Kainth, Congress councillor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/iit-ropar-picked-to-ready-dpr-for-upgrade-of-chandigarh-s-waste-processing-plant-101627586699289.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal records spurt in Covid-19 infections||Himachal on Thursday registered a spurt in new Covid cases as 229 infections took the state’s tally to 2,05,728. However, no death due to the virus was reported in any of the 12 districts. The state has recorded more than 200 cases after 36 days. Earlier, 258 cases were reported in a single day on June 23. However, the infections have started rising again this week. Mandi reported highest 74 fresh infections, followed by 34 in Chamba, 33 in Kullu, 21 in Kangra and 20 in Solan. Shimla reported 13 new cases, while Bilaspur and Hamirpur reported 11 each. Nine cases were reported in Una and three in Kinnaur. No infections were reported from Lahaul-Spiti and Sirmaur. The active cases have climbed up to 1,098 while recoveries reached 2,01,099 after 73 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 46,352 cases followed by Mandi (27,911), Shimla (25,655), Solan (22,404), Sirmaur (15,366), Hamirpur (14,533), Una (13,426), Bilaspur (12,896), Chamba (12,028), Kullu (9,096), Kinnaur (3,307) and Lahaul-Spiti (2,749). 181 infections reported in J&KJammu and Kashmir recorded 181 fresh Covid cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 3,21,207, while one new death took the toll to 4,377, officials said.Out of the fresh cases, 67 were from the Jammu Division and 114 from the Kashmir Division of the union territory, they said.The officials said Srinagar recorded the highest of 37 cases, followed by 24 in Doda district.The number of active cases again rose slightly to 1,144 in the union territory, while 3,15,686 patients have recovered so far, they said.The death toll in the union territory due to the pandemic was 4,377 as one fresh death was reported in the past 24 hours.Meanwhile, the officials said, there were 35 confirmed cases of mucormycosis or black fungus in the union territory as no fresh case was reported since last evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-records-spurt-in-covid-19-infections-101627586520665.html
30-07-2021||Lucknow||Pegasus snooping row: Mayawati urges SC to order probe||Breaking her silence on the Pegasus snooping controversy, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Thursday urged the Supreme Court to take suo moto cognizance of the allegations related to it and order a probe monitored by the apex court.Expressing her concern at the standoff in Parliament on the snooping row, Mayawati said despite the Pegasus issue generating a lot of heat, the Centre has not taken any cognizance of it. “The Centre’s refusal to conduct an inquiry into the issue has got the country worried,” Mayawati tweeted. “The current session of the Parliament instead of focusing on issues of national and public interest as well as farmers has been unable to run due to distrust between the government and the opposition. The Pegasus issue too has been generating heat. Still the Centre is not ready to order a probe. The country is worried,” she tweeted. “In this light, the BSP requests the Supreme Court to take suo moto cognizance of the Pegasus issue and order a probe that is monitored by the apex court so that the truth could come out,” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pegasus-snooping-row-mayawati-urges-sc-to-order-probe-101627586519517.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Kishtwar cloudburst: Chances of finding survivors turn grim||Forty hours on since a flashflood hit Honzar village in Kishtwar district following a cloudburst in the wee hours of Wednesday, there has been no clue of 19 persons, who are still missing. While rescuers trawled through debris on Thursday in search of survivors, a senior police officer said, “Chances of finding any survivors look bleak.” According to Jammu and Kashmir Police, 19 people are missing. “Though our rescue teams are continuing with their search operations, the missing are feared dead,” he said. On Thursday, teams of SDRF, NDRF, police and army couldn’t find any survivors or bodies. Till Wednesday evening , seven bodies were retrieved and 17 injured were rescued. Among the 17 injured, six were shifted to Kishtwar district hospital in view of their critical condition. “They removed trees that were uprooted by the flashflood with bare hands and ropes. Rescuers also used shovels to trace missing persons beneath the debris but it is a difficult task as thousand metric tonnes of rubble has accumulated there and earth movers cannot reach the village,” said the officer. Honzar village has no road connectivity and it takes five hours of trek to reach the village from the nearest road. There is no mobile phone connectivity in the area as well. Additional director general of police Mukesh Singh accompanied by Jammu divisional commissioner Raghav Langer reached Honzar on Thursday to take stock of the situation and review the ongoing rescue and relief operations. The police have established camps at Dangadooru and Soundar for dispatch of relief and rescue materials for the flood-affected people of Honzar. Special teams for this purpose have been formed and deputed from the Kishtwar police lines. Early this morning, another SDRF team was airlifted in an IAF helicopter from Jammu Air Force Station to Kishtwar for the ongoing rescue operation. “Another joint team of NDRF and SDRF personnel, which left at 0545hrs from Jammu via road, reached Kishtwar and is heading to the affected village,” said a police spokesperson. “One more team of SDRF and NDRF personnel with rescue equipment took off from technical airport Jammu and landed at Kishtwar by 1220 hrs. They have also reached the affected village and have joined the search operations,” he added. Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said, “In spite of prevailing bad weather, three helicopters of IAF — one each from Jammu, Udhampur and Srinagar — were utilised for airlifting SDRF and NDRF teams to Kishtwar.” “Simultaneously, evacuation of critically injured people was done from Sondar to Kishtwar. The helicopters flew eight sorties ferrying 44 NDRF personnel, four medical assistants and recovering two stretcher patients from Sondar,” he added. The government of Jammu and Kashmir has announced an ex gratia of ₹5 lakh each for the next of kin of those who lost their lives in the tragic cloudburst in Kishtwar. The government will provide the grievously injured with ₹50,000 each while ₹12,700 to every injured person will be disbursed through the state disaster response funds. Kargil-Leh national highway shutThe Kargil-Leh national highway (NH 1D) was shut temporarily on Thursday following a mudslide in Pashkum village in Kargil district on Thursday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kishtwar-cloudburst-chances-of-finding-survivors-turn-grim-101627586518142.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Shimla Smart City project: HC notice to Centre, state govt over delay in forest clearance||The high court of Himachal Pradesh has issued notices to the central and state governments besides the Shimla municipal corporation and Shimla Smart City Mission Limited in the matter related to grant of forest clearance for the project. The court directed the respondents to file a reply within four weeks. A division bench comprising acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed these orders on Wednesday on a petition filed by Namita Maniktala, which was converted by the court into a public interest litigation (PIL). The petitioner cited some reports published in the press that some of the development projects, which were required to be undertaken as part of Smart City project, were detained for want of forest clearance under the Forest Conservation Act. She said the Smart City projects included lift and escalator at Lakkar Bazaar, escalator to Jakhu Top, smart path from Sanjauli to IGMC, Shimla, vending zone in Khalini, Krishna Nagar-Combermere Nullah and widening of work in Dhalli area. She has also alleged that Shimla was facing traffic hazards and various other problems pertaining to the pedestrians and commissioning of these projects is intimately connected with the Right to Life of the residents of Shimla in particular and general public at large as they will make the life of the residents much easier. The petitioner has alleged that these projects are being funded under the Smart City Missions of the central government and the end of deadline for completion of these projects will cause irreparable loss and in case the same is not processed and decided, the funding for these vital projects may also lapse. She has further alleged that as the deadline for completion of these projects would be ending next year and the applications for grant of forest clearance are required to be considered expeditiously by the central government. The petitioner prayed that the Centre may be directed to consider the applications for grant of forest clearances with respect to the aforesaid projects and the state government and other respondents may be directed to complete these projects in a time-bound manner after receipt of forest clearances. The court posted the matter after four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shimla-smart-city-project-hc-notice-to-centre-state-govt-over-delay-in-forest-clearance-101627586459762.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Congress tried to gain political mileage out of pandemic: Jai Ram||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday announced opening of horticulture extension offices at Karsog assembly segment’s Mahunag and Mahog.Addressing a public meeting at Churag, the chief minister said that the Himachal government took effective steps to tackle the corona pandemic in the state.He said that the Congress leaders in the state did not even refrain from politicising this sensitive issue. He said that the Congress desperately tried to get political mileage on pandemic issue, but people know the truth. Thakur said that the state government ensured that development works were not affected during the pandemic. Later, addressing a public meeting at Kheel, the CM announced opening of extension counter of HP State Cooperative Bank, ₹10 lakh for playground in Government Senior Secondary School and ₹ 3 lakh for a community centre. He also announced ₹10,000 each to six mahila mandals of area.In another public meeting at Bagsiad, said that six development projects worth ₹ 37 crore were dedicated on Wednesday for this area from Karsog, which included laying of roads worth ₹ 20.3 crore and irrigation schemes worth ₹2 crore. He said that all these projects would be completed within the stipulated time.Thakur also accused the former Congress minister Kaul Singh Thakur for misguiding the people of the district by “spreading canards against the state government”. He said that people of the state were well aware of nefarious designs of the Congress leaders and would not get carried away by their false propaganda.The CM also announced construction of a Kisan Bhawan in the area.He addressed a public meeting at Mahunag as well and said that the HP government was committed to ensuring development of areas which had remained neglected so far due to one reason or other. He said that this area was not only important from religion point of view, but also has scenic beauty.Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur said that the present Himachal dispensation was committed to developing the Karsog area of Mandi district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-tried-to-gain-political-mileage-out-of-pandemic-jai-ram-101627586458126.html
30-07-2021||Other||Active Covid cases slip below 50 in Ludhiana||In a major relief for city residents, the active Covid cases in the district fell below 50 on Thursday.At present there are 48 active cases in the city. Eight new Covid-19 cases, but no deaths were recorded on Thursday.Ludhiana has so far logged 87,292 Covid cases, of which 2,093 patients have died. As many as 85,151 people have successfully defeated the virus.Currently, there is no patient undergoing treatment at any of the government health facilities, while 10 are being treated in private hospitals. As many as 30,618 people were inoculated on Thursday. Since January 16, 14,80,250 people have been jabbed.No new mucormycosis (black fungus) case was reported in the district on July 25. As many as 83 cases of black fungus have been recorded in the district so far, of which eight people have died during treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/active-covid-cases-slip-below-50-in-ludhiana-101627586398319.html
30-07-2021||Other||Sidhu meets Jalandhar leaders; welcomes CM’s move on PPAs||Jalandhar With Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh announcing that the Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) will be revisited or cancelled, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu said the 18-point agenda of the Congress high command was now being implemented in the state.The Congress high command has prepared this agenda, after hearing grievances of MLAs. Some of the key issues that appear on the document are justice in desecration cases, power tariff, drugs and red tape.Sidhu, who was in Jalandhar on Thursday, to hold one-on-one meetings with groups of workers from every assembly constituency, said, “Of the high command’s 18 points, I have picked up five issues, keeping my ear to the ground. These are justice in sacrilege and firing cases; tackling the drug menace; revocation of the three farm laws; cancellation of the PPAs and resolving issues of protesting employees to the unemployed.” “I am happy that there is some movement towards implementation of these five points,” Sidhu, who is an MLA from Amritsar East, said.  Sidhu termed the three farm laws as unconstitutional and an attack on federalism. “We have to resolve and tackle this issue of the three farm bills in our own Vidhan Sabha as well. We have to exhibit similar guts as we mustered on the issue of the SYL (Satluj Yamuna Link) canal.” Sidhu added that Punjab gives power subsidy of ₹10,000 crore, the highest in the country, to its farmers; Delhi, on the other hand, gives only ₹1,700 crore. “We also provide power at cheaper rates to our industries and commercial sector, than Delhi,” he claimed. Sidhu also attacked Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal and former Akali minister, Bikram Singh Majithia for not tipping the drug menace in the bud. On his priorities as the Punjab Congress chief, he said, “My duty to build the reputation of government among the people.” Congress state working president and Urmar MLA Sangat Singh Gilzian; Congress MLAs of Jalandhar district including Pargat Singh, Sushil Kumar Rinku, Rajinder Beri, Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia, Bawa Henry, Chaudhary Surinder Singh were present during his visit.Three Kapurthala MLAs give the meeting a miss Of four MLAs from Kapurthala, Navtej Singh Cheema from Sultanpur Lodhi; Rana Gurjit Singh from Kapurthala and Sukhpal Singh Khaira from Bholath, gave the meeting a miss. Sources said Cheema was in Delhi; Rana Gurjit was in Chandigarh and claimed he got information on Sidhu’s visit a bit late. Phagwara Congress MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal attended the meeting besides another group from Phagwara of former minister Joginder Singh Mann. A group from Bholath constituency led by Gora Gill, a rival of Khaira, also met Sidhu.To meet SC MLAs in Chandigarh todaySidhu and the four working presidents will hold a meeting with Scheduled Caste (SC) MLAs on Friday at the party office in Chandigarh to discuss their issues. The top five leaders will also have a separate meeting with another group of legislators from select districts. On Monday, the new team had met heads of frontal organisations and cells of the state unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sidhu-meets-jalandhar-leaders-welcomes-cm-s-move-on-ppas-101627586339548.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Covid death: Discrepancy in Chandigarh admn, MC’s data, reveals RTI reply||Data of Covid deaths in Chandigarh released by the UT health department does not match that of the municipal corporation, an RTI reply revealed on Thursday.Replying to a query of RK Garg, Chandigarh-based Right to Information (RTI) activist, the health department of the civic body said that 739 people died of Covid in Chandigarh till May this year.“However, as per data received from the Integrated Disease Surveillance Project (IDSP), Chandigarh, a total of 683 UT residents died of the virus between March 2020 to May 20 this year,” said Garg, adding that the data available at mortuaries of government hospitals also reveal different figures.He further added that the data must be synchronised, so that exact death toll is available and records can be maintained during the possible third pandemic wave.“MC maintains record of death certificates, which may include residents of other cities dying in Chandigarh hospitals. Similarly, many Chandigarh residents had died of the virus in other states or cities. The variation between the MC and IDSP data are not huge”, said Dr Amritpal Singh, medical officer, health, Chandigarh MC.Dr Amandeep Kang, UT director of health services, said, “We are investigating the death of every Chandigarh resident of Covid and also trying to find if anyone succumbed to the virus at home. During the surge, the data can vary, but this is because city residents dying in other states and patients of other states dying in UT hospitals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-death-discrepancy-in-chandigarh-admn-mc-s-data-reveals-rti-reply-101627586284183.html
30-07-2021||Other||GoI recognises Chitkara University as Patiala’s green champion||In a major feat, Chitkara University, Patiala, has been recognised as the ‘District Green Champion’ for the academic year 2020-21 by the Mahatma Gandhi National Council of Rural Education (MGNCRE), Ministry of Education, Government of India. The award was presented to the varsity’s pro-chancellor, Madhu Chitkara, in the presence of Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit. This award is given to colleges that have actively participated in keeping their campuses clean, sanitised, and are in line with the ‘Swachh Bharat’ programme. The varsity, in a press release, stated, “Chitkara University successfully managed to set up the Swachhta Action Plan Committee, and adopted and implemented the best practices in areas of sanitation, hygiene, waste management, water management, energy management and greenery management.” On receiving the honour, Madhu Chitkara said, “Along with technological and educational advancement, Chitkara University acknowledges the importance of environment and puts in concerted efforts towards achieving the best practices. This award is a testimony of the university’s commitment to social responsibility and sustainable development. I congratulate all the students and staff members for this honour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goi-recognises-chitkara-university-as-patiala-s-green-champion-101627586283197.html
30-07-2021||Other||Mamata Banerjee’s move for probe into Pegasus row a bold step: Shiv Sena||Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Thursday lauded West Bengal chief minister (CM) Mamata Banerjee for setting up a panel to probe into the alleged Pegasus snooping case. It also advised other CMs to follow suit because it is their duty to protect the rights and freedoms of the citizens as the Centre is not paying heed to opposition’s demand for a joint parliamentary committee probe into the alleged phone tapping of politicians, journalists and other eminent personalities using Pegasus spyware. The editorial in Saamana said that Banerjee has taken a “bold step” by announcing a probe into the snooping incident and has “awakened” others. On Monday, Banerjee had announced a commission of inquiry into the alleged surveillance of phones using the Pegasus spyware developed by Israeli company NSO Group. Retired Supreme Court judge justice Madan B Lokur and former Calcutta high court chief justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya have been appointed as members of the probe commission. “Her bold step is important. She set up a judicial commission and initiated an inquiry into it [the allegations of phone tapping]. She did what the Centre was supposed to do. In West Bengal, Banerjee fought like a tigress and won. CMs of other states should safeguard the rights of citizens and civil liberties. Banerjee has done the job of awakening all,” the editorial said. It added that it is “mysterious” that the Centre is not taking into consideration the issue of the alleged phone tapping of two Union ministers, some lawmakers, Supreme Court judges, officers of armed forces and journalists. “In this backdrop, Banerjee has given a jolt to the Centre by setting up a judicial commission for probe into the Pegasus row,” said the editorial. Slamming the Centre for not taking cognisance of the Opposition’s demand for a detailed inquiry into the Pegasus row, the Sena mouthpiece said that people of this country will see Pegasus as an “extension” of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Income Tax department. “The biggest threat to democracy is that the government does not want the Parliament to function and the issue to be discussed. The people of the country will see Pegasus as another associated branch of CBI, ED and IT department because the Centre is not taking cognisance of the issue,” the editorial said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mamata-banerjee-s-move-for-probe-into-pegasus-row-a-bold-step-shiv-sena-101627586218028.html
30-07-2021||Mumbai||Covid curbs in Maharashtra: Malls, eateries may reopen at 50% capacity||Malls, multiplexes and restaurants could soon reopen at 50% capacity in Maharashtra, while shops and establishments will likely get extended hours of operation. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray met senior health department officials and state Covid-19 task force members on Thursday to look at easing relaxations in 25 districts, including Mumbai, where positivity and growth rates are low. A formal order on partial lifting of curbs will be issued in a couple of days, said state health minister Rajesh Tope. The government will hold further discussion with railway authorities on allowing the general public on suburban local trains in Mumbai.The minister said there was a “positive” discussion on easing curbs. The demand to allow the general public on suburban local trains has been gaining steam for some weeks now. There has been a demand to at least allow people who have taken both doses of the vaccine. The government is also looking at opening up trains for more categories. Also, it is facing a practical challenge of checking commuters’ vaccination certificates.“There were varied views with regard to local trains. Some said it should not be allowed as third wave is expected, while others said if trains are shut, then there is crowding in buses. So, our objective that transmission does not increase is being defeated. To allow those who have taken two doses [of vaccines] we will need a mechanism to check certificates. These challenges will be discussed with railway authorities and a decision will be made by the CM,” Tope said.Meanwhile, the state on Thursday recorded 7,242 cases and 190 deaths, taking the tally to 6,290,156 and toll to 132,335 respectively. The active cases in the state stood at 78,562. In the last 24 hours, the state tested 190,182 samples and had a positivity rate of 3.8%.State government officials added that the Covid Task Force members are not keen on opening up trains for people just yet. An official said that, the government should wait till a fortnight and see the trajectory of the Covid-19 infections in and around Mumbai before taking a decision on local trains.The relaxation are expected to come into effect from August 1, officials said.Currently, districts in the state have level-three restrictions, which involves tighter curbs with limited operational hours for shops and markets. Shops and bazaars remain shut on the weekends, while malls, theatres and multiplexes are completely closed. The opening of malls, multiplexes and dine-in restaurants will be subject to condition, including 50% occupancy and the staff/employees have to be fully vaccinated. “As per the earlier restriction [where shops and markets were] shut on the weekends. Now, it will remain open on Saturdays till 4pm. Positive discussions were held to reopen shops, restaurants, cinema halls with 50% capacity and with the employees being fully vaccinated. On the resumption of local trains, there were varied views. We will hold discussion with railway authorities and a decision will be made at the level of the chief minister,” Tope said after the meeting with CM and the task force members. He further said, “The operational timings of shops, which was till 4pm, will be extended to 8-9pm. Hotels and restaurants will have some restrictions, including capacity and their employees have to be fully vaccinated.” The state government in its order will also issue guidelines for reopening malls, restaurants, hotels, gymnasiums, places of worship and swimming pools. It will also provide guidelines for wedding, cultural, social and political events. Senior government officials said that there will be a cap on attendees for public gatherings, while use of enclosed halls, air-conditioned auditoriums will be discouraged. “Wedding, social, cultural events can have around 100 people. The CM will give decide in a day or two,” an official said.Even as 25 districts would get relaxations, 11 districts — Pune, Solapur, Sangli, Satara, Kolhapur, Raigad, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Palghar, Beed and Ahmednagar — will continue to remain in level-three of restrictions. “We are not providing any relaxation in Pune, Solapur, Sangli, Satara, Kolhapur, Raigad, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Palghar, Beed and Ahmednagar. If need be, local administration can decide to tighten the restrictions,” Tope said.He said that relaxations is necessary as several districts are reporting fresh cases in single digits and level-3 restrictions are detrimental for small business and economy. There has been mounting pressure on the chief minister from the allies and opposition alike to provide relaxations to keep the wheels of economy moving. “There are many districts where daily cases very low. At these districts, level-three restrictions is detrimental for small businesses. We need to strike a balance to move the wheels of economy and take precautions to follow Covid-19 protocol,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-curbs-in-maharashtra-malls-eateries-may-reopen-at-50-capacity-101627586098050.html
30-07-2021||Other||60 fresh corona casesin UP, four deaths||LUCKNOW: For the first time in the month of July, Uttar Pradesh reported more fresh Covid cases on Thursday than the number of patients who recovered on the day. There were 60 new cases and 44 recoveries, according to the details from the state health department. Total Covid cases in the state reached 1708373 while the death toll touched 22752 with four fresh fatalities reported on Thursday. “The number of active cases under treatment in the state is now 787. Seven districts have zero active cases,” said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary, information in a press conference during the day. “In 41 districts, there were no new Covid cases while 34 districts reported fresh cases in single digit,” he said. “Lucknow has till now reported 238565 Covid cases of which 235862 have recovered and the recovery rate in Lucknow is 98.86%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. The recovery rate in the state is 96.62%. Four deaths were reported in the state, two in Prayagraj and one each in Gorakhpur and Amethi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/60-fresh-corona-casesin-up-four-deaths-101627586037517.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||IAF chopper makes emergency landing at Malerkotla school||An Indian Air Force (IAF) chopper made an emergency landing on the ground of a private school on the Dhuri road in Malerkotla on Thursday. Malerkotla DSP William Jeji said the chopper made the emergency landing after it developed a technical snag. IAF staff reached the site in another helicopter to repair the faulty chopper.According to information, there were three people in the chopper which landed on the school ground around 11am and took off after repair at 1pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/iaf-chopper-makes-emergency-landing-at-malerkotla-school-101627585860980.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Capt gives go-ahead to put new SC welfare bill before cabinet||In a move that will earmark a part of the state’s annual budget for the welfare of the Scheduled Castes (SCs) in proportion to their population in Punjab, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday gave the go-ahead for putting a new Bill before the cabinet, thus paving the way for its enactment in the next session of the Vidhan Sabha. The Punjab State Welfare and Development of Scheduled Castes (Planning, Earmarking and Utilization of Financial Resources) Sub-Allocation Bill, 2021 will also enable the government to put in place an institutional mechanism to formulate and monitor the implementation of the Scheduled Caste Sub-Plan (SCSP), and matters connected with it, according to an official spokesperson. The legislation, when passed in the assembly, will provide the state government a platform to ensure the overall development of the SCs through effective implementation of various welfare schemes under the SCSP. Punjab has the highest percentage of SC population in the country at 31.94%. Reiterating his government’s firm commitment to the socio-economic and educational development of the SC population, the CM said the bill will give a big boost to his government’s efforts to ensure the welfare of this segment. The directorate of scheduled castes sub-plan would be the nodal agency to ensure formulation of SCSP, besides monitoring its implementation, the spokesperson said. The competent authority would also accord approval to the SCSP simultaneously with the state annual budget of the relevant financial year before submitting it to the Punjab Vidhan Sabha. There would be a single mechanism for flow of funds under SCSP, and the finance department would remain the controlling authority for this purpose. The spokesperson said the progress of SCSP would be reviewed and monitored at state, district and block levels, as per procedure and by the committee as prescribed. Each department shall ensure transparency and accountability at all levels in the implementation of the SCSP. The efficacy of the legislation would be ensured by the systematic and exhaustive procedures on all aspects with respect to the formulation and implementation of the SCSP in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-gives-go-ahead-to-put-new-sc-welfare-bill-before-cabinet-101627585737930.html
30-07-2021||Other||Three brothers booked for raping minor foster sister in Ludhiana||Three foster brothers, one of them minor, of a 15-year-old girl were booked for raping her on the complaint of the victim’s class teacher. The girl shared her ordeal with the teacher, who took the victim to the police station and lodged an FIR on Thursday. The police got the girl medically examined and the report is awaited. Police said the foster parents of the victim were not cooperating. The victim is a student of Class 8 at a private school. She stated her foster brothers aged 22, 20 and 17 were sexually assaulting her for about a year. The accused had also been threatening her with dire consequences if she didn’t keep silent, the victim told the police. Shimlapuri SHO inspector Balkar Singh said a case has been registered and the accused will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-brothers-booked-for-raping-minor-foster-sister-in-ludhiana-101627585680257.html
30-07-2021||Other||Two arrested as Congress worker dies by suicide in Ludhiana village||Two of the three men booked were arrested after a 42-year-old Congress worker allegedly committed suicide at Jangpur village in Dakha on Thursday.Before consuming the poison, the victim, Daljit Singh Jangpur alias Happy Bajwa, who was co-coordinator of Dakha Sports and Cultural Cell, posted a suicide note in the form of an audio recording addressed to PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu in some WhatsApp groups. The victim also held the post of general secretary in the district Congress (rural) and also headed the district youth wing of the party. Daljit was reportedly embroiled in a property dispute and had a police case pending against him. He alleged in the audio that his voice was not being heard and he was fed up with the atrocities meted out to him by some co-villagers. On the complaint of the victim’s brother, police booked three co-villagers with whom Daljit had a property dispute for abetting suicide. Later, two of them were arrested. One of the accused is an elected member of the panchayat.DSP Gurbans Bains said, “As of now, we are investigating as per the victim’s brother’s statement who named the three men. The authenticity of the WhatsApp audio recording needs to be verified and we are not counting on that as of now,” he said. The DSP also dismissed any political rivalry, saying it was purely a case of property dispute. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh also reacted to the incident through a Twitter post, assuring action against the guilty. Earlier, Sidhu visited the bereaved family and offered his condolences. Later, the Punjab Congress chief announced ex gratia of ₹10 lakh to the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-arrested-as-congress-worker-dies-by-suicide-in-ludhiana-village-101627585678157.html
30-07-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Passing of the poster boy||Lean and boyish, Old Delhi’s Shanky wasn’t famous like a Bollywood star, but was well known among the collectors of Bollywood memorabilia. He traded treasures for a bargain—once he even let go of a precious cinema ticket of the classic movie Mughal-e-Azam, when it first premiered in a Delhi theatre in the 1960s, for almost nothing. He died on 19 July due to “liver disease”. He was in his late 40s.A factory supervisor’s son, Shanky was a collector of Hindi movie posters—original and reprints. Dabbling with photography swept him into his life’s calling. Film distributors who operated in small towns would come to his photo studio in Maujpur to get their cinema posters touched with glossy colours. In 2006, Shanky shut the studio, threw away his Nikon and jumped into the “poster market.” He would scavenge the collections of “kabadi-wallas,” who scavenged the throwaway raddi (waste) from Delhi’s old-money bungalows. He started making trips to what he called the Bollywood Bazaar, in Mumbai’s Muhammed Ali Road. Within five years, Shanky became a key poster supplier to the city’s curio shops.Every Sunday, he would set up his stall at Daryaganj’s book bazaar. The bigger treasure was in his one-room house in the Walled City. Some original posters that Shanky always showed to his guests were of classics such as Kagaz Ke Phool (1959), Ab Dilli Dur Nahin (1957), Shatranj Ke Khilari (1977) and Raja Harishchandra (1913), India’s first full-length feature film. He also had movie catalogues (including of the Bollywood adaptation of Shakespeare’s Hamlet, with Mala Sinha as Ophelia), photographs of film stars (Mumtaz and Feroze Khan holding hands in swim suits) and a scrapbook filled with film-related news cuttings from newspapers.Shanky’s visiting card was printed with miniature posters of Sholay, Mother India and Mughal-e-Azam. His real name was Mohammed Suleman.It is incredible that a man of modest means single-handedly built such an enviable collection of precious souvenirs over the years. Even more astonishing was Shanky’s generosity with these treasures. Sometimes, he would give them away for almost nothing because he liked the purchaser or sensed that the enthusiastic person genuinely couldn’t afford the quoted price.Shanky has been buried in Dilli Gate graveyard. He is survived by his wife, Shahnaz, and three children. His elder son, Osama, 18, has taken over the business. “I feel sad about papa’s passing,” he says, “but I hope I can bring happiness to people as papa would do to his customers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-passing-of-the-poster-boy-101627585477144.html
30-07-2021||Other||Settled 1.5K MCOCA cases, builder held in case linked to Param Bir: Singh said: Mumbai Police||One of the two builders, who are believed to be close to former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, have claimed to have “settled” between 1,000 and 1,500 cases registered under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (Mcoca) using their clout in the police department. The two builders were arrested by Mumbai Police on July 22.The police made the revelation before a metropolitan magistrate court on Thursday, while seeking the extension of the custody of the builders, Sanjay Punamiya and Sunil Jain. The duo is accused in multi-crore extortion cases along with Singh – now the director general of home guards – and five other policemen.A special investigation team is investigating the case under the supervision of DCP (local arms-1) Nimit Goyal. The five accused policemen, including crime branch deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Akbar Pathan, have been shifted temporarily to the local arms division to ensure that they do not interfere in SIT’s investigation. The accused’s claim of settling Mcoca cases was also recorded by the nephew of the complainant in his cell phone during one of his meetings with the accused. In the recording, Punamiya is also heard talking about the collapse of the Maharashtra government after Singh made allegations of corruption against former home minister Anil Deshmukh, the police said.“While seeking the extension of police custody of the two accused on Thursday, we informed the court that SIT officers are trying to find out against whom these 1,000-1,500 Mcoca cases were registered because it is a very serious issue as Mcoca is filed against organised crime syndicates and anti-national elements,” said special public prosecutor Shekhar Jagtap.SIT in the remand application also mentioned that the police have extracted 492 GB data from Punamiya and Jain’s seized mobile phones. The data consists of large number of suspicious documents, photos, audio clips of recorded conversations, call logs, chats and archive data. “The nature of this data is extremely sensitive in nature and can’t be disclosed in the open court,” read the remand application. The police are now analysing the sensitive data, a SIT officer informed the court. The police also said that the builders have multiple criminal cases against them and the duo are knowingly giving false information to the investigators to misguide them. The SIT members also wish to question the accused policemen with the builders to verify certain facts. The defence lawyer questioned why the complainant did not raise an objection when the settlement deed was being effected in the dispute. After hearing the prosecution and the defence, the court extended Punamiya and Jain’s police custody by seven days.Meanwhile, Pathan has filed a petition in the Bombay high court, seeking quashing of the first information report (FIR) against him. The petition was heard by a division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, who were informed by advocate Niteen Pradhan that the cop was seeking interim protection from arrest. The court declined to grant immediate interim relief and said that it would hear the plea on Friday. While making remarks on the public prosecutors’ submissions that the police would conduct a preliminary probe in the case, the bench said, “If you think you will do a preliminary probe and keep lacunae in law open, it cannot happen like that. It is a serious matter. The petitioner is a senior officer (sic).”The SIT, which comprises of an assistant commissioner of police (ACP), four inspectors and an assistant inspector, is probing a FIR against Singh, who is a 1988 batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, and the five other cops. The FIR was registered at Marine Drive police station, based on a complaint by a Bhayandar builder, Shyamsunder Agrawal. He had alleged that the Juhu police had filed a Mcoca case against him falsely accusing him of having links with underworld gangster Chhota Shakeel. Agrawal had claimed that based on this false case, Singh and his subordinates extorted money from him at the behest of Punamiya, who is his former business partner. Singh is also facing multiple inquiries after he was shunted out from the Mumbai Police chief’s post in March over charges of improper handling of the Antilia explosives scare case. The Maharashtra criminal investigation department (CID) is probing allegations based on the complaint of cricket bookie Sonu Jalan and two others who have claimed that Singh – during his tenure as Singh Thane Police – and his subordinates had extorted money from the three. CID has submitted its inquiry report to director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey. Sources said another FIR on extortion may soon be registered against Singh. The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) has also initiated an open inquiry against Singh pertaining to corruption allegations made against him by police inspector Anup Dange. ACB has issued a look out circular (LoC) against Singh’s friend Jeetu Navlani, who is also an accused in the complaint filed by Dange. Singh was booked in an Atrocities Act case in April on the complaint of an inspector from Akola Police. An FIR for extortion and kidnapping was also filed against Singh at Kopri police station in Thane last week.Singh is currently in on leave owing to some health conditions and is in his hometown in Chandigarh. He has not responded to the allegations made against him in the multiple complaints. After his removal as police commissioner on March 20, Singh wrote an explosive letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, claiming that Deshmukh had instructed controversial crime branch officer Sachin Vaze (who has now been dismissed) and other Mumbai Police officers to extort ₹100 crore every month from the 1750 bars, pubs, hookah parlours and other establishments in Mumbai.Based on this allegation, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) started investigations against Deshmukh on charges of corruption and money laundering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/settled-1-5k-mcoca-cases-builder-held-in-case-linked-to-param-bir-singh-said-mumbai-police-101627585557489.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Pearls Group ponzi scam: HC dismisses Bhangoo’s plea against custody to Chhattisgarh Police||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday dismissed a plea by Pearls Group CMD Nirmal Singh Bhangoo against custody to Chhattisgarh Police. A special court at Bemetra in Chhattisgarh in July had ordered that he be produced before it in a criminal case registered on defrauding people through a ponzi scheme. Bhangoo is accused of swindling of ₹45,000 crore from over five crore investors in different states. Bhangoo had challenged a Muktsar judicial magistrate’s order in the HC in which the jail authorities were directed to hand over his custody to Chhattisgarh Police. He had also challenged order on getting him examined at Rajindera Hospital, Patiala, which declared him fit for travel. Bhangoo all along has been citing his ill health against long travel. The high court bench of justice Meenakshi I Mehta criticised the role played by the jail authorities and local health authorities in helping him to “evade” transfer of his custody to Chhattisgarh Police. “The entire afore-referred sequence of the events unequivocally speaks volumes of the fact that the petitioner has abused the process of law by misusing his medical condition and strangely, the jail authorities as well as the authorities at the local civil hospital, also, for the reasons best known to them, seem to be acting in unison with the petitioner to help him out in evading his production at the above said special court,” the bench said, adding that this conduct on their part is “highly deplorable” because all the limbs of the system of the administration of criminal justice need to act and work in the required and desired manner so as to make it achieve the goal of its very establishment. According to the order, a sub-inspector of Chhattisgarh Police presented a production warrant before the superintendent of the jail, Muktsar, for its compliance but Bhangoo said he was not feeling well. He was medically examined at the local civil hospital and doctors opined that he was “unfit” for long travelling. The SI approached the judicial magistrate through assistant public prosecutor for getting his medical examination done and compliance of the Chhattisgarh court order as he raised suspicion over exercise by local health authorities and jail officials. Acting on it, the judicial officer ordered his medical examination upon which a team at Rajindra Hospital examined him and declared him fit for travel. But the jail authorities took him to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, for medical examination, from where he was referred to PGIMER, Chandigarh. On the court’s direction, he was examined at the PGIMER where the doctors’ panel declared him fit for travel. The court did not entertain his argument that the magistrate at Muktsar had no jurisdiction to entertain the application for transfer of custody as he was behind bars in connection with a case in Bathinda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pearls-group-ponzi-scam-hc-dismisses-bhangoo-s-plea-against-custody-to-chhattisgarh-police-101627585499265.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||No increase in fee structure of Panjab University affiliated college for 2021-22||Panjab University on Thursday approved the fee structure for its affiliated colleges for the 2021-22 session without an increase. Even for the 2020-21 session, the syndicate had put on hold the 7.5% fee hike for self-financed courses and 5% for traditional courses for new entrants. As per the fee structure released by the university, undergraduate students of PU-affiliated colleges in Punjab will have to pay ₹11,830 annually for bachelors of arts (BA); ₹21,460 for bachelors of commerce (BCom) and ₹13,300 for bachelors of science (BSc). Also, annual fee for post graduation will be ₹16,600 for MA; ₹21,910 for MCom and ₹19,440 for MSc. For colleges in Chandigarh, the annual fee structure for undergraduate classes has been set at ₹14,070 for BA; ₹20,960 for BCom and ₹15,500 for BSc. For postgraduation classes, the fee is ₹16,600 for MA, ₹21,480 for MCom and ₹19,440 for MSc. The university has also fixed the chargers for additional courses, self-financing courses, additional fee for NRI students and various particulars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-increase-in-fee-structure-of-panjab-university-affiliated-college-for-202122-101627585498075.html
30-07-2021||Other||Visitors harassed as Ludhiana MC employees go on day-long strike against 6th Pay Commission||The visitors at the municipal corporation (MC) offices on Thursday had a harrowing time as the employees observed a day-long strike in protest against the recommendations of 6th Pay Commission. The MC offices wore a deserted look with no employees or officials on their seats; the services at MC suvidha kendras also remained suspended.The residents who visited the MC office for submitting dues of property tax/water-sewer user charges; avail trade licences, TS1 certificates (NOC) for buildings; among other works had to return empty-handed.The staff of MC Zone C office on Gill road also closed the entry gates for visitors as the officials were not available at their respective offices due to the strike. The sanitation services like sweeping, cleaning of sewer lines, etc, however, continued as usual in the city.Intimate us about strike in advance: ResidentsThe visitors rued that the MC should not harass the people in their fight against the government, and even if it was necessary, the residents should intimate the residents about the same in advance. One Gurcharan Singh of Gurdev Nagar, who came to submit his property tax, said, “The MC employees should not harass the public while fighting with the government over any issue. I will again have to visit the MC office to submit the dues, which will result in wastage of time.”A resident of Chaura Bazar area, Amandeep Singh, said, “The building inspector had asked me to enquire about my building plan on Thursday and now they have announced a strike. The working at government offices should not be disturbed; as it is the files move at a snail’s pace.”The members of the Municipal Employees Sangharsh Committee stated that the strike was announced against the recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission regarding the pay scales among other issues. The president of the employees’ union, Jasdev Sekhon, said that only the office staff observed the strike and that essential services like sweeping were not stopped. “Regular work at the MC office will resume from Friday and further decisions regarding the agitation will be taken as per the directions received from the state-level unions of other departments protesting over the issue,” added Sekhon.Meanwhile in Patiala, a group of over 100 MC employees also participated in the agitation organised by state-level unions on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/visitors-harassed-as-ludhiana-mc-employees-go-on-day-long-strike-against-6th-pay-commission-101627585322165.html
30-07-2021||Other||Owner escapes injury by inches as building collapses in Ludhiana||A major tragedy was averted on Thursday after a portion of an unsafe building collapsed on Deepak Cinema road here while its owner escaped injury by inches.Ashok Kumar Behal, the 65-year-old owner of the building, which is more than four decades old, runs a tea stall in the adjoining building. On Thursday, Behal had parked his two-wheeler only a minute before the portion of the roof collapsed at the very spot. His two-wheeler was badly damaged.As seen in the CCTV footage of the incident, recovered from a camera installed nearby, Behal was barely 4-5 feet away from the collapse site.Even as the remaining portion of the building continues to pose danger to lives, the officials of the municipal corporation (MC) and the owner washed their hands of the responsibility to raze the unsafe building, stating that a case regarding the property was subjudice in a local court.Behal said, “The building was constructed in 1940 and a portion of it had even collapsed in 2013, but we are unable to raze the structure due to a sub-judice case. The old tenant had filed a case regarding possession of the building in 2013 and the court does not allow us to demolish it. If the permission is granted, I will be the first one to demolish it as I had a narrow escape on Thursday.”“I was opening the gate of my shop in the morning when the portion of the building collapsed suddenly. I was shocked, but fortunately no one was hurt. The building is deteriorating and we will present the pictures of the incident in court for getting permission to raze it,” added Behal. Meanwhile, the MC officials also stated that no action could be taken against the building due to the pending court case. Further the officials stated that the owner of the building would be held responsible for any untoward incident.Assistant town planner Mohan Singh said, “The MC cannot demolish the building due to the court case. We have already served notices to the owners of unsafe buildings in the city to get the structures demolished by themselves or they will be held responsible for any untoward incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/owner-escapes-injury-by-inches-as-building-collapses-in-ludhiana-101627585320731.html
30-07-2021||Other||Now, violators to receive e-challan for speeding on Ludhiana roads||To deter residents from speeding on city roads, the Ludhiana traffic police have launched e-challaning for violators.The decision was taken after the tragic death of three youths, including a girl, who died after their car plunged into the Sidhwan Canal on south city road on July 25.The traffic police already issue e-challans for jumping traffic signals and violating zebra crossing rules.The police are installing light detection and ranging (LiDAR) speed-measuring sensors to check vehicular movement, especially speeding. The machines also capture the image of the violating vehicle to generate challan. One such machine has been installed on the south city road as a maximum number of complaints of speeding have been received from that area, the police said.‘Sensor installed on trial basis’Joint commissioner of police (JCP, city and traffic) Deepak Pareek said that the machine has been installed on a trial basis. “The trial will be conducted for a few days and after analysing the results of the machine, more machines will be brought into use and these will be installed at different points on different roads of the city on a random basis.”The JCP added that as of now there are three such machines with the Ludhiana police commissionerate.The traffic police will keep changing the locations of the machine, so that it remains a surprise for the residents, forcing them to improve their habit of speeding.JCP Pareek said that this system will work the same way as the e-challaning process for jumping traffic lights and violating zebra crossing rules. “The device will record the vehicle number and the challan will be sent to the residence of the vehicle owner through post,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-violators-to-receive-e-challan-for-speeding-on-ludhiana-roads-101627585319796.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Indianapolis FedEx shooter not racially motivated: Police||The former employee who shot and killed eight people, including four Sikhs, at an Indianapolis FedEx warehouse in April acted alone and was not racially or ethnically motivated, authorities said on Wednesday.Brandon Scott Hole, 19, used the April 15 attack as an act of “suicidal murder” and believed he would “demonstrate his masculinity and capability” while fulfilling a final desire to experience killing people, Indianapolis police and federal authorities said during a news conference.Eight employees, including four members of the city’s Sikh community, were killed in the attack and five others were injured, police said.Police said Hole considered other locations for the shooting but chose the FedEx building because it was familiar to him. He also believed the site would give him access to a large number of vulnerable victims.Paul Keenan, special agent in charge of the FBI’s Indianapolis field office, declined to disclose other potential targets. “He knew the location well,” Keenan said. “He knew there would be a large group of people there that he would consider targets.”Hole had suicidal thoughts “almost daily” in the months prior to the attack and attempted suicide on “more than one occasion,” Keenan said. Although Hole had struggled with mental health stressors “throughout his life,” he had no previously diagnosed mental illness, and he did not share his plans for the FedEx shooting with family or friends.Hole was able to legally purchase the two rifles used in the shooting, even after his mother called police last year to say her son might undertake “suicide by cop.”Police seized a pump-action shotgun from Hole, then 18, in March 2020 after they received the call from his mother. Members of the Indianapolis Sikh community pressed local and federal law enforcement for months for an investigation into the shooter’s motive, emphasising concern that Hole chose a place known for hiring people of colour, specifically a Punjabi Sikh-majority.Important to recognise bias: Sikh Coalition Sikh Coalition legal director Amrith Kaur said that while “it’s impossible” to know Hole’s thinking, she was disappointed police did not release additional details about how they ruled out bias as a possible motive.“It is important to recognise that bias can be a factor in addition to these other issues,” Kaur said in a statement. “Though law enforcement has said this investigation is over, for all the families who lost loved ones, the survivors, the Sikh community, and anyone else impacted by hate violence, these questions will remain forever.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/indianapolis-fedex-shooter-not-racially-motivated-police-101627585318457.html
30-07-2021||Lucknow||NIA to take over probe related to al-Qaeda linked terror module busted in Lucknow||National Investigation Agency (NIA) is likely to take over the probe into the alleged al-Qaeda linked terror module unearthed by UP Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) in Lucknow after arrest of five people on July 11 and 13, said senior state police officials here on Thursday.A senior police official privy to the development said the probe will be transferred to the NIA as the busted module has links with different states as well as international links through which they received funds to carry out terror activities in the country. He said the UP ATS had already sent a detail report to the union home ministry who could further direct the NIA to take over the case.The official said the UP ATS had prepared a detailed report related to the profiles of five accused arrested in the matter and recovery done by them. He said the report also include the facts extracted from them during rigorous interrogation about their intention and plans to execute serial blasts in different parts of Uttar Pradesh before Independence Day (August 15).He said the NIA will further probe their network in other states as well as their international connection. On July 11, the two key suspects, Minhaz and Maseerudeen, were arrested from a motor workshop cum residence of Minhaz’s father on Dubagga by-pass road. The ATS had also claimed to have recovered two pressure cookers and explosives collected to prepare pressure cooker bombs. On their revelation, three others, including Shakeel Hussain, Mohammed Mustakeem and Mohammed Mueed, were arrested from different parts of Lucknow. They were arrested for assisting Minhaz Ahmad and Maseerudeen in arranging pistol and were aware about their terror planning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nia-to-take-over-probe-related-to-al-qaeda-linked-terror-module-busted-in-lucknow-101627585317289.html
30-07-2021||Lucknow||Aligarh node of defence corridor to open next month: UPEIDA||The Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) is all set to inaugurate Aligarh node of the defence corridor next month while Kanpur and Jhansi nodes would be opened in September and October respectively. The UPEIDA has also completed 60 percent of the Chitrakoot- Delhi expressway.Chief executive officer, UPEIDA, Awanish Kumar Awasthi gave this information on second day of the virtual event “Indigenisation Summit on Defence and Aerospace” (ISDA) 2021 on Thursday. The UPEIDA is the nodal agency to execute the defence corridor project. The defence corridor would come up in Bundelkhand region and is expected to generate more than one lakh jobs. The corridor would have six nodes- Aligarh, Agra, Jhansi, Chitrakoot, Kanpur and Lucknow. On February 21, 2018, PM Narendra Modi had announced ₹20,000 crore defence industrial corridor in Bundelkhand—considered one of the most backward regions in the state.Speaking on the occasion, UP industrial development minister Satish Mahana, said: “Despite challenges posed by the pandemic, construction work of the expressway connecting Chitrakoot to Delhi is going on at a rapid pace and is almost 60 percent complete.” Mahana also said ancillary industries like food, infrastructure, textile and others would also grow as indigenisation in the armed forces increased. He said the government was also working with several public sector units like HAL, DRDO and others. Uttar Pradesh has nine ordnance factories which are controlled by the ministry of defence.The Yogi government has offered financial benefits for units in defence corridor willing to give year-long skill development training along with job to the youth. The government will pay ₹10,000 per month per youth to such industrial units which are willing to offer year-long skill development training along with job to a youth. Each unit will be entitled to train 50 such youths. As the defence corridor is aimed at generating more jobs for drought–hit Bundelkhand region, the Yogi government has offered capital subsidy for such industrialists that are willing to invest up to ₹10 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aligarh-node-of-defence-corridor-to-open-next-month-upeida-101627585200013.html
30-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra floods: CM meets officials from insurance firms, banks||A day after the decision over the relief package for Maharashtra flood-hit districts was deferred for want of clarity over the potential financial burden, the chief minister (CM) held meetings with officials from 11 insurance companies and bankers, asking them settle the claims immediately and give loans at lower rates. CM Uddhav Thackeray asked officials from insurance companies and banks to take a lenient approach towards the flood-affected people. The insurance companies have been asked to release 50% of the cover of traders and citizens immediately. The companies have also been told to complete the procedure and release the insurance claims at the earliest. Thackeray has also requested Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to direct the companies to consider the assessment done by the state revenue authorities for the settlement of the claims. In a letter to Sitharaman, Thackeray said that the flood-affected people from Konkan and western Maharashtra have been waiting for the settlement of the claims against the insurance of their vehicles, shops and houses. “The insurance companies have agreed to release 50% of the claim amount based on the assessment by the revenue department. However, they will need directives from the Central government to their headquarters and the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority. The Centre has previously given such directives during the floods in Kerala and Jammu and Kashmir,” the letter stated.Thackeray also asked banks to extend loans for the working capital at concessional rates to traders who have sustained losses in the floods. Banks have also been asked to give waiver to pay the instalments of their pending loans. Thackeray, in the letter, has requested Sitharaman for directives to the banks, too. Banks and insurance companies have also been told to make the procedure consumer-friendly while settling the claims or giving loans. They have also been asked not insist on any tedious process and documentation, considering the situation.State relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said that the government has asked the Centre to send its teams to assess the losses, at the earliest. He said that the disbursement of ₹10,000 per household as immediate assistance will begin from Friday.Meanwhile, state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray faced the wrath of locals during his visit to Chiplun. A resident asked him what he has done as the environment minister. The resident pointed at the silted rivers which caused flooding and the prolonged work of the bridge on Vashishti river. “You please ensure that the rivers are desilted so that they would not cause the flooding. What have you done as environment minister? You should tour the affected areas on foot to realise the plight of the people and visit us at least once a month. People are not intimated in advance while discharging water from the dams and it causes the whole problem,” the resident told Aaditya during their interaction.He, however, heard the resident patiently and said the resident was right. Aaditya also assured the resident that take corrective action will be taken. Later he said, “The residents have every right to express themselves freely as they have been suffering all these days. In fact, we have been touring to understand their plight and what they have faced.” Thackeray also visited a few affected villages in Raigad district. He will visit flood-hit Kolhapur on Friday. After visiting the flood-ravaged villages in Raigad and Ratnagiri on Saturday and Sunday respectively, Thackeray was scheduled to visit Satara in western Maharashtra on Monday, but his helicopter could not land at Koyana Nagar due to bad weather conditions. A few state and national highways are still shut for vehicular traffic. The Goa-Mumbai highway between Khed and Chiplun is partially shut for heavy vehicles and the Ratnagiri-Kolhapur highway is shut in Amba ghat.Sangli collector Abhijeet Chaudhari issued a statement on Thursday warning citizens to take due care in the wake of the additional water discharge from reservoirs, keeping the forecast of heavy rainfall in mind. “To regulate the water level and keeping the potential heavy rainfall in mind, there could be additional discharge of water from the dams, leading to the rise in the water level in Krishna [river] by around 2 feet. The water level in Krishna river may rise up to 42 feet. The villagers and farmers on the banks of the river are warned to take due care,” Chaudhari has said.At 41.4 feet, the water level of Panchganga river receded below its danger level, which is 43ft, almost after a week. Its warning level is 39ft.Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis visited the flood-affected villages in Sangli on Thursday. He criticised the state government for the “delay” in the assistance to flood-affected farmers and villagers. “The state government should immediately release the relief without waiting to complete the formalities. The government has been pointing fingers at the Centre to shrug off its own responsibility. During our government, we had given relief to the 2019-flood affected people on an immediate basis,” he said.The death toll in the flood-ravaged districts since July 22 stands at 213, even as 52 people have sustained injuries and eight are still untraceable. Death of domestic animals stands at 398, while 60,882 poultry birds have been reported to have died. Around 435,879 people from eight districts have been evacuated to safer places, while 53,295 of them are staying in 349 shelters built by the government and NGOs.Half of the NDRF teams have been withdrawn from the affected districts and 16 NDRF teams and two army teams are stationed in seven districts for disaster response work, including Kolhapur (with six teams) and Sangli (with four teams) , which still have heavy rainfall forecast. The state government has deferred its decision of relief package to the flood-affected people as it is wary of the financial burden. “The losses are expected to cross well beyond ₹5,000 crore from the preliminary estimates of ₹4,000 crore. We have already hiked the compensation given to the affected people. Surprisingly, the losses to the crops in districts like Nanded, where severity of the rainfall was not as high as in western Maharashtra, have been reported to be more than 70,000 hectares (ha). We have also witnessed in the past that the figures of the crop losses are inflated extensively.In four districts of western Maharashtra, the losses to the crops, as per the preliminary estimates, is 111,648 ha, while it is more than 100,000 ha in eight districts of central Maharashtra. The total estimated crop losses is more than 350,000 ha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-floods-cm-meets-officials-from-insurance-firms-banks-101627585199534.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Move on PPAs: AAP calls it ploy by Punjab govt to waste time||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday questioned the letter written by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to PSPCL to review or cancel the power purchase agreements (PPAs), calling it a “time pass drama”. AAP MLA and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema asked the chief minister if he and other Congressmen were sleeping for four-and-a-half years. “If the chief minister is really serious, he should immediately cancel the PPAs in the cabinet meeting and then through the assembly session,” he said at a press conference, promising the principal opposition party’s support in cancellation of power deals. Cheema claimed that this “game of letters” was another betrayal of the people of Punjab and a ploy by the Congress government to waste time. He also accused the CM of running away from convening the cabinet meeting, stating that no meeting of the state cabinet had been convened from the last 41 days. He also demanded that the assembly session should be convened immediately.The AAP leader said the CM’s letter proved that the demand for cancellation of power deals was absolutely right. On the recommendations of the group of experts led by Montek Singh Ahluwalia, Cheema said the committee wanted to end all subsidies, including electricity, given to the people of Punjab. The government reject the recommendations of the expert group through the assembly forever, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/move-on-ppas-aap-calls-it-ploy-by-punjab-govt-to-waste-time-101627585137862.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Violation of maryada: 4 members of Uttarakhand gurdwara committee resign||Four members of the historic Nanakmatta Sahib Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee resigned after a video surfaced showing schoolgirls performing folk dances and raising pro-BJP slogans on the shrine premises to welcome Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, allegedly hurting religious sentiments.The resignations follow the highest temporal seat of Sikhs-- Akal Takht -- taking strong exception to the alleged act of sacrilege and sending a three-member panel to Nankmatta gurdwara to look into the matter.Those who resigned on Wednesday include the head of the Nanakmatta Sahib Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, Seva Singh, and three other members.CM Pushkar Singh Dhami had visited the historic gurdwara in Nanakmatta, around 40km from Rudrapur, to pay obeisance in the course of his tour of Udham Singh Nagar district on July 24 to inaugurate and lay foundation stones of development projects.The CM’s assembly constituency Khatima is also located in Udham Singh Nagar district.The CM was accorded a warm welcome as he arrived at the shrine for the first time after assuming office along with ministers and MLAs to pay obeisance. Schoolgirls performed folk dances of Uttarakhand to welcome him and even pro-BJP slogans were shouted by some. Even the Gurbani, which is supposed to be played constantly at the gurdwara, was stopped for a while.All this did not go down well with the Sikh devotees, who lodged a complaint with the Akal Takht in Amritsar and gathered in Nanakmatta, demanding action against those responsible for the alleged act of sacrilege.Those who have resigned have been asked to present their side before the Akal Takht within 15 days after which a final call will be taken on the matter. A five-member panel has been constituted to look after the management of the historic gurdwara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/violation-of-maryada-4-members-of-uttarakhand-gurdwara-committee-resign-101627584957829.html
30-07-2021||Lucknow||Gaming and learning mobile app by IIT-K grads an instant hit among masses||: Two IIT Kanpur graduates have developed a mobile phone game that boost learning while using interactive traditional games. The application Zupee, developed in 2018 by Dilsher Singh Malhi and Siddhant Saurabh, currently has more than 11 million users in India. “The platform focuses on improving learning abilities, skills and mental aptitude though scientifically designed mental exercises and gamification of day-to-day activities,” said Subi Chaturvedi, head corporate and public affairs for mobile applications. “Majority of these users are from Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities with limited internet penetration. Our users not just take up skills like maths, language and general information but can also monetise their general know how,” added Subi. “Beside the focus on skill will also ensure internet hygiene by limiting the time spent by users in the game and pushing them to upgrading their skills,” she added. The application also provide platform to build communities of people with similar interest and boost their knowledge by gamification. “Learning new things or skill is far easier and effective when it’s done in a form of a game. This is the whole idea of the platform. We are also planning to use this aspect of learning new skills in rural pockets where the avenues to do so are absent,” Chaturvedi explained. The IIT graduates Dilsher Singh Malhi and Siddhant Saurabh, the developers of the game, were recently figured in the Forbes 30 under 30 Asia list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/gaming-and-learning-mobile-app-by-iit-k-grads-an-instant-hit-among-masses-101627584897300.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing: SIT records statements of 3 more cops||The three-member special investigation team (SIT) led by ADGP LK Yadav probing the 2015 Kotkapura firing incident on Thursday recorded statements of three more policemen. The SIT had summoned cops, who were deputed at various locations during the protest and firing incident at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015. Three inspectors Jatinder Singh, Abhinav Chajaan and Gurvinder Singh appeared before an SIT member, deputy inspector general of police Surjit Singh, at Faridkot. On Wednesday, SIT had recorded statements of 11 cops, including then Faridkot senior superintendent of police (now commandant, 9th battalion, PAP, Amritsar) Sukhminder Singh Mann as witnesses. The Punjab and Haryana high court had on April 9 quashed all reports filed by the previous SIT headed by the inspector general of police (now retired) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh. The state government constituted the new three-member SIT that has been directed to complete the investigation within six months. So far, the SIT has recorded statements of more than 200 persons, including former chief minister Prakash Singh Badal and former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-firing-sit-records-statements-of-3-more-cops-101627584839220.html
30-07-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s housing body blacklists 644 projects for delay in completion||In a major crackdown on errant builders, the Maharashtra Housing Regulatory Authority (MahaRera) has blacklisted 644 projects across the state for delay in completion. MahaRera has completely prohibited sale, advertising or marketing of houses of these residential projects. Incidentally, 80% of houses in these projects have been sold.Anarock Property Consultants, a real estate consultancy firm which analysed the data, has revealed that of the 644 projects, 16% were to be completed by 2017, while 84% had 2018 as their deadline. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) leads the pack with 274 (43%) of the total 644 blacklisted projects, followed by Pune with 189 (29%) houses. The remaining 28% (181) projects are in Nagpur, Nashik, Kolhapur, Aurangabad, Satara, Ratnagiri and Sangli. Anuj Puri, chairman of the consultancy firm, called the step a positive move. “This move by MahaRera sends out a strong signal to errant developers who have been delaying projects incessantly. Homebuyers have been waiting to get possession since 2017 and 2018,” he said, adding that all these projects were being developed by local developers and not by any reputed or leading developer.Advocate Vinod Sampat said that it was now on flat buyers to take the call on the matter. “Flat owners need to come together and decide on the future of their project. They can call for new developer,” said Sampat.Dr Sanjay Chaturvedi, who deals with issues related MahaRera, said “MahaRera may now come up with the step of blacklisting these errant builders [of the blacklisted projects] so that they cannot take up any project in the future.” Since MahaRera came into existence on May 1, 2017, the state has registered 29,884 real estate projects, of which 24% or 7,245 have been completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-housing-body-blacklists-644-projects-for-delay-in-completion-101627584837984.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 2 deaths, 61 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Thursday reported 61 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total count in the state to 5,99,005, a government bulletin stated.Two more Covid-related fatalities took the death toll to 16,290. The number of active cases stood at 553.Patiala reported 16 infections, followed by eight cases in Ludhiana and five in Bathinda.With 60 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,82,162, the bulletin stated.A total of 1,20,58,233 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-2-deaths-61-fresh-covid-cases-101627584658102.html
30-07-2021||Delhi||HC grants relief to man charged close to ₹12L for parking vehicle on public land||Granting relief to a man who was allegedly charged approximately ₹12 lakh for illegal parking and carrying out “commercial activity” in the public land, the Delhi high court said the civic body could not justify the grounds on which the man’s vehicle was seized and hence, cannot ask for the fine.The aggrieved man in the case, Rahul Kumar, moved court seeking release of his vehicle which was clamped and seized by the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) in February this year after it received complaints from various agencies regarding illegal parking and commercial activity being carried out in the public land in front of the Shamshan Ghat at Geeta Colony.The civic body told the court that the petitioner,Kumar,was liable to pay a sum ₹11,99,830 as a penalty for committing the violations.In a judgment dated July 26, justice Sanjeev Sachdeva, while directing the civic body to release the vehicle, said, “Since there is no justification of the respondent (EDMC) in seizing the vehicle of the petitioner, it cannot demand any amount towards removal charges or storage charges of the vehicle…Clearly, the action of the respondent in seizing the vehicle of the petitioner and raising the demand of approximately ₹12 lakhs...for the release of the vehicle cannot be sustained.”The judge also said no show cause notice was given to the petitioner, requiring him to remove his vehicle from the public land or directing him not to park his vehicle on the said location. It added Kumar was not informed of the consequences of parking his vehicle on public land.The court said the civic body’s affidavit did not state as to what commercial activity was being carried out by Kumar on the public land. “No material has been placed on record by the respondent (EDMC) to substantiate the allegations that loading and unloading of goods was being carried out by the petitioner in the public place,” the court said.The judge also said that Sections 321 and 322 of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act did not empower the commissioner to remove a vehicle from a public place unless such vehicle is “used for hawking or exposing for sale on any public streets or in other public place”.“The alleged commercial activity of loading and unloading goods in a public place by no stretch of imagination can be covered under the expression “hawked or exposed for sale” as used in section 322 of the Act,” said the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-grants-relief-to-man-charged-close-to-12l-for-parking-vehicle-on-public-land-101627584002882.html
30-07-2021||Other||Delhi: Vegetable vendor murdered in Adarsh Nagar||New Delhi: A 26-year-old vegetable vendor died after being attacked with a weapon, possibly an ice pick, near the Azadpur fruits and vegetable market in northwest Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar in the early hours of Thursday.The police initially registered a case of death due to an accident as they had first received a call that a man was bleeding on the road and may have been hit by an unknown vehicle. However, the man’s autopsy report confirmed that he was attacked with a pointed weapon that could be an ice-pick. His brother also suspected a foul play and demanded that a case of murder should be registered, the police said.“We are analysing the autopsy report and further legal action will be taken accordingly. Our teams are scanning CCTV cameras installed around the place where the man’s body was found,” said deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani.On Thursday afternoon, many traders and vendors from the Azadpur Mandi staged a protest and blocked the main road for nearly three hours, demanding justice for the dead vegetable vendor and quick police action into the case.The dead vegetable vendor, identified as Jitendra Yadav, lived in Moolchand Colony near Adarsh Nagar. He originally belonged to Sitamarhi in Bihar. Yadav is survived by his wife and two children.A police officer associated with the case said on the condition of anonymity that Yadav was walking towards Azadpur Mandi when the incident took place. “Our preliminary investigation has revealed that he was attacked by four men, who robbed him of his mobile phone and cash. There are certain leads on which we are working,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-vegetable-vendor-murdered-in-adarsh-nagar-101627584001463.html
30-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to take over management of Bal Bharati Public School in Rohini||The Delhi government will take over the management of Bal Bharati Public School in Rohini for allegedly hiking fee without a clearance from the education department, the government said in a statement issued Thursday.“Delhi government had issued orders several times to withdraw the arbitrarily increased fees by the school but the school management has failed every time to comply with these orders. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had approved the proposal of the Directorate of Education (DoE) to take over the management of Bal Bharti School. This file was sent to the LG, which has now been approved,” said a statement released from the deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia’s office.Sisodia, who is also the education minister, also warned other schools: “If any school does this then strict action will be taken against them.”The school, in a statement, said it has “always functioned under the provisions of DSEAR (Delhi School Education Act and Rules, 1973) and followed all the judgments of the Delhi high court”. The institute said they are yet to receive any communication from the DoE, adding that it will wait for it to decide their next step.This is the latest in a series of actions against private schools allegedly hiking fee: on Wednesday, the education department said it initiated steps to take over Apeejay School in Sheikh Sarai for repeatedly failing to roll back the fee hike introduced by them in the last two academic years ; and on July 27,the Delhi government said it will take over the management of Swami Sivananda Memorial School in Punjabi Bagh.Following an “in-depth inspection of the financial statements” of Bal Bharti School for the financial years 2016-17 and 2017-18, DoE officials found that the school had total fund corpus of ₹23.82 crore for the year 2017-2018, out of which ₹20.94 crore was estimated to be spent. “The school management had a net surplus of about ₹2,87,44,156. After this, DoE came to the conclusion that there is no need for the school management to increase the fees. In this regard, the directorate refused to accept the fee hike proposed by the school for the academic session 2017-18,” the statement said, adding that the department had also asked the school to adjust the increased fee.“…In the meantime, the Delhi government again received complaints from the parents that the school had increased the fees several times in 2018-19 and 2019-20, and further also asked [parents] to deposit arrears,” the statement said.The statement further said that the education department issued a notice to the school on May 10, 2019, asking why the recognition of the school should not be cancelled or why the government should not take over the management of the school.“The reply received by the school was not satisfactory. In view of this situation, the Delhi government has decided to initiate the process of taking over the management of the school,” the statement said.Meanwhile, the school’s statement said it is hearing about the action only through the media. “We are yet to receive any communication from the DoE and will consider the entire issue once we receive a direct communication. Bal Bharati Public School has always functioned within the provisions of DSEAR and followed all the judgments given by Delhi high court on related issues in the past, and will continue to do so in future also. We want to assure parents of our students that we will always protect the interests of our students,” the statement said.The action committee of private recognised schools condemned the Delhi government‘s “one-sided action through media release”. “By such irresponsible actions, the government is trying to malign the reputation and defame Bal Bharati Public School, Rohini, and also cause unnecessary anxiety to the parents of the school. Even if the government is contemplating any action against the school, they should write to the school and follow the provisions of DSEAR. We would like to reiterate that action committee will take legal recourse to protect the interests of and stand by its member schools,” said a statement issued by the body.The Action Committee for Unaided Recognised schools too condemned the government decision and said they will take legal recourse to protect interests of its member schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-to-take-over-management-of-bal-bharati-public-school-in-rohini-101627584000838.html
30-07-2021||Delhi||1 dies in house collapse after heavy rain in Delhi||A 40-year-old woman was killed while her daughter was injured after the roof of their two-storey jhuggi in Navjeevan Camp in south Delhi’s Govindpuri collapsed due to the rains and fell on them late Thursday afternoon, police and fire department officials said.Delhi Fire Services chief Atul Garg said that the fire control room received a call at 4.45 pm regarding a house collapse at Navjeevan Camp. “Three fire tenders along with the rescue team were rushed to the spot. A double-storey house had collapsed and two women were trapped under the debris. They were rescued and rushed to AIIMS Trauma Centre,” said Garg.According to deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena, the police team also reached the spot and found that the roof of the first floor of a jhuggi had collapsed and fallen down due to rain.“First, a woman named Pooja was rescued. She suffered minor injuries. Later, Pooja’s mother Urmila was also taken out from the debris. She was unconscious. Both were admitted to the hospital, where Urmila was declared brought dead,” said DCP Meena.At the time of the house collapse, the DCP said, Urmila’s husband Ramesh was also inside. However, he somehow managed to come out of the house as it started collapsing. The couple’s two sons were not present at home, he said.One of the sons, Rahul, told the police that the back portion of his house had become weak because of a drain that flows behind the building. Rahul learnt about the incident when he reached home in the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1-dies-in-house-collapse-after-heavy-rain-in-delhi-101627584000163.html
30-07-2021||Delhi||HC seeks Delhi Police response on Tahir Hussain’s bail plea||The Delhi high court on Thursday sought the response of the city police on the bail application moved by former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain in one of the 11 cases registered against him in connection to the north-east Delhi riots that took place in February 2020.Justice Mukta Gupta issued the notice and directed that the bail application be listed before justice Yogesh Khanna, who is hearing the bail pleas moved by Hussain in the other riots cases on August 6. The direction came on a request made by Hussain’s counsel Mohit Mathur that since justice Khanna is hearing the other bail pleas on August 6, the present plea may also be tagged with those applications.The present FIR pertains to the alleged commission of offences of rioting and destruction of public property in Dayalpur area by Hussain.The other two cases pertain to injuries suffered by two people on account of a riotous mob pelting stones, throwing petrol bombs and firing from the terrace of Hussain’’s house, and the alleged commission of offences, including attempt to murder, rioting, and violations of the Arms Act.Communal clashes broke out in north-east Delhi on February 24 after a standoff between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 700 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-seeks-delhi-police-response-on-tahir-hussain-s-bail-plea-101627583998402.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana likely to reopen primary schools in August||Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal on Thursday said even as the Union government has set 2030 as the target to implement the National Education Policy (NEP)-2020, the Haryana government is planning to fully implement it by 2025.He said NCC will be included as an elective subject in colleges and that a committee has been constituted for its implementation.He said if the Covid-19 situation remains under control, the education department is likely to reopen primary schools in August.The government has already reopened middle, high and senior secondary schools.Earlier, Kanwar Pal along with chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and state health minister Anil Vij, had attended the programme PM Narendra Modi addressed through video conference to mark one year of the launch of National Education Policy, 2020.An official spokesperson said the CM has directed officers of the education department to ensure speedy implementation of the new initiatives the PM has started so that Haryana’s target of implementing the NEP by 2025 is achieved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-likely-to-reopen-primary-schools-in-august-101627583997792.html
30-07-2021||Other||Lakha Sidhana gets bail in Red Fort violence case||New Delhi: A Delhi court on Thursday granted anticipatory bail to gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana in a case related to his alleged involvement in the violence that ensued at the Red Fort here on Republic Day, saying that no case is made out against him. Additional Sessions Judge Kamini Lau said that there is no prima facie material to show that Sidhana was present inside the Red Fort and “if that be so, even no case is made out against him.” It also said that the Investigating Officer (IO) is unable to respond why the custodial interrogation of the accused is further required in the investigation,” the judge said.The court also observed that the Investigating Officer (IO) is not sure as to whether the presence of the accused outside the Red Fort is a very grave offence and non-bailable opining that most of the offences are bailable.The court admitted him on pre-arrest bail on furnishing a personal bond of ₹50,000­ with one local surety of the like amount.The police had opposed the plea saying that he is one of the key conspirators of the violence and was a prominent face at Singhu Border during the protests.“Sidhana was very well versed with the route provided by the Delhi Police to farmers for their protests, but accused in complete violation and disregard of the guidelines instigated the mob not to follow the permitted route,” the prosecutor told the court. His counsel Jasdeep Singh Dhillon, however, told the court that there is not even an iota of evidence to show that he either indulged in any violence or incited anyone to commit it. On January 26, protesting farmers clashed with police during the tractor rally against three farm laws and stormed into the Red Fort, hoisting religious flags on its domes and injuring scores of policemen. An FIR was registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, Arms Act, Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, Epidemic Act, and Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lakha-sidhana-gets-bail-in-red-fort-violence-case-101627583938469.html
30-07-2021||Other||SDMC to rent out heritage buildings||New Delhi: The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) plans to rent out heritage buildings, that are maintained by the civic body at present, for commercial purposes like restaurants, guest houses, banks, retail shopping centres, said civic officials.Officials said the decision, taken in the standing committee meeting of the SDMC on Thursday, is aimed at generating more revenue for the cash-strapped civic body.BK Oberoi, chairman of the SDMC standing committee, said that the civic body maintains over a 100 heritage buildings. “A lot of money and resources are spent on maintaining it. The move will boost our revenue and help conserve heritage structures as well,” he said.As per the proposal, applicants will have to pay a minimum reserve price of ₹1 lakh, and the annual maintenance and restoration cost of the heritage building will be borne by the licensee.To start with, officials said the civic body will rent out one of its buildings in Mehrauli which is around 100 years old.“This building has an area of 5,600 square feet and it will be rented out to a suitable bidder for ₹3 lakh per month... Once this pilot project is successful we will replicate the same for other such buildings as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sdmcto-rent-out-heritage-buildings-101627583937927.html
30-07-2021||Delhi||Just three hours of rain enough to set Delhi’s traffic out of order on Thursday||Just a few hours of rain on Thursday led to a now familiar sight in the Capital — waterlogged roads, crawling traffic and long-winded snarls.In tune with contemporary weather patterns, the city was dry for much of Thursday, except for a three-hour span between 2.30pm and 5.30pm, when the city got a bulk of the day’s 72mm of rain.Over the last decade, the Capital has been receiving shorter and more intense spells of rain, experts have said, a change in monsoon patterns that is the primary reason behind increasing instances of urban flooding and flash floods in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR).Thursday’s spell of rain, which coincided with the peak traffic hours, was enough to bring traffic to a screeching halt on some of the city’s most crucial arterial roads, including ones in ITO, Dhaula Kuan, Pragati Maidan, Sri Aurobindo Marg (below the AIIMS flyover), Barapullah, Signature Bridge, Hari Nagar and Geeta Colony, showed data from the Delhi traffic police.Commuters laid bare their frustration at the traffic on social media, posting pictures of long traffic jams and waterlogged roads.“There was a heavy traffic jam between AIIMS and Ashram flyover (on the Ring Road). It took around three hours to reach the DND (Delhi-Noida-Direct Flyway),” tweeted Jagannath Kar, a commuter.Another commuter, Sonal Maheshwari, tweeted, “What is the problem on the Barapullah flyover? My father is stuck from the last two hours in the same spot. Can someone take action?”Senior traffic police officers said that a large number of personnel were deployed across the city on Thursday evening, the inundated roads led to vehicles slowly navigating through the water, which in turn led to a cascading effect to other arterial roads.The Safdarjung weather station, which provides representative data for the city, received 72mm rainfall till 5.30pm, even as the Palam weather station in South-West Delhi did not receive any rain till Thursday evening.The rain did, however, keep the city cool on Thursday. The Safdarjung station recorded a maximum temperature of 32.1 degrees Celsius, two below what is considered normal for this time of the year, and a minimum temperature of 24°C, three below normal.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that there is a forecast of ‘light to moderate’ showers on July 30-31 as well. “The monsoon trough is persisting in Delhi and hence more showers are likely over the next couple of days. There may be patchy rainfall on August 1-2 as well. This will also keep the temperature in check,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/just-three-hours-of-rain-enough-to-set-delhi-s-traffic-out-of-order-on-thursday-101627583937295.html
30-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 5 held for molesting women near Hauz Khas Village resto bar||Ten days after five men allegedly passed lewd remarks on four women from Darjeeling while they were waiting for a cab at south Delhi’s Hauz Khas Village, police on Thursday said they had arrested the five suspects. Four of them are from Chattarpur in Madhya Pradesh while the fifth is a resident of Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh, the police said.A mobile video clip in which the women were seen arguing with the five men and accusing them of sexually harassing them had surfaced on July 21, prompting the police to approach the women and register a case of sexual harassment under Indian Penal Code’s Section 509. One of the women had filed a complaint and had alleged that the men had passed “lewd remarks” on them outside a resto-bar, where they were waiting for a cab, said deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh.During the investigation, a police officer associated with the case said, the investigating team scanned CCTV cameras installed around the place of the incident and found that the suspects had come out of another resto-bar.“We went to that restro-bar and found the name and contact number of one suspect that he had mentioned in the visitor’s entry register. The person was contacted and asked to join the investigation along with his four friends who were involved in the crime. All five joined the probe and we arrested them,” said the officer.The five men told the police that they had come to Delhi for some work and gone to the Hauz Khas Village for partying, the night before they were scheduled to leave for their hometowns, the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-5-held-for-molesting-women-near-hauz-khas-village-resto-bar-101627583877311.html
30-07-2021||Other||UP amends policy, specifies more days for prisoners’ early release||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh government has made amendments to its policy to allow remission of sentence to convicts facing life term with ease and specifying more important days, including International Women’s Day ( March 8) and International Yoga Day ( June 21) for their release from jails. The amended policy, released on July 28, has also included World Health Day (April 7), Gandhi Jayanti (October 2), Republic Day and Independence Day as days for prisoners’ release. In recent years, the state government has been releasing the inmates on important days like anniversary of Dandi March (April 6), birth anniversary of Dr Sarvpalli Radhakrishnan (September 5), Independence Day and Gandhi Jayanti etc but the policy released in 2018 mentioned only the Republic Day as days for their release. “Amendments have been made to the policy to have clear cut provisions for expeditious decision-making. Both Governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath wanted special provisions for women. Norms have also been eased for release of those suffering from serious ailments,” said Avnish Awasthi, additional chief secretary, home and prisons department. Uttar Pradesh has 71 jails that remain overcrowded with 113691 inmates, nearly double the capacity to house 60,805 prisoners. The policy will obviously help in easing overcrowding in jails. The state government has released 2572 prisoners from jails in the past three years. These include 1992 inmates released in 2019 and 394 and 186 prisoners freed in 2020 and 2021 respectively. “Easing of norms is a welcome move. Those who have reformed themselves in prisons should be allowed to go back to society and make their contribution. The state government has powers, and it should liberally use these powers to free those who it feels will not commit a crime when released from prison,” said CB Pandey, former legal advisor to Governor of Uttar Pradesh. Under the amended policy, all the life term convicts suffering from 13 listed serious ailments will be considered for early release if their crime does not fall in listed categories of serious crime. Ailments listed in the policy include advanced bilateral pulmonary tuberculosis, incurable malignancy, incurable blood diseases, congestive heart failure, chronic epilepsy and mental degeneration, advanced leprosy with deformities and trophic ulcers, total blindness of both eyes, incurable paraplegias and hemiplegia, advanced Parkinsonism, brain tumour, incurable aneurysms, irreversible kidney failure and any other terminal disease. It also provides for release of all male inmates who have completed 60 years of age and have completed a punishment of 16 years (without remission) and 20 years (with remission), if the crime committed by them is not covered in the list of serious crimes. The serious crimes’ list includes fleeing from jail or police custody, kidnapping for ransom, to make one handicapped for the purpose of begging, forcing women to marry, importing women, kidnapping of children of less than 10 year of age or committing crime against them or any other crime charged under Section 373 of the Indian penal Code (IPC). A committee headed by additional chief secretary /principal secretary prisons would consider the recommendations/proposals for early release of inmates under provisions of the policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-amends-policy-specifies-more-days-for-prisoners-early-release-101627583757174.html
30-07-2021||Delhi||Constable held for assault, kidnap of fruit vendor; hunt on for 2 more suspects||A Delhi Police constable and his friend were arrested for allegedly assaulting a 28-year-old fruit vendor over a road rage, that eventually led to his death, abducting him and dumping his body in a canal in Uttar Pradesh’s Muradnagar on the night of June 4, said police on Thursday.Deputy commissioner of police (east) Priyanka Kashyap said the constable, Monu Sirohi, who was posted at the Pandav Nagar police station, was dismissed on Thursday. The other arrested man, identified as Harish, repairs air conditioners for a living. Police are on the lookout for two more suspects, identified as Vikas and Vineet, who were involved in the alleged attack.The crime came to the fore on July 20, nearly 46 days later, when a 3.06 minute-long video, which shows four men assaulting the victim, identified as Ajeet Kumar, and his friend Atul, came to the attention of police officers.The alleged assault and kidnapping happened in New Kondli area, that falls under the jurisdiction of New Ashok Nagar police station in east district. On Thursday, the station house officer (SHO) of New Ashok Nagar police station was suspended and sent to district lines for alleged negligence in handling Kumar’s missing complaint that was filed by his family members on June 13--nine days after he went missing. They filed another complaint on June 15, in which they suspected that Kumar may have been abducted and killed, said police.When contacted, Ajeet’s brother Ashok said, “My brother was missing since June 4. Initially, we thought he went to some relative’s house but when he did not return, we filed a complaint where we told police that a neighbour may have had a hand in my brother’s disappearance as he used to threaten us and pass casteist remarks. Instead of finding my brother, the policeman handling our case wanted us to withdraw the complaint and put pressure on us to sign a compromise letter.”A police officer, who did not wish to be identified, said, “The neighbour was examined on July 20, after Kumar’s family filed a complaint with the lieutenant governor’s office for no action on their missing complaint. The complaint was also marked to senior police officers, who sought a report on the action taken from the concerned police station.”“The local police then contacted the neighbour, who not only denied his involvement but also shared a video clip in which four men can be seen beating up Kumar and Atul. The neighbour shot the video on his mobile phone,” said the officer.After seeing the video, the district’s special staff was tasked to investigate the case and identify the people involved in the attack. The investigating team traced the ownership of the Swift car into which Kumar was shoved and found it was registered in the name of Sirohi. A police team also went to Atul’s house and learnt that he had gone out of the city a few days ago but did not tell anyone about the assault.“Sirohi was asked to join the investigation. He initially denied his involvement but eventually confessed to his crime when we confronted him with the video clip. His interrogation led to Harish’s arrest. They confessed that Kumar died because of the assault and that they dumped his body in a canal in Muradnagar along with two of their associates to hide the crime,” said the officer.Police informed that Atul, in his statement, said he knew Kumar was assaulted and bundled in a car but remained silent because he knew the assaulter was a policeman and feared that he might be booked in a false case. Atul had managed to flee the spot where the alleged assault took place.DCP Kashyap said a case under Sections 364 (kidnapping in order to murder), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 302 (murder) has been registered against the suspects.Another police officer said Sirohi, who lives in a barrack of the New Ashok Nagar police station, and Harish told police that on June 4, they consumed alcohol and went to New Kondli to buy food. “They said Kumar hit the car’s hood with his hand, which infuriated them, and that led to an altercation,” said the officer.“Following the altercation, the four, including Sirohi, assaulted Kumar and Atul and abducted the former. Kumar’s body is yet to be traced. The car used in the crime has been recovered,” said Kashyap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/constable-held-for-assault-kidnap-of-fruit-vendor-hunt-on-for-2-more-suspects-101627583698602.html
30-07-2021||Other||Speaker asks CS to take action against officers for not standing up during the national song||New Delhi: Delhi assembly speaker Ram Niwas Goel on Thursday directed chief secretary (CS) Vijay Dev to take action against officers for “disrespecting” the national song “Vande Mataram” by not standing up when it was played on day one of the Delhi Assembly’s monsoon session.In a letter to the CS, the Speaker also asked for an action taken report on the matter by August 6. The Delhi Assembly’s two-day monsoon session started on Thursday, with the proceedings, as usual, beginning in the morning after playing the national song. The speaker observed that some officers in the viewers’ gallery continued to sit while the national song was playing, officials of the Assembly secretariat said. “I am directed by the honourable Speaker to draw your attention to the fact that during the sitting of the house on July 29, 2021, officers in the officers’ gallery did not stand up while the national song Vande Matram was being played, thereby showing disrespect to it. Accordingly, the Speaker has decided that necessary action in the matter may be taken under intimation to this office by August 6, 2021,” the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/speaker-asks-cs-to-take-action-against-officers-for-not-standing-up-during-the-national-song-101627583697131.html
30-07-2021||Delhi||O2 crisis: Drug dept targeting particular party, says Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Thursday cautioned the city’s drug control department against prosecuting the good Samaritans who distributed oxygen cylinders during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic when “both the Centre and Delhi government failed to provide it”.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh slammed the department for initiating action against AAP MLA Praveen Kumar, who represents Jangpura constituency, and said it was trying to target a particular political party. The bench said if the department starts prosecuting people like this, it will have to initiate action against “half the city”.“…we observed that it’s a technical type of offence involving oxygen. This way you’ll pick up half of Delhi. Why to proceed against specific political parties then? Proceed against gurdwaras too then. We said we will not permit this. Proceed against every gurdwara, every temple, churches or social organisation and people who had procured and distributed oxygen then.“How can you prosecute him (Kumar)? The State, both Centre and Delhi government, failed in providing sufficient oxygen to people in Delhi. There were some Samaritans who provided oxygen. You can’t prosecute them…. You’re very consciously targeting political parties. It’s very unfortunate. We will not permit this,” the bench said.The high court was hearing a PIL seeking lodging of an FIR on the allegations that politicians were able to procure and distribute Covid-19 medicines even as patients were running from pillar to post to get them. An application was later filed in the pending petition making allegations against Kumar and AAP MLA from Tri Nagar Preeti Tomar. Tomar was later given a clean chit.The court’s remarks came after the Delhi Drug Control Department, in a status report, said that it has initiated prosecution against AAP MLA Kumar, after he was found allegedly hoarding oxygen cylinders during the second Covid-19 wave.The report had also said that prosecution has been launched against BJP MP Gautam Gambhir’s Foundation, and AAP MLA Imran Hussain for alleged unauthorised purchase/procurement, stocking and distribution of medicines and medical oxygen.With respect to Imran Hussain, the court said that it had earlier exonerated the legislator after finding that he was procuring oxygen cylinders from Haryana.“All that we wanted to know in that respect was, was he sourcing his oxygen cylinders from refillers in Delhi. He filed an affidavit to say he was getting it from outside, he provided the particulars, challans etc. So, we said alright there is a man who is getting it from outside. He is helping the community and not lodging out of the supply to Delhi itself… therefore, we said let him go and did not take any action. Somebody is doing a similar thing, then how will you prosecute him?” the court said.On Thursday, when the court asked why action was taken against AAP MLA Kumar, the drug controller’s lawyer, Nandita Rao said a probe showed that the legislator procured oxygen from Punjab himself, without any doctor’s prescription. Rao said the department is not doing a “witch hunt” but court responded, “Of course this is a witch hunt. Your second report clearly shows it.”The court also rejected the request from advocate Rao seeking time to file an updated status report on the aspect of prosecution of those procuring and distributing oxygen cylinders.“We are not giving you two weeks. We’re giving you two days. But if you’re deciding to take action against those who were having oxygen, then you should also take action against all gurdwaras and temples, etc. We’ll take details from you,” the bench said.The bench said that even though action against Gambhir was justified because he acted “irresponsibly” by hoarding medicines, action could not be taken against Kumar and others who distributed oxygen cylinders.“Didn’t you see pictures in the media? People wanting oxygen in Delhi….You should not go against a person. He (Praveen Kumar) was only trying to help the society. The reason for picking up Mr. Gautam Gambhir’s case was that he was very irresponsibly having Covid-19 medicines. He may have had the best intentions but he procured 10,000 Fabiflu tablets, stocked them and then distributed them among people in his constituency so much so that he was left with 236 strips,” the court said.During the proceedings, senior advocate Kailash Vasdev, appearing for Gambhir, urged the high court to grant him a hearing as he wished to make certain clarifications and also requested the court to clarify in its order that the adverse observations made against him will not be used against the BJP MP before the trial court where prosecution has been initiated against him.The high court made it clear that the observations made by it earlier in these hearings will not come in the way of proceedings in the trial court.The Gautam Gambhir Foundation, in a statement, said, “The court was informed about the voluntary service done by the foundation from 2012 for society at large. The court was informed how the orders of the court had been misused by vested interests to tarnish the image of a voluntary body and Gambhir, and how the entire matter had proceeded without hearing the affected parties. The court directed that none of its orders would prejudice the parties in any manner and the trial court would decide the case on its own merits.”The matter will now be heard on August 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/o2-crisis-drug-dept-targeting-particular-party-says-delhi-hc-101627583277943.html
30-07-2021||Delhi||Delhi Assembly resolution seeks Bharat Ratna for Bahuguna||The Delhi Assembly on Thursday unanimously passed a resolution requesting the Centre to posthumously confer the Bharat Ratna, the country’s highest civilian award, to environmentalist Sunderlal Bahuguna, a founding member of the Chipko movement.Speaking on day one of the monsoon session of the Delhi Assembly, Kejriwal said awarding Bahuguna a Bharat Ratna is not just Delhi’s demand, but of the entire nation. “Today we are talking about such a great person who was a visionary leader. In the 1960s and 70s, nobody used to talk about the environment. Nobody used to talk about trees. At that time, he gave the vision of saving our environment not just to our country but to the whole world. At just 13 years of age, he started social work and fought against untouchability. Like BR Ambedkar fought to allow entry of Dalits in temples, Bahunguna too did the same. He created hostels for them and even worked to reduce substance abuse. He even contributed to India’s freedom struggle,” he said.Bahuguna, a native of Uttarakhand, died of Covid-19 at 94 at a hospital in Rishikesh on May 21 this year. A recipient of India’s second-highest civilian award, Padma Vibhushan, Bahuguna’s work revolved around people’s rights over forests in the Himalayas.“In today’s time, grooms put up conditions, like getting a Mercedes or a house, to get married. Bahuguna’s condition to get married was that his wife would have to live with him in rural areas and in an ashram. We all know about his Chipko movement. He travelled 5,000 kms in rural India. His life gives inspiration to the new generations. Bahuguna deserves the highest honour of Bharat Ratna. I feel the Bharat Ratna will be honoured if the award goes to Bahuguna,” Kejriwal told the House.On July 16, Kejriwal had also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to award Bahuguna with a Bharat Ratna.The Aam Aadmi Party had earlier announced that it plans to contest all 70 seats in the Assembly elections in Uttarakhand next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-assembly-resolution-seeks-bharat-ratna-for-bahuguna-101627582677742.html
30-07-2021||Other||Bank robbery in Mumbai: Assistant manager killed, clerk injured; former employee held||An assistant bank manager was killed and a cashier was injured, as they gave a brave fight to two armed men, who tried to rob the ICICI branch at Virar (East) on Thursday. According to Virar police, the incident took place at 8.45pm, when the bank was half shuttered, with just the two women – Yogita Vartak-Chowdhary, the assistant manager, and cashier Shraddha Devrukh – inside. “The accused entered the bank, headed straight to the locker and threatened the women with knives to open the safe. When they protested, the accused slashed them on the neck, chest and shoulder with razors. They escaped with two bags containing gold and cash,” said senior inspector Suresh Warade.Local residents chased the duo and caught one of them, Anil Dubey, who was an ex-employee of the bank and worked for 15 years, and now he is manager of Axis Bank,Naigaon branch. The other accused is absconding. At the time of going to press, the police were in the process of filing a first information report (FIR). Vartak-Chowdhary died on the spot, while Devrukh is undergoing treatment at Sanjeevani Hospital. “We will check the CCTV footage of the bank and vicinity,” said Warade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bank-robbery-in-virar-asst-manager-killed-clerk-injured-1-held-101627582017820.html
30-07-2021||Pune||Babasaheb Purandare turns 99, wishes pour in||PUNE Eminent author, historian and theatre personality, Balwant Moreshwar alias Babasaheb Purandare — who is renowned for his scholarly works on Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj — completed 99 years, here on Thursday.Speaking on the occasion, Purandare expressed gratitude towards his parents and teachers for shaping his life. “I learned a lot of things in this journey of 99 years but I still need to do a lot of things,” he said.Top office-bearers and leaders across political parties from governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) president Raj Thackeray, union ministers Amit Shah and Nitin Gadkari, state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Chandrakant Patil, and leader of the opposition Devendra Fadnavis; litterateurs and others made a beeline to wish Purandare on his special day and seek his blessings.Raj Thackeray drove down to the home of the “Shiv Shahir” or Shivaji’s bard, as Purandare is popularly known, kneeled on the floor, and touched his feet.Born on July 29, 1922, at Saswad near Poona (now Pune), Purandare was fascinated by Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and his exploits right from an early age and wrote essays and stories that were later published in a book titled “Thinagya” which is Marathi for sparks.In more than eight decades of his career in writing and theatre, Purandare delivered more than 12,000 lectures on Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, and studied all the forts and the history of the Maratha Empire, making him an authority on the subject. He penned and directed a historical play titled “Jaanta Raja” in 1985, which became a theatrical magnum opus performed down the years by over 200 artistes, translated and enacted in five languages and clocking over 1,250 stage shows in Maharashtra, Goa, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, and the USA.Among Purandare’s prominent works is the monumental two-volume “Raje Shivchhatrapati” and “Jaanta Raja”, “Maharaj”, “Shelarkhind”, “Gadkot Kille”, “Agra”, “Lal Mahal”, “Purandar”, “Rajgad”, “Panhalgad”, “Sinhagad”, “Pratapgad”, “Purandaryanchi Daulat”, “Mujaryache Mankari”, “Fulwanti”, “Savitri” and “Kalawantinicha Sajja”. He was conferred the “Maharashtra Bhushan” in 2015 and the country’s second highest civilian honour, “Padma Vibhushan” in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/babasaheb-purandare-turns-99-wishes-pour-in-101627581899015.html
30-07-2021||Noida||Delhi-Baghpat section of NH-709b to be ready by 2023, says highways authority||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said it will complete the 32km long Delhi-Baghpat section of the proposed 180km Delhi-Dehradun national highway, also called NH-709B, by the end of December 2023.The 32km section has been divided into two phases — a 15km stretch from Delhi’s Akshardham to Loni in Uttar Pradesh (UP) and a 17km stretch from Loni to Baghpat.“The work order for the 17km stretch in UP ( to be built at a cost of ₹1,654 crore) was given in May and the second work order for the Akshardham to Khekra stretch ( to be built at a cost of ₹1,264 crore) will be issued within a week. The two phases are scheduled to be ready by December 2023. Once the highway is complete, there will be a direct link between Delhi and Dehradun,” said Mudit Garg, project director, NHAI.The highway will have four more phases to further connect Baghpat to Dehradun and are in various stages of completion, said Garg.Once ready, the highway will shorten the by-road distance from Delhi to Dehradun by about 70km. Currently, travellers between Dehradun and Delhi take a 250km route through Ghaziabad (Delhi-Meerut Road) and the congested Meerut, Muzffarnagar, Roorkee and Haridwar.The NHAI official said they got a nod from the Union ministry of road transport and highways to schedule the completion of the first two stretches within two and half years from the date of issuing work orders.“The highway will cater to about 20,000-30,000 passenger car units per day (a measure of traffic on a road) and will reduce the burden on the Delhi-Meerut road, which largely caters to the long-distance traffic passing through Ghaziabad,” Garg added.The Delhi to Baghpat section is proposed to be developed with 12 lanes that could also be used to accommodate local traffic, with six lanes of the highway dedicated to long distance travellers. According to official estimates last year, the Baghpat to Dehradun stretch is pegged at a cost of ₹4,830 crore and is estimated to be ready within three to five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/delhibaghpat-section-of-nh-709b-to-be-ready-by-2023-says-highways-authority-101627581117010.html
30-07-2021||Pune||NCRA-TIFR scientist discovers remnant radio galaxy||PUNE: A scientist at the National Centre for Radio Astrophysics of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (NCRA-TIFR), Pune - Dr Dharam Vir Lal – has discovered a remnant radio galaxy in the peripheral region of a cluster of galaxies named “Abell2065” using the upgraded Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope (uGMRT) and the Chandra X-ray Observatory. The research has been recently published in the July 16, 2021 issue of the Astrophysical Journal. About the discovery, Dr Dharam Vir Lal said, “The remnant phase of a radio galaxy is short and only a few such remnants are known in the sky. This discovery showcases the capability of the uGMRT to discover more such objects. Finding more remnant and restarted radio galaxies is important for shedding light on their dynamics and evolution and by extension, the duty cycle of active galaxies. We know that active galaxies are rare and that remnant radio galaxies are rarer because they are short-lived. As a result of their rarity, this dying phase remains a poorly understood phenomenon. By increasing the detection of these rare sources, we will be able to understand different evolution histories of active galaxies and different mechanisms that drive the evolution of the remnant namely, the dying phase of the active galaxy.”“Combining the images in the radio band using the uGMRT and in the X-ray band using the Chandra X-Ray Observatory, a hint of possible shock is seen across the remnant radio galaxy. It is likely that the radio emission is re-energised by the passage of possible shock front, and that shows the expected change in radio emission characteristics of the newly-discovered remnant radio galaxy,” Dr Dharam Vir Lal said.For the unversed, a galaxy is a system of stars, gas, and dust bound together by mutual gravity. These galaxies come in different shapes, but the basic structure is the same - a dense core of stars called the nucleus surrounded by stars and gas. However in a small fraction of galaxies, the core is bright and shining with power equivalent to trillions of suns, easily outshining the rest of the light of the combined galaxy. A galaxy that emits such tremendous amounts of energy is called an active galaxy.It is believed that at the centre of such active galaxies is a supermassive black hole having a mass that is million to billion times the mass of (our) Sun. As this supermassive black hole attracts more material from its neighbourhood, it also flashes away long jets of matter and energy from the core up to a distance of millions of light years. These special, active galaxies exhibit strong emission in the radio wavelengths with sizes much larger than seen in the optical wavelength. The long powerful jets responsible for radio emission can also have a substantial energetic impact on both their host galaxy and the surrounding medium beyond the host galaxy.The active phase of such galaxies can last for several tens of million years, after which the nuclear activity stops, and the radio emission starts to fade away. This phase of a radio galaxy represents the final dying phase of the active galaxy, often termed as the remnant or dying phase, and begins once nuclear activity switches-off. This dying phase is relatively short-lived and is difficult to detect. Fortunately, it remains observable for many tens of million years at low radio frequencies, using a sensitive low-frequency radio telescope such as the uGMRT.The GMRT is an array of thirty 45m antennas spread over a 25 square kilometre area in Khodad village, Narayangaon, India, built and operated by the NCRA-TIFR, Pune. Currently, it is one of the most sensitive low-frequency radio telescopes in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ncratifr-scientist-discovers-remnant-radio-galaxy-101627572357631.html
30-07-2021||Pune||PMC citizen participatory budget: Unutilised for two years, fresh proposals invited||Pune: The Covid situation has left the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) unable to carry out minor development works like footpath repairs, change drainage lines and laying waterlines suggested by residents since the past two years. However, it has decided to initiate the participatory citizen budget (PB) process for next year’s annual budget (2022-23). The civic body has recorded non-utilisation of PB funds for the first time since inception. A form of participatory budgeting in the corporation budget was introduced in Pune in 2006 by PMC, an initiative introduced by the then municipal commissioner Nitin Kareer. PMC started implementing PB from 2006-07 in annual budgets and it became one of the crucial parts of the corporation’s annual budget. Normally, PMC allocate around ₹40 crore for PB. The work suggested by citizens of each ward office will be included in the budget along with allocation. The limit of each work should not be more than ₹5 lakh. In 2020-21, citizens suggested ₹37 crore of development works in different ward offices. In the current budget (2021-22), citizens suggested ₹32 crore of development work so far. However, there are few chances to implement PB this year also. Ulka Kalaskar, chief account officer of PMC said, “Due to covid-19 pandemic, the corporation is unable to implement a citizen participatory budget allocation so far. Now, we are discussing whether to consider earlier suggested citizens work or call a new fresh proposal.” One of the ward officers from east part of the city said, “We have not been able to implement PB from last year and it is not going to be implemented this year. So, it is better to carry forward work for next year. The scope of work is very limited in PB. Instead of following all processes, it is a practical way to implement earlier suggested work by citizens.” Major General SCN Jatar (retd) of Nagrik Chetna Manch who is taking active part in PB said, “PMC is not interested in implementing PB in the city. Now, they should have to maintain earlier PB works and carry forward two years’ budgets which have not been implemented yet. Corporators are aggressive in implementing their budget. But, no one take care of PB implementation.” The PMC account department has issued a circular and instructed all 15 ward offices to start the PB process for the annual budget of 2022-23. Offices should provide online forms to citizens because of Covid situation and conduct ward level meetings for suggestion of citizens. Corporation has set a limit of ₹1 crore for four wards and ₹75 lakh for three ward offices to suggest development works. The individual development work should not exceed ₹5 lakh. The process should be complete and each ward office should send proposals of work by October 8, 2021. The categories in which citizens may suggest works are footpaths/ cycle tracks, road, street lights, traffic signals, bus stops, public parking, public toilets, solid waste management, water (supply), stormwater, gardens, public buildings, signages and others. Process of PB Inviting citizens to participate in PB Processing of forms received from citizens Compilation and data entry Costing of project ideas Name of ward offices Ward office and allocation (in ₹lakh) Ahmednagar road-Wadgaonsheri- 300.00 Yerwada-Kalas-Dhanori-300.00 Dhole Patil office –200.00 Aundh-Baner -200.00 Shivainagar-Ghole road -200.00 Kothrud-Bavdhan-248.00 Dhanakwadi-Sahakarnagar road -262.00 Sinhgad road -200.00 Warje-Karvenagar-120.00 Hadapsar-Mundhwa -285.00 Wanowrie-Ramtekadi-275.00 Kondhwa-Yewalewadi-85.00 Kasba –Vishrambaug wada-300.00 Bhavani peth-300.00 Bibwewadi-185 Newly merged villages-25 Total – ₹3,285.00 lakh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-citizen-participatory-budget-unutilised-for-two-years-fresh-proposals-invited-101627571095998.html
30-07-2021||Other||Kerala BJP, CPI(M) engage in a war of words as Covid cases continue to soar||As Kerala continues to record almost half of the daily Covid-19 cases in the country, and the Union government sends a team of experts to the state to understand what’s going wrong, a war of words has broken out between the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI(M) and the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).  The BJP said the state’s “unmindful relaxation” during Eid-Al-Adha last week led to the spike in cases, but the CPI(M) said the union government’s “poor vaccine distribution policy” led to the current situation. “50% of the Covid positive cases come from Kerala, thanks to Eid relaxations. But as expected the narrative would always be built around kumbh or Kanwar yatra. Hmmm... Kerala model,” tweeted BJP spokesman Sambit Patra. BJP leader Amit Malviya also criticised the Pinarayi Vijayan government, pointing to the Muslim-majority Malappuram district recording the highest number of cases to buttress his point on Eid. For the last two days, the state has been reporting over 20,000 daily cases, after a gap of two months. The CPI(M), however, criticised the BJP for making the issue communal, saying the virus has no religion or caste. “Kerala has lowest seroprevalence rate. People here are more vulnerable to infection. The present policy of vaccine distribution punishes the state that protected larger portion of people from infection, Provide more vaccine to Kerala than free advice,” tweeted former finance minister Thomas Issac. Issac said the country will have to pay a heavy price for “Modi’s vaccine folly” and the state is proud of its record. A BJP delegation from the state, which is currently camping in the national Capital, alleged that local CPI(M) leaders were controlling the vaccination drive in several areas, and they “behave as if the state government procured it for a price”. A team sent by the Union government visited the state in the first week of July too. The union health secretary has written to the state again, indicating that it should give equal preference to containment measures and treatment. Several experts have also asked the state to move from containment to mitigation measures and redraw its present strategies.The state reported 22,056 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the second consecutive day it recorded over 20,000 cases, at a test positivity rate (TPR) of 11.2%, according to the health department’s daily bulletin. It also reported 131 deaths in last 24 hours, taking the toll to 16,457. On Tuesday, it accounted for nearly 50% of total caseload on the day in the country (22,129 out of 42,498 cases) and its average test positivity rate (TPR) at 12.35% was almost four times the national average of 3%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-cases-rise-in-kerala-bjp-cpi-m-engage-in-war-of-words-online-101627539113915.html
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||175 tourists stuck in Lahaul-Spiti after cloudburst and landslides||Traffic movement was restored on the Manali-Leh national highway (NH-03) that was blocked due to multiple landslides since Tuesday on Thursday evening, officials said. Lahaul and Spiti deputy commissioner Neeraj Kumar said an alternative route was thrown open to light motor vehicles along the left bank of Bhaga river via Tandi-Peukar, but only commuters headed for Leh were allowed on it. “Now, the highway has been opened for heavy traffic to and fro,” said Kumar. The deputy commissioner also informed about 175 tourists, including 60 women and 16 children, are stranded in Pattan valley of Udaipur. He said the Pangi-Killar road is closed and is not expected to reopen by Friday. We have sought helicopter support for evacuation, he said. He said though no loss of life has been reported in the incident that occurred near Shansha village, but traffic on the state highway was stalled owing to the damage. Seven people were killed and three are still missing after a cloudburst flooded the Tozing Nullah near Keylong on Tuesday night. The gushing waters had swept away a camp for labourers and two vehicles. The search for the missing is on. Meanwhile, the Kalka-Shimla highway that was blocked due to landslide has been cleared for the traffic. The road was blocked near Kaithlighat in Solan. The traffic was diverted through Chambaghat-Kandaghat route till the debris was removed. Overall, 94 roads are still closed across the state. Besides, 71 water supply schemes have also been affected. Retaining wall collapses near CM”s residenceA retaining wall in CM residence Oakover’s compound collapsed on Thursday morning, prompting the authorities to vacate three nearby buildings. Nearly 30 members of six families have been shifted to the Circuit House. Shimla (Urban) SDM Manjeet Sharma said the buildings have been vacated as a precautionary measure. He said the PWD has pressed men and machinery to rebuild the retaining wall. There are reports of flashfloods at Hilutwan in Pangi and Gumma in Rohru subdivision. Fields were washed away in Hilutwan, while four vehicles and a bridge were damaged in Gumma. No loss of life was reported. Thirteen houses were damaged at Tarala village in Ani subdivision of Kullu district after a mudslide. Ani SDM Kuldeep Singh Patial said that residents have been shifted to a relief camp set up at the local school. Himachal Pradesh Police chief Sanjay Kundu has asked people to avoid unessential travel during the rain. The local meteorological department has issued an orange alert of heavy to very heavy rainfall in the middle hills and plains on Thursday and Friday. The inclement weather will persist till August 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/manalileh-highway-remains-closed-another-flash-flood-hits-lahaulspiti-101627539054031.html
