01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Bhupinder Hooda, wife recover from COVID-19, discharged from hospital||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and his wife Asha Hooda were on Saturday discharged from hospital after they recovered from coronavirus.Hooda and his wife were tested positive for the infection on April 18 and were undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Gurgaon.Hooda thanked Haryana residents, well-wishers, doctors, nursing and para-medical staff as well as the hospital management for their support and best wishes.“There is improvement in my health,” 73-year-old Hooda said. However, he added that doctors have advised him to remain in home isolation for some days as a precautionary measure.He also appealed to the people to take precautions to save themselves from the deadly virus. “Everyone should strictly follow the corona guidelines. Get out of the house only when it is very necessary, take full care of social distancing along with masks and cleanliness.”       Hooda said the situation is “definitely worrisome” due to the pandemic but there is no need to panic.“This epidemic can be fought by cooperating with each other. This enemy of humanity needs to be recognised in time and it can be easily defeated if we get the right treatment on time. Therefore, it is important that the government provides the best medical services to every corona patient without delay,” he said.It is the responsibility of the government to provide medicines, oxygen and hospital to the patients, he said.It is unfortunate that even a single patient dies in the absence of the timely treatment like lack of oxygen and medicines,  Hooda said.He expressed dissatisfaction over the problems being faced by people like “shortage” of hospital beds, lack oxygen and essential medicines across the state. Reports of acute shortage of beds, ventilators, oxygen and medicines are coming in from all around, he added.Last year, Hooda’s son and Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda had also contracted COVID-19 and recovered. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhupinder-hooda-wife-recover-from-covid-19-discharged-from-hospital-246838
01-05-2021||---||Six people die of oxygen shortage in Gurugram hospital||Sanjay YadavGurugram, May 1Six people died at Gurugram hospital on Friday night, their families claimed on Saturday.The patients were admitted to a private hospital in Gurugram’s Sector 56.Their families have accused hospital authorities of negligence and claimed that doctors had fled, leaving patients vulnerable.Sources said once the police were alerted, they sent some doctors but nothing could save the patients, although they managed to save 20 others.Some doctors from the hospital are believed to have confirmed to the police that the patients were all critically-ill COVID patients.Meanwhile, videos of families of the victims holding protests against the doctors who fled the hospital soon went viral. Police say although they had yet to get a formal complaint of negligence, but had already begun investigations. “Six patients died in hospital. The cause of death has not been determined yet. We’re still talking to the hospital and victim’s families,” Sub-inspector Dalip Singh, the additional SHO of sector 56 police station, said.The hospital authorities did not respond to calls despite repeated attempts. The development comes less than a week after four COVID patients died in Kathuria Hospital last Sunday because of a shortage of oxygen.Meanwhile, Gurugram administration has roped in Vplak India, a professional company that manages the supply chain of e-commerce companies like Amazon and Flipkart, to smoothen the supply and transport of oxygen cylinders in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/six-people-die-of-oxygen-shortage-in-gurugram-hospital-246822
01-05-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Vaccination drive for those above 18 fails to take off at Rohtak PGI||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 1The anti-Covid vaccination drive for those in the age-group of 18-44, which was slated to begin on Saturday, has failed to take off at Rohtak PGIMS due to shortage of vaccines.The PGIMS administration maintains that the vaccination for those in the age-group of 18-44 has not been started due to shortage of vaccines at the institute.Questioned about the shortage, Dr RB Jain, the nodal officer for the vaccination drive at the PGIMS, said the stock of vaccines was limited and the 18-plus residents would have to wait.“The vaccination drive for those above 45 is going on. However, in view of the limited stock of vaccines, the residents in the age-group of 18-44 would be given the vaccination after the fresh stock is received,” he said.Asked how much time it would take for the fresh stock to arrive, Dr Jain said nothing could be said with certainty. “It may take up to a week or two. We are in touch with the local authorities of the state Health Department who are supposed to hand over the vaccines to us,” he said.Questioned about the fact that several persons had been found coronavirus-positive even after getting both doses of vaccine, Dr Jain said  it is possible as the efficacy of the vaccines is up to 80 per cent.“Nonetheless, studies have shown that the chances of a person contracting Covid after getting both doses of vaccine are minimal and the severity of the disease is also less,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vaccination-drive-for-those-above-18-fails-to-take-off-at-rohtak-pgi-246784
01-05-2021||New Delhi||Depleting water level in Yamuna may affect supply, hit hospitals in Delhi: Raghav Chadha to Haryana CM||Delhi Jal Board (DJB) Vice-Chairman Raghav Chadha on Saturday said depleting water level in the Yamuna river is leading to a shortage of drinking water in several parts of Delhi and may also affect hospitals in the city in the coming days.He urged Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to release more raw water into the Yamuna so that sufficient drinking water is available for the national capital.The water level at Wazirabad pond has dipped to 667.20 feet from the normal level of 674.5 feet as Haryana has been releasing less raw water into the river, Chadha said.The water from Wazirabad pond is drawn for treatment at Wazirabad, Okhla and Chandrawal treatment plants."The water production at the three WTPs has reduced due to depleting water levels in the Yamuna. This is leading to a shortage of water supply in several residential areas. It can also affect hospitals in Delhi in the coming days. Please help Delhi in times of coronavirus," he tweeted in Hindi.    Drinking water supply has been hit in parts of Central Delhi, North Delhi, South Delhi, West Delhi due to decreasing water levels in the river, the DJB said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/depleting-water-level-in-yamuna-may-affect-supply-hit-hospitals-in-delhi-raghav-chadha-to-haryana-cm-246779
01-05-2021||Vijay C Roy||Banks demand reduced working hours in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 30Amid rising Covid cases, banks in Haryana have requested the state government to allow them to work with reduced banking hours and minimum staff on the lines of Chandigarh and Punjab, as suggested by the Indian Banks Association (IBA).There are around 5,000 branches of various banks, including public, private and cooperative banks, operating in the state.“The infection rate among bankers is ‘alarming’ as they have to attend to hundreds of customers daily. We request the government to allow us to operate with reduced banking hours and minimum staff to curtail the infection rate,” said Harvinder Singh, deputy general secretary and Deepak Sharma, general secretary, SBI Officers’ Association.In Chandigarh, banks are already working with reduced hours and minimum staff, whereas in Punjab, they will operate from 10 am to 2 pm from May 3 with 50% staff strength.Meanwhile, the services that will be provided by the banks include accepting deposits, withdrawals, clearing services and government transactions. In Punjab, the services required for supporting the needy sections and crucial sectors, including agricultural sector, will also be provided.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/banks-demand-reduced-working-hours-in-haryana-246704
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||Weekend lockdown in nine Haryana districts||The Haryana Government has imposed a weekend lockdown in nine districts effective 10 pm on April 30 till 5 am on May 3. The nine districts are Panchkula, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Rohtak, Karnal, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad.The orders were issued by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Any person violating the norms will face legal action under various provisions of the Act and Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.Fake Remdesivir injections seizedThe Panipat police arrested six persons in the past four days and seized 32 fake Remdesivir injections. They claim the accused have so far sold over 800 such injections for Rs20,000-35,000 in various districts.An official said during the lockdown the residents must stay indoors. “No person shall leave their homes or shall move on foot or by vehicle or travel or stand or roam around on any road or public places during the period,” he said.The movement of those persons shall be exempted who are tasked with law and order, emergencies and municipal services, health, electricity, fire and mediapersons with accreditation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/weekend-lockdown-in-nine-haryana-districts-246497
01-05-2021||---||Crack whip on hoarders: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, April 30The Punjab and Haryana High Court today gave the central and the state investigation agencies the liberty to act against hoarders as it permitted the revival of a diposed of petition on Covid managementHolding a marathon hearing spread over two sessions, the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh asserted: “Here is a situation where the question is of Article 21. There is a feeling that drugs are being hoarded, beds are not available and people are dying….The grievances of the people have to be redressed. Very serious issues have been brought to the court’s notice. Life saving drugs, such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, are not available. ICU beds are in short supply.”Justice Gupta asserted nodal agencies were existent in every district, but no one knew where to go. “There has to be some machinery, some mechanism. By the time the person is able to get through, the patient becomes critical.”Nearly 15 months into the pandemic, the hearing also brought to surface lack of preparedness to deal with the issues arising out of it.Haryana Additional Chief Secretary Rajeev Arora submitted the total production of oxygen from five plants sanctioned to the state under the PM Cares Fund was miniscule (less than 1 MT per plant). Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan added the availability of oxygen was not in the state’s hand. It was allocated by the Centre.Referring to issues such as ventilators, Justice Gupta added the Health Department must be looking into it. “But there appears to be some disconnect. In policy matters, we do not like to give our opinion. But here it is a complete chaos,” he said.Visibly unimpressed by the state’s measure of coming out with portals and mobile application, Justice Gupta asserted things were not easy for the people living in the remote areas. They were not as computer savvy as others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/crack-whip-on-hoarders-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-246498
01-05-2021||New Delhi||More ‘Oxygen Express’ trains on way to Haryana, Madhya Pradesh||The Railways today said more ‘Oxygen Express’ trains were on their way to Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh as cumulative liquid medical oxygen (LMO) carried by the transport monolith reached 664 MT and 126 MT more are on the track.Liquid medical oxygen deliveredIn an official statement, the Ministry of Railways said, the transport monolith had been continuing with its ‘Oxygen Express journey’ and trying to save as many lives as possible and was “fully prepared to run even more such trains based on the requests from state governments”.It said, “Haryana will receive its first and second ‘Oxygen Express’ soon. Two trains, one from Rourkela to Haryana carrying 47.11 MT LMO in three tankers and another one from Angul to Haryana carrying 32 MT in two tankers are on their way to their destinations. These trains will deliver the much-needed oxygen supply to the residents of Haryana in a safe and timely manner.” According to the Railways, Madhya Pradesh will receive its second ‘Oxygen Express’ carrying 47.37 MT LMO from Bokaro to Sagar and Jabalpur in four tankers. Noting that Uttar Pradesh had continuously been replenishing its oxygen supply, it said the state would receive its seventh ‘Oxygen Express’, which was expected to start shortly from Bokaro carrying three tankers of LMO. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/more-oxygen-express-trains-on-way-to-haryana-madhya-pradesh-246505
01-05-2021||Most of the gully traps for collecting rainwater along the roads in Panchkula are fitted on footpaths. It seems the administration has done no planning to install gully traps. These can cause accidents. Footpaths should be clear and straight as roads are used for vehicles. Gully traps should be on the edge of the roads||Poor road planning in Panchkula||Ashok Kumar Goel, PanchkulaDoor-to-door vax drive neededIn order to avoid unnecessary rush at the vaccine centres and elderly persons coming out of homes, the government should start a door-to-door inoculation drive. This will also held in keeping a track of the vaccination of all persons, which is the need of hour.Lalit Kumar, PanchkulaPower wastage in GurugramThe streetlight in the photograph was still on at 11 am on Thursday near Gurugram University in Sector 51. This is sheer wastage by the power corporation. Kindly bring it to the notice of the department. Rajender Pawar, gurugramVacant plots turn dumping sitesVacant plots in front of Park No. 2509, Sector 25, has turned into a garbage dumping site. Undergrowth menace, congress grass and weeds can be seen everywhere due to which many locals are having allergies daily. Snakes and other harmful reptiles are roaming freely in these plots. During monsoon, vacant plots in lower areas also become a breeding ground for mosquitoes, leading to a threat of malaria and dengue outbreak. On World Malaria Day, I request the authorities concerned to do the needful.Kewal Krishan Singla, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/poor-road-planning-in-panchkula-246684
01-05-2021||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra University: International conference concludes||Online activities conductedKarnal: Students of the JPS Academy took part in various online activities organised to commemorate mother Earth. On the occasion, an array of cultural and creative activities like poster making and best out of waste, etc were organised by students. The purpose was to create awareness among the students to save and protect Earth. Saplings were planted by children in their neighbouring areas. Senior students made paper bags and distributed them among the public. Students also prepared short videos online, highlighting the need of reducing, reusing and recycling. Principal Mohan Singh praised the efforts of students and asked them to take a pledge to save Earth.YMCA selected as mentorFaridabad: The Institution’s Innovation Councils (IIC) of the JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has been selected to mentor IICs of other institutes under the “Mentor-mentee scheme of innovation cell”, Ministry of Education. Vice chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar congratulated all IIC members and appreciated their efforts and team work for this feat. Prof Lakhwinder Singh, IIC president, said this had become possible due to the support and collaborative work of all internal members, including faculty from various departments and students under the guidance of the IIC external experts. He said Dr Sapna Gambhir, IIC vice-president, has been nominated as mentor coordinator for the further process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-university-international-conference-concludes-246679
01-05-2021||---||Karnal traders to shut shops till May 10||Karnal, April 30Traders of the city on Friday announced to close their establishments till May 10 in wake of the increasing number of Covid patients and to break the chain of infection.They declared this decision after a meeting with Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav and Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia at the Mini-Secretariat.The government has imposed a two-day lockdown in Karnal and eight other districts, but the traders of Karnal city would keep their shops closed till May 10, said Krishan Lal Taneja, president, Nehru Place Market.DC Yadav informed that the traders have taken this decision and only the shops of essentials goods would remain open. He said that the people of Karnal had earlier cooperated with the district administration during the first wave and now, they expected similar cooperation from them.“Shops of medicines, grocery, milk and vegetables will remain open for home delivery only from Monday. During the two-day lockdown, only the chemist shops will remain open,” DC Yadav said.A meeting with the traders will also be held on May 9 to decide the future course of action, he said.SP Punia also appealed to the people to abide by the rules of the lockdown. Otherwise, action would be initiated against the violators. “The police will be at every nook and corner. Our aim is not to issue challan, but to make people stay inside for their safety,” the SP said, adding that no restriction has been imposed on the transportation of essential goods.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-traders-to-shut-shops-till-may-10-246590
01-05-2021||---||No coupon system for oxygen cylinders in Rohtak: DC||Rohtak, April 30Deputy Commissioner Capt Manoj Kumar on Friday said a fresh audit of all the hospitals regarding the availability and requirement of oxygen cylinders, remdesivir and other life-saving drugs was being conducted.BEWARE OF RUMOURSSome people are spreading misinformation that oxygen cylinders are being given on the basis of slips issued by me. There is no such “parchi” system and oxygen is being distributed in a fair and transparent manner. — Capt Manoj Kumar, Rohtak DCChairing a meeting of the District Crisis Monitoring Committee on Friday, the DC sought reports on the demand and supply of oxygen and remdesivir, cremation of the Covid victims and the situation in villages.Meanwhile, in a video statement issued here, he asserted that there was no “parchi” (coupon) system for the disbursement of oxygen cylinders and these were being given as per the requirement after a proper scrutiny and in accordance with the recommendation of medical experts.“Some people are spreading misinformation that oxygen cylinders are being given on the basis of slips issued by me. There is no such “parchi” system and oxygen is being distributed in a fair and transparent manner,” the DC added.He warned the locals against hoarding of oxygen cylinders at home, said it could be dangerous as it should be administered only on doctor’s advice and under medical supervision.“The oxygen quota of Rohtak district had been increased from 13 MT to 17 MT,” he said, adding that its availability would improve in a day or so as the Haryana Government was procuring oxygen from other states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-coupon-system-for-oxygen-cylinders-in-rohtak-dc-246591
01-05-2021||Parveen Arora
||At Karnal's KCGMC lab, staff working overtime||Tribune News Service Karnal, April 30 Faculty members, research scientists, research assistants, and lab technicians of the viral research diagnostic lab (VRDL) at the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) are silent Covid warriors. They spend hours inside the personal protective equipment (PPE) without thinking about their health. Due to the increasing number of samples, their daily shift stretches to 12 hours these days, compared to eight hours in normal time. Earlier, the average number of samples was around 1,000, but it has increased to 2,500-3,000 these days. Presently, three machines are working and in the coming week, one more machine is expected to start functioning.  Moreover, the lab is short of staff members. It requires double the strength of staff. Presently, eight lab technicians, six research assistants and four research scientists are working in the lab under the supervision of Dr Prerna Aggarwal, head of the VRDL, Dr Bhawna Sharma and Dr Anupama Berwal. “Our day starts at 8 am and we are not sure till when the work will continue. Our whole day passes in work as the number of samples are increasing. My team members are putting extra efforts to deliver results on time,” said Dr Prerna Aggarwal, head of the VRDL. “Earlier, two machines were running, but now, we have added another machine in the lab which has started working. In the coming days, one more machine will be functional for which we need extra staff,” she added. One of the staff members said that it was all about team work and that the members do not bother about time.  Dr Jagdish Dureja, Director, KCGMC, said that no doubt after the functioning of all the four machines, they would require extra staff. For that, they have apprised the authorities. “Our main aim to provide reports on time so that the patients get treatment on time,” said the Director. “Faculty members, research scientists, research assistants and lab technicians are also our warriors,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/at-karnals-kcgmc-lab-staff-working-overtime-246592
01-05-2021||Rohtak||Don’t overcharge: Arvind Sharma MP to private hospitals||Local MP Arvind Sharma has warned private hospitals of strict action for overcharging Covid patients in the name of treatment.“After receiving sevel complaints, I talked to Health Minister Anil Vij, who said the treatment rates at private hospitals had been fixed and strict action would be taken against overcharging.” He asked the managements of private hospitals to display the rate list outside their premises.The MP said he had set up a Covid control room and released a helpline number 9811842300. “Affected residents can also dial administration’s helpline 9034861412 for Rohtak and 8397935830 for Jhajjar. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dont-overcharge-arvind-sharma-mp-to-private-hospitals-246593
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||US to send 112 oxygen concentrators||Health Minister Anil Vij on Friday said the US India Foundation would be sending 112 oxygen concentrators to Haryana. “I have spoken to Union Minister of Aviation Hardeep Puri regarding oxygen concentrators from the US, for which he has given his consent. Oxygen concentrators will be airlifted without any cost,” he said. Vij said the Centre had recently increased the state’s oxygen quota from 70 MT to 232 MT. He said the foundation had also assured to send additional concentrators and ventilators to the state. “Oxygen tankers have also been ordered from Odisha. This will help in increasing the availability of oxygen in the hospitals across the state,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/us-to-send-112-oxygen-concentrators-246594
01-05-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram IMA seeks regular oxygen supply||The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Gurugram, has approached CM Manohar Lal Khattar, seeking increased oxygen quota for the district. The IMA, in its letter to the CM, said: “There is a massive shortage of oxygen in hospitals. Cylinders have not been refilled for four days. The waiting time is more than 8 to 12 hours and we are getting distress calls from hospitals and nursing homes.” It stated, “We are unable to admit new patients because of oxygen crunch. Those admitted have been asked to shift to other hospitals. If patients die in hospital for lack of oxygen, it will become a disaster of monumental proportion. We seek your urgent intervention in procuring adequate and timely oxygen supply for Gurugram as we are facing a potential shutdown of healthcare facilities.”   Dr Vandana Narula, president of IMA, Gurugram, said: “We have asked the CM for urgent action to prevent a disaster.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-ima-seeks-regular-oxygen-supply-246595
01-05-2021||Chandigarh||VIP visits won’t affect patient treatment: Anil Vij||Health Minister Anil Vij on Friday directed the Chief Medical Officers (CMOs) across districts to ensure that treatment and admissions of Covid patients are not affected during visits of VIPs to hospitals.Scribe crematedKurukshetra: People from all walks of life attended the last rites of journalist Rohit Sardana here, after he died at a Noida hospital. Health Minister Anil Vij, Sports Minister Sandeep Singh, MP Nayab Saini, Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha, DC Sharandeep Kaur and several other officials and political leaders reached the Sector 5 cremation ground on Friday evening to pay tributes to the departed soul. TNSHe said the patients and their treatment should be the first priority.This comes a day after the attendant of a patient at the Jind Civil Hospital brought it to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s notice that in view of his visit to the facility, authorities had put in place strict protocols that caused some inconvenience to patients’ attendants.Khattar had immediately directed the officials to ensure that no patient or attendant faces any inconvenience.“All CMOs should ensure that treatment and admissions of Covid patients are not affected during VIP movements in hospitals. Our first priority is the patients and their treatment,” Vij said in a tweet.In another tweet, the minister also appealed to social, political, religious and other organisations in Haryana to open a “roti bank” (food bank) for Covid patients admitted to various hospitals across the state.“All social, political, commercial, religious and any other organisations in the state of Haryana are requested to run a ‘roti bank’ for Covid patients admitted to hospitals as is being done at the Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantt. If they like, they can visit the ‘roti bank’ at Ambala Cantt,” he said.“Roti bank” is the initiative of an NGO under which free meals are provided to patients and one of their attendants at the Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vip-visits-wont-affect-patient-treatment-anil-vij-246596
01-05-2021||---||800 fake Remdesivir injections sold; 6 held||Karnal, April 30The Panipat police have arrested six members of three gangs in the past four days and confiscated 32 fake Remdesivir injections, available between Rs 20,000 and Rs 35,000.32 vials seizedAfter having seized 32 vials, we thought of giving them to the needy with the permission of court. When we contacted the manufactures, they confirmed the seized injections were fake. —Shashank Kumar Sawan, Panipat SPThe police have said the three gangs have already sold around 800 fake injections in various districts. They had brought the injections from a warehouse near Panchkula.On Tuesday, a team of CIA-1 had arrested three men identified as Keshav, Sunil and Sumit, all from Panipat, with 19 vials. A couple of days later, CIA-3 had arrested Imran and Manoj, both residents of Panipat district, with three vials. Imran was posted as an area manager at a private laboratory, while Manoj runs a medical store in hospital. On Thursday evening, a team of CIA-2 had arrested Himanshu with 10 injections.“After having seized the vials, we thought of giving them to the needy with the permission of court. When we contacted the manufactures, they confirmed that the seized injections were fake,” said Panipat SP Shashank Kumar Sawan.“The accused have confessed to have sold 800 fake Remdesivir injections. They revealed that the injections were procured from Pardeep, who runs pharmacy shops in Panipat, Delhi and Haridwar. He purchased the injections from a man identified as Umar, who lives near Panchkula,” said the SP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/800-fake-remdesivir-injections-sold-6-held-246597
01-05-2021||Gurugram||Ex-envoy dies waiting outside Gurugram hospital||Ashok Amrohi, former Indian ambassador to Brunei, Mozambique and Algeria, passed away on April 27. Asking hospitals to be bit more humane, Amrohi’s family has said the former diplomat died outside a private hospital in Gurugram after waiting for a bed for nearly five hours.Tweeting about it, his wife Yamini Amrohi said that her husband had been ill for the past week.“With his situation deteriorating, doctors had advised that he should be hospitalised. Though the hospital had promised a bed initially, the admission process stretched on for hours due to long queues. They waited more than an hour for the Covid test. I went to the place at least thrice, begging them for someone to look at him. I was crying, I was shouting that his heartbeat is failing. But nobody helped. An oxygen cylinder was brought, but that did not help,” she said.Amrohi died of cardiac arrest in the car. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-envoy-dies-waiting-outside-gurugram-hospital-246598
01-05-2021||Gurugram||Oxygen cylinder fraud, 1 booked||A Faridabad resident has accused a man of borrowing an oxygen cylinder from him for his “ailing” mother and thereafter trying to sell it in black. On the basis of the complaint of Kishan Chauhan, a resident of Baselwa colony, the police have registered an FIR against accused Jagjit Singh. Kishan Chauhan, a student, said they had an oxygen cylinder at home for emergency use. One Jagjit Singh called him and requested him to lend his cylinder for his mother. “Since I don’t know Jagjit, I asked for a doctor’s prescription. He took the cylinder after depositing Rs 12,000 as security. I called him repeatedly, but he did not send any doctor’s prescription,” Chauhan alleged.  A case has been registered against Jagjit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/oxygen-cylinder-fraud-1-booked-246599
01-05-2021||---||No salary for a month, Rohtak PGIMS staff protest||Rohtak, April 30Staff members of the Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS) and the PGIMS protested on the campus here today, demanding their salary for the month of March.The authorities say it is because of “procedural delays”.We were promised double RemunerationThe government had promised double salary to Covid healthcare workers. Double salary seems to be an illusion at a time when the state has failed to disburse our regular salary. —Sanjay Singhmar, Union Leader“The government had promised double salary to healthcare workers performing Covid-related duties. Double salary seems to be an illusion at a time when the state has failed to disburse our regular salary,” said Sanjay Singhmar, general secretary, UHS Non-Teaching Employees’ Association.The protesters gheraoed the residence of UHS Vice-Chancellor Dr OP Kalra and submitted a representation, also demanding reservation of Covid and ICU beds for doctors and other healthcare workers serving at the PGIMS.Dr Kunal Gaba, president, PGIMS Resident Doctors’ Association, said no beds were reserved for institute’s doctors and other healthcare workers who got infected with Covid while treating patients.As a result of the protest, a meeting was convened between the authorities and staff.After emerging from the meeting, Singhmar said the UHS had assured the staff of prompt action on their demands. “The authorities said the salary for March will be released today and that for April by May 5. Besides, some beds will be reserved for staff members,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-salary-for-a-month-rohtak-pgims-staff-protest-246600
01-05-2021||Nitish Sharma||Wheat procurement stopped in 8 Haryana district||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, April 30Wheat procurement has been stopped in the district following a letter issued by the Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department to stop issuing gate passes in eight districts including Ambala.As per the letter, eight districts Ambala, Charkhi Dadri, Gurugram, Mahendragarh, Nuh, Palwal, Panchkula and Rewari have witnessed over 125 per cent procurement during rabi season 2021-22, when compared with rabi season 2020-21.Following that, the government has decided to stop procurement. Hence, no gate passes should be issued for wheat procurement in these districts. Rajiv Sharma, a farmer from Hasanpur village who had sown wheat on five acres, said, “I had sown the late variety after harvesting potato crop. Today, I reached Talheri Gujran grain market with produce from three acres, but I was told that the government has stopped procurement. The market committee official has assured that they would purchase it on May 4. The government should procure the produce. Otherwise, we will be forced to sell it at cheaper rates.”Duni Chand, president, Commission Agent Association, Ambala City grain market, said, “The arrivals from Punjab were very low last year in city grain market due the lockdown, but this year, the arrivals from Punjab were good due to which the grain market has witnessed heavy arrivals. The majority of the produce has reached the grain market and very few farmers who had sown late varieties after harvesting potato and sugarcane crops are left. The government should continue procurement up to May 15 at least.”Asha Rani, secretary, Ambala City Grain Market, said, “No gate passes were issued today following government orders. Around 97 per cent of the produce has already reached and no farmer approached us today for gate pass. Yesterday, only 10 gate passes were issued. Whatever directions we will receive, those will be implemented.”Rakesh Bains, spokesman, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni), said, “On the one hand, the government claims that it procures the produce of farmers registered on ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ portal and then, it has stopped procurement. Around 10 per cent produce is still unsold. If the pending crop is not procured on MSP from May 4, the union will be forced to launch an agitation.”District Food and Civil Supplies Controller, Rajeshwar Moudgil, said, “I have sought a complete report regarding the arrivals, gate passes issued and pending stocks from the District Marketing Enforcement Officer. After getting the details, we will discuss the matter with the directorate for further action.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wheat-procurement-stopped-in-8-haryana-district-246601
01-05-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Kalka ex-MLA Pardeep Chaudhary’s Vidhan Sabha membership set to be restored||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 30The Vidhan Sabha membership of former Congress MLA from Kalka Pardeep Chaudhary is set to be restored.Following a Himachal Pradesh High Court verdict staying his conviction on April 19, the membership is likely to be revived as there are certain precedents in other states under similar circumstances, sources told The Tribune.Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, however, said, “I have received a representation from Chaudhary. A legal opinion will be sought from the Advocate General before taking a final decision in the matter.”The Speaker had revoked Chaudhary’s Assembly membership following his conviction by a Nalagarh court on January 28, 2021, for a period of three years. His seat was declared as vacant, leading to speculations that the bypoll to the Kalka Assembly segment would be held along with that of Ellenabad.Meanwhile, Chaudhary today formally submitted a representation to the Speaker pleading for the restoration of his membership.Sources said Chaudhary had a strong case for the restoration of his membership as there were two precedents in Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh when the membership of the former legislators were restored in 2019 under “similar circumstances”.Hemant Kumar, an advocate, said the membership, if restored, would be done with effect from April 19, the date of the HC verdict staying the conviction, not January this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kalka-ex-mla-pardeep-chaudharys-vidhan-sabha-membership-set-to-be-restored-246602
01-05-2021||---||Protesting farmer leaders recall heroics of 9th Guru||Karnal, April 30The agitating farmers and labourers, under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), on Friday celebrated the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur at the Singhu border in Sonepat district.At a joint meeting of the SKM and the Central Trade Unions, it was decided that May Day would be celebrated as ‘Mazdoor Kisan Ekta Diwas’.Leaders, including Abhimanyu Kohar, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Dr Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Hannan Mollah, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Yudhvir Singh and Yogendra Yadav said Guru Tegh Bahadur fought for humanity beyond religion and caste and sacrificed his life.“It has been more than five months since farmers have been sitting at the Delhi borders. The Centre is forcibly imposing farm laws on us. Taking inspiration from Guru Teg Bahadur, we are ready for any sacrifice,” said Darshan Pal, a leader of the SKM.The farmer leaders also emphasised on the progressive writings of Guru Teg Bahadur.They said taking inspiration from the ninth Sikh Guru, the Sikh community had been fighting against exploitation and they were ready for any sacrifice. “Today, farmers are fighting against oppression, while many other organisations are helping people affected by the pandemic. Farmers and social welfare organisations, who were discredited and abused by the governments and a section of society, are still engaged in social service,” they added.Religious organisations, including farmer leaders, also participated in a ‘samagam’. They called for strengthening the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protesting-farmer-leaders-recall-heroics-of-9th-guru-246604
01-05-2021||---||7 farmers booked for holding public meet in Bhiwani||Hisar, April 30The Bhiwani police have booked seven farmer leaders and some other unidentified persons for holding a public meeting at Prem Nagar in Bhiwani district yesterday.The meeting was held to extend support to residents of the area, who have been protesting for the past few months seeking the construction of a medical college in their village.Earlier, the government had earmarked land for the medical college and also taken over a piece of land from the village panchayat for the purpose, but the project was later shifted to Bhiwani town, where the construction work started recently.The villagers yesterday invited farmer leaders Rakesh Tikait and Gurnam Singh Charuni to raise the issue and organised a meeting at the dharna site in Prem Nagar.The police said the meeting was conducted in violation of Section 144 imposed in the region.DSP Virender Singh said the police had registered a case against seven farmer leaders and others and initiated a probe.The seven farmer leaders who had been booked were Rakesh Tikait, Kamal Singh, Suresh, Rajesh, Sandeep, Sombir and Ravi Azad. He said they were trying to identify others on the basis of videos of the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/7-farmers-booked-for-holding-public-meet-in-bhiwani-246605
01-05-2021||Yamunanagar||5 booked for rape||A woman was allegedly gang raped by five persons in a restaurant at a village in Yamunanagar district.On the complaint of the victim, a case was registered against Bhagwan Singh of Masana village and four unidentified persons at women police station, Yamunanagar, on April 29.The complainant told the police that she had taken divorce from her husband and was living along with her two daughters in Jagadhri. She said that Bhagwan Singh of Masana village took her mobile number from someone and started talking to her. During the conversation, he assured her that he would marry her.“He called me to a restaurant near Radaur town on April 21. He, along with his four friends, was present there. They served me cold drink mixed with some sedative and raped me,” alleged the victim. She said that the accused threatened to kill her and her daughters if she told anyone about the incident. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-booked-for-rape-246606
01-05-2021||---||Farmers' protest: Bengali woman dies at Tikri||Jhajjar, April 30A 25-year-old woman, identified as Momita Basu from West Bengal, died in a private hospital at Tikri border on Friday.“Momita came to Tikri from West Bengal on April 11 to join the protest. Four days ago, she was admitted to a private hospital after her condition worsened. The doctors found infection in her lungs. She breathed her last in the hospital on Friday,” said Rajendra Singh Deep Singh Wala, a leader of Kirti Kisan Union.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-bengali-woman-dies-at-tikri-246608
01-05-2021||---||Man killed in accident||Karnal, April 30A 50-year-old man identified as Ramanpal, a resident of Raipura village in Gharaunda block, was killed when his bike was allegedly hit by Assandh Naib Tehsildar’s car on NH-709A near Bahri village on Thursday. Naib Tehsildar was in his personal car.The incident took place in the morning when Ramanpal was going to Bahri village on a bike. When he reached near the village, the Naib Tehsildar’s car allegedly hit his bike. He was rushed to the hospital but was declared dead.Kamaldeep Rana, SHO Assandh, said that a case has been registered against Naib Tehsildar Ramesh under Section 279 and 304A of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-killed-in-accident-246609
01-05-2021||---||Congress: Govt bent on ruining farmers||Chandigarh, April 30Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja on Friday said the BJP-JJP government’s decision not to procure wheat in some districts of the state was a big blow to farmers.“The government is bent on ruining farmers by taking such dictatorial decisions. It should resume the procurement of wheat without delay,” the Congress leader added.Selja alleged that the BJP-JJP government was continuously harassing the farmers by taking decisions against them. “The government’s decision to not purchase wheat in Ambala, Charkhi Dadri, Gurugram, Mahendragarh, Nuh, Palwal, Panchkula and Rewari districts is full of dictatorship. Already, there is an atmosphere of chaos in the state mandis regarding the purchase of crops,” Selja said.She said neither the work of lifting was taken up properly nor gunny bags were made available. At the same time, Covid is also wreaking havoc in the state. In such circumstances, a large number of farmers had been deprived of selling their crops due to slow procurement.She said thousands of farmers would be affected by the decision. The government should have given more time to the farmers for the purchase of wheat, but during this time, it stopped the procurement.Selja alleged that every claim of the government had proved to be hollow and false. “It was claimed by the government that it will pay the farmers for their crop within 72 hours, but it was nowhere to be seen on the ground,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-govt-bent-on-ruining-farmers-246610
01-05-2021||---||98 more die, over 13k cases in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 30With 13,833 new Covid cases, the state’s tally today reached 4.88 lakh. Besides, 98 more persons succumbed to the virus.In all, 14 persons died in Gurugram, 11 in Hisar, nine in Ambala, eight each in Rewari and Bhiwani, seven each in Karnal and Kaithal, six each in Rohtak and Jind, five each in Faridabad and Fatehabad, four each in Sonepat and Sirsa, two each in Kurukshetra and Palwal each.The maximum new cases were reported from Gurugram at 4,435, followed by Faridabad (1,434), Sonepat (912), Karnal (883) and Hisar (860). In all, 50,031 samples were taken today while the overall positivity rate jumped to 6.63 per cent.The active cases in the state today reached 97,562, while 9,348 recovered in the last 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/98-more-die-over-13k-cases-in-haryana-246622
