03-05-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19 patient, 60, jumps off hospital building in Haryana, dies||A former government employee, who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at a government facility in Haryana’s Rewari district, died after he allegedly jumped from the hospital’s third floor on Monday, police said.The 60-year-old Jhajjar resident tested positive a few days ago after which he was admitted to the government facility in Rewari, they said.Retired as sub-divisional officer in the state’s power department, the man jumped from the window of the COVID ward, Station House Officer (SHO) Sanjay Kumar said, adding he was immediately taken back to the hospital where doctors declared him dead.A viral video captured the incident.In a similar incident, a 42-year-old COVID patient who was undergoing treatment at the PGIMER, Chandigarh, allegedly jumped to death from the fourth floor of the hospital on Thursday. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-patient-60-jumps-off-hospital-building-in-haryana-dies-247746
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Private hospitals overcharging COVID patients will face action: Haryana Minister Anil Vij||Private hospitals in Haryana found overcharging COVID-19 patients will face strict action, Health Minister Anil Vij said on Monday.He also said that rates of beds and other facilities have been fixed for coronavirus patients undergoing treatment in private hospitals.           Currently, 42 private hospitals in the state are treating COVID-19 patients, Vij, who also holds the home portfolio, said.                      “The government has fixed (per day) rates of Rs 10,000 for isolation beds in NABH and JCI accredited hospitals, Rs 15,000 for ICU beds without ventilators and Rs 18,000 per day for ICU beds with ventilators,” he said.                    NABH stands for National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers, while JCI or the Joint Commission International is a gold standard for international accreditation.  Similarly, in non-NABH hospitals, the rates have been fixed at Rs 8,000 for isolation beds, Rs 13,000 for ICU beds without ventilators and Rs 15,000 per day for ICU beds with ventilators, Vij said in a statement.                The minister said that on the government’s direction private labs have also fixed the rate for conducting the COVID tests. RT-PCR tests will cost Rs 450, Rs 500 for rapid antigen and Rs 250 for ELISA test, he said.           Strict action will be taken if any private hospital is found charging more than these fixed rates from the COVID-19 patients, the minister said.                         He also said that a three-member committee has been constituted for distribution of Tocilizumab injection, used in treatment of COVID-19 patients, as per requirement of government and private hospitals.     COVID-19 State Nodal Officer Dr Dhruv Chaudhary has been appointed as the chairman of the committee.         This committee will set the criteria regarding the delivery of injections and matters related to it.    These injections will be made available to local private hospitals through civil surgeons in districts at the purchase price, while it will be given free of cost to government hospitals and medical colleges, the statement said.          The government will soon start the process of recruitment to meet the shortage of doctors and paramedical staff in the state, Vij said.           He reiterated that a majority of patients admitted in hospitals in some Haryana districts falling in the National Capital Region are from Delhi and other adjoining states, and it is being ensured they get the best treatment.                  The state has witnessed a huge surge in COVID-19 cases as well as fatalities in recent weeks, with districts like Gurgaon, Faridabad, Sonepat, Hisar and Karnal fuelling the surge. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/private-hospitals-overcharging-covid-patients-will-face-action-haryana-minister-anil-vij-247740
03-05-2021||New Delhi||70 per cent more wheat procured compared the corresponding period last year: Centre||The government on Monday said that approximately 70 per cent more wheat has been procured for the central pool in the current Rabi Marketing Season as compared to the corresponding period of last year."Wheat procurement is going on a brisk pace in procuring States/UTs of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Chandigarh, Madhya Pradesh, and Rajasthan. Over 292.52 LMT has been procured up to May 2. This is an increase of approximately 70 % against the last year corresponding purchase of 171.53 LMT," the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution.About 28.80 lakh wheat farmers have already been benefited in the ongoing RMS 2021-22, it added."The Government is continuing to procure Rabi crops at MSP from farmers as per existing Price Support Scheme. About Rs 17,495 crore has already been transferred directly into accounts of farmers of Punjab," officials said.They added that of the total purchase of 292.52 LMT wheat, major contributors have been Punjab- 114.76 LMT (39.23%), Haryana- 80.55 LMT (27.53%) and Madhya Pradesh -73.76 LMT (25.21%). About Rs 17,495 crore in Punjab and Rs 9268.24 crore in Haryana has been transferred directly into farmers’ accounts corresponding to procurement up to April 30.This is for the first time that farmers of Punjab and Haryana are receiving payments directly into their bank accounts against the sale of their wheat. Punjab and Haryana have been the epicentre of the farmers protest against the three farm laws||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/70-per-cent-more-wheat-procured-compared-the-corresponding-period-last-year-centre-247681
03-05-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma||86.5% procured wheat lifted in Yamunanagar||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, May 2In a major relief to arhtiyas, 86.5 per cent of the procured wheat has been lifted from the grain markets and purchase centres of the district.Of the 3,60,398 MT of wheat procured in 13 grain markets and purchase centres, 3,11,731 MT (86.50) wheat was lifted up to Saturday evening.Sources said 98.92 per cent (6,440 MT) lifting, the highest in the district, was reported in the Ghumthala Rao grain market.However, the lowest 69.92 per cent (42,749 MT) wheat lifting was reported in the Pratap Nagar grain market.Nearly 97.14 per cent (5,546 MT) wheat lifting was reported from the Jathlana grain market, followed by Kharwan grain market 96.42 per cent (6,438 MT); Rasulpur grain market 95.71 per cent (9,930 MT), Saraswati Nagar grain market 95.46 per cent (54,134 MT); Jagadhri grain market 94.62 per cent (45,866 MT) and Bilaspur grain market 92.02 per cent (31,702 MT).Similarly, 88.30 per cent (43,303 MT) lifting was reported from the Chhachhrauli grain market, followed by Yamunanagar grain market 88.27 per cent (805 MT); Radaur grain market 82.27 per cent (36,650 MT); Ranjitpur purchase centre 79.80 per cent (9,918 MT) and Sadhaura grain market 77.91 per cent (18,250 MT).According to information, before the lifting of wheat or other crops from the grain markets or purchase centres, arhtiyas are held responsible for any loss or damage.Shiv Kumar Sandhala, district president of the Anaj Mandi Arhtiyas Association, said, “In this wheat procurement season, the government failed to undertake the lifting work smoothly. The payments of farmers were also delayed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/86-5-procured-wheat-lifted-in-yamunanagar-247528
03-05-2021||Ravinder Saini
||Rohtak district tops sex ratio at birth in state||Tribune News Service Rohtak, May 2  More than 50 per cent districts in the state have recorded sex ratio at birth (SRB) less than the state average of 921 girls against 1,000 boys in the first quarter (from January 1 to March 31) of the current year. Four among the 12 districts have SRB less than 900. Rohtak has topped the tally with SRB of 997 after jumping 15 places and gaining 85 points. It is followed by Panipat with 976 and Jind with 956.  Rohtak was on the 16th position in 2020 with the SRB of 912 and on the 18th position in 2019 with SRB of 911.  As per the Civil Registration System, Rohtak recorded the birth of a total 5,565 children from January 1 to March 31 and 2,787 among them were male and the remaining 2,778 were female. Similarly, Panipat and Jind had SRB of 935 and 904 in 2020 respectively. They gained 41 and 52 points respectively as compared to last year. Charkhi Dadri (952) improved by 61 points, Mahendragarh (919) by 17 points, Palwal (923) by 13 points, Gurugram (928) by seven points and Panchkula (944) by five points. Jhajjar suffered a major setback with registering the lowest SRB of 820 with a drop of 72 points while the figure was 892 in 2020. Besides Jhajjar, Bhiwani (892), Kaithal (890) and Fatehabad (866) are three other districts which fared poorly this year. Sirsa slipped from first to 17th position with the drop of 48 points. It has registered SRB of 901 in the first quarter while the figure was 949 last year. Similarly, Kurukshetra (918) witnessed a drop of 20 points, Hisar (904) of 18 points, Sonepat (915) of 17 points, Nuh (931) of eight points, Yamunanagar (921) of seven points, Faridabad (909) of six points and Ambala (928) of three points.  The state has, during the first quarter, witnessed a slight drop of one point as the average SRB was 922 in 2020. A total 1,18,606 children were born in the first quarter of the current year while 61,751 were male while 56,855 were female.  “The unearthing of five sex determination rackets in Delhi, UP and adjoining districts of Rohtak besides special campaigns run to make the people aware about adverse effect of gender imbalance are main reasons for considerable improvement in the gender ratio,” said Dr Anil Birla, Civil Surgeon, Rohtak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-district-tops-sex-ratio-at-birth-in-state-247529
03-05-2021||Our Correspondent
||RSS leader’s son, friend die in mishap||Gurugram, May 2 The son of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) state chief Pawan Jindal and his friend were killed when their BMW rammed into a pillar of an underpass near DLF phase-2 rapid metro station on the Golf course road last evening.  The deceased have been identified as Gaurav Jindal and his friend Sawan Khanna. Preliminary investigation revealed that the accident took place because of over speeding.  While Gaurav Jindal died on the spot, his friend was taken to Medanta Hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries. The bodies were handed over the kin after autopsy.   Praveen, Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police, DLF Phase-2 police station, Gurgaon, said,"Gaurav Jindal and Sawan were the only occupants in the car. We are investigating how the accident took place, but the car rolled over multiple times after hitting a pillar and got badly damaged.” Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar took to Twitter to condole the death of RSS leader Pawan Jindal's son in the car accident, saying he was deeply saddened to hear the news. State's Home Minister Anil Vij also condoled the demise of Gaurav Jindal and his friend.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rss-leaders-son-friend-die-in-mishap-247530
03-05-2021||Hisar||Jind-bound oxygen truck breaks down in Karnal||A Jind-bound oxygen-carrying truck developed a defect near Assandh in Karnal district, resulting in delay in the supply of oxygen to hospitals in Jind district on Saturday.Officials, however, denied that the delay in the supply of oxygen was a reason behind any death in the district.According to sources, the truck was supposed to reach Jind by 4 pm but the breakdown of the truckresulted in a delay of a couple of hours.Medical Officer Dr Gopal said that they had low pressure yesterday after which they had sought more oxygen from the authorities. The quota of 2.5 tonnes of oxygen that arrived on Saturday would be sufficient for the next two days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jind-bound-oxygen-truck-breaks-down-in-karnal-247531
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vax drive for 18+ begins||Health Minister Anil Vij said that Covid vaccination of people aged between 18 and 45 years has started in all districts of the state from today.Vij said that free vaccination would be done at all government hospitals and vaccination centres in the state.For this, 66 lakh doses of Covid vaccine have been sought and its first batch has been received. Vaccination has been started at about 200 centres across the state.The Health Minister said that about 1.1 crore people of the state fall in the age group of 18 to 45 years.He said a special vaccination camp would be organised tomorrow at the MLA dispensary in which journalists could get themselves vaccinated by just bringing along their Aadhaar card. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vax-drive-for-18-begins-247532
03-05-2021||Parveen Arora
||Stay positive, this too shall pass: Survivors to patients||Tribune News Service Karnal, May 2 Bhupinder Bhatia (50), a resident of Sector 8 here, was admitted to a local private hospital on September 9 last year after 95 per cent of his lungs were infected with Covid. A couple of days later, he was shifted to a Delhi hospital. He remained under treatment for two months. For several days, he was on oxygen support. “I was discharged on November 13,” he says.  Looking back, Bhatia recalls that throughout his treatment, he was positive that he would recover. “I remained calm and never lost hope. I appeal to people not to panic because that is not the best way of fighting the virus. Stay positive and you will beat the virus,” says Bhatia. His is not the only inspirational story emerging out of the pandemic which has claimed the lives of more than 2 lakh people in the country. Shobhana, a resident of Panipat, remained on BiPap machine, a type of ventilator, for a month at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC).  “Panipat doctors had lost all hopes of my survival, but my daughter Renu and others did not give up. They took me to KCGMC on November 9 last year. During one month of treatment, my oxygen level dipped to 30, but I remained strong,” she said. Shobhana was discharged on December 8. Today, she is hale and hearty, and enjoys the time with her family. Her only advice to Covid patients is to stay strong. “People should not be afraid of the virus. They should not lower the guard,” she says. Model Town resident Kala Mehta (61) remained in the KCGMC for 14 days. “Suffering from high sugar, blood pressure and lung infection, my mother used her positive energy to defeat the virus,” says Kala’s daughter Rachna Mehta.  She adds the support of doctors and other staff members of the KCGMC saw her mother through the difficult time. “Remain courageous and you will defeat the virus,” Kala says. Kushal Gupta (34), a resident of Sector 6 here, remained in the ICU at the KCGMC for more than a month. Around 85 per cent of his lungs were infected.  “Doctors had given up hope, but my family and I did not give up. We requested doctors to continue the treatment and it paid off. Here I am today, fully recovered,” he says with a beaming smile.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stay-positive-this-too-shall-pass-survivors-to-patients-247533
03-05-2021||Sushil Manav
||State gets 160 Tocilizumab shots||Tribune News Service  Chandigarh, May 2 Haryana finally received 160 injections of Tocilizumab, a monoclonal antibody drug for treatment of critically ill Covid patients, after the drug had gone out of stock for several days due to high demand and low supply.  Of these, 10 injections have been allocated till today, to private hospitals, by the expert committee of doctors constituted by the government for this purpose. Five injections of Tocilizumab have been allocated to a private hospital in Gurugram, three to a private hospital in Faridabad and two in two different private hospitals in the state. “We received several requests from various private hospitals. Most of these hospitals wanted that 10-20 injections be supplied to them. But we examined individual cases of patients admitted in the hospitals and allocated these injections on merit,” said a member of the expert committee. Not a single request for the injection has come from any government hospital or medical college so far. Tocilizumab is a strong immune system suppressant and is indicated to control “cytokine storm” rapidly. Its use has to be guided by the clinical condition of the patient. Although many experts have said that the drug reduces mortality by merely 10 per cent, it has been in great demand ever since the surge in Covid cases in the present second wave. Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, constituted an expert committee to distribute the injections. “The supply to private institutions will be on actual cost as procured and informed by the HMSCL. However, for all government hospitals and medical colleges, it will be free of cost,” said Arora.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/state-gets-160-tocilizumab-shots-247534
03-05-2021||---||Congress councillor booked for creating ruckus in hospital||Ambala, May 2The police have booked Congress leader and councillor from ward-10 in Ambala City Mithun Verma for allegedly misbehaving with the civil hospital staff and claiming shortage of oxygen at civil hospital on April 27.The case has been registered at Baldev Nagar police station on the complaint of Principal Medical Officer, Civil Hospital, Ambala City, Dr Papneesh under Sections 186, 188, 269, 270, 509 of the IPC, 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act, 51 b of Disaster Management Act, and 3 of Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act.In his complaint to the police, the doctor alleged that on April 27, the councilor, along with some people, created ruckus outside the Covid ward and sampling area of the hospital. He circulated a video regarding shortage of oxygen and tried to tarnish the image of the hospital. However, the Health Department denied the claims and informed that there was no shortage of oxygen in the hospital.On the other hand, Mithun Verma said that he had got a call from a girl of his ward that her mother is Covid-positive. She is undergoing treatment at the civil hospital and there is no oxygen available there.“We reached the civil hospital and contacted health officials. But we didn’t get any response. There was no oxygen for several minutes. We contacted SDM Ambala City Sachin Gupta who ensured that oxygen was available. The case has been registered under political pressure. I have not misbehaved with any doctor or staff and caused no damage to property. I will continue to raise public issues and will fight the legal battle,” said Mithun who is a practising lawyer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-councillor-booked-for-creating-ruckus-in-hospital-247535
03-05-2021||---||Doctor held for breaking Covid norms, later released on bail||Kurukshetra, May 2A doctor, who had last month tested positive for Covid, was arrested today for allegedly breaking Covid guidelines when he went to the Deputy Commissioner’s camp office despite knowing his positive status, the police have said.Wife alleges biasDr Lokender Goyal’s wife Dr Monika, who is a director of the hospital, alleged the district administration had acted in a biased manner towards them as they had filed a case of recovery of more than Rs2.5 crore pending against the state government in the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Dr Lokender Goyal, owner of a private hospital in Kurukshetra, whose facility had been admitting Covid patients, was arrested after a case was registered against him under several provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Disaster Management Act, 2005.Dr Goyal was produced before a Duty Magistrate here. However, he was later released on bail.According to SHO, Kurukshetra, Davinder Walia, the arrest was made based on a complaint filed by Amrik Singh, personal assistant to the DC, on April 27.In his complaint, Singh had alleged that Dr Goyal, who had tested Covid-positive a few days ago, had visited the DC’s camp office along with 25 to 30 relatives of some Covid patients under treatment at his hospital.The complainant had alleged that the doctor forcibly entered the camp office by pushing the policeman on duty around 8.30 pm.He raised a hue and cry that his hospital, which was handling 80 Covid patients, was left with oxygen for just about an hour.However, an inquiry by the Chief Medical Officer found that oxygen was sufficient till 4 am the next day. As a result, Dr Goyal not only endangered the life of others having tested Covid-positive, but also created unnecessary panic among patients and their relatives, the complainant has alleged.The district administration had banned the hospital from admitting Covid patients as it was found that Dr Goyal was treating Covid patients while his own report for the virus came out positive.Dr Goyal’s wife Dr Monika, who is a director of the hospital, alleged the administration had acted in a biased manner towards them as they had filed a case of recovery of more than Rs 2.5 crore pending against the state government in the Punjab and Haryana High Court.She said the sum was incurred for the treatment of Covid patients sent by the government to their hospital in the first phase of the pandemic last year.Dr Monika said the oxygen tanker purchased by the hospital from their vendor was allegedly detained by the police in Karnal on April 27 for more than 10 hours, forcing Dr Goyal to go personally to the DC’s camp office when his telephone calls did not bear any effect, and the life of the patients was endangered.She alleged that later, the district administration fixed a daily medical oxygen quota of only one tonne per day against the requirement of four tonnes, which they were regularly getting from their private vendor earlier.Meanwhile, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Kurukshetra, has come out in support of Dr Goyal and condemned the police action. It threatened to go on an indefinite strike if charges against the doctor were not dropped within a day.“The police action will dent the morale of doctors. It is impossible to work in such intimidating circumstances,” the IMA said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/doctor-held-for-breaking-covid-norms-later-released-on-bail-247536
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||145 succumb to virus in Haryana||The state today set another grim record of Covid mortalities when 145 people succumbed to the virus, whereas 13,322 new infections were reported.While Karnal and Hisar reported the maximum 16 deaths each, Rohtak and Fatehabad witnessed the death of 14 people each. In all, 11 people died in Bhiwani, 10 in Ambala, nine each in Gurugram and Panipat and seven each deaths were reported in Faridabad and Jind.Gurugram witnessed the maximum new cases (3,609) followed by Faridabad (1,755), Sonepat (934), Hisar (879), Panipat (794) and Karnal (773).The active cases in the state now stand at 1,05,270.Amid all these gloomy figures, 10,423 people recovered today, taking the total recoveries to 4,05,132. The recovery rate in the state now stands at 78.68 per cent.In all, 18,692 people got vaccine jabs today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/145-succumb-to-virus-in-haryana-247537
03-05-2021||vinder Saini
||Cremation grounds run out of space in Rohtak district||Tribune News Service Rohtak, May 2  Crematoriums for non-Covid victims in the city are overburdened following a sharp rise in the number of cremations in the past week. The two main crematoriums — Ram Bagh and Gohana Road cremation ground — have recorded more than four-fold increase in the bodies being brought here for last rites. The bodies are also being disposed of on the ground following non-availability of funeral platforms. It is suspected that the increase might be linked to the Covid pandemic.  In view of the rising numbers, the crematorium managements have asked the bereaved families to collect the ashes the next day to ensure the cremation of other bodies on time. Earlier, the ashes were collected 3-4 days after cremation. “Before the pandemic, 100 bodies on average were cremated in a month but the situation changed in the past week. Over 100 bodies were disposed of in the past week,” said Surendra Batra, vice-president, Ram Bagh Crematorium Management Committee. Batra informed that a slight rise in the number of cremations was also witnessed during the first wave of Covid last year, but this time, the increase was four-fold, leaving everyone surprised. The bereaved families now have to seek time for performing the last rites of their loved ones in view of the rush, he added. A doctor on the condition of anonymity said elective surgeries had been stopped in the PGIMS and a cap had also been imposed on the number of OPD patients in view of the pandemic. “The situation has put everyone, especially poor ones, in a tight spot who are unable to afford costly treatment at private hospitals. Hence, they are compelled to remain at home without proper treatment,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cremation-grounds-run-out-of-space-in-rohtak-district-247538
03-05-2021||---||Don’t create panic, CM Manohar Lal Khattar urges people||Hisar, May 2Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today reviewed arrangements in Sirsa and Bhiwani towns to tackle the spread of Covid-19.Addressing mediapersons in Sirsa, Khattar said the government had decided to impose a lockdown in the state from May 3 to May 9The Chief Minister directed the district administration to take all necessary steps to check the spread of the disease and ensure adequate medical facilities to patients.He urged the public to refrain from spreading panic and rather play a positive role in the fight against coronavirus.To a query, Khattar said the authorities had been asked to make additional arrangements for beds and other facilities. He claimed that there was no oxygen shortage for Covid patients in the state and Sirsa's quota for the same had also been increased.He said the government was reviewing health facilities in all districts and the feedback of each member of the teams constituted at the district level was being taken. The shortcomings were being rectified.Meanwhile, the police thwarted the attempt of farmers to show black flags to the Chief Minister in Sirsa and Bhiwani towns. The activists were detained and released after some time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dont-create-panic-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-urges-people-247539
03-05-2021||---||5 medical oxygen plants in state soon||Karnal, May 2 Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday reviewed the preparedness of BPS PGIMS Khanpur in Sonepat district for Covid-19 and said five more oxygen plants will be functional in the state soon.  “The equipment for setting up the oxygen plants in Karnal, Panchkula, Hisar, Sonepat and Faridabad have already arrived. Once these plants are functional, there would be sufficient oxygen and the number of beds will also be increased in the state,” said Khattar. The equipment of this plant were lying unattended and with the support of Prof Joginder Singh, the oxygen plant was made functional at Sonepat Civil Hospital by the district administration. The CM asked him to get five more such plants functional at the earliest and the administrations would extend all support to him. Khattar said the oxygen quota of the state had been increased to 257MT. “The quota for Sonepat district has also been raised to 13MT per day. A container of 10MT capacity will also be set up at BPS Khanpur, so that oxygen could be supplied to hospitals in time,” he said. He also said 100 MBBS students of BPS Medical College were ready for their internship and they would be sent to the districts as per the requirement. While chairing a meeting of officials, Khattar directed them to conduct oxygen audit at hospitals and determine the usage and check the wastage of it. He also asked them to keep strict vigil on black-marketing of oxygen. Khattar also appealed to people not to panic if the oxygen level dips to 92. They should stay in home isolation.  “Like government machinery, social organisations should also come forward to extend support to the people who are in home isolation, so that essential goods could be sent to their homes,” the CM appealed. He also directed officials to ensure the availability of all essential goods in containment zones. “The officials will also ensure that rate lists of essential commodities are displayed outside their shops,” the CM directed. On the issue of hefty rates being charged for ambulances, the CM said a rate list for ambulances should be displayed outside hospitals, so that people pay accordingly. Besides, hospitals would also ensure that rates of beds with oxygen and ventilator facilities and common beds are displayed on the premises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-medical-oxygen-plants-in-state-soon-247540
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Improve health infra during lockdown: Hooda to govt||Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has said the state government should improve the medical infrastructure during the seven-day lockdown announced today. “The government has failed to provide Covid patients with beds, oxygen and medicines. Every day, people die because hospitals are short on medical oxygen,” he said in a statement here today.  He questioned the Khattar government for its double standards. “On one hand, it claims that there is no shortage of medical oxygen and, on the other, it submits otherwise in the High Court.”  Hooda offered the Opposition’s help to the state government to curb the spread of the virus. “This is the time to rise above politics, and unite and fight the pandemic,” he said. He appealed to the public not to venture out unless it was very important. “Everyone will have to exercise restraint. People should avoid large gatherings at weddings and funerals,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/improve-health-infra-during-lockdown-hooda-to-govt-247541
03-05-2021||---||60 micro-containment zones set up in Palwal||Palwal, May 2In view of the sharp surge in the number of Covid cases, the district administration has set up 60 micro-containment zones in the district.19 deaths in AprilThe district reported 1,178 new cases in April as compared with just 61 cases in March. Besides, 19 persons succumbed to Covid in April, while no one died in March.Deputy Commissioner Naresh Narwal said, “Officials of the district administration and Health Department had been asked to enforce Covid protocols in the micro-containment zones. In case of any lapse, action will be taken under Section 56 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.”Palwal being close to hotspot districts such as Faridabad and Gurugram has been hit hard by the virus.The Deputy Commissionersaid all affected areas or zones would be sanitised. “Teams of the Health Department will carry out door-to-door scanning and thermal screening of residents in designated areas.”Meanwhile, the district reported 1,178 new cases in April as compared with just 61 cases in March. Besides, 19 persons succumbed to Covid in April, while no one died in March.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/60-micro-containment-zones-set-up-in-palwal-247542
03-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Three arrested for selling Remdesivir vial for Rs 45K||Gurugram, May 2The CM flying squad on Sunday nabbed three persons, including a couple, for selling Remdesivir injections in black in Gurugram.Among the arrested accused, two men are working at some private hospitals here. They used to cheat the patients by not injecting the drug to them and smuggling it out of the hospital.An FIR has been registered against the trio under various sections of the IPC, Drugs and Cosmetics Act and Essential Commodities (EC) Act. Five injections of Remdesivir and two mobile phones have been recovered from the accused. They have reportedly confessed that they were trying to sell the injection for Rs 45,000 per vial.One of the arrested accused has been identified as Chetan Kapur of Punjab, who is presently living in Delhi. He is working as a senior security assistant at a private hospital in Gurugram. Other accused have been identified as Nitin Josh of Kerala, who is working as a nursing staff supervisor at a private hospital, and his wife Leema Umen.CM flying squad DSP Inderjeet Yadav said they got a tip-off and in collaboration with Gurugram Drugs Control Officer Amandeep Chauhan and the local police DSP, they set up a constable as a decoy customer who contacted the accused.“The decoy customer called Nitin, who agreed to supply five Remdesivir injections for Rs 45,000 per per vial. He called him in Sector 52, where his wife reached with the injections which were given to the decoy customer. Later, they were arrested by the raiding team and on questioning, the third accused was arrested,” said DSP Yadav adding that they were questioning the accused and verifying the facts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-arrested-for-selling-remdesivir-vial-for-rs-45k-247543
03-05-2021||Chandigarh||Govt halts wheat procurement||Haryana Government has decided to stop procurement of wheat in all mandis/procurement centres in view of the exponential surge in Covid cases for which state government has imposed complete lockdown till May 9.  An official spokesperson said that during lockdown, no procurement of wheat will be initiated in any mandis/procurement centres of the state and no gate pass would be issued for it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-halts-wheat-procurement-247544
03-05-2021||---||Man held with opium||Karnal, May 2A team of Haryana State Narcotic Control Bureau has arrested a man identified as Hari Das of Sonepat from near Kambopura village on the National Highway-44 with 5.25 kg opium. The accused was taken on seven-day police remand to unearth the gang involved in this crime. “On a tip-off, we arrested Hari with opium which he used to bring from Jharkhand at the rate of Rs 1 lakh per kg,” said sub-inspector Chandeshwar. During investigation, the accused informed that he used to sell it between Rs 1.8 lakh and 2 lakh per kg. A case was also registered against him in Delhi, he added. A case under NDPS Act was registered against him at Madhuban police station. Meanwhile, a team of Karnal anti-narcotics cell also arrested Deepak of Modipur village with 410 gram opium. He used to bring it from Rishikesh in Uttarakhand. During investigation, he informed the police that his brother and father were also involved in the smuggling of drugs. His brother is behind bars. The accused was produced in court and was taken on three-day police remand. The district police also seized 2,366 bottles of liquor from different accused in various cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-with-opium-247545
03-05-2021||---||Two held for sale of Remdesivir  on black market||Hisar, May 2The police have arrested two persons for selling Remdesivir injection in black in Hisar today. The accused have been identified as Arun Khurana, owner of a medical stone in a private hospital and his nephew Parth Khurana. The police said they got tip-off about black marketing of the injection in Hisar by some unscrupulous persons. Acting on it, the police prepared a raiding party comprising of Senior Drug Controller Raman Kumar and a doctor Tarun Bhutani. They sent two persons Mukesh and Ramesh Varma as decoy customers to their medical store, where Arun agreed to give them a Remdesivir vial for Rs 40,000. As the decoy customers handed over the cash to the medical store owner, the police party raided the car of the accused and recovered the cash and three Remdesivir injections from him. A case has been registered under Sections 420 of the IPC and relevant Act. The nabbed accused were produced in a court which sent them to judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-held-for-sale-of-remdesivir-on-black-market-247546
03-05-2021||---||BKU threatens stir||Ambala, May 2A day after a case was registered against Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, who is also the national spokesperson of the union, along with 11 other identified farmer leaders, the Bhartiya Kisan Union has threatened to hold an agitation if the FIR is not cancelled.On Saturday, the Ambala police had booked Rakesh Tikait, Rattan Mann, Baldev Singh, Jasmair Saini, Loveneet Singh, Kapil, Sanjiv, Ravi, Yudhvir Singh, Harpreet Singh, Inderpal Singh, Miha Singh, and some unidentified people for holding a mahapanchayat in Durali village despite the imposition of Section 144 CrPC.BKU mandal president Baldev Singh said, “We will continue to protest till the farm laws are not withdrawn. A meeting was held today and it has been decided that the union will hold an agitation against the government if the case registered for holding the mahapanchayat is not cancelled.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bku-threatens-stir-247547
03-05-2021||---||SKM welcomes public mandate in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu||Karnal, May 2The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has welcomed public mandate against the BJP in the Assembly elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala.Celebrating the BJP's defeat, the protesting farmers distributed sweets at Singhu while at Tikri, they raised slogans against the Modi government.“It is clear that the public rejected the BJP. Under its rule, the country's healthcare infrastructure has crumbled. People are falling prey to Covid due to callous attitude of the government. At a time when the livelihood of a large chunk of our population is at stake, the BJP tried to spin its communal polarisation agenda as the main issue confronting voters. Spending huge resources in the election campaigns did not ensure the BJP a victory in these states," said a joint statement issued by farmer leaders.Balvir Singh Rajewal, Hannan Mollah, Dr Darshan Pal, Yudhvir Singh, Jagjeet Singh Dallewal, Gurnam Singh Chaduni, Yogendra Yadav and Abhimanyu Kohar said, “The protesting farmers have already proved convincingly that the BJP's communal polarisation agenda is unacceptable; this is a unified struggle of citizens not only to protect their livelihoods, but also the secular fabric of the country. We congratulate the citizens of Bengal and other states for responding in our support. We now appeal to farmers from all over India to strengthen their resistance and join the movement. This movement will continue to spread the democratic values that our Constitution espouses, and will further strengthen it till our demands are fulfilled."They said the BJP should listen to the mandate of people in different states and should immediately repeal the three agricultural laws and give legal guarantee to MSP."We are again clarifying that this agitation will not end until our demands are met. At the same time, the social boycott of BJP leaders and their allies will continue. Instead of making peasants and workers their enemies, the government should fight against the pandemic," said Balbir Singh, another leader.Meanwhile, the SKM leaders condemned the restrictions imposed by the Punjab Government in the name of Covid and police cases against farmers.The core committee of the SKM also mourned the sudden demise of young activist Momita Basu from West Bengal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/skm-welcomes-public-mandate-in-west-bengal-tamil-nadu-247548
03-05-2021||Caption||Khattar: Fix rates of private ambulances||Kurukshetra, May 2Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today held a Covid review meeting with the district officials and expressed unhappiness over the Covid patients admitted at private hospitals not registered for Covid treatment.He warned the officials of strict action if any laxity was found on their part.The Chief Minister said that unregistered hospitals have admitted Covid patients, some have admitted patients beyond capacity and the officials concerned had no information. The portal is not being updated regularly.He asked the district officials to register good hospitals for Covid so that Covid patients could be sent for treatment. He inquired about the condition and availability of infrastructure at all 13 registered hospitals and also sought daily audit of the usage of oxygen, beds and medicines. The Chief Minister said that the oxygen quota of Kurukshetra has been increased to six MT and it would be increased if required. Khattar said there were complaints of overcharging against private ambulances and their minimum and per km fares need to be fixed. The charges of beds of private hospitals also need to be fixed. There is no shortage of oxygen but there are some constraints in the supply of oxygen. He also directed the deputy commissioner to keep at least 20 oxygen cylinders for emergency for Kurukshetra and Kaithal.While speaking to mediapersons, the CM said, “There have been some complaints related to Covid management against some officials in several districts and the government has been taking appropriate action. We also reprimanded the officials in public interest.” Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini, Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha, Shahabad MLA Ramkaran Kala and all senior officials were present during the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-fix-rates-of-private-ambulances-247549
03-05-2021||Hisar||Amid Covid crisis, Haryanvi diaspora extends help||A messiah for needyFaridabad: IPS officer Arpit Jain, who is posted as DCP in the district, has offered to help all those who are unable to arrange food amid the ongoing Covid crisis. Jain, who also tested Covid-positive recently and is home-isolated, said,” Anyone who is not working or not getting income and runs out of food or struggling in anyway, please don’t go to sleep empty stomach. Don’t be afraid to send me a private message. I will be more than happy to share whatever I have,’’ said Jain. Recently, he provided ration and food items to a poor man.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amid-covid-crisis-haryanvi-diaspora-extends-help-247550
03-05-2021||Yamunanagar||National webinar on plagiarism||Orientation event for facultyFaridabad: JC Bose University of Science and Technology here on Sunday conducted an online orientation programme for newly recruited faculty members of the university. The university had recently recruited about 20 teaching staff on the post of Associate Professor and Assistant Professor in various teaching departments. The programme was conducted by the Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) in association with digital cell. The objective of the programme was to welcome the newly appointed faculty members and introduce them to the university facilities, administrative and academic systems, the rules and regulations of the university. Registrar Dr SK Garg welcomed the newly appointees on behalf of the university. Vice-Chancellor Dinesh Kumar congratulated them and urged them to contribute in enhancing the quality of services being provided by the university whole-heartedly. The VC said JC Bose University is a leading university among other technical universities in the state and is known for its quality of education and meritorious students. Dean (Quality Assurance) Sandeep Grover delivered a presentation on general overview of the university.GurPurb celebrations at collegeYamunanagar: Various religious events were organised at the gurdwara of Guru Nanak Khalsa College here to mark the 400th Prakash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur. On the occasion, Bhai Manmohan Singh recited Gurbani along with his companions and also performed Shabad-Kirtan based on the works of the Guru. College Principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said Guru Teg Bahadur had taught the country the true sense of religion and humanity. In another programme held at the college, tributes was paid to former vice-president of the college management committee Swaran Singh Athwal. Vice-principal Dr Ravi Kapoor said Swaran Singh Athwal was a visionary scholar and an alumnus of India's first Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana. Bhupinder Singh Jauhar of the college management committee and president Randeep Singh Jauhar also paid tributes to Athwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/national-webinar-on-plagiarism-247551
03-05-2021||A vacant Mango Garden||Need to check axing of trees at Panchkula park||Akhil Goel, PanchkulaEncroachment by vendors in Panchkula market IRKS CommutersSeveral vegetable/fruit vendors have encroached upon a road of Panchkula Sector 21 market. Even customers don't act responsibly there and park their vehicles near such vendors resulting in traffic chaos. The irony of the situation is that the market is situated just adjacent to a police post and still the situation is bad. Due to this negligence, many accidents occur at the market daily. The administration must look into the issue and get the needful done immediately.Narain Bansal, PanchkulaEncourage NGOs to set up mini-Covid care centresThe Chandigarh administration's initiative of appealing to the public, any individual, association, voluntary organisation, NGO, religious organisation, corporate, firm or trust to come forward for setting up mini-Covid care centres needs to be replicated by other state/district administrations. Among most of the Covid patients, mild/moderate infections can be easily handled there and this will surely reduce pressure on the government infrastructure. Local administrations must facilitate such ventures and provide guidance, supervision and regulation for the same.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaGovt must deploy more doctors, paramedicsOwing to the alarming surge in number of Covid cases in the state, the Kaithal district administration has set up 104-bed dedicated Covid health centre at Chhotu Ram Indoor Stadium and steps were underway to set up another 50-bed Covid centre at Hindu Girls Senior Secondary School on Ambala Road here. The officials, led by Deputy Commissioner Sujan Singh, inspected the stadium to ensure that besides beds, other facilities required for the effective treatment of Covid patients were in place. Surprisingly, despite the surge, the government is yet to appoint sufficient number of doctors and paramedics in the district. The government must immediately post more health staff lest it is too late.Satish Seth, KaithalWhat Our Readers SayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/need-to-check-axing-of-trees-at-panchkula-park-247552
03-05-2021||---||1-week lockdown in Haryana from today||Chandigarh, May 2Haryana today announced a week-long lockdown in the state beginning Monday. All educational institutions and cinema halls will remain shut. Gatherings are prohibited unless permitted by the DC.The order issued by the government allows 20 persons for a funeral. Prior permission of the DC will be needed for marriage functions. Hotels, eating joints and dhabas can deliver food up to 10 pm.Micro-containment zones in PalwalWhile essential services like the police, civil defence, fire, water, power and sanitation shall continue uninterrupted, mandis too shall function without restrictions. The order by the Chief Secretary states health services, including vaccination centres, telemedicine facilities and manufacturing of drugs would remain operational. IT and IT-enabled services will function on 50 per cent staff strength. Courier services, print and electronic media and government-approved Common Service Centres shall also be functional.There is no bar on industries in rural areas and units manufacturing essential goods, including drugs, and construction activity of public projects. No curbs on passengers returning or going to airports and railway stations.EXEMPTIONS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-week-lockdown-in-haryana-from-today-247417
03-05-2021||Ambala||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, 12 others booked for violating Section 144 in Haryana||The Haryana Police have registered a case against Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait and 12 others, who held a ‘mahapanchayat’ in a village here, for allegedly violating prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPc, officials said on Sunday.Tikait and some other BKU leaders addressed the ‘kisan mazdoor maha panchayat’ in Dhurali village, near Ambala Cantt, on Saturday.Ratan Maan Singh, Baldev Singh and Jasmer Saini are among the other 12 farmer leaders who have been booked by the police.In view of a massive surge in coronavirus cases, the district magistrate had imposed Section 144, which bars assembly of four or more persons.The police said Assistant Sub-Inspector Chandi Singh had warned the BKU leaders not to hold the ‘maha panchayat’ as Section 144 was enforced in the district.“However, BKU leaders went ahead and organised the event,” a senior police official said.Based on a complaint of the Assistant Sub-Inspector, a case was registered against Tikait and 12 other farmer leaders.“They violated the orders under Section 144 as well as the orders duly promulgated by the public servant (district magistrate) under Section 188 of the IPC. The other provisions of IPC added in the FIR include Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life),” the police official said.Addressing the ‘maha panchayat’, Tikait, who is the national spokesperson of BKU, reiterated that the agitation against the Centre’s new farm laws will continue till the time these legislations are repealed.He asked the farmers to prepare themselves for a long battle.The BKU leader also hit out at the government over its handling of the COVID crisis, saying various hospitals across the country are grappling with a severe shortage of medical oxygen.Talking to the media later, Tikait said during the event, farmers were told that they should take all the steps to protect themselves from the disease. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-12-others-booked-for-violating-section-144-in-haryana-247280
03-05-2021||---||Covid surge: Haryana announces 7-day lockdown starting Monday||Chandigarh, May 2The Haryana Government on Sunday declared a seven-day lockdown from May 3 to contain the rapid spread of COVID-19 in the state.Home and Health Minister Anil Vij announced the decision to impose "complete lockdown" on Twitter today.Earlier on Friday, the Haryana Government had ordered weekend lockdown in nine districts of the state, including Panchkula, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Rohtak, Karnal, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad. The lockdown came into force from 10 pm on Friday (April 30) and was slated to end at 5 am on Monday (May 3).The residents must stay indoors during the lockdown period. No person shall leave their homes or shall move on foot or by vehicle or travel or stand or roam around on any road or public places during the above said hours, the order had said.Any person violating the norms will face legal action under various provisions of the Act and Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-surge-haryana-announces-7-day-lockdown-starting-monday-247278
03-05-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||RSS leader Pawan Jindal's son, friend die in accident in Gurugram as speeding BMW overturns||Son of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) leader Pawan Jindal and his friend were killed in a road accident after their BMW rammed into a pillar of an underpass of DLF Phase-2 Rapid Metro Station on Golf Course Road around 2.30 a.m. on Sunday.The car was damaged badly after the accident as it rolled over many times before overturning on the road. Police handed over bodies to the kin after the postmortem.Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Home Minister Anil Vij have taken to social media to mourn his death while the likes of MP Sanjay Bhatia, BJP State President Om Prakash Dhankhar and Haryana Minister Dr Banwari Lal reached the family's residence in sector 15 on Sunday.The accident happened around 12:30 am when Gaurav Jindal (35) was returning from DLF phase-1 in his BMW car with friend Sawan Khanna also a resident of sector 15 part 2. The car was overspeeding and it was at the underpass near DLF-2 rapid metro station towards cyber hub when their BMW overturned after colliding with a divider and a pillar in the underpass.A police team and fire brigade team reached the spot soon after they got information. Gaurav Jindal died on the spot while his friend was rushed to Medanta where he also succumbed to his injuries. Gaurav was the younger son of Pawan Jindal. Saurav Jindal, the elder brother of the deceased told the police that it was an "unfortunate accident" and the family did not want to register any complaint.Police said that it was an accident and they have lodged a report accordingly. Police said that they handed over bodies to kin after postmortems and are investigating.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rss-leader-pawan-jindals-son-friend-die-in-accident-in-gurugram-as-speeding-bmw-overturns-247276
