04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Follow Covid protocols or be prepared for further restrictions: Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij||With reports of lockdown norms being violated in some areas of the state, Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij on Tuesday asked people to follow all Covid-related guidelines or be prepared for further restrictions.“The strict measures we are (already) taking to check the spread of virus cannot be successful without people’s cooperation,” Vij told reporters on Tuesday, urging the public to help authorities enforce the ongoing lockdown in the state.               Many people have lost their lives while several others have contracted the infection, he said, adding people must not venture out unless urgent.As a measure to control the sharp surge in COVID-19 cases and infections, the Haryana government has imposed a lockdown in the entire state from May 3 to May 10 (5 am).Follow all Covid-related guidelines on wearing a mask and social distancing, otherwise the state government will be compelled to impose further restrictions, Vij told the people of state.Vij’s warning came amid reports that people in some areas of the state were still not following the lockdown orders and not realising the gravity of the situation.Haryana had on Monday reported 140 COVID-19 related fatalities, taking the cumulative toll to 4,626. The state had also reported 12,885 fresh infections, pushing the total case count to 5,27,773.On Tuesday, the Ambala police made a group of youth do push-ups and sit-ups on the road in Ambala Cantt area as they allegedly violated lockdown orders.While making them do the physical exercises, the police officials could be seen telling the group of youths to repeat loudly, “hum lockdown ka palan karenge (we will obey the lockdown orders)”.Ambala Cantt SHO, Inspector Vijay Kumar said they had received information that some people were out on morning walk and violating lockdown orders and also not following social distancing norms.They were stopped for a while and later let off with a warning, he said.In Bhiwani too, a small group of people who had violated the lockdown orders were made to do sit-ups and other exercises and were let off with a warning.“We are making them aware that no one should come out of homes unnecessarily when lockdown has been imposed,” a police official on duty, told reporters. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/follow-covid-protocols-or-be-prepared-for-further-restrictions-haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-248151
04-05-2021||---||A clarification||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/a-clarification-247901
04-05-2021||Nitish Sharma
||High input cost hits appliance makers||Tribune News Service Ambala, May 3 High input cost, coupled with poor demand, has hit the kitchen appliances industry of Ambala. The manufacturers claim the input cost increased by nearly 40 per cent, following an increase in prices of copper, aluminum, plastic powder and iron sheet.  Ajay Aggarwal, president, Mixi Manufacturers’ Association, said “The average cost of raw material has increased by nearly 40 per cent over the last few months, but the buyers are not ready to place orders on new rates. So, several units have stopped manufacturing, while some are completing their previous orders with reduced manpower. With high input cost and 18 per cent GST, it is hard to compete with Chinese products and big brands. The industry is struggling for survival. We have repeatedly requested the government that the products costing up to Rs 500 should be kept in the 5 per cent GST slab, while those above Rs 500 should be placed in the 12 per cent slab, but to no avail.” Around 70 units are engaged in manufacturing unbranded kitchen appliances, including mixer, chopper, blender and juicer, and lightweight iron. The industry has a turnover of nearly Rs 10 crore and it provides jobs to nearly 5,000 persons in Ambala. Mohan Lal Saini, another manufacturer, said, “The local industry failed to switch to new technologies due to high cost of investment and lack of proper guidance. We fail to get big orders due lack of automation. Following poor business, the number of employees is being reduced. The government should pay some attention and make a policy to revive the local industry. Small manufacturers can’t compete with famous brands and several of them are on the verge of shutting down units. If the lockdown gets longer, the situation will further deteriorate.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-input-cost-hits-appliance-makers-247903
04-05-2021||Parveen Arora||Karnal MC employees help families perform last rites||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, May 3At a time when most families and relatives of Covid victims are afraid to touch their last remains, 15 employees of the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) are offering dignified cremation services to those who have succumbed to the deadly virus.Three teams comprising five employees have been been performing duties at the Covid-dedicated crematorium at the Baldi bypass on rotation basis. One team works for 10 days in a month.These employees start their work at 6 am from the collection of ashes, preparing pyres and it continues till late in the evening.In the past 10 days, they have cremated 15-20 bodies daily. Most of these employees live separately during their duty days to protect their families from infection.“During my duty days, I do not meet my family members and live in a separate room as a precautionary measure. I do not want any sort of infection to be carried to my family members,” said Karam Chand, an employee.Sandeep Kumar, another employee, said for the past few days, they had been cremating 20-25 bodies daily. “Our team members work without any break in the scorching heat, so that family members who are coming from various parts of Delhi NCR, UP, Karnal and surrounding districts do not catch infection and do not have to wait for long,” said Sandeep.“We assist two to three family members, wearing PPE kits, in cremation by following all rituals,” said another employee.Describing these employees as silent warriors, Commissioner, KMC, Vikram Singh said all of them had been working with dedication. “We have assigned the work to different teams. Four vehicles have been designated to transport the bodies of Covid victims from private hospitals or Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) to the crematorium. These team members conduct their last rites with dignity and in accordance with rituals,” said the Commissioner.He said the employees also helped the families in collecting the ashes. No money was charged for any work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-mc-employees-help-families-perform-last-rites-247907
04-05-2021||Deepender Deswal||It’s terrible to cremate 20 bodies a day, say safai karamcharis||Tribune News ServiceHisar, May 3Their shift starts at 7 am and continues till late in the evening. Five safai karamcharis, currently given the task of cremating Covid victims, have been witnessing psychological trauma and physical duress of the kind of ‘work’ they had never thought of doing in their lifetime.They also have to console the family members of the Covid victims who yearn for a glimpse of their loved ones for one last time.“We keep at least five pyres ready in advance. On an average, we cremate 20 bodies a day. It takes around one hour to complete the formalities and cremate one body”, said Rajesh Bagri, a member of the cremation team at Rishi Nagar in Hisar.The team reaches the cremation ground at 7 am, collects the ashes and hand it over to the families. Then they sanitise the entire cremation ground and start preparing the pyres.“By 10 am, we are ready with five platforms to lay the bodies. This is the kind of task which we had never though of doing. We are shocked and shaken. This trauma won’t go away. My grandfather and other elderly people used to talk about the Spanish flu outbreak about a century ago. Now, we are witness to the deadly coronavirus,” said Bagri.Due to heavy load, the district authorities recently formed three teams for performing cremations at the Rishi Nagar cremation ground, Azad nagar cremation ground in Hisar and in Agroha town.The health department gives them separate PPE kits and 100 kits are used on a daily basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/its-terrible-to-cremate-20-bodies-a-day-say-safai-karamcharis-247909
04-05-2021||---||Samaritans give free wood for cremation||Karnal, May 3 To maintain the proper supply of firewood and other goods required for the cremation of the Covid-19 victims, Samaritans have formed a firewood and “samagri” bank to assist the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) to cope with the rush at the Covid-dedicated cremation ground at the Baldi bypass in the city. Mayor Karnal Renu Bala Gupta, her husband and social activist Brij Gupta, with the help of social activists Ramesh Midha, councillor Ish Gulati and others have taken the initiative of ensuring the supply of firewood, including sandal wood, Ganga Jal, samagri, desi ghee, sugar and other items being used for cremation. Nearly 4 quintals of firewood is needed for a body’s cremation. “Since the number of deaths is increasing day by day and the requirement for firewood is increasing, I and my husband, along with other several Samaritans, decided to do our bit in this regard, so we have taken the initiative of providing firewood, samagri, desi ghee and other items at the Covid-dedicated crematorium,” said Renu Bala Gupta, Mayor. Brij Gupta, social activist, said they had provided sufficient quantity of firewood and other items near the crematorium and the employees on duty had been asked to inform them whenever any item was short. “This service is free of cost and nobody would give money to any person there for these materials,” he added. “Water bottles have also been provided for the people coming to cremate their loved ones,” he said. Ramesh Midha, social activist, said it was a time of crisis and no one was prepared for unexpected death in their family due to Covid. They came directly to cremation ground from hospital for the last rites. “In such circumstances when limited family members are allowed and y cannot arrange firewood and samagri, we have decided to ensure everything at the place,” he added. Vikam Singh, Commissioner, KMC, said the KMC was already cremating the bodies without charging any money from any person. All items, including firewood etc, were arranged by the KMC itself, now the Mayor and other Samaritans have joined hands with them, which will help them cope with the increasing demand of firewood. “It is a good gesture by the Mayor and other residents of the city,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samaritans-give-free-wood-for-cremation-247911
04-05-2021||Gurugram||5,000 cops on lockdown duty||While 5,000 cops were on the city streets to impose lockdown on the first day, there was almost regular movement of vehicles here today. The police ensured no non-essential goods shop opened. There was vigilance and people were allowed to cross over to Delhi through passes. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-000-cops-on-lockdown-duty-247913
04-05-2021||Palwal||CM: More beds with oxygen support on anvil||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today said a task force had been working on ensuring the availability of medical oxygen, besides adding more oxygen-supported beds in the state. The crisis would be over soon, he added. Khattar was in the district to inspect facilities and arrangements regarding Covid-19. He said the supply and distribution of oxygen across the state had been increased. Teams of officials had been deputed for round-the-clock monitoring and addressing the grievances of people.  The Chief Minister said more oxygen-supported beds were being added.  Earlier, addressing administrative officials at  the PWD Rest House here, the CM directed the authorities to carry out a comprehensive survey in the rural areas to detect the spread of the infection. Health officials were told to create isolation facilities, besides ensuring proper treatment to Covid patients. “Appropriate treatment accompanied with information and medicines should be made available to all patients in home isolation,” said the CM, while ordering that the number of oxygen-supported beds in the Civil Hospital be increased immediately.  Civil Surgeon Dr Brahmdeep Singh said the number of beds for Covid patients would be increased to 700 soon.  DC Naresh Narwal discussed arrangements in the district to tackle the Covid spread. He said 3,110 isolation beds were available in 28 government and private institutions. A survey was being carried out in all villages to detect sick persons, the DC added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cm-more-beds-with-oxygen-support-on-anvil-247914
04-05-2021||---||Kingpin held in ‘fake’ Remdesivir scam||Karnal, May 3The Panipat police have arrested the kingpin involved in the sale of allegedly fake Remdesivir injections.Earlier, six members of three gangs have been arrestedand 32 fake Remdesivir injections recovered last week.The main accused has been identified as Pardeep, a resident of Sector 13/17, Panipat, who runs chemist shops in the district, Delhi and Haridwar.SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said the primary probe reveals that the accused used to buy injections from an Uttarakhand resident for Rs 12,000 per vial and then sold it between Rs 15,000 and Rs 30,000.The accused also revealed that he had already sold 650 injections of 750 vials brought in black market. Of these, Pardeep gave 100 injections to his nephew Sumit, 150 to Saksham and 40 to Keshav for black marketing.On April 27, the police had nabbed three youths from Panipat on the charges of black marketing of Remdesivir injections and recovered 19 vials from their possession. They were taken on police remand. During the remand period, the accused revealed that they had purchased the seized vials from Pardeep.On completion of the remand of Sumit, Saksham and Keshav, they wereproduced in the court and were sent to judicial custody. Accused Pradeep has been taken on four-day police remand.During investigation, it also came to light that the wrapper of the seized vials is quite different from the original injection and looked fake. The public is requested to beware of such gangs involved in black marketing and immediately inform the police, the SP added.Man nabbed for oxygen black marketingFaridabad: A man, Sachin of Sector 3 here, was allegedly caught selling an oxygen cylinder in black here on Monday. The accused works as an AC repair mechanic. He was nabbed while accepting Rs 45,000 for an oxygen cylinder, which costs between Rs 6,000 and Rs 8,000. He has been booked under the Essential Services Act and the National Disaster Management Act, 2005. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kingpin-held-in-fake-remdesivir-scam-247916
04-05-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Beds available on govt portal, not in hospitals||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 3The Haryana Government had launched a web portal covidharyana.in last month to provide the information regarding the availability of hospital beds for Covid patients across the state.The portal shows that a number of hospital beds, including oxygen and non-oxygen beds, ventilators and ICU beds, are available in all districts of the state at any given time.However, even the critical patients who reach the hospitals are told that there are no beds. The hapless family members and other attendants of the patients keep on wandering from one hospital to another, but most of them fail to get any bed.Some patients lose their lives in their cars or ambulances while making rounds of government as well as private hospitals, leaving their families in a state of helplessness and despair.“I have served at the PGIMS all my life, but if I require a bed at the institute today, I am not sure whether I will get it or not,” laments Dr Ranbir Singh Dahiya, a former professor of surgery at the Rohtak PGIMS.Meanwhile, as per the government portal, 5,066 hospital beds, including 3,106 oxygen beds, 1,569 non-oxygen beds, 391 ICU beds and 244 ventilators, were available in Haryana at 7 pm on May 3.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/beds-available-on-govt-portal-not-in-hospitals-247919
04-05-2021||Sushil Manav||2L cases in April, Gurugram worst-affected||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 3Haryana, where a week-long lockdown started on Monday to curb the spread of Covid, added nearly 2 lakh cases and about 1,300 fatalities between April 1 and 30.Gurugram, which is the worst-affected district, contributed 59,540 cases during April. Faridabad, Hisar, Karnal and Sonepat districts also fuelled the sharp increase in infections.Data issued by the Health Department showed that as on April 1, Haryana’s total Covid case count was 2,92,409, which rose to 4,87,978 on April 30, a jump of 1,95,569 cases.The total fatalities increased from 3,164 to 4,216 during the period, it showed.Meanwhile, half of the state’s 22 districts have been placed in the red category, which means these districts have a positivity rate ofmore than 6 per cent.As per the WHO guidelines, the desirable positivity rate is less than 2 per cent. If it is more than six per cent, it is considered critical.Only Nuh and Charkhi Dadri have the desirable positivity rate of less than2 per cent, whereas nine other districts have a positivity rate more than desirable but less than critical.Meanwhile, in the past one week (April 26 to May 2), the state reported 90,569 new cases and 719 deaths. The two figures are the highest ever over the seven-day period ever since the virus broke out in the state.The daily positivity rate remained more than 26 per cent last week. At 6.89 per cent, the cumulative positivity rate is in the critical zone.Of the 11 districts with critical positivity rate, Faridabad has the highest positivity rate of 11.34 per cent followed by Gurugram (10.44 per cent).Panipat (8.29 per cent), Panchkula (7.79 per cent), Karnal (7.5 per cent), Sonepat (7.42 per cent), Ambala (6.72 per cent) and Rewari (6.6 per cent) are the other districts with critical positivity rate.“Higher positivity rate means that the state is not doing enough testing to trace and isolate Covid patients. This, in turn, is resulting in the surge,” said a doctor requesting anonymity.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, however, said the state was already testing more than 50,000 people every day.“The state plans to increase the testing by rapid antigen testing (RAT) kits,” he added.With the surge in cases, the transmission rate, also termed as reproduction rate, has also shot up to 1.40, the highest since the onset of the pandemic in March last year. "The transmission rate of 1.4 means that each group of 100 patients is infecting 140 healthy people," said an expert.Transmission rate: 1.4With the surge in cases, the transmission rate, also termed as reproduction rate, has also shot up to 1.40, the highest since the onset of the pandemic in March last year. “The transmission rate of 1.4 means that each group of 100 patients is infecting 140 healthy people,” said an expert.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2l-cases-in-april-gurugram-worst-affected-247920
04-05-2021||Hisar||Association offers chambers to be used as care centre||The District Bar Association has urged the administration to utilise the Bar room and the chambers of advocates for setting up a Covid care centre in view of the surge in cases in the district.In a letter to Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni today, DBA president Mandeep Bishnoi said, “Under the given circumstances, the District Bar Association is ready to hand over the Bar room and the chambers for setting up a Covid care centre. We are ready to extend all help to the administration to deal with the prevailing situation”, he said.The DBA office-bearers also decided that no member of the association would take up the case of chemist shop owner Arun Khurana, his nephew Parth Khurana and another person, Mukesh Malik, who have been arrested for the sale of Remdesivir on the black market. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/association-offers-chambers-to-be-used-as-care-centre-247922
04-05-2021||---||14 HCS officers posted on Covid mgmt duty||Chandigarh, May 3To strengthen the district administrations in their fight against Covid, the state government has deployed 14 HCS officers.Aman Kumar, Joint Director (Administration), Information Public Relations and Languages Department, has been posted in Kurukshetra. Gulzar Ahmed, Joint Director (Administration), Higher Education, has been deputed in Kurukshetra.Parvesh Kadiyan, Deputy Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management, has been deputed in Panipat, while Gaurav Chauhan, Joint State Project Director, School Shiksha Pariyojana Parishad, goes to Panipat.Ajay Singh, Joint Transport Commissioner, and Suresh Kumar, Joint Director (Administration), Art and Culture, have been deputed in Hisar.Rajesh Kumar Soni, Joint Director (Administration), Health Services, and Naseeb Kumar, Joint Director (Administration), Medical Education and Research Department, have been told to report at Sonepat.Ramit Yadav, Deputy Secretary Finance Department, has been deputed in Jhajjar, while Mangal Sain, Deputy Secretary, Industries and Commerce Department, goes to Jhajjar. Narender Kumar, Joint Director (Administration), Public Works (B&R), has been deployed in Rohtak, while Akhilesh Kumar, Joint Director (Administration) Women and Child Development, has been deputed in Rewari.Vijay Kumar Yadav, Joint Director (Administration), Elementary Education, has been deputed in Rewari, while Deepak Kumar, Joint Director, State Transport, has been posted in Karnal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/14-hcs-officers-posted-on-covid-mgmt-duty-247924
04-05-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat
||With passenger scarcity, roadways reels under losses||Tribune News Service Faridabad, May 3 With the Covid surge and prevailing lockdown conditions, buses operated by the local depot of the Haryana Roadways have started to feel the heat. The depot’s revenue has already slipped into red. “The 80-odd buses operated by the local depot are running with very less or poor occupancy due to the lack of passengers and Covid guidelines issued for travelling in public transport,” claim officials of the Transport Department here. “With only 26 passengers allowed in a bus against the capacity of 52, buses are getting only up to 8 to 12 people on any given route at present,” said an employee on the condition of anonymity. “This had been going on for the past many weeks and especially since the start of the second wave about a month ago,” he said, adding that the situation was not expected to improve soon as the Covid surge was yet to hit the peak. Though buses are disinfected, hand-sanitising facility for commuters in buses or at the stands was missing. Admitting that the bus service of the local depot was facing severe financial losses due to lack of passengers amid Covid surge, Rajiv Nagpal, general manager, Faridabad depot, said buses were plying despite the hurdles, just in the larger interest of the public. He, however, said against the average monthly expense of Rs 5 crore, the local depot has managed to earn only Rs 2.5 crore in April and the loss could increase further. He said no fresh instructions had been received regarding the discontinuation of bus services on any route in wake of the Covid surge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/with-passenger-scarcity-roadways-reels-under-losses-247926
04-05-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC: As per Muslim law, 16-year-old girl competent to enter into marriage contract||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 3The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that a Muslim girl, over 16 years of age, is competent to enter into a contract of marriage with the person of her choice.The ruling came in a case where the teenager solemnised ‘nikah’ with a 36-year-old man in accordance with the Muslim rites and ceremonies.The matter was brought to Justice Sudip Ahluwalia’s notice after the couple filed a protection petition. Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, counsel Sanchit Punia submitted both the petitioners were Muslim and decided to perform ‘nikah’ after they fell in love.Punia submitted this was their first marriage. He relied upon the High Court decisions to contend that puberty and majority (adulthood) were one and the same in Muslim law and that there was a presumption that a person attained majority at the age of 15 years. It was further contented that a Muslim boy or a girl, who attained puberty, was at liberty to marry anyone he or she liked and the guardian had no right to interfere.Punia added the life and liberty of the petitioners was in grave danger at the hands of respondent-relatives. The petitioners submitted a representation to the Yamunanagar Superintendent of Police. But action was not taken.Justice Ahluwalia asserted the girl was aged above 16. In the case of “Yunus Khan”, it was noted that a Muslim girl’s marriage was governed by the personal law of the Muslims.“The law, as laid down in various judgments, is clear that the marriage of a Muslim girl is governed by the Muslim Personal Law. As per Article 195 from the book ‘Principles of Mohammedan Law by Sir Dinshah Fardunji Mulla’, the petitioner over 16 years of age was competent to enter into a contract of marriage with a person of her choice…. Both the petitioners are of marriageable age as envisaged by Muslim Personal Law,” Justice Ahluwalia asserted.Before parting with the order, Justice Ahluwalia added Article 21 of the Constitution provided for the protection of life and personal liberty. It further laid down that no person would be deprived of his or her life and personal liberty except in accordance with the procedure established by law.“The court cannot shut its eyes to the fact that the apprehension of the petitioners needs to be addressed. Merely because the petitioners have got married against the their family wishes, they cannot possibly be deprived of the fundamental rights as envisaged in the Constitutio,” Justice Ahluwalia asserted, while disposing of the petition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-as-per-muslim-law-16-year-old-girl-competent-to-enter-into-marriage-contract-247927
04-05-2021||---||At PGIMS, 150 posts of nurse vacant||Rohtak, May 3A team of the Jan Swasthya Abhiyan Haryana, a network of organisations engaged in health awareness and advocacy, today visited the PGIMS here to inspect the working of the clinical department and wards, and to identify problems being faced by doctors, nurses and other staff in dealing with Covid.Satnam Singh, state convener of the abhiyan, said: “The situation in the PGIMS is worsening by the day. Many doctors, nurses, technicians and other members of the staff have tested Covid-positive. Many of them have contracted the infection twice as kits and other safety materials are in short supply. There is no space to accommodate infected staff.”Resident doctors and PG students, who have contracted the virus the second time, have been told to vacate the hostel immediately. Since isolation wards are full and their home is far away, they are in a fix.Suresh Kumar, state co-convener of the abhiyan, pointed out another problem the PGIMS was facing. “The hospital is facing shortage of nurses. For a 2,050-bed hospital, 3,100 nurses are required as per the norms of the Nursing Council of India. But only 1,225 posts of nurse are sanctioned. Of them, around 150 posts are lying vacant. The need of the hour is to fill the vacant posts and sanction 1,900 posts of nurse urgently.”Neither PGIMS Medical Superintendent Pushpa Dahiya nor Public Relations Officer (PRO) Dr Varun Arora could be contacted for their comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/at-pgims-150-posts-of-nurse-vacant-247930
04-05-2021||---||MLA alleges bias in oxygen supply, seeks probe||Faridabad, May 3Alleging gross discrimination in the supply of oxygen to Covid patients, Neeraj Sharma, Congress MLA from the NIT Assembly segment here, has demanded a CBI probe into the recent allotment of the oxygen cylinders in the district.Saying that even though people are running from pillar to post for getting the supply, influential political persons, belonging to the ruling party, were “encroaching” upon the rights of the needy persons by getting the supply diverted or allocated for their close ones, making the people with no political connections suffer.Stating that he had written to the CM Manohar Lal Khattar referring to a zoom meeting that was organised by the DC on May 1 to discuss the Covid situation , he said a demand was raised by one of the ruling party MLAs for the allocation of 15 oxygen cylinders, irrespective of the supply position and the crisis at present.Sharma said the local administration was scolded for providing only 13 oxygen cylinders against his demand of 15.He said he had raised objection to the discrimination on the basis of political affiliation or influence at the time when a large number of people had become victims of the crisis and had been standing in long queues daily to get cylinders. Alleging misuse of power, he said an independent body should monitor the supply of oxygen without any favour to anyone.He said he had demanded a CBI probe into the matter as casualties had taken place due to the non-availability of oxygen or other medicines, which he said had been a cause of concern.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mla-alleges-bias-in-oxygen-supply-seeks-probe-247931
04-05-2021||---||Farmers suffering due to govt’s  abrupt decisions, says Hooda||Chandigarh, May 3 Former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today alleged that the farmers of the state were suffering due to the policies and decisions of the government. He said the government continued to raise fertiliser prices even as the state is under lockdown. “There is open looting in the purchase of DAP, which was earlier being sold at Rs 1,200 per bag. The government had promised to roll back the increased prices, but farmers were forced to buy it at Rs 1,600 per bag in April and Rs 1,900 per bag in May. The government should clarify the situation regarding the DAP price and roll back the increased prices,” he said.  Hooda said the government had suddenly stopped procuring wheat and it had caused distress to the farmers. “The government is yet to pay the farmers for the purchases made so far and a payment of Rs 7,000 crore remains outstanding. The government should clear the dues,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-suffering-due-to-govts-abrupt-decisions-says-hooda-247933
04-05-2021||---||Sufficient oxygen supply in Karnal: Gujjar||Karnal, May 3Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar and Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia today reviewed the Covid preparedness of the district. Gujjar has been assigned duty to look after Karnal district’s arrangements for Covid.“The situation in Karnal is under control. There is sufficient supply of oxygen,” Gujjar told the media after chairing a meeting of officials at the Mini-secretariat here.He further said, “Lockdown is necessary to break the chain of infection. The storage capacity of the oxygen plant (at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College) is being increased to 20,000 kg, while an oxygen generation plant is being established in the Civil Hospital. It will help in meeting the increasing demand for oxygen,” the minister added.Meanwhile, the district administration has decided to convert hospitals at the sub-divisional level into Covid facilities in view of the increasing number of the cases. “If the district gets sufficient oxygen supply, we will try to make hospitals at the sub-divisional level into Covid facilities. Besides, oxygen cylinders will be provided to patients at the doorstep,” Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav told the media at the Mini-secretariat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sufficient-oxygen-supply-in-karnal-gujjar-247935
04-05-2021||---||Police seize 136 pistols||Chandigarh, May 3Intensifying their operation against illegal weapons, the Haryana Police seized 136 country-made pistols, 41 desi kattas, two revolvers, 228 cartridges, 12 magazines, 19 knives and a sword from different areas of the state during a special fortnight drive.Director General of Police (DGP) Manoj Yadava said here today that during the drive, 185 cases were registered in this regard.The DGP said the STF on May 1 had arrested the most-wanted dreaded gangster Sube Gujjar.The police also nabbed 216 proclaimed offenders and 230 bail jumpers during the drive. The maximum numbers of POs (30) were arrested from Gurugram, followed by Karnal (20) and Faridabad (18). The Crime Bureau also put 42 POs behind bars.Cops also booked 560 persons under the Gambling Act and recovered over Rs 21.29 lakh as stake money from their possession.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-seize-136-pistols-247938
04-05-2021||---||Haryana Government warns pvt hospitals against fleecing||Chandigarh, May 3Health Minister Anil Vij has said strict action would be taken against hospitals found overcharging for facilities or any other medical assistance from Covid patients in the state.Vij said the rates of beds and other facilities had been fixed for the Covid patients undergoing treatment in private hospitals of the state. At present, 42 private hospitals in the state are treating Covid patients.The government has fixed the rates at Rs 10,000 for isolation beds in the NABH and JCI accredited hospitals, Rs 15,000 for ICU beds without ventilators and Rs 18,000 per day for ICU beds with ventilators. Similarly, in non-NABH accredited hospitals, the rates have been fixed at Rs 8,000 for isolation beds, Rs 13,000 for ICU beds without ventilators and Rs 15,000 per day for ICU beds with ventilators.Vij said the Covid test rates for private labs had also fixed at Rs 450 for RT-PCR, Rs 500 for rapid antigen and Rs 250 for ELISA.A three-member committee has been constituted for the distribution of tocilizumab injection as per the requirement for patients admitted to government and private hospitals. Covid state nodal officer Dr Dhruv Chaudhary has been appointed as the committee chairman. Apart from this, senior consultant Dr Rajeev Badera and Medanta’s senior doctor Dr Sushila Kataria has been appointed as the members of the committee, which will set the criteria regarding the delivery of injections and other related matters. These injections will be made available to local hospitals through the Civil Surgeons at the purchase price and will be given free of cost to government hospitals and medical colleges.Vij said about 70 per cent of patients admitted in Haryana hospitals were from Delhi and other adjoining states, who were being treated in the same way as the locals. Around 1,400 students of PG and MBBS final year studying in various medical colleges of the state have been ordered to serve in the hospitals.GOVT RATESNABH and JCI accredited hospitals: The fixed rates are Rs 10,000 for isolation beds Rs15,000 for ICU beds without ventilators and Rs 18,000 per day for ICU beds with ventilatorsNon-NABH accredited hospitals: The rates are Rs 8,000 for isolation beds, Rs13,000 for ICU beds without ventilators and Rs15,000 per day for ICU beds with ventilatorsPrivate labs: The Covid test rates are Rs 450 for RT-PCR, Rs 500 for rapid antigen and Rs 250 for ELISA||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-warns-pvt-hospitals-against-fleecing-247940
04-05-2021||Ambala||Annual concert at SD Vidya School||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/annual-concert-at-sd-vidya-school-247942
04-05-2021||Owing to sudden arrival of wheat stock at local grain markets||Wheat stocked in fields||Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaMuddy water supply irks residentsThe water supplied by the HSVP in Sector 9, Ambala City, is muddy and emits stink. It becomes even more crucial to provide clean water, when there has been a surge in Covid-19 cases. The area has been declared a macro-containment zone. No top-level officer has ever visited the area or met the Residents' Welfare Association members. The DM, Ambala, should address the issue.Gian P Kansal, ,Ambala CityFix time frame for gas projectThe recent news of Panchkula getting piped natural gas (PNG) has been welcomed, but the time frame (September 30, 2021) mentioned is untenable. Even in Chandigarh, many sectors are without PNG, despite tall promises. As laying of external and underground gas pipelines, digging and meter installation are time consuming processes, this project cannot be completed even by March 31, 2022. It may take two to three years to cover Panchkula. Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaExtend summer holidays in courtsThe second wave of Covid-19 has led to a nationwide outcry. People working at the district courts, located on the judicial premises, come here every day to defend their cases. It is not safe for them to visit lower courts at the district headquarters. Many judges, lawyers, executive officers and employees have been infected. The Punjab and Haryana High Court should declare summer holidays from May, instead of June. It will be beneficial to stop work for one month in all lower courts and executive courts at the district level across the state.Shakti Singh, KarnalIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wheat-stocked-in-fields-247943
04-05-2021||New Delhi||Signs of plateau in Punjab; cases rising in Haryana, Himachal, J&K||India’s cumulative Covid burden on Monday night crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore with 23 states and UTs, including Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Chandigarh, continuing to see a steep daily rise in infections.After daily cases dropped marginally for a second straight day to settle at 3,68,147, the government said there were early signs of the infection plateauing in 10 states and UTs, including Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Ladakh.“Plateau of cases is being seen in Punjab, UP, and also Uttarakhand, but these are very early signals. Continued efforts of containment are a must to preserve and build on these gains,” Joint Secretary, Health, Lav Agarwal said.He said there were still rising trends in daily cases in 23 states, which included Chandigarh, Haryana, HP, J&K, Karnataka, Kerala, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal.Twenty-two states still had positivity rate of more than 15 per cent, which was a cause for concern, the Health Ministry said, reiterating that states with districts that had more than 10 per cent positivity rate should consider local lockdowns for 14 days to start with.The government said two lakh people aged 18 to 44 years had been inoculated so far with 12 states having commenced the adult vaccination drive that began from May 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/signs-of-plateau-in-punjab-cases-rising-in-haryana-himachal-jk-247755
04-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana faces Oxygen crunch, rations supply to districts||With Haryana feeling pressure over curtailed supply of oxygen, the government today urged the Centre to step up supplies to meet the shortfall in its allocated quota.The government has assigned daily quota of oxygen to all districts. Sources said the state was forced to rationalise the supply since it was getting way short of its sanctioned quota.Low supply, Khattar reaches out to CentreBesides, no supply has been received from the Roorkee plant, which provides 25 MT per day, for the past two days. The Panipat plant too has informed the government that they could give only 85 MT of oxygen against 100 MT. In view of the crunch, the Hisar administration has alerted hospitals to use oxygen judiciously for the next two days.The sources said the CM was in touch with the Centre and had also sought allocation from alternative sources.They said that Panchkula, Jhajjar and Sonepat districts were “vulnerable” and hospitals there might face an acute shortage of oxygen if the allocated quota did not arrive by Tuesday. Health Minister Anil Vij said the state was getting 252 MT of oxygen against the requirement of 300 MT. “There is no supply from Roorkee due to some technical and transportation issues. We are working on it,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-faces-oxygen-crunch-rations-supply-to-districts-247775
