05-05-2021||Chandigarh||45 held for black-marketing of oxygen, Remdesivir in Haryana||A total of 21 FIRs were registered, following the arrest of 45 people from across the state, in connection with black marketing of oxygen cylinders and antiviral Remdesivir injections, Haryana Police said on Wednesday.DGP Manoj Yadava said 77 oxygen cylinders and 101 vials of Remdesivir were recovered from their possession.“Taking advantage of the situation, many unscrupulous persons and employees of private hospitals indulged in the black-marketing of oxygen and Remdesivir, which is in high demand for the treatment of COVID-19 patients,” he said in a statement.Since April 23, eight FIRs have been registered in six different districts, following the arrest of 12 persons.Earlier, 33 accused persons were arrested against 13 FIRs in eight other districts, police said, adding 101 vials were arrested from their possession.The DGP also said that 1,249 cylinders collected from factory owners, welding shop owners, gas balloons sellers and others as a voluntary contribution, were made available to district administrations.He further said that teams were “working tirelessly” to curb the black marketing of oxygen cylinders and other essential drugs used in the treatment of COVID-19.Police have also launched helpline numbers where citizens can register complaints in this regard. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/45-held-for-black-marketing-of-oxygen-remdesivir-in-haryana-248589
05-05-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram’s private ambulances go on strike amid raging COVID pandemic||Private ambulances’ strike over the Haryana government’s decision to cap prices continued into the second day on Wednesday ---a development that adds to the despair caused by a devastating second wave of the pandemic.Private ambulances are protesting the prices fixed by the state government, which they claim is very low. The development comes in the middle of a raging COVID-19 pandemic, and adds considerably to the crippling healthcare crisis.Some 30 private ambulance owners control some 250 ambulances in the city. After several reports of overcharging ambulances, the state government capped prices: Rs 15/km for Advance Life Support (ALS) ambulances and Rs 7/km Basic Life Support (BLS) ambulances, regardless of whether they travel within or outside the state.The prices, ambulance owners say, are too low. The strike has lead to increased demand for cabs and autorickshaws, pushing up their prices.Owners of private ambulances said they’ve written to the deputy commissioner with their demand.“Our drivers and attendants are ferrying people at great personal risk. We have to pitch in for PPE kits for ourselves. It’s not possible to function at these rates. We can’t even pay our drivers and other staff at these rates,”Rajesh Yadav, president of Private Ambulance Welfare Association, Gurugram.He claimed the association provides for 10 free ambulances in the crisis.“We want the prices change, or we won’t operate. We don’t want people to suffer but we’re helpless,” Vipin Kumar, a former president of the association, said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugrams-private-ambulances-go-on-strike-amid-raging-covid-pandemic-248568
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||60 oxygen plants will be set up in Haryana with Centre’s support: Anil Vij||Haryana’s Home and Health Minister Anil Vij on Wednesday said 60 oxygen plants will be set up in the state with the support of the Central government.Haryana has witnessed a surge in COVID-19 cases in recent weeks and the demand for medical oxygen has risen manifold.According to an official statement issued here, the plants will be installed at various government hospitals with bed capacity of 30, 50, 100 and 200.Vij was speaking after inspecting an oxygen plant which has come up at the Civil Hospital in Ambala City and said the plant will start production of oxygen immediately.He also said oxygen production plants will be set up in Panchkula, Faridabad and Hisar in the next two to three days.Work is going on to ensure government hospitals in the state are self-sufficient with regard to oxygen production, he said.Vij said all private hospitals have been asked to set up oxygen production plants. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/60-oxygen-plants-will-be-set-up-in-haryana-with-centres-support-anil-vij-248564
05-05-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram Police arrest three for black-marketing oxygen cylinders||Gurugram Police arrested three people on charges of black-marketing oxygen cylinders.Police said they found 260 oxygen cylinders, nine filled and others empty, from their possession.The arrested are identified Vikas Maan, Shiv Kumar, both from Karnal, and Prabhat Pandey, who’s from Uttar Pradesh. All three were produced before a magistrate on Wednesday and sent to judicial custody.According to the police, Drugs Control Officer Amandeep Chauhan filed a complaint about the black-marketing of oxygen cylinders. Police then found cylinders being sold at exorbitant prices from the back of a truck at the Aklimpur Community Centre.Police said Maan, proprietor of a firm called M/S Venus Group in Gurugram’s Sector 67, allegedly bought and stored the cylinders with the help of his two companions.Mann allegedly sold the oxygen cylinders, which originally cost Rs 12,000 for Rs 34,000.The price for medical oxygen is capped at Rs 25.71/CFU, the complaint said. “An FIR has been registered against trio under EC Act, Drugs Cosmetics Act, Disaster Management Act and other relevant sections of IPC. The truck and all cylinders inside have been impounded,” said sub-inspector Harkesh Yadav, the investigating officer in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-police-arrest-three-for-black-marketing-oxygen-cylinders-248562
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Explain what power do cow vigilantes have to raid citizens’ houses, HC asks Haryana government||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the Haryana government to explain what power or authority cow vigilantes have to raid citizens’ houses and said that such actions are prima facie illegal.The single-judge Bench of Justice Sudhir Mittal was hearing a plea filed by one Mubbi alias Mubbin who was booked by the police in March after a group of cow vigilantes barged into his house in Nuh district and found a cow and calf tied there.“Haryana is directed to address the Court on the power/authority of vigilantes to raid the houses of the citizens. Such actions are prima facie illegal and amount to taking law into their own hands by private individuals. This is contrary to the Rule of Law,” the court said in its order issued on April 30.A Gau Raksha Dal of Nuh district led by its president had raided Mubbi’s house and found the cow and the calf tied there. The group also claimed to have recovered instruments used for slaughter from the house.However, Mubbi fled the spot and could not be held.Police filed a case against him under the provisions of the Haryana Gauvansh Sanrakshan and Gausamvardhan Act, 2015 and the Indian Penal Code (IPC).In his bail plea, the petitioner’s counsel submitted in the court that Section 3 of the Haryana Gauvansh Sanrakshan and Gausamvardhan Act prohibits cow slaughter.The facts of this case do not reveal the slaughter of any cow and thus, Section 3 is not attracted, the counsel said.The counsel also pointed out that Section 8 of the law that prohibits the sale of beef was also not attracted as there is no question of any such sale if no slaughter took place.The petitioner’s counsel further submitted that the local Gau Raksha Dal and its district president were not authorised to raid the house of the petitioner. They are guilty of the offence of trespassing.The court directed the petitioner to join the investigation on May 10 and cooperate.In the event of his arrest, he shall be released on interim bail to the satisfaction of the investigating officer or the SHO concerned, the court said.The court has fixed July 19 as the next date of hearing. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/explain-what-power-do-cow-vigilantes-have-to-raid-citizens-houses-hc-asks-haryana-government-248548
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab comes to Haryana’s rescue as it supplies timely oxygen to Panchkula hospital||When it came to the crunch, the “Big Brother” Punjab stepped in to support Haryana. As lives of 250 odd COVID-19 patients were in danger because of shortage of oxygen at the General Hospital in Panchkula, Punjab decided to divert some of its supply to the state and thus saved a catastrophe from taking place.The issue is important in wake of the constant sparring among states over oxygen supply, including the “war” between Punjab and Haryana, where the former had earlier accused the latter of not allowing it to get its sanctioned oxygen supply from Panipat.It all happened around 11 pm last night when facing a severe shortage of oxygen, Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, contacted the Oxygen Control Room of Punjab government, requesting for 2-2.5 metric tonnes of oxygen, as they had just two hours of supply left.He reportedly made a case of how lives of over 200 persons on oxygen support in the hospital could be at risk if they did not get the supply on time.Ahuja, while confirming this, said that since supply from Roorkee was delayed to Panchkula, they sought Punjab’s help, and the neighbouring state helped promptly.While the Oxygen Control Room of Punjab checked on their own supplies and availability of tankers to ferry the oxygen in a short span of time, the matter was escalated by the Panchkula deputy commissioner with V Umashankar, Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Haryana.He in turn took up the matter with Chief Secretary Punjab Vini Mahajan, at whose intervention it was decided to spare some oxygen from Patiala for Haryana, as Punjab had enough stock to last till noon today.“The decision to supply oxygen was taken, but the problem was arranging the tankers to ferry oxygen and filling of these tankers. The tankers were quickly requisitioned but the problem then arose that a small quantity -- 2.5 MT of oxygen cannot be filled in the available big tankers because of air pressure issues. We then filled 4.5 MT of oxygen in the tankers and rushed it to Panchkula, which took 2.5 MT of oxygen, with a promise to return it today,” a senior official in Punjab’s Oxygen Control Room told The Tribune.It was around 1 am that the oxygen was finally supplied to the Panchkula General Hospital, and everyone heaved a sigh of relief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-comes-to-haryanas-rescue-as-it-supplies-timely-oxygen-to-panchkula-hospital-248533
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Soon, doctor-on-call service for Covid patients in Faridabad||The Faridabad administration will soon launch a doctor-on-call service and mobile application and set up a call centre to provide medical assistance and support to Covid patients in home isolation. It will also be ensured that suspected patients get their Covid test reports within a day.The directions in this regard were issued by Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management, who today reviewed the situation and measures being taken by the district administration to check the spread of Covid-19.He directed officials to ensure strict implementation of the lockdown to break the chain of transmission, besides stepping up efforts to test the maximum number of people, particularly those showing symptoms, and ensuring the timely issuance of reports.He directed CEO, Smart City, Faridabad, Garima Mittal to set up a doctor-on-call service. The administration will also set up a call centre to provide assistance to those in home isolation and others seeking resources related to the pandemic. The authorities launched a mobile application to make available in one place all data collected for Covid-19 management in the district and necessary information released by the government.Reviewing the status of ventilators, oxygen beds and other services in the district, Kaushal directed health officials to provide kits containing pulse oximeters and essential medicines to home-quarantined patients.Officials of the Ayush Department would also provide immunity boosters to people, he added.Kaushal said strict and immediate action be taken against those impeding the supply of oxygen or medicines in any way, or indulging in the black marketing of these essential resources. He directed the police to take action against those violating the terms of the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/soon-doctor-on-call-service-for-covid-patients-in-faridabad-248200
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Chief  Secy lauds Ambala DC’s  efforts||Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan has appreciated Ambala Deputy Commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma for, what he described as, his “outstanding efforts” in the hour of crisis.In a letter of appreciation awarded to Sharma, the Chief Secretary he said the Ambala Deputy Commissioner had been making outstanding efforts to handle the difficulties during the Covid pandemic and he deserved appreciation for it.On receiving the appreciation letter, the Deputy Commissioner said: “The credit goes to all officers of the district administration who have been working together in crisis.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chief-secy-lauds-ambala-dcs-efforts-248207
05-05-2021||Karnal||Congress starts medical helpline in Karnal||The Karnal unit of the Congress on Tuesday launched a helpline named “Hello Doctor” to provide medical consultation to Covid patients.A panel of around 20 doctors will be available on this helpline round the clock. This was claimed by Congress national secretary Virender Rathore, Assandh MLA Shamsher Singh Gogi, former chairman of Haryana Minority Commission Trilochan Singh and state president Panchayati Raj Congress Haryana Sunil Panwar and Pankaj Gaba at a press conference here on Tuesday.“As the state health infrastructure has already collapsed, Congress workers under the guidance of its state president Kumari Selja and in charge Vivek Bansal have launched a helpline number – 9467556132 — to provide any kind of medical assistance to patients on phone call. Around 20 doctors will be available 24 hours on this helpline number to assist Covid patients. They will try to bring them out of the trauma,” Rathore said, adding that Congress president Sonia Gandhi has already appealed to the party workers to help the countrymen in the time of crisis. “Our leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi are also working for the needy by coordinating with different state bodies. We are only following their vision,” said Gogi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-starts-medical-helpline-in-karnal-248217
05-05-2021||Rohtak||Migrant worker's son tops in Class VIII||World Laughter Day celebratedAmbala: Delhi Public School, Ambala, celebrated World Laughter Day on the theme 'Laughter is the best medicine'. Students laughed through a host of activities conducted to mark the day - comic movie show, laughter yoga, recalling and sharing funny memories with teachers and classmates. The middle wing students laughed on 'Akbar Birbal jokes', comic stories, mime and stand-up comedy. The senior students participated in cartoon and caricature-making competition. Children spread happiness and laughter throughout the day. Principal Amita Dhaka appreciated the efforts of the students and wished for their happiness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/migrant-workers-son-tops-in-class-viii-248227
05-05-2021||The Ambala police on Tuesday made a group of youths do sit-ups and push-ups.  They were caught violating Covid guidelines in the morning in Ambala Cantonment. The violators were also made them repeat that they would follow the guidelines. Sector 4 in Naraingarh||Violators punished in Ambala||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/violators-punished-in-ambala-248237
05-05-2021||Karnal||Missing woman’s body recovered||The body of a woman, who went missing around 14 days ago from Ram Nagar colony of the city, was found from the fields, near the Gurnanakpura colony.“We have kept the body at the KCGMC for the port-mortem. The cause of death will be determined after the examination,” said Jagbir Singh, SHO.The victim has been identified as Karamjeet Kuar of Ram Nagar. The family told the police she was mentally disturbed for the past few days and she left the house without informing anyone. The case was registered on the complaint of the family members, the SHO said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/missing-womans-body-recovered-248240
05-05-2021||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra admn seeks volunteers, starts portal||As Covid-19 cases continue to increase, the local district administration has started a search for engineers, doctors, professors, MBA degree holders and retired Army persons, who could help the administration as volunteers. The National Informatics Centre (NIC), Kurukshetra, has prepared a webpage ‘Corona Yodha’ on the official website of the district for registration.56 register on first dayAs many as 56 persons (one doctor, three engineers, 15 ex-servicemen, one in technical category, two in non-technical category, and 34 in other category) have got themselves registered on the first day.Technical Director-cum-District Informatics Officer Vinod Singla, said “On the directions of the Deputy Commissioner, a webpage has been developed, on which volunteers can easily register themselves. They need to click on the link provided on the official website of the Kurukshetra district, feed their mobile number, following which they receive an OTP. After entering the OTP, a webpage will open and the volunteers will be able to fill their details and submit the form.”Deputy Commissioner Sharandeep Kaur said “In this difficult time, technical and experienced people are needed so that such people can help the administration with their experience. With the registration, a data bank will be prepared and the administration will be able to avail the help of such people, who are ready to assist the administration. There are engineers, MBA-holders and other subject specialists in National Institute of Technology (NIT), Kurukshetra, and the Kurukshetra University. Professors and engineersfrom these institutes can register themselves as volunteers by visitingthe website ofthe administration.”The administration has appealed to the Director of National Institutes of Technology and the Vice-Chancellor and Registrar of the Kurukshetra University to register as many experts as possible to help the administration.It has also appealed to the Association of Retired Army Officers, associated with social activities in Kurukshetra, to register themselves so that the services of former servicemen can be availed in this difficult time.According to the information, the Kurukshetra University has provided 20 volunteers (of which a team of 10 persons has been given for oxygen audit) from its teaching staff, and three oxygen cylinders to the administration. Som Nath Sachdeva, Vice-Chancellor, Kurukshetra University, said the university provided 20 volunteers and more would be provided as per the requirement raised by the district administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-admn-seeks-volunteers-starts-portal-248246
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Software glitch, 1.4L get wrong electricity bills||Following a technical glitch in the billing software of the Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam from April 16 to April 26, 2021, the spot bills of nearly 1.40 lakh consumers were issued with incorrect dues.In many cities, the consumers got wrong bills despite clearing the previous ones due to this error. Although the bills were correct in the billing system and consumers who pay them online or at the department counter, the amount will reflect that there is no outstanding error in the balance.Giving information, an official spokesperson from the UHBVN said in view of the inconvenience caused to consumers due to this error, new bills had been issued by extending the date of depositing the amount by the affected consumers. In case of any other information/clarification in this regard, consumers can call UHBVN toll-free number 1912/18001801550 and DHBVN’s 18001804334 or to contact customer service centre of the UHBVN, they can WhatsApp on 9815961912 and 8813999708 for the DHBVN.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/software-glitch-1-4l-get-wrong-electricity-bills-248248
05-05-2021||There is an acute shortage of oximeters in Kaithal and other towns of the district. The attendants of Covid patients have to run from one place to other for purchase of this instrument||Shortage of oximeters in Kaithal||Family members stay with Covid patientsWith reference to the news that several non-Covid persons (attendants) are staying, eating and sleeping together, in none other than the UT admin-run hospital to take care of patients, it is shocking to learn how authorities forget that this will increase the risk of transmission of virus. The authorities said they were facing shortage of manpower. This is no justification. It is also learnt that most of them do not wear masks. The UT administration must look into the matter and stop this practice. — Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaSatisfied that CM will monitor stepsIt is a satisfactory news that Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar will be directly monitoring the Covid-19 management measures in Gurugram, including ensuring of availability of oxygen and medicines. The cases are rising at an alarming and dangerous speed. People will have adhere to the rules and regulations. — Subhash C Taneja, GurugramGive 4-hour relaxation every two daysTHough essential services are available during the lockdown, people dread venturing out even for urgent errands, lest they should face harassment by the police. There should be a four-hour general exemption every two days, as there is no martial law emergency. — Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/shortage-of-oximeters-in-kaithal-248249
05-05-2021||Rohtak||Cadets can choose NCC as elective subject||Here is some good news for students, who are fascinated by the defence services and join the NCC to be part of a uniformed force to contribute in nation-building. The cadets of the universities and technical institutions can now study NCC as a subject.The NCC, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh (PHHP&C) Directorate has allowed its cadets to choose NCC as an elective subject under the choice-based credit system.“The underlying idea behind the move is to motivate students of educational institutions in the domain states to join the NCC to nurture discipline and instil among them patriotism,” said Major General JS Sandhu, Additional Director-General, NCC (PHHP&C Directorate).The initiative, which is planned to be implemented with effect from the forthcoming academic session, is likely to benefit nearly 37,000 students in 12 universities of Haryana.The venture is based on the guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC) on April 15, 2021, for making CBCS an integral part of the education system as per the proposal mooted by the Directorate General, National Cadet Corps, New Delhi.“This will offer a major advantage to the cadets, especially those appearing in ‘B’ and ‘C’ certificate examinations after the stipulated training period of two to five years. These certificates offer several privileges, ranging from reservation in admissions to institutions of higher learning and getting jobs in government organisations as well as the private sector,” said an official statement.“The move has far-reaching ramifications and is in consonance with the National Education Policy-2020, wherein students can select subjects of their choice, rather than being confined to only those being offered by the institutions. It aims to make learning more holisticand skill-oriented, eventually facilitating career prospects. On successful completion of the course, the students are awarded credit points that will enable them qualify for their respective degrees,” it stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cadets-can-choose-ncc-as-elective-subject-248250
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccine shortage stares Haryana in the face||Close on the heels of oxygen shortage, the state faces acute crunch of Covid vaccine at a time when there is a spurt in the number of cases. With demand exceeding the supply, the existing stock of vaccine is fast depleting.While the government has placed an order for 66 lakh doses, the state has been allocated 4.3 lakh vaccines by the Centre. With the state starting vaccination for the 18-44 age category on May 2, there is pressure on the existing infrastructure.Karnal: Several persons above 44 years are unable to get their appointment as the government portal shows that all time slots are full.“I tried to get an appointment for my parents for the second dose, but couldn’t book a slot,” said Sagar, a resident of Sector 3.The authorities, however, claimed to have sufficient stock. “There are around 7,000 doses of Covishield for those above 44 years and around 12,000 doses for the 18-44 age group. Around 3,500 doses of Covaxin are in stock for persons above 44. The injections are being administered as per schedule,” said Civil Surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma.People turned away at g’gram vax centresAbout 2,000 vaccines were administered on Tuesday at 20 centres here. The vaccines ran out of stock before noon. Subsequently, people were turned away causing resentment.Faridabad: A majority of the 44-plus residents, who have received their first dose, are awaiting their second one. As of Tuesday, the department had only 25,000 doses.Deputy CMO Dr Ramesh Chander said, “The department had received around 30,000 doses recently. About 500 persons above 45 years are vaccinated daily.”Ambala: In all, 9,380 doses of Covishield are available for the 18-44 age group and 4,990 doses for those above 45 years. As for Covaxin, 4,130 doses are available for 45-plus people.Rohtak: The vaccination drive is going on smoothly at the PGIMS here. Sources say Covaxin is administered to persons above 45 years, while Covishield is given to the ones in the 18-44 age bracket. Nearly 400 persons visit the PGIMS to get themselves vaccinated every day.Yamunanagar: Civil Surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya said 10,000 doses of Covaxin and 7,000 doses of Covishield were available for people above 45 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vaccine-shortage-stares-haryana-in-the-face-248252
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||10 empty Oxygen tankers sought from abroad||Health Minister Anil Vij today said 10 empty oxygen tankers had been sought from overseas, which would facilitate the lifting of oxygen. The officials concerned had been instructed to initiate appropriate process for the same. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-empty-oxygen-tankers-sought-from-abroad-248254
05-05-2021||Gurugram||Vax crunch leads to fights between rural, urban Gurugram areas||Amid the ongoing vaccine crunch, a war seems to have erupted between some rural and urban Gurugram areas.Villagers have been driving away vaccine-seekers from nearby societies, “reserving” the doses for their residents only. With a majority of public health centres (PHCs) situated in villages, villagers are reportedly turning away people from nearby societies who register and come with appointment for inoculation.The latest incidents were reported from Dhankot and Garhi Harsaru where panchayat members, allegedly accompanied by men carrying sticks, reached vaccination centres today and seized all vaccines from staff. This left people from nearby areas, who had come for their second dose, a harried lot, making them flee.“The sarpanch came and said the vaccine was for villagers only. Though it was only for the second dose, we could see many young people from village walking in. I cannot delay my dose. This PHC is near my society. I took an appointment and came, but they threatened to beat us. We had to leave,” said Ramesh Paswan (67), who had gone to the Dhankot centre.Residents took to social media to report the incident, but reportedly got no response. The police said they had not received a complaint, while people highlighted cops were present at the centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vax-crunch-leads-to-fights-between-rural-urban-gurugram-areas-248255
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||ID card or pass mandatory for travel, says Vij||Health Minister Anil Vij said it would be mandatory to carry ID cards or government-issued passes for any movement during the lockdown in the state.Action would be taken against those commuting without ID cards or passes. Vij said this in a meeting of senior officers of the Police Department here on Tuesday.He said the DCs had been asked to make online passes. For this, interested people can apply at saralharyana.gov.in. Therefore, people should not leave their homes unnecessarily and those permitted to commute during the lockdown will also have to carry a pass or an ID card.The Health Minister has directed officials to make a roster for grocery stores, pharmacy shops and other essential items in the state. All such shops will not be allowed to be open every day, but on a rotational basis. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/id-card-or-pass-mandatory-for-travel-says-vij-248256
05-05-2021||Ambala||Concern over low Oxygen availability||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/concern-over-low-oxygen-availability-248257
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||Health state subject, says High Court as Haryana flags oxygen shortage||The BJP-led Haryana Government today pleaded before the Punjab and Haryana High Court that patients were gasping for breath as some of its proposals on augmenting oxygen supply were pending with the Centre, compelling the Bench to issue a reminder that health was a State subject. Read the Constitution, the Bench suggested.Read constitutionHealth is a state subject and we are all governed by the Constitution… Open the book… We cannot add anything to the Constitution. High Court BenchThe Bench asserted that lives were being lost and there was complete chaos after the State counsel submitted there was shortage of tankers. PSA generators could not be procured by the State as the entire control was with the Centre. The Government of India (GoI) allowed and approved the purchases. Even the installation was done by them. The State also pleaded for additional oxygen supply from the Panipat plant, adding that their demand would be met if it was allowed to get it from there. Both the States and the UT also submitted that their pleas for the supply of additional ventilators, too, were pending with the GoI.Situation serious in state: Amicus curiaeTaking a note of the submissions, the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh asserted: “Health is a State subject and we are all governed by the Constitution… Open the book… We cannot add anything to the Constitution.” The Bench added these issues fell in the domain of the executive. “Whenever there is a crisis in the country, it is managed by the executive. We are not saying that the issues are not subject to judicial reviews. When things go beyond particular control, we have to step in. You could have voiced your concern with the GoI,” the Bench told Haryana Additional Advocate-General Ankur Mittal.Mittal, in turn, submitted the GoI was doing its best, but pleaded for judicial intervention. “Let someone from the GoI be called upon… Some kind of arrangement could be made,” he submitted.Speaking for the Bench, Justice Gupta asserted that all the three States were non-serious and even the phones were not being answered. “We will not tolerate disobedience. We will order such action that you will see. How can High Court directions be not complied with?” Justice Gupta added, referring to the directions issued on the previous date of hearing.Rapping Punjab for not translating its words into action on the issue of unused ventilators, Justice Gupta asserted: “You only issue instructions. You are proceeding in a very casual manner. People move on your instructions or our directions? You issue instructions and that is all. For implementation, we have to step in. We will ask the head of the Police Department concerned to proceed and seize them and allocate to so and so and you can see what happens. Anyone who does not comply, we will have his powers withdrawn. You see our orders. We have done it before also”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/health-state-subject-says-high-court-as-haryana-flags-oxygen-shortage-248259
05-05-2021||Karnal||Karnal Oxygen plant up and running, thanks to prof||Sonepat-based electronics professor Joginder Singh has made an oxygen generation plant in the Civil Hospital here functional in just two days free of cost, for the company that was assigned the project could not send their employees to the city because of Covid.The plant was among six in the state announced under the PM CARES Fund. A Delhi-based company was assigned the Karnal project.Can generate 2.88 liters dailyThe oxygen generation plant in the Karnal Civil Hospital plant has a capacity of 200 litres per minute (LMP). Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said, “The new plant will generate 2.88 liters of oxygen daily. It is a pressure swing absorption (PSA) system, which generates oxygen with the help of natural air.”The equipment was bought in February, but for the absence of workforce, it gathered dust for two months.Principal Medical Officer (PMO) Dr Piyush Sharma said, “Because of the grave situation first in Mumbai and then in Delhi, employees of the company could not reach Karnal. As a result, the plant could not be started.”The situation was the same at Sonepat, one of the six places where oxygen generation plants have been sanctioned.The equipment had been bought, but the company which had been assigned the project could not send the workforce.“Around 15 days ago, I had lost my relative because of oxygen shortage. His loss was heart-wrenching. It was then I learnt that a sanctioned oxygen plant in Sonepat could not be constructed for the want of workforce. Subsequently, I approached the district administration. After having received the nod, the Sonepat plant was up and running in four days,” Prof Singh told The Tribune.On learning about his initiative, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar during his visit to Sonepat last week had asked Prof Singh to make the remaining five plants at Karnal, Ambala, Faridabad, Hisar, and Panchkula functional.“It is an honour for me to serve the state in the time of crisis. In Karnal, the authorities and technical staff cooperated and we made the oxygen plant functional in two days,” Prof Singh added. His next stop is Ambala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-oxygen-plant-up-and-running-thanks-to-prof-248260
05-05-2021||Karnal||DMO suspended for misbehaviour||The authorities of BPS Government Medical College, Khanpur, Sonepat district, have suspended the duty medical officer (DMO) for allegedly misbehaving with a Covid patient. The action was initiated on Tuesday on the complaint of the attendant of the patient.The DMO, Dr Kapil Dev, was a contractual employee of the college. The attendant of the patient filed a complaint against him in which he alleged that Dr Dev had misbehaved with the patient, said Dr Dheeraj, deputy medical superintendent of the college.Following the complaint and checking the facts, he was suspended, Dr Dheeraj added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dmo-suspended-for-misbehaviour-248261
05-05-2021||Faridabad||3 held for sale of Remdesivir  on the black market in Faridabad||The police have arrested three persons in connection with the alleged black marketing of the Remdesivir injection. Seven injections were recovered from the accused in two different cases.Cops laid a trap after it was learnt that a man and his son from Sector 75 here were involved in the activity. The police said an official, posing as a customer, contacted one of the accused and asked for some injections. He said the accused, identified as Virender (58) and his son Atul (29), were nabbed by a team of cops and officials of the Drug Control Department, after they reached the Golden gate locality to supply the injection at Rs 35,000 each around noon.The normal market price of the injection is between Rs 1,600 and Rs 3,000 depending upon the brand, according to market sources.In the second incident, the police nabbed Hitesh Palta, a resident of Sector 28 here, who had similar modus operandi. Two injections were recovered from him, the police said.A case under the Essential Commodities Act and the National Disaster Management Act was registered against the accused. While Palta was remanded to one-day police custody, the other two accused were remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-held-for-sale-of-remdesivir-on-the-black-market-in-faridabad-248262
05-05-2021||Chandigarh||HCS officer to manage Oxygen supply||The government, consequent upon the reinstatement of HCS officer Anil Kumar Yadav, has placed his services at the disposal of Mohammed Shayin, Commissioner, Food and Drugs Administration, for management of oxygen supply. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hcs-officer-to-manage-oxygen-supply-248263
05-05-2021||Rohtak||Affluent Covid patients go in for ‘home-ICUs’ as hospitals packed||With the hospitals getting jam-packed with patients due to the rapid rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, affluent patients, especially those based in the national capital region (NCR), have turned to home ICU set-ups to get treated without having to visit any hospital.Home-ICUs include ventilators, oxygen concentrators, trained nurses and other support staff required to take care of patients requiring oxygen or ventilator support, while specialist doctors can be consulted on phone or video calls.The conceptA Home-ICU includes a ventilator, oxygen concentrator, heart-rate monitor, a bi-pap machine, an IV stand and a round-the-clock nurse/attendant. Specialist doctors can be consulted on phone or video callsThe ICU set-up is installed at the patient’s home by the service providers who are doing brisk business these days. The cost of the installation of a home ICU set-up is high, but considerably lower than what is charged by private hospitals.“In view of the acute shortage of beds at the hospitals, a number of residents, especially those based in the NCR, prefer to get home-ICUs installed. We get requests for home-ICUs on our social-media group and share the details of the service-providers,” said Kusha Gupta, a member of a group of volunteers who provide the required help and support to the residents in distress.A local resident, who has got the basic medical set-up installed at his home for his mother, stated that it costed Rs 12,000 per day and was installed for a minimum of five days.“It includes a heart-rate monitor, a bi-pap machine, an IV stand and a nurse/attendant round-the-clock. They get live consultation from the doctors,” he says.Medical experts maintain that the concept of home ICUs is still in its infancy in the country, but it can provide an effective and efficient alternative for the patients who are stable, but require long-term ICU support.“Many patients who become ill due to some disease or trauma may require long-term ICU support. For patients who are otherwise stable but need constant care and respiratory support may prefer home-ICUs. In this set-up, the basic ICU equipment is made available at the site and hospital-like treatment can be given within the comfort of one’s home,” said Dr Prashant Kumar, a senior consultant in anaesthesiology at the Rohtak PGIMS. The anaesthesiologist notes that the high cost involved may keep this concept out of reach for the majority, though it is less costly than an ICU set-up at a high-end corporate hospital in the country.“Patients in intensive care need emotional support too. Home-care brings the patient’s loved ones closer to him/her, which is a big reassurance,” said the doctor.He, however, points out that utmost care and caution should be exercised in choosing the service-provider as the healthcare professionals deployed to take care of the patient should be well-trained and the equipment should be of good quality.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/affluent-covid-patients-go-in-for-home-icus-as-hospitals-packed-248264
05-05-2021||Karnal||MC chief’s kin held on bribe charge||A team of the State Vigilance Bureau of Kaithal district on Tuesday evening arrested the father and brother of the Kaithal municipal council chairperson for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 3 lakh from the contractor of door-to-door garbage collection of the civic body.The accused were identified as Suresh Kashyap and Shiva Kashyap. Suresh is father of the chairperson Seema Kashyap, while Shiva is her brother, said Suresh Kumar, inspector, Vigilance Bureau, Kaithal.Balbir Noch, contractor, in his complaint, alleged that the accused had demanded Rs 4.5 lakh to issue the cheque of his payment of two months, which was Rs 50 lakh. On his complaint, a team was constituted and when the complainant gave cash to the accused, the team members arrested them red-handed. “A case was being filed against the chairperson, her father and brother under various Sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act,” said the inspector. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mc-chiefs-kin-held-on-bribe-charge-248265
05-05-2021||Yamunanagar||Couple killed in accident||A couple was killed when their motorcycle was allegedly hit by another bike at Machhrauli village of the district on Tuesday.The victim lost control over the vehicle and hit a tree. The deceased have been identified as Bhupinder and his wife Pooja of Haveli village. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/couple-killed-in-accident-248266
05-05-2021||Saurabh Malik||Consider home delivery of oxygen cylinders: Punjab and Haryana HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 4The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday asked Chandigarh, along with the states of Punjab and Haryana, to consider home delivery of oxygen cylinders, while granting Sub Divisional Magistrates in the city the liberty to seek police help for proceeding against the hoarders.“Needless to observe that this court expects that the necessary steps are taken at the earliest to ensure that there is no further loss of life due to paucity of oxygen. In case of crisis, however, State is at liberty to draw from the ‘buffer stock’ of oxygen created under orders of the Supreme Court…,” the Bench asserted. In its detailed order, the Bench observed the police, after being sounded by the SDM concerned on hoarding, would swing into action immediately and proceed as the circumstances warrant. In case of any report on disobedience of orders, punitive action would be considered,” the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh asserted.Taking up the Covid management and control case, the Bench added availability of proper supply to patients on oxygen support at home would reduce the pressure on the administration, along with government and private hospitals. Advisories had also been issued by the health departments to the patients to stay at home, if their condition was mild to moderate.“In such circumstances even home delivery of oxygen cylinders can be considered by the State preferably by municipal authorities as health personnel are already overburdened. Apart from providing succour to the inflicted public, it shall prevent hoarding of oxygen cylinders,” the Bench observed.The Bench also took on record assurance by UT Senior Standing Counsel Pankaj Jain that the SDM of the zone concerned in every Sector would be asked to intervene in case of problem regarding availability of oxygen for helping the patients on support at home.Speaking for the Bench, Justice Gupta also directed the allocation of a dedicated zone-wise phone line. “It will be widely publicized by way of broadcast on radio, television and assistance of the telephone companies,” Justice Gupta asserted.Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, senior advocate Anupam Gupta pointed at order dated April 29 passed by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. Among other things, it said a web portal be created by every State/UT to ensure availability of ready information on availability of oxygen, drugs, vaccine, vacant beds in government/private hospitals, and vaccination centers.He added there was nothing to show implementation of these directions in letter and spirit by the Chandigarh Administration. “A copy of the application is available with Pankaj Jain. He submits that he shall seek instructions in this regard and apprise the court on the next date of hearing,” Justice Gupta observed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/consider-home-delivery-of-oxygen-cylinders-punjab-and-haryana-hc-248166
