06-05-2021||New Delhi||18-44 years: 2,184 people get COVID jab in Punjab, 1.68 lakh in Haryana||So far, Punjab has administered the first dose of Covid shots to 2,184 people between the age group of 18 to 44 years. The adult vaccination drive began on May 1.While Chhattisgarh has recorded only 1,026 first dose vaccinated people, Gujarat is the leading performer with 2,240,90 in the first shot category. Among the 12 states, Punjab and Chhattisgarh are laggards.Following Gujarat is Maharashtra—which has covered 21,514,5 people—followed by Delhi with 183498, Haryana with 168367, Uttar Pradesh with 86419, Odisha with 28163, Jammu and Kashmir with 21249, Tamil Nadu with 8418, Karnataka with 7067, Punjab 2184 and Chhattisgarh 1026.Cumulatively, so far, 16.48 crore vaccine doses have been given.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/18-44-years-2-184-people-get-covid-jab-in-punjab-1-68-lakh-in-haryana-249047
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19: Haryana records 177 fatalities, 14,840 fresh cases||Haryana on Thursday reported 177 coronavirus-related deaths taking the cumulative toll to 5,137 while 14,840 fresh infections pushed the tally to 5,73,815, according to the health department's daily bulletin.The fresh deaths include 23 from Rohtak, 22 from Hisar, 19 from Fatehabad, 13 from Gurgaon, 11 each from Bhiwani and Jind, 10 from Sirsa and 9 each from Faridabad, Karnal and Kaithal districts, the bulletin said.The districts that reported a big spike in new cases were Gurgaon (3,737), Faridabad (1,537), Sonipat (1,046), Hisar (1,193), Karnal (621), Sirsa (607), Panipat (792) and Mahendragarh (1,083).The number of total active cases in the state is 1,15,842, the bulletin said.The COVID positivity rate on Thursday was 29.92 per cent, which is quite high. The cumulative positivity rate was 7.48 percent, the bulletin said.As many as 4,52,836 patients have so far recovered, it said.The recovery rate is 78.92, it added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-haryana-records-177-fatalities-14-840-fresh-cases-249046
06-05-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Private ambulance drivers in Gurugram call of strike after administration hikes fares||Following two days of strike, the private ambulance drivers called off their protest on Thursday after the Gurugram administration hiked the previously fixed operational rates.Though not satisfied with what they call a meagre hike, the private ambulance association has demanded more money but called off the strike.Claiming to be doing this after seeing patients’ plight, the association said the new hike is one sided and they have demanded further increase.“We are returning to work seeking more fare to operate in the current times. However, if they don’t increase the rates, plying would be difficult,” said Vipin Kumar of private ambulance welfare association, Gurugram.The district administration of Gurugram on Thursday issued an order to regulate the maximum amount of fare that can be charged by ambulances and other vehicles carrying patients/bodies in Gurugram.As per the order, Rs 500 per km will be charged for a distance of up to 3 km and after that it will be Rs 25 per km. Similarly, Rs 750 would be charged for a distance of 3 km to 7 km and after this Rs 25 per km. For more than 7 km, Rs 1,000 would be charged and after this Rs 25 per km.In this regard, DC Dr Yash Garg said strict action will be taken against those who charge more than the fixed rates from the Covid patients.“It has come to our notice that private ambulance drivers/service providers are charging exorbitantly from the citizens for transporting the patients within/outside the state. Due to this, additional financial burden is being borne by citizens during the crisis of COVID-19, which is a matter of serious concern.“In compliance of the directions received from the Mission Director, National Health Mission (NHM), Haryana, it is necessary to fix the rate of hiring charges of ambulance to be used by citizens for transporting the patients in district Gurugram,” read the order.According to the administration officials, the fare charges have been fixed to ease the problems faced by the Covid patients and their families due to unreasonable rates charged by ambulance drivers/owners during these precarious times.Meanwhile, the private ambulance welfare association has demanded Rs 3,500 up to 15 km and Rs 16 per km will be charged extra for small ambulance.For big vehicles like traveller, Rs 5,000 would be charged for a distance of 15 km and Rs 35 for extra one km and for ACLS Rs 5,500 up to 15 km and Rs 50 would be charged per km after this.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/private-ambulance-drivers-in-gurugram-call-of-strike-after-administration-hikes-fares-249036
06-05-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram launches WhatsApp Covid helpline||Gurugram district administration on Thursday launched a dedicated WhatsApp Covid-19 helpline to provide citizens access to critical information and a central repository of all Coronavirus resources.The helpline is free to use and is available in Hindi and English. Citizens can send 'Hi' to the number +91 9643277788 on WhatsApp or click on https://wa.me/919643277788 to directly connect to the helpline.It provides updated information about critical resources in the user's proximity such as RT-PCR centres and camps, online doctor consultations, status of availability of beds, registering oneself as a Covid-19 patient, care centres and more."This is a service for our citizens in Gurugram. Using this Covid patients and their families can reach out to us for help. We will try and provide the best possible care at home. I also thank partners like WhatsApp for stepping forward and supporting us in building this platform. Any organisation that wants to use this to deliver care to our citizens are most welcome to join us," said Yash Garg, Deputy Commissioner and Chairperson, District Disaster Management, Gurugram, Government of Haryana, in a statement.The helpline has been developed by a group of volunteers, private sector organisations and with the support of various departments within the Gurugram district administration. It is an integrated offering built on the WhatsApp Business API and will directly connect citizens to official and verified sources of information and medical services, thus enabling quick access and helping the administration streamline its relief efforts."We remain committed towards ensuring that people have access to verified sources of information through our platform. We are thankful to the Govt. of Haryana and the District Administration of Gurugram for giving us the opportunity to support their efforts. We encourage people to access the helpline for latest Covid-19 related information in their city", said Abhijit Bose, Head of India for WhatsApp, in the statement.The helpline also has services of MyUpchar, Meddo and Dunzo integrated for the benefit of users. It has been developed by Infobip and Day Technologies are the technology providers, and is enabled by WhatsApp. The initiative has also been supported by The Dialogue and Deepstrat who are providing critical support to DC Gurugram in triaging citizen requests. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-launches-whatsapp-covid-helpline-249005
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Police to provide 440 cars for use as ambulances for COVID-19 patients||The Haryana Police will provide 440 vehicles, 20 each to the state's 22 districts, to be used as ambulances for needy COVID-19 patients, it said on Thursday.The COVID-19 Hospital Transport Service (COV-HOTS) is being provided free of charge as instances of shortage of ambulances and over-charging have been noticed, the Haryana Police said in a statement.These vehicles are being given to the districts on a temporary basis to transport needy infected patients from their homes to hospitals and nursing homes and also drop them back once they have recovered, it said.Director General of Police (DGP), Haryana, Manoj Yadava said each of the 22 districts would get 20 Toyota Innova vehicles.Out of the total, 126 COV-HOTS vehicles have already been provided — 26 to the Hisar Range, 20 each to the Gurugram Police Commissionerate and the Rohtak Range, 10 each to Faridabad and the Panchkula Commissionerate, 12 each to the Ambala and the Karnal Range and 16 vehicles to the South Range Rewari.Seventy vehicles will reach the districts by Thursday evening, and the rest will be delivered by Sunday evening, Yadava said.The DGP said the vehicles were being provided exclusively for the purpose of providing transportation services to COVID-19 patients.To avail the service, one needs to call '108' or the police control room of the district concerned, he said.Police personnel driving these vehicles will be wearing masks, gloves and PPE kits, the DGP said."The police force is working shoulder-to-shoulder with the medical fraternity to help COVID-19 patients," he added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-police-to-provide-440-cars-for-use-as-ambulances-for-covid-19-patients-248992
06-05-2021||---||Haryana firm among two to manufacture oxygen concentrators developed by CSIR||Chandigarh, May 6A private firm in Haryana is among two companies that will manufacture oxygen concentrators developed by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) for use in the medical field.CSIR’s Central Mechanical Engineering Research Institute (CMERI) transferred the oxygen concentrator technology to firms located in Gurgaon and Kota today, according to an official statement.Prof Harish Hirani, Director, CMERI, said that the institute is trying to boost the MSMEs so that they can manufacture the product for its reach to the masses. CMERI’s aim is to help bring innovation to the common people for which the cooperation of MSMEs that have capabilities of low-cost manufacturing is required.The Gurgaon-based firm, SA Corporation, is working on the development of the prototypes and targeting production of 5,000 units per month, which may further be scaled up. The initial cost for developing the prototype is around Rs 40,000-45,000 due to the sudden surge in the cost of raw material, but is expected to come down on production at mass scale.The firm in Kota, C and I Calibrations Private Limited, is focusing on 5-litre capacity concentrators and at the moment is planning to manufacture 3,000 to 4,000 units of concentrators per month. The company, which has laboratories accredited to the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories, is conducting tests on more than 700 gadgets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-firm-among-two-to-manufacture-oxygen-concentrators-developed-by-csir-248954
06-05-2021||The police are doing all they can by putting up barricades||People flouting guidelines in Ambala||Punish those selling drugs on black marketDuring Covid crisis, some anti-human elements are engaged in manufacturing spurious vaccine. Instead of doing this, people should come forward and stand by those who are battling for life. Those selling on the black markets and selling spurious vaccine should be severely punished for willfully playing with the lives of Covid patients for petty gains. aljeet Singh Deep, HisarAssigning duties to final-year MBBS students a welcome stepIt is good to learn that the Union government has decided to utilise the services of MBBS final year students by assigning them public health duties in rural areas.Covid-19 cases have increased manifold and present healthcare staff is inadequate to attend to all patients. The assigning of MBBS final year students will ease the situation and will prove helpful to them in gaining knowledge in their field. Subhash C Taneja, GurugramPrices of essential goods soaring during Covid crisis in NarwanaHoarders of essential commodities have begun exploiting the common man. Oxygen, remidisivir, tomusiliver and other medicines are being sold 10 times their original prices. Kiryana shopkeepers have also increased the rates of grocery and edible oils manifold. Vegetable sellers are also not lagging behind. Lemons, coconuts, apples, kiwi, oranges etc are being sold at exorbitant prices, which are beyond the capacity of the common man. Due to the ongoing lockdown, the incomes have dried up. People should help each other in this hour of crisis. — Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/people-flouting-guidelines-in-ambala-248874
06-05-2021||Kurukshetra||50 students participate in webinar||Eight GJUST students get jobsHisar: Eight students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, have been selected in the e-campus placement drive of Mumbai-based Repro India Pvt Ltd organised by the training and placement cell of the university. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, and Prof Avnesh Verma, Registrar of the university, congratulated the selected students. Pratap Singh, director (placement), said the drive was conducted by Dolly Bhandari and Lavanya Shirpuram, HR manager of Repro India. Twentythree BTech printing and packaging students of 2021 passing out batch participated in the drive and after an online technical interview eight students got selected. Dr. Aditya Vir Singh, assistant director, said the selected students are Nikhil Sharma, Aayush Tomar, Rahul Rajpoot, Shivam Sharma, Vikas Kumar, Ajay Tomar, Balvir Hans of BTech printing and Dharmender.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/50-students-participate-in-webinar-248873
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Strictly enforce lockdown: DGP||Officer gets addl charge of O2 mgmtChandigarh: Gayatri Ahlawat, Managing Director, Cooperative Sugar Mills, Meham, and Sub-divisional Officer (Civil), Meham, has been given the additional charge of Officer on Special Duty (OSD), Oxygen Management, PGIMS, Rohtak. She will remain attached with the Rohak Deputy Commissioner. TNSArmy exam for clerk postponedChandigarh: The CEE exam for clerk and storekeeper in the Army has been postponed due to the Covid pandemic. It was scheduled for May 30 at the Hisar military station. The Director of Army Recruitment Office, Charkhi Dadri, said the information regarding the next date of the examination would be announced through newspapers. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/strictly-enforce-lockdown-dgp-248872
06-05-2021||Nitish Sharma 
||Samaritans provide food to those quarantined||Tribune News Service Ambala, May 5 Amid rising Covid cases, people from different quarters are coming forward to provide free of cost nutritious food to home-isolated Covid patients in Ambala city and Ambala Cantonment.  Vivek Sablok, a member of one such group in the city, said, “We came across a Facebook post of a social organisation ‘Govind Ki Gali Parivar’ and they have been helping Covid patients by providing them with food in Delhi, so we decided to start the same here in Ambala City. It has been seven days since we have been reaching out to the Covid patients in the city, who are in isolation and cannot have access to cooked meals. Recently, Ashok Kumar Sharma, Deputy Commissioner, Ambala, had authorised tiffin service providers and we contacted the same service providers and place orders on behalf of the patients and make payments.” “The meals are being ordered by families where women members have also tested positive for the virus and those who are living alone. Currently, there are 30-35 persons in the team and more people are joining daily. Finance hasn’t been an issue for us so far as residents have been helping in different ways. Sometimes, people sponsor one-day food. It started with 14 tiffins on day one, yesterday, we delivered nearly 100 tiffins and on Wednesday the number of tiffins increased to over 110”, he added. Another member said, “We ourselves deliver food at the doorstep of Covid patients, but we ensure that no one comes in contact with us. We have started getting calls from Ambala Cantonment and other districts as well and we have been helping them too by sharing details of those people who have been providing food in their respective areas.”  Similarly, Ashwani Bhola, in Ambala Cantonment, said, “We are associated with Seva Bharati and for the past five days we have started providing home-cooked food to home -isolated Covid patients in Ambala Cantonment. Currently, home-cooked food is being provided to 10 to 12 patients. We have also set up a kitchen and from Thursday we are going to start it. Along with the food, we are also providing them immunity-boosting kadha. We have also set up a 50-bed isolation centre at a school in Tepla village for Covid patients.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samaritans-provide-food-to-those-quarantined-248807
06-05-2021||---||YMCA varsity sets up Covid help desk||Faridabad, May 5JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has set up a ‘Covid-19 help desk’ (https://jcboseust.ac.in/content/covid_desk) to provide a common resource platform for Covid patients and those who can help them.Revealing this, a university official said the database -enabled project had been launched with the help of a dedicated team of over 200 student volunteers. The team will assist critically ill patients with Covid by arranging them medical facilities such as medicines, plasma, oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators, ICU beds and ventilators. VC Prof Dinesh Kumar said the Covid-19 help desk was a meaningful initiative to integrate and meet the demand and supply arising due to increasing number of patients and when the infection rate had been one of the highest. “There may be many in society who wish to help needy patients, but are helpless to reach them due to lack of a proper platform,” he said adding that the varsity has recently introduced the oxygen refilling management system to benefit those looking for refilling of oxygen cylinder for those patients recovering at homes. He said a total of over 1,500 inquires had already been received or resolved at this platform.Dr Neelam Duhan, director of computer centre and digital affairs of the university, said that the platform had been developed in a way that a person with need could submit his or her requirement, and a person with resources could submit the availability to meet such requirements. The university has also been approaching various social organisations, NGOs and local administration to join the initiative so as to reach out and arrange maximum resources for the needy patients, she said. The help desk is being updated in real time and anyone with verified leads regarding resources like oxygen cylinders, beds, home ICUs and ventilators can submit the details on it.Meanwhile, Shri Vishwakarma Skills University (SVSU), Palwal, has also released a helpline number (1800-1800-147) for tele-consultation in connection with the availability of beds (with ventilators, oxygen), plasma donors, oxygen cylinder, testing facilities, ambulances and availability of doctors and hospitals in the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ymca-varsity-sets-up-covid-help-desk-248808
06-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Man asks for ID of  PG inmates, shot||Gurugram, May 5A paying guest (PG) house operator was shot dead by a paying guest and his friends at his PG house when he asked them to submit their ID proof.The accused fled from the spot after leaving behind the pistol. An FIR of murder has been registered at Sadar police station.According to the complaint filed by Gaurav, a resident of Deroli Jat village in Mahendragarh district, he and his friend Sandeep Kumar (35), a resident of Kheri Sampla in Rohtak, were running a PG facility in Islampur village.In their PG house, Manish, a resident of Salhawas; Lucky and Jontu, residents of Matanhel; had been staying for the past six months. They had neither submitted their ID proofs nor were depositing the rent on time. When Sandeep asked them about it, an altercation started.“When I and my partner asked them for ID proof, they threatened us. We returned to our room. At around 11.30 pm, Jontu came there and fired at Sandeep. When we tried to catch him, he fired again and the bullet hit the floor. Jontu got injured as his pistol hit his head and he fled away. Meanwhile, Manish came there carrying two pistols. He fired at us and one bullet hit Sandeep’s chest. After that, Manish also fled away. We rushed Sandeep to Medanta where the doctors declared him brought dead,” Gaurav told the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-asks-for-id-of-pg-inmates-shot-248809
06-05-2021||Hisar||Care centres for cops in 5 police districts||The Hisar Range police have set up oxygen-supported Covid care centres dedicated to its personnel in the five police districts of Hisar, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Jind and Hansi. Police personnel and their family members will be vaccinated at these centres.  IGP Rakesh Kumar Arya said since police personnel were frontline workers, they decided to set up care centres for them and their families in the Police Lines. The centres had started functioning.  The IGP, however, said police personnel suffering from co-morbidities had been exempted from work.  He said 95 per cent cops in Hisar, Fatehabad and Sirsa districts had been vaccinated.  According to information, a 25-bed Covid care started has become operational in the Hisar Police Lines. In Jind, 35 policemen have tested positive in the past couple of days.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/care-centres-for-cops-in-5-police-districts-248810
06-05-2021||Karnal||2 go missing while bathing in canal||Two teenagers went missing on Wednesday while taking a bath in a canal near Kambopura village on the outskirts of the city. They have been identified as Deepak (17) and Himanshu (18), both residents of Daha, said Deepak Kumar, SHO, Madhuban. The police have started the rescue operation, but still there’s no clue about them. He said the incident took place between 2 pm and 2.30 pm when the duo along with some of their friends went to take a bath in a canal. Soon they went missing. Their friends tried to find them and later informed the police and “We are trying our best to trace them,” the SHO added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-go-missing-while-bathing-in-canal-248811
06-05-2021||---||Jagadhri man loses Rs12 lakh in property fraud||Yamunanagar, May 5 The police have booked four persons of a family on the charge of duping a man of Rs 12 lakh on the pretext of selling him their shop in Jagadhri.   On the complaint of Ashpal Singh of Indra Colony, Jagadhri, a case was registered against Jagmohan, Babita, Suresho Devi and Narendra Singh, all residents of Bhukhri village of the district, under several Sections of the IPC at the city police station on Monday — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jagadhri-man-loses-rs12-lakh-in-property-fraud-248812
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Gurugram firms donate 15 Oxygen concentrators||Health Minister Anil Vij has expressed gratitude to Gurugram-based companies, Imperial Life Science and Genes2me, for donating 15 oxygen concentrators to the state government. “The owner of the company, SK Gupta, has donated the concentrators which will be given to hospitals as per requirement,” he said.  The Health Minister instructed hospitals having more than 50 beds to set up their own oxygen plants. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-firms-donate-15-oxygen-concentrators-248813
06-05-2021||Saurabh Malik||High Court to courts: Act as parent to those who are unable to defend themselves||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 5In a significant judgment liable to change the way the subordinate judiciary functions, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that the judicial officers (presiding judges) of the courts were expected to assume a parent’s role to protect the interests of the persons legally or otherwise unable to act or defend themselves.Justice Anil Kshetarpal asserted that the courts were expected to act as parens patriae or legal protector. “Whenever the presiding judges of the court observe that one of the parties to the litigation is unable to properly prosecute or defend his own case because of legal disability, poverty or illiteracy, the courts are expected to assume the role of a parent to do complete justice.”The assertion by Justice Kshetarpal came in a case where a mother of three, married for 22 years, took divorce from her husband by way of mutual consent before marrying his mentally retarded brother within 12 days of parting ways.Thereafter, she obtained permission to sell the entire agricultural land of her mentally retarded husband, measuring 43 kanals and 7 marlas, by filing a petition under the provisions of the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956.The petition was filed by the husband through the woman as his next friend. In the petition, only the general public was impleaded as a respondent. For serving notice of the petition, a notice was published in a newspaper, “Ashiana”, for appearance before the court the very next day. On the basis of the publication, the court allowed the petition and granted permission to sell the entire land.Three other brothers then filed a suit for declaration and permanent injunction against the woman and her ex-husband. It was pleaded that the proceedings for getting the court’s permission to sell the agricultural land was an act of fraud. It was argued that the divorce was stage-managed and the petition was filed to grab/usurp the property. Along with the suit, an application for temporary injunction was also filed.The trial court, however, did not grant the relief of temporary injunction. But the first appellate court reversed the order and granted the relief of temporary injunction against the alienation of the suit land and also passed a restrain order, resulting in the filing of the revision petition. Dismissing the petition, Justice Kshetarpal added that the presiding judge of the first appellate court by a well-reasoned judgment very ably discharged the function of parens patriae.Farmland issue||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-to-courts-act-as-parent-to-those-who-are-unable-to-defend-themselves-248814
06-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panel to vet patients’ Tocilizumab requests||The state government has issued guidelines with regard to distribution of Tocilizumab injection to individual Covid patients in public or private health institutions on clinically approved evidence. As per the guidelines, all Covid hospitals requiring Tocilizumab will apply to the expert committee on toci.haryana@gmail.com. An official spokesperson said that as per the guidelines, no doctor or hospital would issue prescription for Tocilizumab for purchase of the same from anywhere as distribution of the drug is controlled by the government.  The application will be as per pro forma and application without filled pro forma or incomplete pro forma will not be entertained.  He said the technical committee would meet twice every day at 10/11 am and 4/5 pm through digital platform.  The spokesperson said the Director Health Services (DHS), MSD, would convene a meeting and coordinate with the technical committee and facilitate rapid decision making as time is of essence. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panel-to-vet-patients-tocilizumab-requests-248815
06-05-2021||---||Haryana CM announces fiscal help for BPL patients||Chandigarh, May 5Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today announced to give medical assistance to BPL families so that the poor do not lose their life because of financial issues during this pandemic.The CM told the media the state government would provide Rs 5,000 to every patient per day (maximum seven days) belonging to BPL category admitted to private hospitals and were on oxygen or ICU support.Besides, private hospitals would also be given an incentive of Rs 1,000 per patient per day or up to a maximum of Rs 7,000 for giving admission preference to Covid patients belonging to Haryana, announced the CM.But mum on covid deaths At least 23 patients have died allegedly due to lack of oxygen but CM Manohar Lal Khattar prefers to keep mum. During a media interaction in Chandigarh on Wednesday, he was at pains to explain that there was no shortage of oxygen yet he preferred to remain silent on the deaths due to oxygen shortage. A written query on the data on the deaths failed to elicit any response from the CM. Khattar also announced that the Haryana Government would also pay Rs 5,000 each to Covid patients belonging to BPL category under home isolation for purchase of medicines and other articles like oximeter.Khattar said the rates of beds and other facilities had been fixed for Covid patients undergoing treatment in private hospitals of the state.On state Congress president Kumari Selja’s alleging state government’s “complete failure” to tackle the Covid crisis and her demand for calling an all-party meeting, Khattar asked her not to politicise the issue.To a question on vaccine shortage, Khattar asserted that out of three lakh doses allotted to the state for 18-44 age category, around 1.75 lakh doses had been administered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-announces-fiscal-help-for-bpl-patients-248816
06-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Gurugram pvt ambulance owners strike work over ‘low’ govt rates||Gurugram, May 5The strike by private ambulance owners here entered the second day on Wednesday, aggravating the woes of Covid patients and their attendants.While patients struggled to reach hospitals without oxygen support in cabs and autos, bodies too are being transported in these vehicles, whose owners are charging a whopping amount.In Gurugram, 30 owners are plying over 250 ambulances.Recently, the state had issued orders barring private ambulance drivers from charging more than Rs 15 per km for advance life support (ALS) ambulances and Rs 7 per km for basic life support (BLS) ambulances even while travelling in or out of the state.“I called a private ambulance, but the driver denied. After a long wait for a government ambulance, I had to book a cab to take my wife home after testing,” said Dayachand, a local.Meanwhile, the Private Ambulance Welfare Association wrote to the DC, demanding to increase the fare of ambulances.“Our drivers and attendants are risking their lives. We can’t even pay salaries to our drivers and other staff, leave aside our EMIs. We can’t work on the fixed rates,” said Rajesh Yadav, association president.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-pvt-ambulance-owners-strike-work-over-low-govt-rates-248817
06-05-2021||Ravinder Saini
||In Rohtak, patients ‘forced’ to arrange Oxygen cylinders on their own||Tribune News Service  Rohtak, May 5 Patients admitted to the local private hospitals with low oxygen saturation are allegedly being compelled to arrange cylinders and concentrators themselves to deal with any emergency situation.  The trend emerged after the hospitals started expressing their helplessness in treating the admitted patients, citing oxygen shortage. Some of the hospitals also caution the patients in advance that they would not be responsible for any loss due to the non-availability of oxygen.  “Keeping in view the acute shortage of oxygen in hospitals, we have bought a concentrator for Rs 1 lakh. Our patient is undergoing treatment for the past two days and he hasn’t used the concentrator as oxygen is available in the hospital, but we can’t take risk as the situation can turn grim any time,” said a lady attendant at a private hospital in Rohtak city. Attendant of another patient said he had already arranged an oxygen cylinder as the hospital authorities created a panic two days ago by announcing that their stock was limited and it would last just for an hour. “Hence, the attendant of every patient was requested to make efforts on their level to get the oxygen cylinders.” “Though the oxygen reached the hospital after an hour, we had to arrange a cylinder with the help of an influential person so that it could be used in any emergency situation,” he added. Parveen Tondwal, a social activist, said “Our team has been serving the patients for the past several years. However, for the first time, I have seen patients bringing their own oxygen concentrator and cylinder despite being admitted in the hospital as the system has utterly failed to fulfil the basic need.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-rohtak-patients-forced-to-arrange-oxygen-cylinders-on-their-own-248818
06-05-2021||---||60 oxygen plants for govt hospitals in Haryana||Chandigarh, May 5Health Minister Anil Vij has said the Centre would help the state in building 60 oxygen plants in government hospitals, which have a capacity of 30, 50, 100 and 200 beds.The Health Minister said this during his visit to the oxygen plant at the Civil Hospital in Ambala today.Faridabad unit to start todayBesides, oxygen production plants will be started in Panchkula, Faridabad and Hisar in a couple of days.Six oxygen plants have already been installed in the state and production at oxygen plants in Karnal and Sonepat has already commenced.“Efforts are being made to make government hospitals in the state self-reliant in terms of oxygen supply. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and other agencies are working in this regard,” Vij said.The minister further said, “All private hospitals have been asked to set up oxygen production plants by changing rules as per their needs. This work should be done at the earliest. Some big hospitals can set up oxygen plants as per their scheduled time so that people do not have to face shortage.”Two tankers of 1,000-litre capacity of liquid oxygen will be installed in the Civil Hospital and Ambala Cantt Hospital, Vij added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/60-oxygen-plants-for-govt-hospitals-in-haryana-248819
06-05-2021||Karnal||Supplier of ‘fake’ Remdesivir held||The police have arrested the main supplier of the ‘fake’ anti-viral drug Remdesivir from Panchkula. He used to supply the injections in Haryana with the help of Pardeep of Panipat who runs medical stores in Panipat, Delhi and Haridwar. Pardeep was arrested on the information of six members of three gangs. These six members were arrested last week.  The main supplier has been identified as Khushnasib of Haridwar. He was taken on seven-day remand to determine the involvement of any other person, said Shashank Kumar Sawan, SP Panipat. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/supplier-of-fake-remdesivir-held-248820
06-05-2021||---||Haryana posts 2nd highest positivity rate after Goa||New Delhi, May 5Haryana on Wednesday posted the second highest case positivity rate of 37 per cent after Goa's 48 per cent. Out of the 30 districts witnessing a rise in cases in the past 15 days, two are in Haryana — Gurugram and Faridabad. Punjab and HP too figure among the 24 states with more than 15 per cent positivity rate.Haryana is among the 12 states with more than 1 lakh (1,08,830) active cases each besides Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, UP, Rajasthan, AP, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal and Bihar. VK Paul, Member, Health, NITI Aayog, said: "Restrictions are needed to break the chain of transmission. Many states are deciding on local lockdowns and we appreciate that."The rise of cases at Gurugram has been steep — from 12,261 between April 13 and 19 to 26,840 between April 27 and May 3. Faridabad saw 6,110 cases between April 13 and 19 and 11,240 between April 27 and May 3.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-posts-2nd-highest-positivity-rate-after-goa-248727
06-05-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Anxious doctors suffering from sleep disorder||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 5With hospitals overwhelmed with the incessant flow of Covid patients and mortuaries running out of space, the health staff, especially the doctors, are under extreme stress. Overworked and burnt out, they are hounded with the fear of being infected and carrying the virus home to their families. Also, the lack of medical supplies, especially the shortage of oxygen, has left them vulnerable with anxious relatives of patients often blaming them for the sorry state of affairs.“The large number of fatalities every day is triggering anxiety and sleep disorder among the doctors. They are using excessive ‘substances’ to deal with the growing pressure,” explained Dr MP Sharma, a psychiatrist at the Civil Hospital, Panchkula.A “burnout helpline” started for the healthcare workers has received 15 calls in the past two days. Counsellors say the doctors carry with them the guilt of being unable to help the patients and for having to refuse them admission. Distressed over the deaths of patients who might have been saved, most of them are suffering from insomnia.The Health Department has now asked all district hospitals to set up a helpline for their staff. Explaining the burden on the doctors, Dr Rajiv Kapoor, a radiologist, says they have been performing CT scans in two shifts. “We carry out 40-45 CT scans on Covid or suspected Covid patients every day. This is in addition to the routine scans. A technician uses a portable machine for x-ray tests in the Covid wards," he adds.The story at the PGIMS-Rohtak, is no different. Dr Sujata Sethi of the Psychiatric Department, says: "Grappling with limited resources and watching the patients die is taking a toll on the mental health of the doctors. They are living in constant fear of death. They see their colleagues getting infected, are short of hands and are overworked.”Dr BK Nehra, Civil Hospital, Faridabad, says what is worrying the doctors most is that with the resource crunch likely to worsen in the coming days, their personal safety may be at risk with harried attendants of patients venting their anger on the staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anxious-doctors-suffering-from-sleep-disorder-248731
06-05-2021||New Delhi||Haryana has second-highest positivity rate in India||Haryana, Himachal and Punjab are among 23 states that have a positivity rate of more than 15 per cent for COVID infections, the central government said on Wednesday.At 37 per cent, Haryana among the highest positivity rate in India currently, second only to Goa’s 48 per cent, the union health ministry said on Wednesday.Himachal, which has recorded 48 deaths and 3,824 new cases on Tuesday—the highest yet for the Himalayan state—has a positivity rate of 20 per cent, higher than Punjab, which currently stands at 17 per cent.Earlier in the day, the central government said nearly 71 per cent of the 3,82,315 COVID-19 cases registered in India in a day were reported from 10 states— Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Kerala, Haryana, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan—the Union health ministry said on Wednesday.Nineteen states and union territories including Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, West Bengal and Rajasthan have a weekly positivity rate higher than the national average of 21.46 per cent, the ministry had said.Seventeen states and UTs, including Gujarat, Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, and Bihar, have a weekly positivity rate lower than the national average, it added.Maharashtra reported the highest number of daily new cases at 51,880, followed by 44,631 in Karnataka and 37,190 in Kerala.India's active caseload has reached 34,87,229 and accounts for 16.87 per cent of the total infections. A net increase of 40,096 cases was recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours.Twelve states cumulatively account for 81.25 per cent of the country's total active cases."The National Mortality Rate has been falling and currently stands at 1.09 per cent," the ministry said.As many as 3,780 deaths were reported in a day.Ten states account for 74.97 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (891), followed by Uttar Pradesh (351).India's cumulative recoveries have surged to 1,69,51,731 with 3,38,439 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours.Ten states account for 73.4 per cent of the new recoveries, the ministry stated. — With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-has-second-highest-positivity-rate-in-india-248530
