08-05-2021|| Chandigarh||Haryana CM launches massive vaccination drive for media persons||Ensuring the well-being of journalists—who are dedicatedly rendering their services during this hour of crisis—Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday announced the launch of a massive vaccination drive for all media persons in the state.While presiding a review meeting with top officials regarding the ongoing COVID-19 situation, the Chief Minister said, that during this massive vaccination drive the COVID-19 shot would be administered to every journalist. “Every journalist will be given priority during the vaccination drive and preparations for vaccination administration would be made at media centres in all districts,” said Khattar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-launches-massive-vaccination-drive-for-media-persons-250000
08-05-2021||---||Haryana to launch screening drive in rural areas to combat COVID spread||Chandigarh, May 8 As the global COVID-19 pandemic after affecting big cities, is now hitting rural areas hard, Haryana Government while adopting proactive ‘Test, Track and Treat’ strategy to curb swiftly spreading wave of COVID-19 in villages has decided to launch a special door to door screening drive in villages by constituting 8,000 Multidisciplinary teams. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar while presiding over a review meeting with top officials of Health and Panchayat Department here today directed that proactive strategies like conducting door-to-door health screening camps covering each house, constituting special dedicated multidisciplinary teams for screening and converting Dharamshalas, Government Schools, AYUSH Centres into Isolation Centres should be adopted to contain the virus spread. “We have to protect rural areas from this deadly infection at any cost, therefore every officer concerned should ensure that special vigilance is kept on every village and for this a massive  COVID-19 screening campaign should be conducted in all villages of the state,”  directed Khattar. He said a special awareness campaign-cum-counselling of rural inhabitants should be done and for this officers of health department along with ASHA workers, former and present public representatives in each village have to play key roles in encouraging people to get themselves tested in the screening camps. Apart from this, dedicated efforts should be made to raise awareness about safety practices and the precautionary measures to control the spread of COVID-19 infection in rural areas. “Further strengthening of medical infrastructure along with ramping up COVID-19 management preparations coupled with aggressive surveillance, stringent containment, focused clinical management  should also be done in every village on priority basis, “directed the Chief Minister. 8,000 multidisciplinary teams to be constituted The Chief Minister directed that about 8,000 multidisciplinary teams led by trainee doctors, including health department officials, ASHA and Anganwadi workers, should be constituted across the State so that door-to-door health screening of households can be done in every village.  He said that proper screening of every family should be done along with the recording of their oxygen and temperature levels.  “If during the screening camps any person is found having COVID-like symptoms of fever, cold and cough, then the person should be advised to stay in home isolation immediately so as to prevent the possibility of infection spread. Approximately one team per 500 households should be deployed for conducting the health screening,” said Khattar. He further said that while conducting the screening these multidisciplinary teams should ensure that the patients having mild and moderate symptoms are immediately given prescribed preventive medicines for COVID-19 infection. Besides this, it should also be ensured that those having severe symptoms are right away hospitalized to get the required treatment. Special screening camps to be set up in rural areas The Chief Minister directed that since in rural areas the virus is spreading fast, therefore, special screening camps focusing on ‘Test, Track and Treat’ strategy should be adopted in each village so that anyone having COVID-19 symptoms can be caught early and further, the possibility of infection spread can be prevented.  Besides this, the Health Department has also been directed to impart necessary training to people in these villages so that they can spread the required awareness for the disease, he added. Through these camps the officers concerned should ensure that every member of 60 lakh families residing in Haryana is Tested, Tracked and Treated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-launch-screening-drive-in-rural-areas-to-combat-covid-spread-249999
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana sets up control room to check black marketing of medicines||Haryana minister Anil Vij on Saturday said a control room has been set up in the state to keep a check on "arbitrary charges" being levied by ambulance operators and to clamp down on "black marketing" of medicines.So far, 45 people have been arrested in this regard, he said here in an official statement.Vij, the home and health minister of Haryana, said cases of arbitrary charges being levied by ambulance operators have become rampant these days due to which the government is keeping a strict vigil on it.He said strict action will be taken in cases of black marketing of medicines and overcharging of ambulances, and added that anyone can approach the control room and file a complaint.The minister saluted doctors, nurses, para-medical staff, government employees and other frontline workers working day and night to save the lives of coronavirus patients and hoped that the state would be able to overcome the pandemic with their untiring efforts.Vij said the coronavirus has become a "political issue" in the country.He said that instead of boosting the spirits, the Congress is "trying to pull down the morale of the people fighting the coronavirus every day"."This is affecting the morale of not only the patients but also the healthcare workers," he said.He further added that a decision with regard to lockdown would soon be taken. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-sets-up-control-room-to-check-black-marketing-of-medicines-249992
08-05-2021||New Delhi||Haryana among 12 states accounting for over 80 pc of active coronavirus cases||Twelve states accounted for 80.68 per cent of India's over 37.23 lakh active coronavirus cases, according to official data.Maharashtra has the maximum number of active cases at 6.57 lakh, followed by Karnataka 5,36,661, Kerala 4,02,997, Uttar Pradesh 2,54,118, and Rajasthan 1,99,147 cases.The other states having large active cases are Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Haryana and Bihar.Ten states accounted for 70.77 per cent of the new cases in the last 24 hours, out of which Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 54,022, followed by Karnataka 48,781 and Kerala 38,460 new cases.Among the remaining seven states and union territories with high daily new cases are Uttar Pradesh (27,763), Tamil Nadu (26,465), Delhi (19,832), West Bengal (19,216), Rajasthan (18,231), Andhra Pradesh (17,188) and Haryana (13,867).A record 4,187 COVID-19 fatalities in a day took India's death toll to 2,38,270, while 4,01,078 new infections were reported during the period, pushing the tally of cases to 2,18,92,676, according to Union Health Ministry data on Saturday.The data showed that the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent.The 4,187 new fatalities include 898 from Maharashtra, 592 from Karnataka, 372 from Uttar Pradesh, 341 from Delhi, 208 from Chhattisgarh, 197 from Tamil Nadu, 165 from Punjab, 164 from Rajasthan, 162 from Haryana, 137 from Uttarakhand, 136 from Jharkhand, 119 from Gujarat and 112 from West Bengal. Registering a steady increase, active cases have reached 37,23,446 which account for 17.01 per cent of the total infections, the data showed.The national COVID-19 recovery rate has dropped to 81.90 per cent, the data showed, as the number of people who have recuperated from the disease recorded at 1,79,30,960. In the last 24 hours, 3,18,609 recoveries were registered in the country, it said.Ten states accounted for 72 per cent of the new recoveries in the country. These are Maharashtra, with maximum recoveries, followed by Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Haryana.A total of more than 30 crore tests have been conducted so far across the country while the cumulative positivity rate stands at 7.29 per cent, the ministry said.According to official figures shared by the ministry, more than 14.8 lakh beneficiaries in the age group 18-44 have been administered the first dose of vaccine under Phase-3 of the vaccination drive so far.On the other hand, the cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far has crossed 16.73 crore on Saturday, it said.In the last 24 hours, nearly 23 lakh vaccination doses were administered with 9,87,909 beneficiaries getting the first dose and 13,09,348 beneficiaries receiving their second dose of vaccine, the ministry said.“As many as 14,88,528 beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years received their first dose of COVID vaccine across 30 States and UTs,” the ministry said.These include Andaman and Nicobar Islands (663 doses), Andhra Pradesh (148 doses), Assam (33,693), Bihar (291), Chandigarh (2), Chhattisgarh (1,026), Delhi (2,41,870), Goa (934), Gujarat (2,47,652), Haryana (2,04,101), Himachal Pradesh (14), Jammu and Kashmir (26,161), Jharkhand (81), Karnataka (8,681), Kerala (112), Ladakh (86), Madhya Pradesh (9,833), Maharashtra (3,08,171), Meghalaya (2), Nagaland (2), Odisha (35,152), Puducherry (1), Punjab (2,785), Rajasthan (2,49,315), Tamil Nadu (10,703), Telangana (498), Tripura (2), Uttar Pradesh (1,02,407), Uttarakhand (19) and West Bengal (4,123).The ministry said that cumulatively, 16,73,46,544 vaccine doses have been administered through 24,37,299 sessions, till Saturday morning. “These include 95,22,639 health care workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 64,30,277 HCWs who have taken the second dose; 1,38,62,998 frontline workers (FLWs) have received the first dose while 76,46,634 FLWs have got the second dose,” it said.As many as 14,88,528 beneficiaries in the 18-45 years age group have got the first dose while among those above 60 years of age, over 5.35 crore beneficiaries got the first dose and 1,42,87,313 got the second dose.  Among the ones falling in the age bracket of 45-60 years, 5,47,33,969 got the first dose and 58,69,874 got the second dose, it said.According to data, 10 states accounted for 67 per cent of cumulative doses given so far in the country which include Maharashtra (10.53 per cent), Rajasthan (8.27), Gujarat (8.13), Uttar Pradesh (8.05), West Bengal (7.04), Karnataka (6.19), Madhya Pradesh (5.07), Kerala (4.69), Bihar (4.55) and Andhra Pradesh (4.28 per cent).The ministry said the global community has extended support to India and the country has got 2,933 oxygen concentrators, 2,429 oxygen cylinders, 13 oxygen generation plants, 2,951 ventilators/ Bi PAP/ C PAP and more than three lakh Remdesivir vials delivered so far.“The global community has been extending a helping hand in supporting efforts of India to meet the challenges and requirements of the unprecedented surge in the number of COVID-19 cases in the second wave of the global pandemic. “This is a reflection of solidarity and goodwill towards India. The Union Government has ensured the global aid is being effectively and promptly allocated and delivered to States and UTs to strengthen their efforts during this critical phase,” it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-among-12-states-accounting-for-over-80-pc-of-active-coronavirus-cases-249959
08-05-2021||People in Sector 9||Illegal passages created in containment zone||Gian P Kansal, Ambala cityRoad in pathetic condition in AmbalaDespite the issue highlighted in The Tribune dated April 29 2021, the damaged road has not been repaired by the department concerned in the Rajindra Park area (Ambala Cantt). The issue has also been highlighted on social platforms but it seems that the authorities are not concerned about the safety of the citizens. How many reminders are required by the officers concerned to repair the damaged roads? Praveen Ailawalia, Ambala CanttOur crumbling healthcare infrastructureThe accompanying picture speaks volumes about our crumbling healthcare infrastructure which should be an eye opener for our leaders and bureaucrats. In the picture, a woman is probably standing outside some hospital, which may have refused to admit her husband who is a patient. She is holding her husband sitting on a rickshaw with one hand and she is holding the oxygen cylinder with the other. No bed, no medicine and no hope. Indeed, very pathetic state of affairs. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-passages-created-in-containment-zone-249860
08-05-2021||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra University sets up Covid help desk||Online mentor-mentee meetRohtak: University teaching departments of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) has begun organising online interactive mentor-mentee meetings to facilitate mental well-being of students in Covid times. MDU Vice-Chancellor Prof Rajbir Singh had appealed to all head of departments to conduct such meetings. Prof Navratan Sharma, Professor, department of psychology and dean, social sciences has been assigned the task of university co-ordinator, mentor-mentee.Three-day online conferenceKurukshetra: Three-day online international conference titled “Paradigms of communication and data sciences (PCCDS-2021)” started at the National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra. The conference is being organised by the department of computer engineering supported by the Soft Computing Research Society, New Delhi, in the online mode due to the Covid-19 pandemic. While inaugurating the conference, Dr Satish Kumar, director, expressed hope that the human civilisation would come out successfully from the biological disaster of unprecedented magnitude. He also hoped that the papers presented in the conference would furnish as a platform to stimulate further study and research in all focused areas.Birth anniversary celebratedYamunanagar: The 298th birth anniversary of Maharaja Jassa Singh Ramgarhia, the Sikh warrior and founder of Ramgarhia Missal, was celebrated through online medium at Guru Nanak Khalsa College. Principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said Sardar Ramgarhia was born in 1723 and died in 1803 while leading a glorious life and serving the humanity. Bhupinder Singh Jauhar and Randeep Singh Jauhar, president of the college management committee said they were proud of their ancestors.Virtual placement drivesKurukshetra: As many as nine students of TERii, Kurukshetra, have been placed in virtual placement drives. Dr Sagar Gulati, director TERii, said the institution collaborated with Verzeo, a Bangalore based ed-tech company for virtual campus drive for BTech students, and six students secured the job, as an outcome. The selection process was a zoom interview, wherein the students were assessed on their technical and inter-personal skills to qualify for the job. After a successful paid internship while working from home on stipend basis, students would be confirmed at an annual package Selected students are Nicolas, Papul Kumar, Wajid Ansari, Amandeep Singh Johal, Dheeman Gupta and Banshika Kumari.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-university-sets-up-covid-help-desk-249857
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Panels for distributing vials reconstituted||Doctors deployed to answer distress callsKurukshetra: The district administration has deployed a team of doctors who will visit patients under home isolation after getting distress calls on the toll-free number. The team will visit patients, check their parameters and make arrangements. A team of six doctors will remain on eight-hour duty in the control room. The service will be available round the clock. Doctors can be contacted at 1950. — TNSTake action over fake news: Minister to copsAmbala: Health Minister Anil Vij has asked the DGP to take action and register a case after a fake tweet regarding the lockdown extension till May 20 was circulated on social media on Friday. Someone created a fake tweet regarding the extension of the lockdown till May 20 and circulated it as a tweet made by Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij from his account. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panels-for-distributing-vials-reconstituted-249856
08-05-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||2 Oxygen plants in Faridabad govt hospitals start operations||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, May 7Oxygen plants in two government hospitals have been made operational. Though these are expected to produce around 640 litres of gas per minute, private hospitals and patients recovering in home isolation are still dependent on outside sources of supply which is well short of the demand.While the first oxygen plant of the Civil Hospital here became operational last night, the ESIC hospital’s first oxygen plant started producing gas today, said officials.The production capacity of the Civil Hospital’s plant is 200 litres per minute and it will be able to supply piped gas to at least 20 beds round the clock though the total bed capacity for Covid patients here is 100.“We need around 1,000 litres more per minute if all the 100 beds are occupied,” said a senior doctor in the Civil Hospital. The oxygen supply at present is made through the D-type of cylinders whose filled-up capacity is 7,000 litres per cylinder.The ESIC medical college and hospital here is another facility where an oxygen plant has been made ready. “The plant — with production capacity of 440 litres per minute — became operational today,” said DC Yashpal Yadav.Claiming that ESIC was the largest Covid hospital in the district, he said in-house production and availability would enable the doctors to save many lives. He said the third such plant which is expected to start production within the next few weeks is located at the Atal Behari Vajpayee Medical College at Chhainsa village in the district where a 100-bed Covid hospital has been set up. This plant, he said, would produce around 1,000 litres of gas daily.While a comprehensive data of the demand and supply is yet to be made public, the demand in the district, according to sources, could be somewhere between 80 and 90 metric tonnes as all the private hospitals and home-isolated patients are dependent on outside sources of supply. “We have asked all the private hospitals to set up oxygen plants to tide over the crisis,” said the DC.Civil hospital plant to supply Oxygen to 20 beds||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-oxygen-plants-in-faridabad-govt-hospitals-start-operations-249757
08-05-2021||---||Gurugram firm to make Oxygen concentrators||Chandigarh, May 7 A private firm in Haryana is among the two companies that will manufacture oxygen concentrators developed by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) for medical use. According to an official statement, the CSIR’s Central Mechanical Engineering Research Institute (CMERI) transferred the oxygen concentrator technology to firms located in Gurugram and Kota (Rajasthan) on Friday. Prof Harish Hirani, CMERI director, said the institute was trying to boost the MSMEs so that they could manufacture the product for its reach to the masses. The CMERI’s aim is to help bring innovation to the common people for which the cooperation of the MSMEs, which have capabilities of low-cost manufacturing, is required. Gururgam-based firm SA Corporation is working on the development of the prototypes and targeting the production of 5,000 units per month, which may further be scaled up. The initial cost for developing the prototype is around Rs 40,000-Rs 45,000 due to the sudden surge in the cost of raw material, but it is expected to come down on production at a mass scale.  The firm in Kota, C and I Calibrations Private Limited, is focusing on 5-litre capacity concentrators and is planning to manufacture 3,000 to 4,000 units of concentrators per month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-firm-to-make-oxygen-concentrators-249758
08-05-2021||---||Govt failed to check spurt in time: Cong||Chandigarh, May 7State Congress president Kumari Selja today alleged that the BJP-JJP government failed to act in time to tackle the spurt in the Covid cases, which led to the situation now going out of control.Selja, who was interacting with volunteers of the Congress Covid relief committee through video-conferencing, said despite warnings by the Congress, the state government failed to act.“The government’s failure to act in time has now resulted in an acute shortage of beds, oxygen, ventilators and medicines. There is a high fatality rate, especially among the rural population,” she alleged.Though the Chief Minister had repeatedly announced that the industry would not be closed during the lockdown, the government guidelines specified that the industry in the municipal limits could not function. This had adversely affected the industrial production and livelihoods of thousands of workers. At least 80 per cent of the industry in the towns of Gurugram, Faridabad, Panipat and Yamunanagar remained shut during the lockdown as it was situated within the MC limits, she alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-failed-to-check-spurt-in-time-cong-249760
08-05-2021||---||Advanced life support ambulance for Gurugram||Chandigarh, May 7The National Health Mission (NHM), Haryana, has given one advanced life suppprt (ALS) ambulance to Gurugram and one neonatal care ambulance to Faridabad.The NHM is also likely to procure 26 ALS and 16 neonatal care ambulances soon.Sharing information in this regard, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Rajeev Arora said Haryana had procured one advanced life support ambulance (ALS) and one neo-natal care ambulance with medical equipment through the government e-Market place (GeM).While flagging off the ambulance, Arora said the neonatal ambulances were meant for the transportation of the sick / preterm babies to tertiary care centres with expertise having the facility of ventilation and having the provision of neonatal care.This ambulance was equipped with neonatal transport ventilator and incubator. Transportation of the sick or preterm babies to the centre with expertise and facilities for the provision of neonatal care and safe transport is the motive behind the scheme, he added.Mission Director, NHM, Prabhjot Singh, while speaking on the occasion said, “ALS ambulance is life-saving protocol and skills that extend basic life support to further support the circulation and provide an open airway and adequate ventilation (breathing). The ALS ambulance is used to transport emergency cases from one health facility to the higher health facility referred by the experts. These ambulances are stationed at district hospitals.Singh further said, “The state is likely to procure 26 ALS and 16 neonatal care ambulances. The NHM has a fleet of 429 operational ambulances (25 ALS, 297 BLS ambulances, 62 PTA and 39 kilkari/back to home, 6 neonatal ambulances) which are managed by decentralised control rooms operational in 21 districts except Charkhi Dadri.NHM likely to procure 26 ALS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/advanced-life-support-ambulance-for-gurugram-249761
08-05-2021||Parveen Arora
||Labourers’ exodus leaves contractors in lurch||Tribune News Service Karnal, May 7 The exodus of hundreds of migrant workers owing to the Covid-induced lockdown has left construction contractors in the lurch as they are not getting labourers to complete the construction works which they have already started. As per the contractors, they are totally dependent on migrant workers as local labourers demands high prices and their work efficiency is less than migrant workers. “I started construction work at four sites in January, but after the surge in Covid cases, the labourers began fearing the imposition of lockdown like last year. So, most of my labourers and masons left for their home states Bihar, UP and MP,” said a contractor on the condition of anonymity.  He said that the work at three sites has been suspended for some days while the work at the remaining site is being done with all the left-out labourers from all four sites. Amit Kumar, another contractor, said that some labourers left for their states prior to the lockdown and some went after the imposition of the lockdown.  “I had started construction work at two sites but now, work at both the sites has been stopped owing to shortage of labour,” he said. On Friday too, a group of labourers and masons was seen leaving for their native state Bihar. “We do not know how long the lockdown will last. So we have decided to go back home,” said Ram Gopal, a mason from Bihar. Similarly, Sonu, a labourer, said that it was difficult to survive in another state during lockdown. “I and my wife have decided to go to our state in this lockdown,” said Lal Bahadur, another labourer. Earlier, some labourers went back to Bihar by hiring a bus at a high price, said a labourer. On the other hand, the house owners, who had started their work at their place, now are forced to stop it due to the exodus of labourers. “I got my house work started in January and I was expecting the work would be completed soon. But now, I am not aware how long the work will remain suspended,” said Amneet, a resident of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/labourers-exodus-leaves-contractors-in-lurch-249763
08-05-2021||Kaithal||Kaithal civic body chief suspended||Director, Urban Local Bodies, Ashok Kumar Meena has suspended Seema Kashyap, Chairperson, Municipal Council, from the post with immediate effect.  The action was initiated against her by the Director after a report was sent by Executive Officer, MC, Kaithal. The report was based on an inquiry initiated after the registration of an FIR against Seema, her father Suresh Kashyap under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 on May 4. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-civic-body-chief-suspended-249764
08-05-2021||---||Now, get Oxygen cylinder refilled at home||Chandigarh, May 7Now, state residents can get their oxygen cylinders refilled at their doorstep, with the facility being introduced from Sunday. For this, the patient or their family will have to apply online.Additional Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Amit Agrawal presided over a meeting with the nodal officers of the district and secretaries of the District Red Cross Society in this regard on Friday, where he issued the necessary guidelines.Addressing the nodal officers and Red Cross secretaries through videoconferencing, Agrawal said it was a crisis situation and we all have to render our services in the same manner as a soldier performs during a war situation. He said in this mid of crisis, many Covid patients were home isolated and there were many suffering from other diseases and required oxygen.“With the introduction of the facility of refilling oxygen cylinders at home, such patients will be highly benefitted and their families will not have to stand in queues for long hours. It will also curb black marketing. Moreover, with many people getting cylinders at home, hospital beds with oxygen support will be available for high-risk Covid patients.”Meanwhile, Agrawal further directed all officers concerned to discuss the task with the DCs in the district for refilling cylinders and set a location. They have also been told to make a bank of empty cylinders so that whichever patient requires refilling, the volunteers should exchange it with a filled one. He has also directed them to fix the minimum price (if needed) at their level.HOW TO APPLY MANDATORY DETAILS NEEDED1 held for selling cylinders in black||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-get-oxygen-cylinder-refilled-at-home-249765
08-05-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma
||IIM, NIT alumni develop app about vaccine slots||Tribune News Service Yamunanagar, May 7 Alumni of the IIM, Rohtak, the National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra,  and young entrepreneurs have developed an app named ‘localiti.io’ to send alerts and notifications to people in the 18-44 age group, who are waiting to get themselves vaccinated against Covid. The app will provide them with information about vacant slots and where they can get vaccinated. Since the launch of  the app on May 1, more than 10,000 persons have registered (up to May 6). The team members include Partik Madaan, an alumnus of NIT-Kurukshetra, and a former employee of Yahoo; Bharat Bhushan, an ex-employee of Ixigo, and Prateek Singh, an alumnus of IIM-Rohtak and NIT- Kurukshetra.  The app is a neighbourhood-based communication platform, which will reduce the hassle of refreshing the platform to check for new slots repeatedly. “When the Centre had announced to start the third inoculation drive from May 1, we decided to launch an app that can help people get information about the availability of slots in their locality,” Prateek Singh told The Tribune.  The data is sourced on a real-time basis from the Co-Win API portal. Therefore, people will have to login and register on the Co-Win portal before registering on the app.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/iim-nit-alumni-develop-app-about-vaccine-slots-249766
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Hand over Oxygen plants to Army: Vij||Health Minister Anil Vij said that the work of administration and arrangement of oxygen plants should be handed over to the military and paramilitary for safe and smooth functioning. Vij said that this step should be taken to deal with oxygen-related problems being faced at the present.  He said that the state government is continuously making efforts to distribute oxygen as per requirement in all the hospitals of the state. With the assistance of the Centre, 60 oxygen plants would be set up in the state in various government hospitals with a capacity of 30, 50, 100 and 200 beds. The minister said that work is going on to set up six oxygen plants in government hospitals of the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hand-over-oxygen-plants-to-army-vij-249767
08-05-2021||Deepender Deswal
||25 deaths in a week, Bhiwani village sealed for five days||Tribune News Service Bhiwani, May 7 After the death of 25 persons in a week, the panchayat of the district’s Mundhal Khurd village has sealed the village for five days and sought district administration’s help in enforcing it strictly. The panchayat took the decision today after having consulted with elderly and prominent persons of the village.  The village has banned the entry of outsiders and ordered closure of shops except for those selling medicines and milk. These shops will remain open from 7 am to 10 am.  Though the state government has imposed lockdown till May 10 throughout the state, it is ineffective in the rural areas. The sarpanch, Vijay Pal, told The Tribune he was compiling a list of persons who died in the past one week.  “About 25 persons died due to Covid and fever in a week. At present, there are around 20 serious patients. In this scenario, lockdown is the only option as there is no support from the health authorities,” he said, adding four persons died today while six deaths were reported on Wednesday.  The panchayat also decided against gatherings. This means “baithaks” for playing cards and smoking “hookah” have been banned.  The village having a population of about 15,000 has no government hospital. The nearest Primary Health Centres (PHC) are in Dhanana and Talu villages, both 10 km from Mundhal Khurd. The sarpanch said the panchayat had been demanding a government hospital in the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/25-deaths-in-a-week-bhiwani-village-sealed-for-five-days-249768
08-05-2021||Rohtak||NRI philanthropist donates Rs 4 lakh to Rohtak ‘Padman’||Raj Aggarwal, a US-based Indian philanthropist, has sent a financial aid of Rs 4 lakh to Jagdeep Jugnu, a social activist working for the betterment of underprivileged children and slum dwellers in Rohtak.The gesture came after the NRI read the news titled “Rohtak ‘Padman’ renders yeoman service to needy” was published in The Tribune.“After reading the news online, Aggarwal called me up and asked about our social service activities. Today, he has transferred Rs 4 lakh to my account, for which we are thankful to him and the newspaper,” Jugnu said.Aggarwal’s family runs a voluntary organisation named ‘Viklang Sewa Kendra’ in Ambala Cantonment, where people who have lost their legs get artificial limbs free of cost. He has also been providing financial aid to the needy.Jugnu, who runs Path Society, a voluntary social organisation, has been supplying 400 to 500 packs of sanitary pads every month to girls and women, who cannot afford these. So far, he has supplied 7,000 packs of sanitary pads. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nri-philanthropist-donates-rs-4-lakh-to-rohtak-padman-249769
08-05-2021||Hisar/Jind||Farmers gather in Jind to show black flags to Dy CM||The farmers who have been protesting against the three farm laws for several months gathered in Jind to demonstrate against Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Friday.  The farmers said they got information about the arrival of the Deputy CM in Jind to review the measures and arrangements related to Covid in the district. But he did not visit the town. The police tried to stop the farmers from entering the town and erected barricades at various points. But farmer activists, including women, entered the town and marched towards Police Lines where Dushyant was expected to arrive in a helicopter. Sources said farmers, carrying black flags, broke the barricades and violated the lockdown norms.  Earlier, Dushyant arrived in Hisar and inspected the site of the temporary Covid hospital being set up at OP Jindal Modern School. He said equipment required for setting up the Covid hospital would be airlifted to the site. Dushyant said he expected that the technical equipment would reach the site on May 10 and the hospital would begin operations from May 16. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-gather-in-jind-to-show-black-flags-to-dy-cm-249770
08-05-2021||---||Home-isolated patients to get medical kits||Chandigarh, May 7State Health Minister Anil Vij today released home isolation kits for Covid patients.Vij said the kits had been prepared by the Health and Ayush Departments. It comprised 15 items, including an oximeter, digital thermometer, steamer, a three-layer mask, Ayush kwath, giloy ghanvati, Anu oil, ORS, and a booklet with complete information related to Covid.The minister said the cost of the kit was Rs 5,000, but it would be made available free of cost to all patients in home isolation.Vij said at present, there were 98,000 patients in the state, who were in home isolation. For the systematic treatment of these patients, these kits would be delivered by health staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/home-isolated-patients-to-get-medical-kits-249771
08-05-2021||Gurugram||Neighbours fight over dog, 4 of family hurt||High drama was witnessed in Jyoti Park Colony here after two neighbouring families clashed over a dog being called ‘kutta’. Four persons, including a woman, were injured in the bloody brawl. An FIR has been registered at the New Colony police station against the dog owner’s family, who claimed that they would also file a counter-complaint. The policesaid they were verifying the facts and action would be taken as per the law.  The bloody brawl broke out between Gupta and Narang families, who reside in Street 6 of Jyoti Park Colony, on Wednesday morning. It was when the boy of the Narang family was going out and their neighbour’s (Gupta) dog came in front of his car. He stopped his car and allegedly told the Gupta family to control their “kutta”. Soon an argument started between them following which Narang family members came out, leading to a bloody brawl.  Four members of the Narang family were injured in the clash. They alleged that their neighbours attacked them with sticks. They also accused them of misbehaving with women members oftheir family. On the other hand, the Gupta family alleged that they were injured during the clash. Later, the video of the clash went viral on social media. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/neighbours-fight-over-dog-4-of-family-hurt-249772
08-05-2021||Gurugram||Nuh hospital gets 50 beds||In an endeavour to combat the shortage of beds for Covid patients, M3M Foundation has donated 50 hospital beds at the Covid care facility of the Mandikhera hospital in Nuh. The foundation is also establishing a 150-bedded Covid care centre at Gurugram. The development comes amid more than four lakh Covid-19 cases added across India in the past 24 hours. Out of these, on an average over 3,000 cases have been recorded from Gurugram alone. “The sharp surge in Covid cases across India has put a strain on India’s healthcare system. The shortage of beds and oxygen has caused untold hardships to the patients and their facilities. From time to time, M3M Foundation has undertaken various initiatives for the welfare of the marginalised and vulnerablesections of society. We have provided 50 beds at Nuhto combat the shortage ofbeds for patients in Haryana. We are also establishing a similar facility in Gurugram,” said Roop Bansal, Trustee of M3M Foundation. The Covid care facility is part of M3M foundation’s PAN India initiative “Kartavya”, where the foundation has already supported more than 1,00,000 construction and migrant workers. Mr Bansal claims that the foundation believes in taking an innovative approach to address social issues by developing self-sustained programmes. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nuh-hospital-gets-50-beds-249773
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Power corpn sets up control rooms||The Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) is ensuring uninterrupted power supply to health centres, medical colleges, hospitals, dispensaries, oxygen generation units, quarantine centres and other medical institutions during the Covid pandemic. A spokesperson for the UHBVN said control rooms had been set up at the district level to restore immediately restore power supply in case of outage. The control rooms will be functional round clock. The UHBVN has launhced helpline numbers 1912 and 18001801550 in case of power disruption. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/power-corpn-sets-up-control-rooms-249774
08-05-2021||---||Prasad given addl charge||Chandigarh, May 7 The Haryana Government on Friday issued the transfer and posting orders of an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer with immediate effect. TVSN Prasad, Additional Chief Secretary, Finance and Planning Department, has been given the additional charge of Chief Resident Commissioner, Haryana Bhawan, New Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/prasad-given-addl-charge-249775
08-05-2021||Sushil Manav||In second wave, mortality rate higher among people below 50||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 7Hospitalisation and deaths of younger people are surging as the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic accelerates across the state. The number of patients without any comorbidity is also higher.According to the health bulletin, of 14 persons reported to have died due to Covid in Hisar today, four were below the age of 50. Among the victims was a 11-year-old girl, who did not have any co-morbidities.Yesterday, four out of 12 deaths victims in the district were below the age of 50, while May 5, two out of 12 who succumbed to the virus were aged 24 and 26. None of them had co-morbidities.Among seven victims in Sirsa yesterday, four were below the age of 50. On May 5, a 15-year-old boy without co-morbidities was among five victims below the age of 50.The weekly Covid status report issued by the state Health Department shows that of 4,486 persons who died of Covid-19 in thestate till May 2, 21 per cent (951) did not have any underlying medical conditions or co-morbidities.Of the total victims, 637 were in the 45-54 age group, 356 in the 35-44 age group, 170 in the 25-34 age group, 51 in the 15-24 age group, six in the 5-14 age group and 14 below the age of 5.In certain villages of Rohtak, Sonepat and Hisar and other districts where 25 to 30 deaths due to influenza-like illness without testing have been reported, the number of young people is worrisome, says residents.Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, head of the pulmonary department of the PGIMS-Rohtak, said the deaths of young people and those without co-morbidities were more in the second wave than in the first one.On the issue of deaths of people without co-morbidities, Dr Chaudhary said the UK mutant variant, which was active in the state, was infectious and lethal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-second-wave-mortality-rate-higher-among-people-below-50-249776
08-05-2021||Sumedha Sharma||50-bed Gurugram hospitals told to set up own oxygen plants||Tribune news ServiceGurugram, May 7Amid allegations of preferential treatment to big hospitals in oxygen allotment, the Gurugram administration has directed all facilities with a capacity of over 50 beds to make own arrangements for the life-saving gas.Fresh instructionsHospitals with more than 50 beds will either have to set up own oxygen plants or make arrangements for PSA oxygen generation.The hospitals have been told to either set up own plants or make arrangements for PSA (pressure swing adsorption) oxygen generation.“Instructions have been given to hospitals with more than 50 beds to manage own oxygen needs, whether through liquid oxygen plants or by arranging a PSA,” said a senior administration official. The decision was taken at a meeting today.Small hospitals and clinics and patients in home isolation have been crying foul over alleged higher oxygen allocation to “VIP hospitals”. They alleged they had to beg on social media during the recent oxygen crisis.The official said there was a plan to set up six oxygen plants in the district. A PSA-based 1,000 MLP oxygen plant will be set up at the Civil Hospital, Gurugram. Two similar plants of 200 MLP capacity will be set up at the sub-divisional hospitals in Pataudi and Sohna.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/50-bed-gurugram-hospitals-told-to-set-up-own-oxygen-plants-249713
08-05-2021||Palwal||Antigen test in all 282 Palwal villages||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/antigen-test-in-all-282-palwal-villages-249716
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt launches kit for home isolation COVID patients||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij on Friday launched a kit, including allopathic and ayurvedic medicines, oximeter and masks, for 98,000 coronavirus-affected patients' under treatment in home isolation, an official statement said.The cost of a kit is about Rs 5,000, but it will be provided free of cost to patients, he said. The kit contains 15 items. Besides medicines, it also as a digital thermometer, a steamer, AYUSH Kwath, giloy ghanvati, anu oil, oral rehydration solution and a booklet with complete information related to COVID-19, the statement said.Door-to-door oxygen cylinder refill facility will be also provided to people in Haryana, Additional Principal Secretary to the Chief minister, Amit Agrawal said in another statement.For this, the patient or their family will have to apply online, he added.Agrawal directed deputy commissioners to make a bank of empty cylinders so that patients who require oxygen can get cylinder refills. Volunteers will bring an empty cylinder and take a filled cylinder in exchange, he said. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-launches-kit-for-home-isolation-covid-patients-249557
08-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab has no doses to vaccinate 18-45 age group: AG to HC||Advocate General Atul Nanda on Friday said that Punjab requires 2.64 crore doses of the COVID-19 vaccine to innoculate those between the ages of 18 and 45 but currently had no shots.Nanda told the Punjab and Haryana High Court that the state had written to vaccine manufacturers SII and Bharat Biotech but had not received the doses.The Court asked the Government of India to consider reorientation of oxygen supply in a manner that the allocated quota reaches all the states within time to avoid loss of life due to oxygen deficit.The court said the situation in Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana appeared to be critical.The Centre maintained that the quota of oxygen has been increased and a decision was taken in this regard on May 5.Punjab has been allocated 227 MT, Haryana 267 MT and UT 40 MT, it said. Punjab, however, said that the state requires 300 MT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-has-no-doses-to-vaccinate-18-45-age-group-ag-to-hc-249467
