09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Light rain lashes Chandigarh, Panchkula; heavy thundershowers forecast||Indian Meteorological Department reported thundershowers with gusty winds across the tricity on Sunday. While Zirakpur witnessed a dust storm late afternoon, Mohali saw heavy rainfall.A bout of rain swept through Chandigarh and Panchkula as well.   According to the Meteorological Department forecast, thunderstorm and lightning accompanied by gusty winds of up to 30-40 kmph.Also read:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/light-rain-lashes-chandigarh-panchkula-heavy-thundershowers-forecast-250387
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||10 vials of Remdesivir recovered from black marketers in Haryana's Faridabad||Ten vials of Remdesivir drug, used in the treatment of COVID patients, have been recovered from black marketeers after raids were conduced in Faridabad by officials of the Haryana Food and Drugs Administration Department. Drug Control officers conducted two different raids and recovered the vials, an official statement said on Sunday.  A FIR has also been lodged against those found indulging in black marketing of the drug under Essential Commodities Act, Drugs and Cosmetics Act, Disaster Management Act and Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC, it said.Sharing details on black marketing/over pricing and hoarding of essential drugs used in the management of COVID-19, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij said the department is keeping a strict vigil as these cases have become rampant."So far, over 15 FIRs have already been lodged in different districts," the statement quoting Vij said.For smooth distribution of these essential drugs, the government has issued detailed guidelines and constituted an expert committee, he said, adding that helpline numbers have also been provided in every district where any person can lodge a complaint against those indulging in black marketing or overcharging. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-vials-of-remdesivir-recovered-from-black-marketers-in-haryanas-faridabad-250385
09-05-2021||---||Covid positive 13 undertrials escape from Rewari jail||Rewari, May 9As many as 13 undertrials escaped from a Covid jail after cutting iron grill of a barrack on Saturday night.Four of them belonged to Rewari, while nine others are from Mahendragarh district.All the escapee are Covid positive,The under-construction jail in Fideri village is being used for those undertrials and prisoners found Covid positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-positive-13-undertrials-escape-from-rewari-jail-250350
09-05-2021||Karnal||Farmers’ meet postponed: Samyukta Kisan Morcha||In a general body meeting of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), farmer leaders decided to postpone the national convention of the farmers’ movement. It was scheduled on May 10. The next date will be announced after the next meeting of the SKM at Singhu border in Sonepat district.This convention was being organised to strengthen the farmers’ movement at the national level and also to establish coordination, said the farmers’ leaders.In a statement, Abhimanyu Kohar, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Dr Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Hannan Mollah, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Yudhvir Singh and Yogendra Yadav said that a large number of farmers of Punjab would gather at Punjab-Haryana borders –- Shambhu and Khanori — and would reach Delhi borders. Farmers of Haryana would also join these groups and reach Delhi protest sites, they said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-meet-postponed-samyukta-kisan-morcha-250081
09-05-2021||---||Cooperative bank poll deferred in Jind||Hisar, May 8Haryana Government has decided to defer the elections for the Board of Directors of the Jind Central Cooperative Bank Ltd, Jind, in view of the lockdown due to a fresh surge in Covid cases. The poll was scheduled for May 9.Additional Chief Secretary, Cooperation Department, Sanjeev Kaushal has issued orders in this regard.Further, Registrar, Cooperative Societies, Haryana, is authorised to defer similar elections of other societies already fixed or scheduled prior to June 30 in view of the pandemic, said Kaushal.The ACS further informed that Deputy Registrar, Cooperative Societies, Rohtak, Assistant Registrar, Cooperative Societies, Jind, Chief Executive Officer/General Manager, the Jind Central Cooperative Bank Ltd, Jind, have been appointed as member of Board of Administrators of the Jind Central Cooperative Bank Ltd, Jind, for a period of six months from May 7 to November 6, or till the election is held whichever is earlier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cooperative-bank-poll-deferred-in-jind-250082
09-05-2021||Karnal||Missing man’s body found in Karnal||The body of man, who went missing on May 3, was found near the National Highway - 44, outside the city. The victim was identified as Ramesh Chand (80), a resident of Chand Sarai in the city.The family members said he was kidnapped and murdered. His son got calls for ransom to release his father. The investigation officer said they had registered a case on May 4. “We are tracing the unknown person, who made calls for ransom. We have sent the body for post-mortem and the cause of death will be determined after receiving the report,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/missing-mans-body-found-in-karnal-250083
09-05-2021||Kaithal||Three get life term for attempt to murder in Kaithal||A special court for the SC/ST Act of Additional Sessions Judge Poonam Suneja has announced a sentence of life imprisonment to three persons in an attempt to murder case. Besides, a penalty of Rs 15,000 each has also been imposed on them.Kaithal SP Lokendra Singh said on May 20, 2019, Pardeep of Kalayat was appeared in the court of Additional Sessions Judge for statement, while his friend Human, alias Dimple, of Kalyat was waiting outside. In the meanwhile, Dimple was attacked by three persons with knife and ice picker. The attackers were identified as Pardeep, Sagar Dutt, and Sombir of Narwana in Jind.With the promptness of woman inspector Rekha Rani, who was present in the court at that time, the accused were arrested. The trio belonged to the party against which Pardeep was appearing for statement, the SP said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-get-life-term-for-attempt-to-murder-in-kaithal-250084
09-05-2021||Yamunanagar||17-year-old girl sexually abused in Yamunanagar||A 17-year-old girl was allegedly sexually abused many times by a man at a brick-kiln of a village in Yamunanagar in the past three months.The accused, Shankar, made an objectionable video of the victim and threatened to upload the video on social media. On the complaint of the father of the victim, a case was registered against Shankar under Sections 323, 328 of the IPC and Section 6 of POCSO Act at women police station, Yamunanagar, on May 7.The complainant told the police that he worked as a labourer at the brick-kiln in Chhachhrauli area of the district. On May 4, he saw his daughter weeping. Besides, there was an injury mark under her eye. “When I and my wife asked our daughter what had happened, she narrated her ordeal to us,” he said.He said the girl told them that Shankar, who also worked at the brick-kiln, had been harassing and forcing her for a friendly relationship with him since January but she refused. “One day in February, Shankar gave her a piece of ‘burfi’, after which, she became unconscious. He took her to his room and sexually abused her there,” alleged the complainant.He said when his daughter gained consciousness, the accused told her that he had made an objectionable video of her. He threatened to upload the video on social media if she told anyone about the incident. He kept blackmailing her and sexually abused her several times after that. “On May 4, Shankar made an attempt to rape her. But when she opposed him, he beat her badly. She sustained injury marks,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/17-year-old-girl-sexually-abused-in-yamunanagar-250085
09-05-2021||Ambala||Review evaluation policy, schools’ association in Haryana urges CBSE||Days after the CBSE issued a policy for the tabulation of marks for Class X board exams based on the internal assessment conducted by schools, the National Independent Schools Alliance has asked the CBSE to reconsider its policy and promote students with subjects of their choice.The private schools’ body said it was not in favour of calling teachers to schools to prepare the results as several states had already imposed the lockdown.Kulbhushan Sharma, president of the school’s body, said, “We appreciate the decision taken by the CBSE to promote the students with fair and unbiased results, but we have requested the board to reconsider its notification regarding the tabulation of marks based on the internal assessment. It is risky amid the surging cases and forming an evaluation committee is not an easy task. Most of the states have already imposed the lockdown under the Disaster Management Act and the state Education Department have issued circulars to close the schools completely.”“We have to open schools physically, need to call support staff and an IT team to provide the documents as the CBSE directed. Due to the lockdown, it will be difficult for the committee members, supporting teachers, and support staff to commute for the evaluation process. Thousands of teachers have already tested Covid positive and this will be a forceful trauma on the teaching community in the name of evaluation”, he added.The alliance has requested the CBSE to promote Class X students with their choice of subjects in Class XI. It has asked the board that it can contribute an amount of Rs 37 crore to the PM care fund, which it planned to give as an honorarium to teachers. Besides, it has requested the board to return the board examination fee of 17,13,814 students, which is over Rs 282 crore.The alliance has requested the Union Education Minister and the Health Minister to issue necessary directions to the CBSE and also decided to approach the Delhi High Court in this context.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/review-evaluation-policy-schools-association-in-haryana-urges-cbse-250086
09-05-2021||Saurabh Malik||34 years on, Punjab and Haryana High Court sets aside land acquisition proceedings||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 8Nearly 34 years after proceedings for acquiring 35.76 acres were initiated for residential, commercial and institutional purposes in Kurukshetra’s Sectors 6 and 11, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has held that the state’s refusal to release the remaining acquired land was violative of Article 14 as the purpose of acquisition stood vitiated.The Bench added that it stood established that major chunks of the land belonging to similarly situated landowners already stood released. “Thus, we find ourselves totally in agreement with the arguments advanced by counsel for the petitioners that their case is not different from those land owners whose land already stood released,” the Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Rajesh Bhardwaj ruled.HC BenchAll petitions allowedThe petitioners have succeeded in establishing that the action of the state in declining their prayer for release of their acquired land is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution and thus, liable to be set aside. Hence, all 3 petitions are allowed accordingly.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after three petitions were filed by Balbir Kumar and other petitioners against the State of Haryana and other respondents for quashing notification dated April 21, 1987, and April 20, 1988, issued under Sections 4 and 6 of the Land Acquisition Act. Directions were also sought for quashing letters rejecting their claim.Appearing before the Bench, the petitioners’ counsel contended that the purpose for acquiring the land by the state was totally defeated by releasing major chunk in pursuance to representations made, and orders passed by the courts, at various stages. Even if miniscule part of the land owned by the petitioners was kept by the state, the same would be of no use for developing the two sectors as envisaged by the State.Opposing the petitioners’ contentions, the state counsel, on the other hand, submitted that the petitioners had already accepted the compensation for acquisition of their land pursuant to the award announced on April 12, 1990. The land’s possession stood vested in the state and the petitioners had no cause of action to pray for the release of the land acquired.After hearing rival contentions, the Bench asserted that the non-acceptance of the petitioners’ prayers for not releasing the land would be a travesty of justice. “The petitioners have succeeded in establishing that the action of the state in declining their prayer for release of their acquired land is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India (equality before law) and thus, liable to be set aside. Hence, all the three petitions are allowed accordingly,” the Bench concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/34-years-on-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-sets-aside-land-acquisition-proceedings-250087
09-05-2021||Bhiwani||No help coming, Bhiwani village forms self-help group||With the district health authorities unable to provide much help, residents of Barwa village have taken upon themselves to devise a mechanism for the timely treatment of those showing Covid-like symptoms, enlisting the services of registered medical practitioners (RMPs).The villagers claim there has been no RT-PCR testing and contact tracing by the authorities so far. Jolted by the demise of panchayat member Hawa Singh (40) on April 30, who could not get the requisite medical aid, the villagers decided to form “Corona Sahayata Samiti” comprising over 200 members. Dharampal, a member of the samiti, claimed almost 70 per cent villagers were down with fever. “As many as 54 residents have tested positive for Covid-19. There have been three deaths die to Covid in the past one week. As of now, four critically ill patients are undergoing treatment in the village itself. It is a struggle to get oxygen cylinders as the administration has rationed distribution. We take the help of the Siwani SDM and SHO for refills,” he told The Tribune.Panchayat member Krishan Kuma said they had hired the services of four RMPs to monitor the condition of serious patients. The residents want to set up a Covid centre at the village chaupal but have been refused permission by the health authorities. The Primary Health Centre in the village has no doctor while the nearest Civil Hospital in Siwani has only one medical officer — four others having been attached with the Bhiwani Civil Hospital.Describing the situation in Barwa village as serious, Ranbir Singh, Siwani SHO, said a large number of residents were showing Covid-like symptoms. “I try to help them with oxygen cylinders and medicines.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-help-coming-bhiwani-village-forms-self-help-group-250158
09-05-2021||Chandigarh||Jab drive for mediapersons in Haryana||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday announced the launch of a massive vaccination drive for all the mediapersons.The CM, while presiding over a review meeting with top officials regarding the situation in the state, said vaccines would be administered to every mediaperson. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jab-drive-for-mediapersons-in-haryana-250088
09-05-2021||Hisar||Governments should redouble efforts, says Sampat Singh||Former Haryana minister Sampat Singh on Saturday asked the Central and state governments to redouble their efforts to meet the challenges posed by the second Covid wave. Terming the current management of Covid as “unsatisfactory and ineffective”, he said the declaration of the pandemic as a national disaster had not improved the situation.He said the governments should focus only on managing the situation and mop-up all its resources since the situation all over the country was extremely critical. “The government took the first wave very lightly. The health infrastructure was not ramped up. The situation is now out of control,” he alleged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/governments-should-redouble-efforts-says-sampat-singh-250089
09-05-2021||Faridabad||Notices to 2 hospitals for overcharging in Faridabad||The office of the Civil Surgeon has issued show cause notices to private hospitals in the city in connection with the complaints of overcharging from Covid patients.In the notice issued to a private hospital, located in Sector 56, the health authorities asked the management to respond within three days, as to why an action should not be taken against them under Section 188 of the Epidemic Disease (Pandemic) Act, as a message floating on the social media had come into notice that the hospital was charging a high amount to treat Covid patients, overruling the rates prescribed by the state government. This was a violation of the Act, it claimed.A similar notice was also issued to another hospital, located in Ballabgarh here. This notice came in response to a complaint lodged by Virender Kumar Sharma, a resident of Sector 10. In his complaint lodged on May 5, Sharma told the authorities that the hospital had charged him Rs 70,000 per day for hospitalisation of his son, who had to be put on ventilator. He said he had spent more than Rs 5.23 lakh on the treatment, but the condition of the patient had failed to improve. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/notices-to-2-hospitals-for-overcharging-in-faridabad-250090
09-05-2021||Parveen Arora||Support centre for home-isolated in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, May 8Aiming at reducing pressure on hospitals and facilitating home isolation due to increasing number of Covid patients, a 20-bed home care centre with oxygen support has been set up at the Panchayat Bhawan, while 80 more beds with oxygen are expected to be available in a couple of days at a banquet hall.Patients with mild symptoms, who are home-quarantined, will be shifted and treated here at the centre. The number of beds will also be increased to 100 in a couple of days. SDM Ayush Sinha has been made the nodal officer.“We have started this to help people under home isolation, to avoid panic when their oxygen saturation comes down. To help such patients and reduce the burden on hospitals, we have started this centre. Presently, we have 20-bed with oxygen support," said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner.Soon, the number will be increased to 100 beds, of which 50 will have oxygen concentrators, while the remaining will have oxygen cylinders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/support-centre-for-home-isolated-in-karnal-250091
09-05-2021||---||PGIMS-Rohtak doctors rue shortage of PPE kits, N95 masks||Rohtak, May 8Resident doctors serving at the PGIMS-Rohtak have rued that in the absence of adequate protective gear such as PPE kits and N95 masks, many of them have been contracting Covid-19.Dr Kunal Gaba, President, PGIMS Resident Doctors AssociationMany colleagues covid positiveA number of doctors and other healthcare workers are down with Covid and those on duty are overworked. No post-duty quarantine period is being provided due to a shortage of staff.The PGIMS Resident Doctors Association has demanded that the resident doctors should not be posted in other districts and their salaries for the month of April be credited as soon as possible.“A number of doctors and other healthcare workers are down with Covid and those on duty are overworked. No post-duty quarantine period is being provided due to a shortage of staff,” said RDA president Dr Kunal Gaba.He said many state governments had announced incentives for Covid warriors, but the Haryana Government, which was first to announce double salary for doctors and other health workers on Covid duties, had not given anything.“Let alone the double salaries, the PGIMS doctors and other employees have to struggle even to get their regular salaries,” he lamented.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pgims-rohtak-doctors-rue-shortage-of-ppe-kits-n95-masks-250092
09-05-2021||---||Ambulance operators in Haryana to face action for fleecing||Chandigarh, May 8To keep a check on arbitrary charges being levied by ambulance operators and to clamp down black marketing of medicines, Home Minister Anil Vij said a control room had been set up in the state, where any person could file a complaint. So far, 45 persons have been arrested in this regard.Vij said these days cases of arbitrary charges being levied by ambulance operators had become rampant, due to which the government was keeping a strict vigil on it. He said action would be taken in cases of black marketing of medicines and overcharging of ambulances. He saluted doctors, nurses, para-medical staff, government employees and other fronttline workers, serving day and night to save the Covid patients. The Home Minister said Covid had become a political issue in the country. Instead of motivating, the Congress was trying to pull down the morale of the people fighting the virus every day, he said. This was affecting the morale of not only the patients, but also of healthcare workers, Vij said.He said a decision regarding lockdown would be taken soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambulance-operators-in-haryana-to-face-action-for-fleecing-250093
09-05-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Two NGOs launch free auto ambulance service in Gurugram||Gurugram, May 8Moved by the plight of patients during a two-day strike of private ambulances, two local NGOs, NGO-Rewa foundation and Sai foundation, today launched oxygen-equipped auto ambulance service. Two helpline numbers have been launched and anyone can avail the service free of cost.The NGOs have equipped five CNG autos with oxygen cylinders and sanitisers. Auto drivers are also supposed to wear PPE kits and use gloves, face shield, masks, cap and hand sanitiser. The service was launched from Sector-15 (part 2).“It is a doorstep service and we have issued two helpline numbers. Any needy person can call and an auto ambulance will reach their doorstep within a few minutes. To ensure their safety in transit, we have arranged oxygen cylinders. If required, we will increase the number of autos and the service will remain free of cost”, said Sunil Yadav, president of Rewa foundation.Hare Ram, one of auto ambulance drivers, said the NGO had hired their vehicle on daily basis. “We get money for our daily needs and are happy that we are serving the needy in tough times,” he added.“Our motto is to save more and more lives in this time of crisis”, said Ravi Bansal, president of Sai foundation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-ngos-launch-free-auto-ambulance-service-in-gurugram-250071
09-05-2021||Ambala||Oxygen cylinder in ambulance goes empty on way, man dies in Haryana||The Ambala police on Saturday booked the owner and driver of an ambulance for allegedly causing death by negligence after a man who was referred to PGI Chandigarh died when the oxygen cylinder became empty on the way on Friday.On the complaint of the deceased’s brother, the Ambala police have booked Ravi, ambulance owner, and the unidentified driver.In his complaint to the police, Vishal, a resident of Ambala Cantonment, alleged that on May 3, his brother Sumit tested Covid-positive and was undergoing treatment at Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment. On May 7, his brother was referred to PGI Chandigarh. Sumit was on oxygen support. The family booked a private ambulance and left for Chandigarh. On the way, Sumit died after the oxygen cylinder became empty. They returned to Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment, from where the ambulance driver managed to flee. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/oxygen-cylinder-in-ambulance-goes-empty-on-way-man-dies-in-haryana-250074
09-05-2021||---||Screening drive for rural areas soon in Haryana||Chandigarh, May 8As the Covid-19 pandemic is now hitting rural areas hard, the Haryana Government has decided to launch a special door-to- door screening drive in villages by constituting 8,000 multi-disciplinary teams.Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, while presiding over a review meeting with top officials of the Health and Panchayat Department here today, directed them to adopt proactive strategies like conducting door-to-door health screening camps covering each house, constituting special dedicated multi-disciplinary teams for screening and converting dharamshalas, government schools and ayush centres into isolation centres to contain the virus spread.He said a special awareness campaign-cum-counselling of rural inhabitants should be done and for this, officials of the Health Department, along with aasha workers and former and present public representatives in each village had to play a key role in encouraging people to get themselves tested at the screening camps.The CM said that about 8,000 multi-disciplinary teams, led by trainee doctors including health department officials, Asha and anganwadi workers, should be constituted across the state so that door-to-door health screening of households could be done in every village. He said proper screening of every family should be done along with the recording of their oxygen and temperature levels.“If during the screening camps, any person is found having Covid-like symptoms of fever, cold and cough, the person should be advised to stay in home isolation immediately so as to prevent the possibility of infection spread. Approximately one team per 500 households should be deployed for conducting health screening,” said Khattar.He further said that while conducting the screening, the teams should ensure that the patients having mild and moderate symptoms were immediately given prescribed preventive medicines for Covid-19 infection. Besides, it should also be ensured that those having severe symptoms were right away hospitalised to get the required treatment.The CM directed that the possibility of converting dharamshalas and government schools into isolation centres should be explored at the earliest. He said in the rural areas, there was a need to adopt “test, track and treat” strategy. The Health Department had been directed to impart necessary training to people in villages so that they could spread the required awareness for the disease.71,730 vaccinatedA total of 71,730 persons were inoculated, out of which 43,732 got their first dose while 27,998 received their second jab.14,667 cases, 155 die||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/screening-drive-for-rural-areas-soon-in-haryana-250080
09-05-2021||---||75-bed Covid hospital inaugurated in Faridabad||Chandigarh, May 8The Haryana Red Cross Society was prepared to help people of the state in this hour of crisis, said Haryana Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya, who is also the president of the organisation, while virtually inaugurating the 75-bed Covid hospital in Faridabad, through video-conferencing from the Haryana Raj Bhawan. The hospital was inaugurated in collaboration with the Indian Red Cross Society and the Bharat Vikas Parishad.He paid respect to Red Cross founder Henry Dunant by garlanding his statue at the Raj Bhawan today on World Red Cross Day. He also released two books on the golden jubilee of the Indian Red Cross Society (Haryana state branch) and the St John’s Ambulance.He appealed to people to support the volunteers of these institutions in the fight against Covid-19, and protect themselves. He said in this challenging time, the Red Cross Society was continuously working for the welfare of humanity.He said the Haryana Red Cross Society had demanded 250 oxygen concentrators from the Indian Red Cross Society, out of which 40 concentrators had been delivered. On arrival of the remaining concentrators, they would be distributed in all districts. He said keeping in view the increasing demand of blood and blood plasma by the society, special campaigns were being held.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/75-bed-covid-hospital-inaugurated-in-faridabad-250094
09-05-2021||---||Man held for supplying 24 vials of Remdesivir in Ambala||Ambala, May 8The CIA-2 unit, Ambala police, arrested a man, in connection with 24 vials of Remdesivir injection recovered from a car during checking in Ambala Cantonment on April 21.The accused was identified as Gaurav, a resident of Yamunanagar. He was produced before a court that sent him to five-day police remand.Key accused identifiedOn curfew duty, police officials accosted two vehicles. During checking, they recovered 24 vials of ‘Hetero Remdesivir’ from one of the cars. Four men failed to produce any bill or give a satisfactory reply regarding the vials. They were identified as Paras and Kanishik from Ambala, and Deepak and Karan from Delhi. They were booked under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC, and the Disaster Management Act.The accused claimed they had arranged the vials for a Covid patient in Delhi. However, the police suspected that they had procured them for sale. The investigation was handed over to CIA-2.Investigating officer Rajinder Singh said Gaurav was supplying the vials on the directions of another person. Twenty four vials were sold for Rs 1.20 lakh, he said. The prime accused, who had been selling the vials, had been identified and efforts were being made to nab him, he said.Further investigation was on, said the officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-for-supplying-24-vials-of-remdesivir-in-ambala-250095
09-05-2021||---||Online registration system to regulate supply of oxygen in Haryana||Faridabad, May 8With the supply of oxygen to Covid patients in home isolation going beyond 3 metric tonne (MT) daily in the district, the administration claims to have put in place an online registration system that can handle a daily load of up to 10 MT.Over 400 individuals in home isolation have registered for oxygen supply on the Google Forms app on Saturday. “We provide a token to such applicants within an hour after which the individual faces no problem in getting oxygen cylinder refilled from the designated point,” said an official monitoring the online registration system. The system introduced on May 3 had attracted around 1,200 applications on the first day. With no official data of home isolated patients requiring oxygen support, the number of critical patients in official records on Friday had been 905.Claiming that six points of supply have been made functional, Yashpal Yadav, DC, said two of the points were meant for refilling cylinders of home isolated patients, while the rest were supplying oxygen to hospitals.Describing the online system of registration as impractical, Ajay Bahl, a social activist, said the authorities need to activate cells in various localities who should contact patients and their kin about the need of oxygen or hospitalisation as soon as Covid report was received.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/online-registration-system-to-regulate-supply-of-oxygen-in-haryana-250070
