11-05-2021||Chandigarh||11,637 new COVID-19 cases, 144 deaths in Haryana||Showing a little dip in the number of new cases of coronavirus, Haryana on Tuesday reported 11,637 new cases taking the total number of positive cases in the state so far to 6,40,252.As many as 144 people lost their lives to the deadly virus today.The highest number of new cases were again reported from Gurugram where 2,659 people tested positive. Faridabad reported 1,255 cases, Hisar 928 and Sonepat 609 new infections Today, the Health Department tested 64,874 samples at a positivity rate of 21.46 per cent.  The dip in daily positivity rate is more attributable to increase of rapid antigen tests (RAT), which are not as reliable as RT-PCR tests and are known to give false negative reports in many cases.Today, 15,728 people recovered from the disease bringing down the total number of active cases to 1,08,997.A total 1,04,902 vaccine doses were administered in the state today with 60,701 getting their first dose and 44,201 their second dose.Till now, 45,93,822 doses have been administered in the state.Covid Meter Fresh cases: 11,637Deaths: 144Active cases: 1,08,997Worst affected districts Gurugram 2659 deaths 13Faridabad 1255 deaths 08Hisar 928 deaths 12||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/11-637-new-covid-19-cases-144-deaths-in-haryana-251383
11-05-2021||New Delhi||Farmers returning to protest sites after harvest season: Samyukta Kisan Morcha||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions, on Tuesday said farmers were returning to Singhu and Tikri border protest sites after finishing harvesting their crops.In a statement, the SKM said that large convoys of farmers arrived at the two border points on Monday and this will now continue.“Yesterday, large convoys of farmers arrived on the Singhu border and Tikri border. Farmers were welcomed at many places on their way to these sites from Punjab. These farmers, who have travelled in tractors, cars and other vehicles, have made arrangements to live in tents and trolleys as they were living before harvesting,” it said.“The farmers’ strike is getting stronger and the protest sites are also becoming larger. Farmers’ tents, trolleys and other vehicles have been permanently there for the last five months in long queues. The pattern of farmers coming back after the harvesting season will now continue,” it added.The farmers’ outfit said that the government was “promoting privatisation” even at a time when “thousands of people have lost their lives due to the mismanagement of the public health system”.“The government should increase investment in education, health and agriculture sectors. Along with taking guarantee of the purchase and remunerative price for the crops of the farmers, the government should make a law on MSP and repeal the three anti-farmer laws immediately,” it said.Delhi reported 319 more COVID-19 fatalities and 12,651 new cases on Monday, with a positivity rate of 19.10 per cent. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-returning-to-protest-sites-after-harvest-season-samyukta-kisan-morcha-251374
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Five of the 13 inmates who escaped Rewari jail arrested||The Haryana Police on Tuesday arrested five of the 13 prisoners who had escaped from a Rewari jail, a dedicated facility for COVID-19 positive jail inmates in the state.They were kept in a special section of the Rewari jail and had escaped from there on Saturday night.“The Haryana Police has arrested five COVID-positive prisoners, who had escaped from the Rewari Jail on the intervening night of May 8 and 9,” a spokesperson of the state police said in a statement here.He said those arrested have been identified as Naveen Sharma, alias Golu; Ajit, alias Neta; Rajesh, alias Kalia; Ashish; and Abhishek.Immediately after the incident, several teams of the Haryana Police launched a search operation to nab the prisoners.Efforts are on to nab the other inmates, the spokesperson said.As many as 493 COVID-positive prisoners from different parts of the state are lodged in the special section of the Rewari jail, which is in the final stages of construction, Rewari’s Superintendent of Police Abhishek Jorwal had earlier said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-of-the-13-inmates-who-escaped-rewari-jail-arrested-251365
11-05-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||All citizens should join hands in fight against ongoing crisis||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com All citizens should join hands in fight against ongoing crisisHaryana ranks second in the country in Covid infection rate and it is a matter of concern. Now Covid is wreaking havoc in villages and the situation has become such in all districts that the number of deaths is increasing every day. Cremation grounds are not enough for the cremation of the dead. The government must control Covid early. To win the war against the Corona epidemic, all political parties, politicians, administrative officials and people have to fight in unison. Strict legal proceedings should be enforced against hoarding or black marketing of drugs, medicines, oxygen and other food items. Everyone has to be vigilant and help each other. The government should go door-to-door to vaccinate every person.The Covid infected living in isolation should get medical kits free of cost and the funeral of the deceased should be done at the government expense. Shakti Singh, KarnalWhere there is a will, there is a wayThis refers to 'Register online for oxygen on doorstep in Panchkula' (Chandigarh Tribune, May 10). It was highly appreciable on the part of the Panchkula administration (led by the local DC) to constitute a team of officials to assist the Secretary, Red Cross, Sector 15, Panchkula, for providing door-to-door based 'on-line' facilities for refilling the oxygen cylinders in respect of home-isolated Covid patients here. This move provides that a patient or his/her family members need to apply online on the portal - oxygenhry.in and upload the photo of oximeter reading for oxygen level, his/her Aadhar card number while indicating the age of the patient. For sure, such an act will come as a reprieve for patients' kin who no longer need to wait in a queue to get these 'life saving' cylinders refilled. Vinayak G, PanchkulaSoftware glitches no excuse for Rohtak MCAn online portal service was launched at the Rohtak Municipal Corporation for issuance of NOCs for deeds registration with a view to curb malpractices and ensure prompt public service. Unfortunately, there is a long wait for the grant of NOCs for the past two months. Applicants are running from pillar to post for getting their work done. The corporation officials attribute the delay to software deficiencies installed afresh as a result of replacement of old agency by the new one after March 31, 2021. However, the public should not be made to suffer for so long on this excuse. Udai Singh Phogat, RohtakHospital staff not professionally trainedCountries are donating medical equipment so that these can be effectively used in hospitals and precious lives can be saved. But, many hospitals are not using ventilators and oxygen concentrators supplied to them. These life-saving equipment are lying in store rooms or supplied to private hospitals where patients are charged heavily. In Civil Hospital, Jind, out of 20 only four oxygen concentrators are being used. Due to the shortage of trained staff in ICUs, ventilators are also sparingly used. Ramesh Gupta, Narwana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/all-citizens-should-join-hands-in-fight-against-ongoing-crisis-250884
11-05-2021||Karnal||Mother's Day celebrated||Call for reaching out to the needyKurukshetra: On the occasion of World Red Cross Day, the Vice-Chancellor of Kurukshetra University, Prof Som Nath Sachdeva, called on Youth Red Cross volunteers to help the needy. He said during this global Covid epidemic, Red Cross had played an important role in the world and stood by an important motto of Red Cross: "Protect life, ensure every human being's health and respect for them." The VC further said, "All the youth Red Cross volunteers should be careful and fearless to contribute to the society. We should cooperate with the administration as much as possible in this critical situation. By following all Covid guidelines, we should also inspire others to work for the society." The Vice-Chancellor said all volunteers can contribute to social service by registering themselves on the link provided by the Kurukshetra district administration.Symposium at Guru Nanak collegeYamunanagar: A symposium, Tarang, was organised at Guru Nanak Khalsa College, in which teachers and students participated. College principal Dr Major Harinder Singh Kang congratulated all students and teachers on the birth anniversary of world poet Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore, Maharana Pratap Jayanti and on Mother's Day. Patron of the college management committee, Bhupendra Singh Jauhar and chairman Randeep Singh Jauhar were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mothers-day-celebrated-250883
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Stay home till May 17, farmers urged||The state has urged farmers to stay at home during the lockdown period till May 17 as the wheat procurement in all mandis will not be allowed and no gate pass will be issued.An official spokesman said from April 1 to May 10, total 83.49 lakh tonnes of wheat arrived in 396 mandis and procurement centres in the state, of which a total of 80.88 lakh tonnes had been purchased on the minimum support price (MSP) by the state procurement agencies.Besides, till May 10, an amount of Rs 13,120 crore had been directly paid in the verified accounts of the farmers.The spokesman said to date, as many as 92,8707 J Forms of 49,9058 farmers had been issued. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stay-home-till-may-17-farmers-urged-250873
11-05-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court notice to Haryana on ad withdrawal||Haryana’s move to withdraw an advertisement for junior lecturer assistant after holding written test, scrutiny of documents and declaring candidates successful has come under judicial scanner.Acting on a petition filed by Roshan Lal through counsel Pritpal Singh Miglani, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today put the State on notice. Appearing before Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill’s Bench, Miglani said the petitioner had applied for the post of junior lecturer assistant (Category 4) in the SC category. After appearing in the written test and scrutiny of documents, he was selected in the general category on August 2, 2019. But the department, without any notice, withdrew the ad and gave no reason. Issuing notice of motion to the respondents, Justice Gill fixed the case for July 7. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-notice-to-haryana-on-ad-withdrawal-250876
11-05-2021||Gurugram||Bloody brawl leaves 1 dead, 12 hurt in Nuh||A 29-year-old ward boy of a medical college at Nalhar in Nuh was shot dead, while over 12 persons were injured in a bloody clash in Mewli village on Monday morning.Four persons, including a woman, were shot at in the clash and three of them are critical. An FIR was lodged at the Nuh Sadar police station against 11 persons.The deceased was identified as Sagar of Mewli village.On Sunday around 10 pm, a brawl took place between the families of Sagar and his cousin Ayub over some children’s quarrel. At the intervention of villagers, they were calmed down, but clashed again on Monday.Cops said Ayub allegedly fired at Sagar and his family many times. Sagar, his father Majid, uncle Akhtar and aunty Sanjeeda were critically injured. All were rushed to hospital and the police were called. Soon Sagar succumbed to his injuries, while his family members were being treated. “The clash was the result of some personal revenge between the two families,” said Krishan Kumar, Nuh police spokesperson. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bloody-brawl-leaves-1-dead-12-hurt-in-nuh-250879
11-05-2021||Our Correspondent||RTI activist, two sons held for Rs 15-cr fraud in Gurugram||Gurugram, May 10An RTI activist and self-proclaimed whistleblower, Harinder Dhingra, and his two sons were arrested on Monday for committing a fraud of over Rs 15 crore.Harinder allegedly mortgaged the same property to several banks, took loans and never returned. A SIT has been formed for further investigation into the case.Karan Goel, ACP, DLF Phase 1 ACCUSED ALSO GRABBED A LANDProbe revealed that Harinder and his partner Ravindra Yadav took advantage of the RTI Act with the intention of pressuring banks, government staff or officers to make money. They also grabbed a land in the DLF area and Harinder was booked in 2017. His sons have been identified as Prashant Dhingra and Tarun Dhingra of Gurugram. Harinder’s wife Poonam Dhingra, his minor grandson Garv Dhingra and Prashant’s wife Tani Dhingra too are the key accused in the case.According to the police, a complaint was received on April 16 against Harinder, his wife and two sons that they had mortgaged their plot located in DLF Phase 1 in 2003 through their firm M/s Elegance Fabrics Private Limited. He mortgaged the same property to the OBC Bank through another firm named Tarun Exports and took a loan of around Rs 15 crore. The accused allegedly submitted false documents in the court and also transferred the same property in blood relation in the name of Tarun and Garv.An inquiry was conducted by a gazetted officer who found that Harinder and his wife Poonam jointly bought the plot in 2001. As per the record of the Indian Overseas Bank, Poonam and her son Prashant had taken a loan through their firm M/s Elegance Fabrics Private Limited on personal guarantee in 2003. After the loan got a non-performing asset (NPA) in a conspiracy with Prashant moved to court against his father-mother and claimed the plot. On November 27, 2006, as per the order of Lok Adalat, Prashant was declared the owner of the plot. In 2007, Tarun mortgaged the same property with the OBC Bank and got of loan of Rs 8 crore, while it was again classified as the NPA in 2008.When the bank issued a notice, Tarun’s son Garv moved a Gurugram court and also filed a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court for the cancellation of the Lok Adalat order. On February 8, 2016, the Gurugram court cancelled the Lok Adalat order and Harinder and Poonam got the ownership of the plot again. Soon after, they made a transfer deed in the name of Tarun, Garv and Prashant. During investigation, it was revealed that the family got Rs 15 crore loan from bank fraudulently.Following the inquiry report, an FIR has been registered against the Dhingra family under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120B, IPC, at DLF Phase 1 police station.“The Gurugram police have urged the public to inform them in case any person has any information or document against Harinder and his associates. We will take an action against them as per the law,” said Karan Goel, ACP, DLF.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rti-activist-two-sons-held-for-rs-15-cr-fraud-in-gurugram-250877
11-05-2021||---||Guards’ negligence to blame for Rewari jailbreak, says IG||Rewari, May 10Preliminary investigation by IG (Prisons) Jagjit Singh into the Fideri jailbreak case has found gross negligence on part of the security personnel deployed outside the barrack from where 13 Covid positive inmates escaped after cutting the lock of an iron grille late on Saturday night.Jagjit Singh, IG (Prisons)Cops weren’t present outside barrack Two constables were deployed outside the barrack and they were supposed to keep a close check on the inmates, but none of them was present there when the prisoners escaped.“Two constables were deployed outside the barrack and they were supposed to keep a close check on the inmates, but none of them was present there when the prisoners escaped. They were sitting on the other side on the premises. There was a two-layered security arrangement in the jail when the incident took place. The inmates cut the grille of the barrack with a saw. A part of the saw used in the crime has been recovered from the spot. After coming out of the barrack, they scaled a 12-foot wall,” Singh told The Tribune.He said the investigation was on to find how the saw reached the jail and any possible involvement of the jail officials in the incident.“The jail is under-construction and five barracks, having a total capacity of 750 inmates, have been constructed. It was turned into a Covid care centre to isolate prisoners and undertrials if they tested positive,” said Singh, adding that investigation would be completed soon and action would be taken against those found guilty in the case.Meanwhile, Rewari SP Abhishek Jorwal said raids had been conducted at the possible hideouts of the accused in Jaipur, Alwar and other places in the state.“The CCTV footage showed that the inmates escaped from the jail at around 3.15 am on Sunday. The outer wall of the jail is incomplete, while the police personnel were also deployed at the main entrance, but they escaped by scaling thewall,” said Jorwal, adding that no leads about escapees had yet been got, but efforts were on to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/guards-negligence-to-blame-for-rewari-jailbreak-says-ig-250878
11-05-2021||Ravinder Saini||Covid cremation norms being flouted in Rohtak||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 10With reports emerging that Covid patients dying in home isolation were being cremated without following due procedure, Deputy Commissioner Manoj Kumar today asked the municipal authorities to ensure strict adherence to the government protocol.Kumar, also the chairman of the District Disaster Management Authority, has ordered deployment of police personnel at crematoriums.The families of patients passing away in home quarantine are learnt to be conducting their last rites without informing the local administration. The factor is being blamed for the recent surge in cases in the city and other parts of the district. It could also have a link to the sharp rise in the number of cremations at non-Covid crematoriums in the city over the past fortnight. The administration has designated two crematoriums in the city for the last rites of Covid victims.Though health officials telephonically remain in touch with home isolated patients or their families, several cases are learnt to have come to the fore where the last rites were performed without informing the authorities.The Deputy Commissioner has ordered the Rohtak Municipal Commissioner and all Block Development and Panchayat Officers to ensure strict compliance with norms related to cremation of those succumbing to the virus.“It is apparent that over the past few days, the deaths of Covid patients who are in home isolation have been increasing and their families aren’t disposing of the bodies as per protocol. This may cause the virus to spread more rapidly,” read the DC’s order. The order also asked the officials to ensure the kin of the deceased informed nearby hospitals about the death.DSP Gorakh Pal Rana said police personnel had been deployed at crematoriums in view of the DC’s order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-cremation-norms-being-flouted-in-rohtak-250975
11-05-2021||---||Private schools must use NCERT books, orders Haryana Education Directorate||Ambala, May 10While parents have hailed a recent order issued by the Directorate, School Education, Haryana, asking private schools to ensure that only NCERT books are used, the private schools have decided to challenge the order in the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Ajay Gupta, President, Parents Welfare Association, AmbalaNexus between schools, publishersSeveral schools recommend particular books, available at selected shops, to students that are being sold at exorbitant rates due to the nexus between the school authorities and private publishers. We welcome the order issued by the directorate and it should be implemented strictly.Ajay Gupta, president, Parents Welfare Association, Ambala, said, “Several schools recommend particular books, available at selected shops, to students that are being sold at exorbitant rates due to the nexus between the school authorities and private publishers. We welcome the order issued by the directorate andit should be implemented strictly.”Saurabh Kapoor, president, Integrated Private School Welfare Society, said “It is unrealistic to recommend NCERT books only. Quality of the content and low availability of NCERT books are the prime reason behind the private schools using books of private publishers. The books are selected by the principals on the basis of their experience and the content is based on NCERT. The Education Department can’t force the schools to use NCERT books only. The schools should have the liberty to choose the books and maintain the quality of education.”Sudhir Kalra, Deputy District Education Officer, AmbalaComplaints against pvt institutionsThere used to be complaints against private schools as they recommend expensive books of private publishers.Kulbhushan Sharma, president, Federation of Private Schools’ Welfare Association, said, “The government can formulate any policy and fix the rates of books but it shouldn’t stop the schools from selecting good quality books. Moreover, the academic session has already started and the booksellers have already purchased the books. The orders have come too late. Implementation of such orders will cause heavy loss to them. The association has decided to approach the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the orders.”Deputy District Education Officer, Ambala, Sudhir Kalra said, “There used to be complaints against private schools as they recommend expensive books of private publishers. The government had last year made an amendment in rule 10 of the Haryana School Education Rules, 2003 as well in this context. As per the directions received, the private schools have to recommend NCERT books. The department will ask the private schools to comply with the orders strictly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/private-schools-must-use-ncert-books-orders-haryana-education-directorate-250880
11-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Ambulance service flagged off in Gurugram||Gurugram, May 10Union Minister Rao Inderjit Singh flagged free ambulance service started by Pawan Yadav, president, IMT Industrial Association, Manesar. The service was inaugurated on video-conferencing.“During the Covid crisis, such a service is most required. Such efforts inspire others when there are people who are charging hundred times extra there are others who lend a helping hand”, said Singh.Pawan Yadav in association with industrialists has been providing free oxygen refill.He told the Union Minister that they were ready to give financial support to build a big hospital in Manesar.He demanded that if the government made the land available, then the industrialist and nearby social workers would play their role in building the hospital. He also demanded that the pace of vaccination in rural areas be increased as the disease had even spread there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambulance-service-flagged-off-in-gurugram-250881
11-05-2021||Parveen Arora||Samaritans pitch in to strengthen health infrastructure in Karnal district||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, May 10To strengthen health infrastructure, which has been affected badly with the increasing number of Covid cases, several good Samaritans have come forward in the district.Among them are two brothers — Dr Chetan Sobti and Nitin Sobti — who run a pharmaceutical company. They have borne the cost of an oxygen generation plant, expected to be around Rs 50 lakh. They have extended their support of Rs 50 lakh to the district administration.“I attended a meeting of the district officials, chaired by ACS Devinder Singh, and observed the efforts being made by the authorities. I suggested ACS Singh and DC Nishant Kumar Yadav to establish a captive oxygen generation plant in the hospital which will be more cost effective in comparison to ferrying oxygen from faraway places. For the purpose, my brother and I decided to give Rs 50 lakh for the plant,” said Dr Chetan, a resident of Model Town, who is also a dental surgeon. “We will further be available for help of any kind for the society,” he added.DC Yadav said people were coming forward to strengthen health infrastructure of the district. Dr Chetan had also promised to provide the administration with oximeters.Besides, a peace committee, which was constituted during the Jat agitation, on Friday also extended an additional support of Rs 35 lakh to the district administration to purchase oxygen concentrators worth Rs 20 lakh and oxymeters worth Rs 15 lakh. Earlier, the committee had donated Rs 50 lakh for setting up an oxygen storage plant. So far, it has given Rs 85 lakh to the administration for the health sector.Apart from this, National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources director Dr RK Vijh and his wife Neelam Vijh, had extended support of a water cooler and a water purifier at the Covid cremation ground, where people from Delhi, UP, Karnal and other places perform last rites of the deceased. Mayor Renu Bala Gupta, social activist Brij Gupta, and other social activists such as Ramesh Midha and Ish Gulati are also providing firewood, ‘samagri’ and desi ghee free of cost for cremations. Besides, YK Gupta from The Karnal Liquors had extended a support of Rs 5 lakh to the district disaster management fund.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samaritans-pitch-in-to-strengthen-health-infrastructure-in-karnal-district-250886
11-05-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Hospital building lying idle in Faridabad village||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, May 10A four-storeyed building, built at a cost of Rs 1.25 crore in Chandawali village in the district and inaugurated four months ago, has been lying unused despite the fact that the authorities are trying to put all resources together to enhance the hospitalisation and treatment facilities for the Covid patients.Jaswant Singh, a localCould’ve been used for covid patientsThe building was built with the funds provided by the village panchayat, but the failure of the authorities concerned to use it to date amounts to the wastage of money and resources. The building could serve the purpose of treating patients when the Covid surge is at its peak.“Though the officials concerned had proposed to use it suitably for locals and residents of the region, the 32-room building is lying idle,’’ said Jaswant Singh, a local.“It was built with the funds provided by the village panchayat, but the failure of the authorities concerned to use it till date amounts to wastage of money and resources,” said Singh, adding that the building could serve the purpose of treating the patients, when the surge of Covid-19 had been at its peak.Questioning the delay, Anju Yadav a former sarpanch of the village, said the building, inaugurated by the local MP on January 17, it was meant to replace the old and dilapidated building to provide medical facilities under the extension programme of the AIIMS hospital. She said it was amazing that no one from either AIIMS or the Health Department had approached to use it for medicare facilities.She claimed that the present scenario was the fallout of the merger of the village panchayat with the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) in January this year, as any development work in the village would be carried out by the MCF, after the village body stood dissolved.Chandawali had been among the richest village panchayat with funds to the tune of Rs 60 crore in its account at the time it was merged with the MCF, it was revealed.Dr Harshal Salve, AIIMS extension, Ballabgarh, said while the sub-centre at Chandawali was already functional, the proposal for handing over the new building was yet to be received.Dr Randeep Singh Poonia, Civil Surgeon, said the issue had no connection with the Health Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hospital-building-lying-idle-in-faridabad-village-250874
11-05-2021||Parveen Arora||Shortage of vaccine hits jab drive in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, May 10The short supply of vaccines in the district has hampered the vaccination drive. So far, around 27 per cent of the eligible population has been vaccinated in the district. People are not getting their appointment for the vaccination reportedly owing to the shortage of vaccine.The district has around 16 lakh population, of them around 9.5 lakh are eligible (from the age group of 18 and above). Out of this, 2,64,390 persons of the district have got themselves vaccinated till today.As many as 1,19,647 persons got the first dose, while 44,743 persons got both the jabs, said the data of the Health Department. The number of men and women is almost the equal in vaccination as 1,13,518 male, 1,06,113 female and 16 transgender got vaccinated. Out of total eligible 9.5 lakh, around 3.5 lakh are from the age group of 45 and above, while around 6 lakh are of age group between 18 and 44. As far as the availability of the vaccine is concerned, there are around 300 doses of Covishield for the age group between 18 and 44, around 8,600 doses of Covishield for the age group above 44 and around 600 doses of Covaxin for the age group of above 44, said sources. On the other hand, people had to wait for long for the vaccination appointment. “I have been trying to get an appointment for the vaccination for the last four-days but cannot get an appointment as all slots are booked for the next week,” said Yogesh Kumar, a resident of the city.As per the authorities after the increase in the numbers of Covid patients, people are coming to get themselves vaccinated, whereas earlier, people were hesitant to get themselves vaccinated.“Earlier, we had to face challenge as people were reluctant to come forward, but after the starting of the second wave people are coming to vaccination centres voluntarily. We used to conduct 150 centres when we had sufficient supply of the vaccine, but now we are holding 40-50 session daily,” said Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon. “We have sent request for more vaccines and after the availability of sufficient vaccines we will increase the number of Covid sessions,” he added.Nishant Kumar Yadav, DC, also admitted that less availability of vaccine was one of the big challenges, but in the coming days they would have sufficient supply.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/shortage-of-vaccine-hits-jab-drive-in-karnal-250863
11-05-2021||---||Hospitals not displaying rates to be booked: Haryana Minister||Faridabad, May 10Announcing that FIR will be registered against those private hospitals which fail to display the treatment charges for Covid patients, State Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma said here on Monday that the government would take strict action against those who had been fleecing patients in the name of hospitalisation, medicines or related facilities.Claiming that the state government had already issued directions in this connection, Sharma said that the district level administration had been authorised to take proper action to deal with the complaints received in connection with overcharging either at hospitals or in the market regarding the availability of medicines or the items of daily use.Admitting that certain complaints had been received in which local residents have complained of fleecing by some private hospitals, he said legal action would be taken against such violations after a formal probe.He said the authorities — soon after the receipt of any complaint — would gather all the records of the hospital for the past five days and, if found guilty, would be taken to task with the registration of FIR under the provisions of the Essential Commodities Act and the National Disaster Management Act.A show-cause notice had been issued to two hospitals for overcharging from patients on Sunday.Stating that black marketing of the items of the daily use would not be allowed, he said the district officials have been directed to ensure display of the rate list of various items outside the shops and violation would attract legal action.Regarding the availability and supply of oxygen to Covid patients, he said the district has been allotted additional four metric tonnes of gas and there was no shortage at present. He said home delivery of the gas was being arranged in many localities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hospitals-not-displaying-rates-to-be-booked-haryana-minister-250867
11-05-2021||---||Scientist dies, daughter gets bail for cremation||Rohtak, May 10Dr Mahavir Singh Narwal, president of Haryana Vigyan Manch and the state chapter of the Bharat Gyan Vigyan Samiti, died at a local hospital on Sunday evening. He was battling Covid for two weeks.The agricultural scientist, who was associated with the CPM and People’s Science Movement, is survived by his daughter, Natasha, a people’s rights activist, and his son, Aakash.Narwal’s body could not be cremated today as Aakash is also down with Covid, while Natasha, who is lodged at Tihar Jail in Delhi, could not reach Rohtak despite being granted interim bail by the Delhi High Court.“It will take some time for Natasha to get released from jail and reach Rohtak. Hence, the cremation will now take place tomorrow,” said Narwal’s friend and veteran CPM leader Inderjit Singh.Natasha, who is a research scholar at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and had participated in the anti-CAA protests, had been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and arrested in May last in connection with north-east Delhi violence.She is also associated with Pinjra Tod, a collective of women students and alumni of colleges across Delhi that seeks to make regulations of hostels and paying-guest (PG) accommodations less restrictive for women students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/scientist-dies-daughter-gets-bail-for-cremation-250868
11-05-2021||---||100-bed Covid centre opens in Karnal||Karnal, May 10Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday — through video-conferencing — inaugurated a 100 oxygen-bedded Covid healthcare centre in a banquet hall in the city.Out of 100 beds, presently 70 beds have started functioning and of those, 60 have oxygen concentrators while the remaining beds have oxygen cylinder support.Two Samaritans of the city Jagdeep Singh Virk and Major RS Bhinder (retd) have contributed in the development of this centre with the help of the district administration.Both residents approached Deputy Commissioner, Nishant Kumar Yadav, and offered the banquet hall for Covid care. “I had the banquet hall and in this difficult hour, I and my friend Major Bhinder approached the DC and assured him of a well-furnished centre for Covid care. We got the work of bedding done. Wall mounted fans are there. We have also provided the furniture, chairs and also 4-5 staff members for assistance. The doctors, paramedical staff and oxygen facility have been arranged by the district administration,” said Virk, who is the husband of two-time Congress MLA Sumita Singh.“We are thankful to the district administration, which has considered our offer positively,” said Major Bhinder, adding that the facility could be expanded to around 150 beds if needed.Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia, Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav and other officials were present during this virtual inauguration. Khattar appreciated the efforts being made by the district administration.The CM asked officials to start Covid hospitals at the CHC level in the district in the next two days. He also gave approval to the planning of the district administration to contain the spread of Covid before the third wave.The CM also appreciated the model of the Karnal administration of roping in 200 MBBS students for teleconsultaton to home-isolated people and said that this model would be replicated across the state.Khalsa Aid extended support of 10 oxygen concentrator to this centre. MP Bhatia also extended support of 100 oxygen concentrators from MPLADS.The CM also inaugurated a 30-bed Covid hospital at Assandh sub-division level in Assandh. Khattar also launched Karnal resources locator web portal to assist the residents in getting information about ambulance, Covid hospital, pharmacy, vaccination centres, plasma donation and others, said DC Yadav.Khattar said that they have demanded from the Centre that oxygen quota of the state be raised to 400MT per day from the present quota of 282MT.He said that they have started registration for the door-to-door supply of oxygen cylinders and around 1,000 people have got themselves registered. The CM also directed the officials to focus on rural areas. He said that around 8,000 teams of different departments have started health check-up of people in rural areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/100-bed-covid-centre-opens-in-karnal-250869
11-05-2021||Sushil Manav||Transmission rate dips slightly in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 10With Haryana recording 1,01,009 new cases of coronavirus infection in a week that ended Sunday, the transmission rate of the virus has shown some dip — from 1.4, it has come down to 1.36 in seven days.The weekly number of cases is only 10 per cent higher than 90,569 new infections witnessed during the week from April 26 to May 2.This is sharp in contrast from 50 per cent or more weekly surge seen during the month of April.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family WelfareToo early to comment Though the transmission rate seems to have settled down, it would be too early to assume that the peak of the current wave is near. The trend is definitely towards stability, but I will like to wait for another week before I can comment whether the infection is plateauing or not.Transmission rate, also called or reproduction rate or scientifically known as R Naught value, is the rate at which A Covid-19 patient person was infecting other healthy persons.R Naught value of 1.36 means that a group of 1000 Covid-19 patients was infecting 1,360 healthy people.The transmission rate stood at 1 from January 31 till February 21 when it started surging, initially very slowly and then steeply during the month of April till it scaled an all-time high of 1.4 on May 2.Correspondingly, the weekly number of new cases which was 10,414 during the week (March 29 to April 4) surged to 18,748 during the next week (from April 5 to 11) and to 40,090 during week from April 12 to 18.The numbers surged further to 67,348 during week from April 19 to 25, and to 90569 next week (April 26 to May 2).Meanwhile the daily positivity rate in the state has also showed a little dip as it came down to 26.58 per cent on Sunday after once touching 27.68 per cent a day earlier.The cumulative positivity rate as on Sunday was 7.86, much above the critical positivity rate of 6 per cent.As against last week, when 11 out of 22 districts had a positivity rate above 6, now 15 districts have come under this category, known as red category.Faridabad has the highest cumulative positivity rate of 12.58 per cent, followed by Gurugram 11.67, Panipat 9.67, Sonepat 8.71, Hisar 8.49, Panchkula 8.46, Karnal 8.20 and Ambala 7.39 per cent.Fatehabad has cumulative positivity rate of 7.37 per cent, followed by Mahendragarh has 7.15, Jind 7.03. Rewari 6.96, Yamunanagar 6.33, Sirsa 6.14 and Kurukshetra has a cumulative positivity rate of 6.02.While only Charkhi Dadri and Nuh have the desirable positivity rate of less than 2 (1.83 per cent and 1.53 per cent, respectively), Bhiwani, Kaithal, Rohtak, Palwal and Jhajjar have positivity rate above the desirable limits and below the critical threshold.The active cases, meanwhile, stand at 1,16,867 in the state.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Haryana said that though the transmission rate seems to have settled down, it would be too early to assume that the peak of the current wave is near.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/transmission-rate-dips-slightly-in-haryana-250871
11-05-2021||Nitish Sharma||Limited passengers, Covid restrictions leave private bus owners high and dry in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, May 10Fewer passengers, rising fuel prices and Covid restrictions have left private bus operators high and dry in the district. There are 65 private buses of cooperative societies in the district and majority of them are currently off-road.Surender Raju Sharma, Private Bus OperatorUnable to recover cost of fuelWe are allowed to ply buses with 50 per cent of the capacity and under such circumstances, we are unable to even recover the cost of the fuel. A majority of the buses are off-road as it is not viable to operate with limited passengers.Surender Raju Sharma, a private bus operator in Ambala Cantonment, said, “We are allowed to ply buses with 50 per cent of the capacity and under such circumstances, we are unable to even recover the cost of fuel. Majority of the buses are off-road as it is not viable to operate with limited passengers. Private bus operators usually have instalments to pay and give salaries to drivers and conductors. There are at least two drivers and one conductor with every bus, who are employed for a salary of at least Rs 12,000 each. Besides, there are taxes and parking fees also which add to our burden. After investing so much money and with rising fuel prices, we are not even able to recover the cost of fuel.”Vivek Choudhary, another private bus operator in Ambala City, said, “We have been facing huge losses since last year. Not only the bus operators but also all other businesses are facing losses due to the Covid pandemic. Even when the lockdown was lifted, the number of passengers remained on the lower side due to the fear of virus. Initially, we reduced the number of trips but it was still not viable and then we had no other option but to keep the buses off-road and pay the salary, insurance and taxes without even plying the bus. Besides, we also don’t want to risk the lives of our drivers and conductors amid the ongoing second wave.”Haryana Sehkari Parivahan Committee Kalyan Sangh Ambala district president Ram Nath Rana said, “The restrictions on number of passengers have made bus operations unviable and the industry is struggling for its survival. We pay passenger tax worth Rs 12,000 per month, Rs 2,200 parking fees, and then there are instalments ranging from Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000 per month and other expenses. There is no rebate. The industry is going through a tough time and we don’t have much expectations from the government. We are just waiting for the situation to improve.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/limited-passengers-covid-restrictions-leave-private-bus-owners-high-and-dry-in-haryana-250887
11-05-2021||---||Yadavs seek door-to-door testing in Rewari villages||Rewari, May 10Former minister Capt Ajay Singh Yadav and his son Chiranjeev Rao, Congress MLA from Rewari, today interacted with Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar over the phone and demanded that he ensure door-to-door Covid testing in villages as the pandemic had hit the rural area where at least one member of every family had taken ill.“The government should launch a special campaign not only to collect Covid samples from every household but also to provide immediate medical treatment to those found suffering from the virus. The villagers should also be made aware of breaking the chain of infection,” said Chiranjeev, adding that people are also struggling to get vaccinated.He demanded that the CM set up a makeshift hospital equipped with adequate number of doctors, other supporting staff, oxygen, ventilators and medicines so that patients in Rewari could easily get treatment on time.Chiranjeev said the CM had assured him of taking necessary steps to redress the grievances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yadavs-seek-door-to-door-testing-in-rewari-villages-250888
11-05-2021||---||Gram panchayats to get Rs 50,000 Covid grant||Chandigarh, May 10The Haryana Government will release fund of up to Rs 50,000 for all gram panchayats to control the spread of coronavirus. Isolation wards will be set up in the villages through these funds and other necessary items associated with Covid treatment such as oximeters, steam machines, thermometers, blood pressure and monitoring machines will also be arranged so that the fight against the second wave of the pandemic could be fought firmly at the village level.Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala shared this information today after presiding over a meeting of officials of the Panchayat Department.In order to prevent the spread, 8,000 teams are being formed by the government to increase testing in the rural areas. To curb the infection in the rural areas, Chautala said the government would allocate funds of Rs 30,000 to the villages having a population of less than 10,000. For those with more than 10,000 population, Rs 50,000 would be allocated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gram-panchayats-to-get-rs-50-000-covid-grant-250889
11-05-2021||Rohtak||Jab at home for physically challenged in Rohtak district||The district Health authorities have decided to vaccinate the physically challenged residents at their homes.A voluntary social organisation, Ram Saran Dass Bhayana Memorial Trust, has been roped in to reach out to the physically challenged residents for the purpose.“The home inoculation service shall be done with prior appointment,” said Sumeet Bhayana, the founder of the Trust. Physically challenged residents may contact the Trust’s helpline numbers 01262-275500 and 7419809821, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jab-at-home-for-physically-challenged-in-rohtak-district-250882
11-05-2021||Hisar||Bhiwani man joins Assam cabinet||A businessman-turned-politician, hailing from Bhiwani’s Nakipur village, Ashok Singhal, has joined the newly formed BJP government in Assam as a cabinet minister.Singhal took oath along with the newly installed Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma today.Meanwhile, residents of his native village are overjoyed over the cabinet berth to Singhal, stating that they would invite him to visit the village.Villagers said Singhal’s father Parmanand Singhal had migrated to Assam from the village in 1960s and set up his business there.Later, Ashok Singhal joined politics in Assam and served an office-bearer of the BJP at various posts before he was allocated the party ticket in 2016 Assembly polls from the Dhekiajuli Assembly segment in Assam. Not only he won in 2016, but increased the margin of his victory in the recently held Assembly polls. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhiwani-man-joins-assam-cabinet-250885
11-05-2021||Rural areas of Haryana were safe from the first wave of corona||Covid spreads its tentacles in rural areas||Setting up of Oxygen plants in Gurugram a welcome stepIndeed, it is a matter of great pleasure and satisfaction that work on setting up six oxygen plants has started in Gurugram with active cooperation of the NHAI and will be completed within 15 days. Since, the whole country has suffered due to non-preparation for the second wave hence preparations should be made for the third wave. Subhash Taneja, GurugramFaridabad online portal a curse for tax payersSince the inception, Faridabad property tax portal online has been problematic for tax payers. Most common problem is the change of gender, which affects women as their 50 per cent tax rebate is not shown and the portal shows full tax. The women tax payer has to run from pillar to post to rectify this anomaly and the landline number of the IT cell is `always kept off the hook. The authorities must look in to the issue and solve it at the earliest. Dolly Moga, FaridabadStop issuing paper electricity bills to consumers, go digitalAs responsible citizens, it is our duty to stop causing further damage to our environment through injudicious use of paper. As such, keeping pace with the digital technology, the UHBVNL and DHBVNL should stop physical delivery of paper bills, instead, bills through SMS and e-mail should be introduced. Consumers should be intimated to update their contact information i.e., mobile numbers and e-mail IDs for bill payment through the online portal. Ramit Bagga, Panchkula||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-spreads-its-tentacles-in-rural-areas-250439
11-05-2021||Ambala||Mother's Day at Delhi Public School, Ambala||Special day for mothersKurukshetra: Greenfield Public School, Kurukshetra, celebrated Mother's Day with mothers of GPS family. Students from kindergarten to Class V enthusiastically participated in "Selfie with mother" contest. Students of Classes VI and VIII participated in an online elocution contest. They gave live presentation and explained their Mother's role in their lives. On this occasion, school chairman Roshan Lal Gupta, school director Varun Gupta congratulated the students.e-campus placement driveHisar: Sahil Verma, a student of BTech (IT) of 2021 batch of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology, Hisar, has been selected in the e-campus placement drive of Faridabad-based Gymtrainers organised by the training and placement cell of the university. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, and Prof Avnesh Verma, registrar of the university, congratulated the selected student. Pratap Singh, director, placement, said Gymtrainers was a freelancing marketplace platform of certified fitness trainers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mothers-day-at-delhi-public-school-ambala-250438
