12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: 67 held in 15 days for black marketing of oxygen cylinders, Remdesivir||The Haryana Police has over a fortnight arrested 67 people from across the state for alleged black marketing of oxygen cylinders and anti-viral Remdesivir injections, a top official said on Wednesday.Director General of Police Manoj Yadava also said police teams have conducted raids in different districts following inputs on helpline numbers and arrested those indulging in black-marketing of oxygen and Remdesivir which is in high demand for the treatment of the coronavirus."Since April 23, a total of 33 FIRs have been registered while 409 oxygen cylinders and 130 vials of Remdesivir were recovered from the arrested accused," the DGP said."As the demand for oxygen and life-saving drugs had gone up after a surge in COVID-19 cases, some unscrupulous people with an intention to make a quick buck started selling oxygen cylinders and medicines at inflated prices," he said.In these hard times, police teams were working tirelessly to stop the black-marketing of oxygen cylinders and drugs, the DGP said in a statement."People can inform the police about black-marketing of oxygen cylinders and Remdesivir by dialling 7087089947 and toll-free number 1800-180-1314," he added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-67-held-in-15-days-for-black-marketing-of-oxygen-cylinders-remdesivir-251859
12-05-2021||Karnal||98 jail inmates test COVID positive in Karnal jail||With 41 fresh cases of Covid-19 among jail inmates, the number of Covid positive has climbed to 98 in the last three days at the district jail here.Most of them are asymptomatic and have been traced during random sampling. All have been kept in the isolation ward set up within the jail premises, said Amit Bhado, jail superintendent.“After the directions of DGP (Jail), we conducted a random sampling in the jail premises. So far, 98 jail inmates have tested positive,” said the jail superintendent.Civil Surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma said that the health department has been tracking the source of infection among the jail inmates.He denied any angle of community transmission in the jail and said that it's too early to comment on any issue.“We are screening all the inmates and the staff members and treatment has been started for the infected inmates,” said the Civil Surgeon.He said that all precautionary measures are being taken to tackle the situation. A separate Covid-19 ward has already been developed inside the jail where the fresh inmates are kept for isolation.Ganga Ram Punia, SP Karnal, said that they have increased the security outside the jail premises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/98-jail-inmates-test-covid-positive-in-karnal-jail-251791
12-05-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Don’t make RT-PCR test a must for inter-state travelling||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Don’t make RT-PCR test a must for inter-state travellingOne of my close relatives wanted to go to Punjab and we checked the railway/road restrictions, including COVA (corona virus alert) App. It came to our notice that we needed to have RT-PCR negative report which should not be of more than 72 hours prior to the visit. Even Himachal Pradesh, Uttrakhand and many other states have put up this condition. In my opinion, this type of restrictions may not control Covid rather it would make the life of common man cumbersome. Despite of the cap on RT-PCR tests by the government, private laboratories are fleecing the general public. As we checked from the labs, we came to know that they were asking for Rs1,500 if we wanted the report the next day, else Rs 900 in which the report will be provided after three days. If this is the scenario, common man has to pay hefty amount. Dr MK Sehgal, YamunanagarEncroachments galore in Panchkula vacant parkAvacant park adjacent to Suncity, Parikrama, has some temporary houses and encroachment is increasing day by day. It is getting polluted day by day and smoke can be seen near those encroachments. The park has become a garbage dumping ground, parking for commercial vehicles, encroachments, axing of trees and danger to wildlife. I request the authorities to look into the issue and take action. Akhil and Mahesh, PanchkulaOpen parks for morning walkers in PanchkulaResentment prevails among city morning walkers over the closing of parks for morning walkers. Health conscious morning walkers feel they develop immunity by doing exercises and going for a walk. The Panchkula authorities should allow them on the pattern of Chandigarh i.e. the parks should remain open from 5 am to 8 am. They are ready to follow the Covid protocol. The authorities should look into this and allow them to use parks for morning walk. Vidya Sagar, Panchkula||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dont-make-rt-pcr-test-a-must-for-inter-state-travelling-251425
12-05-2021||Faridabad||Webinar on 'Media Ki Baat Aapke Sath'||Online sports guest lectureKarnal: Pratap Public School, Jarnailly Colony, organised an online guest lecture. The session on 'Role of sports in personality development' was conducted by Arnika Patil, an instructor and coach. The speaker interacted online with students. She spoke at length about the importance of sports in personality development. She informed the students how sports honed even the lousiest of persons into sharp and perceptive personalities. She responded to a wide variety of queries ranging from being a role model to others, how to maintain a balance between academics & sports, healthy diet, stress, focus and sports as a career.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/webinar-on-media-ki-baat-aapke-sath-251427
12-05-2021||---||14-year-old girl reunited with kin after 5 years in Karnal||Karnal, May 11A 14-year-old girl from Jharkhand has been reunited with her family members after five years with the help of members of the Karnal Child Welfare Committee (CWC). She hails from Jharkhand’s Latehar district.Umesh Chanana, chairman of the CWC, said the girl came to Karnal in 2016 along with her uncle, who fled after forcing her into child labour. She was rescued from the child labour and was living in an orphanage in the city.“During her counselling, she told us about her parents. We managed to trace her parents with the help of the local police,” Chanana added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/14-year-old-girl-reunited-with-kin-after-5-years-in-karnal-251428
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Land registration to continue amid lockdown: Haryana Govt||The Haryana Government has instructed all deputy commissioners to continue the work of the registration of deeds in tehsils while adhering to various SOPs at regular intervals.An official spokesperson said the letter issued to the DCs said stated that the registration of deeds in the tehsils should not be discontinued.He said during the review of deeds and stamp duty collected in the first week of April and May, 2021, it has been found that the work of the registration of deeds had been stopped in some tehsils. In addition, complaints are also being received from residents of various districts about the non-availability of employees and sub-registrars in tehsils.He said therefore, all DCs would have to ensure that all tehsils remain functional and the registration work was not affected due to the non-availability of employees. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/land-registration-to-continue-amid-lockdown-haryana-govt-251429
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Mamta Singh is Karnal Range IG||The state has posted 1996 batch IPS officer Mamta Singh as the IG of the Karnal Range on her return from the Central deputation. She replaces Bharati Arora.Meanwhile, another IPS officer Pankaj Nain, currently posted as the OSD, ‘Khelo India’, in the Sports and Youth Affairs Department, has been posted as Director (Sports and Youth Affairs). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mamta-singh-is-karnal-range-ig-251426
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||50,000 wheat growers to get dues by today, says Dushyant Chautala||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala has issued orders to transfer the payments in farmers’ bank accounts on account of wheat procurement with immediate effect whose payments have not been transferred due to various reasons.He said this after presiding over a meeting with senior officers of the Food and Supplies Department and Hafed today.He added that around 56,000 farmers were yet to receive dues, of which payment in 50,000 accounts would be made by Wednesday.Chautala said about 12,000 accounts were being investigated for which correct information was being obtained post contacting the farmers. Besides, there were more than 16,000 farmers who had not uploaded their account information correctly. Such farmers will be asked to correct their online records in a week so that payments could be initiated. He said the officers had been directed to complete the wheat procurement work by May 15. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/50-000-wheat-growers-to-get-dues-by-today-says-dushyant-chautala-251418
12-05-2021||Saurabh Malik||Decade on, Punjab and Haryana High Court comes to rescue of canal guards||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 11The Punjab and Haryana High Court had made it clear that the state cannot be permitted to dispense with the services of its employees who are not at fault.The assertion by Justice Anil Kshetarpal came in a case where the services of the canal guards were being dispensed with after putting in more than a decade.The matter was brought to the HC notice after Ramesh Kumar and other petitioners filed writ petitions against the state and other respondents. Justice Kshetarpal’s Bench was told that the petitioners, on being selected under the general category, were appointed in January 2009. But theselection was embroiled in litigation as “the authorities committed irregularities”.The court, vide order dated September 8, 2010, permitted the authorities to take appropriate steps for the removal of the illegalities/irregularities. When the officials were about to complete the exercise, another candidate filed a civil writ petition. His contention was that the candidates, who had applied under the “BCA category” and had secured higher marks, were liable to be considered for selection under the general category in view of the government instructions.The writ petition was allowed, following which the petitioners were served a show-cause notice. After granting personal hearing, their services were dispensed with, vide order dated November 16, 2019. But the Court granted interim protection to the petitioners and they continued in the service.Justice Kshetarpal, during the hearing, took note of the respondents’ stand that the cadre of canal guards had been declared “diminishing cadre” and the posts stood converted to that of “beldar”.Justice Kshetarpal asserted that the appropriateness of permitting the state to dispense with the services of the petitioners after more than a decade, particularly when they were not at fault, was the question for consideration.“The irregularity in the selection was on part of the authorities/officials…. These writ petitions were filed by five individuals, out of which a petitioner recently died…. The courts after recognising the consequences of uprooting the petitioners (in other matters) have declared that after such a long passage of time, it would not be appropriate to throw them out of service.”Allowing the writ petitions, Justice Kshetarpal made it clear that the petitioners would be permitted to continue in service. “However, it is left to the government to adjust them by creating supernumerary post or otherwise,” the Bench concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/decade-on-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-comes-to-rescue-of-canal-guards-251419
12-05-2021||---||Retired bank employee, wife found murdered in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, May 11A retired bank employee and his wife have been found murdered in Jagadhri town of Yamunanagar district.The deceased have been identified as Rishipal Goyal (80) and his wife Sneh Lata (75) of Gaumati Gali near the old grain market of Jagadhri.PoliceMotive unclearIt is not clear yet why the couple has been murdered because no jewellery and other household items are missing from the house. A case was registered against unidentified persons under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC yesterday on the complaint of Amit Goyal, son of the deceased, of Bhattanwali village in Paonta Sahib, HP.The complainant told the police that his parents lived alone in Jagadhri. He said he called his parents around 11 am on Monday to know about their health, but their phone was switched off.He said then he sent his nephew Vivek Goyal, who lives in Jagadhri, to his parents’ house. “Vivek told us that the house door was open and the bodies were found on two beds. My mother had a head injury,” said Amit.After getting the information about the crime, the police visited the spot. The police said it was not clear yet why the couple was murdered as no jewellery and other household items were missing from the house.Suresh Kumar Sharma, SHO, city police station, Jagadhri, said the bodies were handed over to their family after postmortem examination on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/retired-bank-employee-wife-found-murdered-in-yamunanagar-251412
12-05-2021||Gurugram||Scribe nabbed for aiding RTI activist in land grab case in Gurugram||An English daily journalist has been nabbed for allegedly aiding RTI activist Harinder Dhingra in grabbing land and blackmailing people, especially officers, by doing planted news stories. Two fake stamps of Haryana Urban Development Authority (HSVP), a mobile and a laptop have been seized from his possession.Rs 15-crore fraudDhingra has been sent to judicial custody, while his sons have been taken on six-day police remand. His wife, daughter-in-law and minor grandson are absconding.The arrested journalist has been identified as Mohammad Shahnawaz Alam, a native of Dhanbad, Jharkhand. The police said Shahnawaz forged documents of plots and pressurised government officials.“The arrested journalist was working as a partner with Dhingra for the past few years and he revealed during interrogation that he had provided fake stamps of the tehsildar of HSVP to make fake documents. Dhingra also used him to plant news in various media and blackmail officials. He had taken cash in return for the same and also got money transferred to his account,” said Dharmbir Singh, ACP, crime-2.The police have recovered audio recordings from his and Dhingra’s phones that have brought at least three journalists of leading dailies under scanner, say sources.Dhingra and his sons Prashant and Tarun Dhingra were arrested yesterday for alleged fraud of over Rs 15 crore. He allegedly mortgaged same property to many banks and took loans and never returned.After the RTI activist’s arrest, banquet hall operator Sanjeev Kumar of Sector 4 filed a complaint against Dhingra, claiming that he had demanded Rs 50 lakh and taken Rs 5 lakh from him. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/scribe-nabbed-for-aiding-rti-activist-in-land-grab-case-in-gurugram-251414
12-05-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Gangster’s henchmen nabbed for running extortion racket in Gurugram||Gurugram, May 11The Gurugram police have busted a major extortion racket being run in the local vegetable wholesale market allegedly by henchmen of now jailed gangster Kaushal. They were reportedly not only taking “protection money” from them, but also forcing traders to get their vegetables from Delhi using their vehicles at thrice the rate.‘Harassed vegetable traders’The crime unit team has nabbed Rahul alias Billa and Rahul Soni alias Sadhu, while the main accused identified as Sunil alias Bandar, is still at large.A country-made pistol has been recovered from their possession. According to the police, fruit vendor Taalim Khan, a native of Nuh district, filed a police complaint that in April, three men allegedly threatened to kill him and demanded extortion money on monthly basis.“They came again on Saturday and identified them as Sadhu and Bandar. They claimed that they are henchmen of gangster Kaushal and I must give them Rs 2,000 weekly, but when I denied they held me at gunpoint and threatened to kill me if I did not pay them in two days,” Taalim told the police.Following the complaint, an FIR was registered against the accused under Sections 387 (extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of the IPC and Sections 25-54-59 of the Arms Act.The crime unit nabbed the three and is conducting raids to nab Sunil. After the arrest, it was revealed that some cops were sheltering accused Sunil.Sources said the vehicle of the accused was seized by a crime unit team, but it was released soon after a high-rank police officer approached them. A senior police officer confirmed that the same was reported, but they were verifying the facts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gangsters-henchmen-nabbed-for-running-extortion-racket-in-gurugram-251402
12-05-2021||New Delhi/Jhajjar||National Commission for Women notice to farm leaders||The National Commission for Women (NCW) has issued notices to Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Yogendra Yadav and Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Ekta Ugrahan chief Joginder Singh Ugrahan over the reports of sexual assault on a 26-year-old woman activist at the Tikri border protest site, the women rights panel said on Tuesday.It is being alleged that Yadav and other SKM protesters were aware of the assault, but didn’t inform the police. The NCW has sent a notice to Yadav, seeking an explanation for the delay in informing the police about the incident.“The NCW has also sought an explanation from Joginder Singh Ugrahan on the said matter and told him to inform it as to what steps have been taken to ensure safety and security of women associated with the agitation. The reply has to be communicated to the NCW within 10 days,” the Commission said.The SKM had on Sunday said that it had zero tolerance towards violence against women amidst reports that the woman activist from West Bengal was sexually assaulted on her way to join the farmers protest and later at Tikri border by some persons posing to be “Kisan Social Army” members.It said it would probe the allegations that some of its leaders were aware of the reported sexual assault of a woman activist at the Tikri border protest site, who later died due to Covid-19 at a private hospital in Haryana.Meanwhile, sources said the SIT formed to probe the Tikri sexual assault had issued notices of appearance to 3-4 other persons in connection with the case while a police team carried out a search operation at Tikri to arrest Anoop Singh, who in a video uploaded by him on his Facebook account on Monday, claimed that he was still at the border and would not go back till the farmers’ agitation continues. The police could not trace him.In the video, Anoop also disclosed that a panchayat of farm leaders from Haryana was held at Tikri on May 6 in connection with the case and it came to the fore that incident of molestation happened in the train but there was no truth in the allegations of rape. “I am innocent and being implicated in a false case,” he said, adding that Anil was expelled from Kisan Social Army when he learnt about the molestation.DSP Pawan Kumar, who is heading the SIT, said three teams had been constituted to arrest two main accused while Yogita, a co-accused, disclosed that she returned to Tikri from West Bengal on April 7 and other team members along with the victim came after April 10. — PTI/TNSDelay in info on Tikri Sexual assaultIt is being alleged that Yogendra Yadav and other SKM protesters were aware of the assault, but didn't inform the police. The NCW has sent a notice to Yadav, seeking an explanation for the delay in informing the police. It has also sought a reply from BKU Ekta Ugrahan chief Joginder Ugrahan on the matter and inform the NCW as to what steps have been taken to ensure the safety and security of women protesters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/national-commission-for-women-notice-to-farm-leaders-251411
12-05-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Municipal Corporation to buy 100 garbage tricycle rickshaws in Yamunanagar, Jagadhri||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, May 11With a purpose to strengthen the sanitation system in twin towns, Yamunanagar and Jagadhri, the Municipal Corporation has decided to buy 100 garbage tricycle rickshaws.The MC authorities recently invited tenders to purchase these garbage tricycle rickshaws with a partition for dry and wet waste. According to normal practice,sweepers clean the roads and streets in colonies and accumulate the garbage at different places.Another team comes later to lift those piles. But before the teams come, stray dogs, cattle and pigs convert the piles into litter again.“We have decided to provide garbage tricycle rickshaws to sanitation workers in all 22 wards of the twin towns. After cleaning the roads and streets, the garbage will not be piled up alongside the roads or streets; instead the garbage will be dumped into rickshaws immediately after cleaning work,” said Madan Chauhan, Mayor, Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri.He said in the first phase, they had decided to purchase 100 garbage tricycle rickshaws for all 22 wards of the Municipal Corporation.“If needed, more garbage tricycle rickshaws will be purchased in the second phase,” added Madan Chauhan.He further said they had recently invited tenders to purchase these garbage rickshaws. “We are making all efforts to make twin towns Yamunanagar-Jagadhri and villages falling under jurisdiction of the Municipal Corporation beautiful and garbage free,” said Madan Chauhan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/municipal-corporation-to-buy-100-garbage-tricycle-rickshaws-in-yamunanagar-jagadhri-251399
12-05-2021||Nitish Sharma||IT experts, economists to help control Covid spread in Ambala||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, May 11The district administration has decided to rope in a group of computer scientists and economists who have offered pro-bono data analysis and data-backed predictions to mitigate the Covid-19 situation at the ground level in Ambala.Utsav Shah, Chief Minister’s Good Governance Associate Members to be from IITs, IIMs, OxfordThe group includes members who are alumni of premier institutes of the country such as IITs and IIMs, and are also graduates from renowned institutions like Harvard, MIT, Oxford, among many others. We approached them and they have offered to provide their service free of cost.As per information, a Delhi-based group, called ‘Data Fight Covid 19’, of young computer scientists and economists will use machine learning algorithmic interventions to predict the Covi-19 cases, oxygen demand for Covid patients under hospitalisation and efficient bed allocation to needy patients.An official said the administration was exploring interventions with the group’s support to design mechanisms for notifying and denotifying micro and macro containment zones based on an advance machine-learning technique. It is looking to interlink the number of beds occupied with oxygen support, with the hospital’s daily requirement of oxygen with a view to rationalise the increasing demand and restricted supply of oxygen.Chief Minister’s Good Governance Associate Utsav Shah, who is playing a key role in this project, said “We are looking to work with a group called ‘Data Fight Covid19’, consisting of a bunch of young computer scientists and economists. The group includes members who are alumni of premier institutes of the country such as IITs and IIMs, and are also graduates from renowned institutions like Harvard, MIT, Oxford, among many others. We approached them and they have offered to provide their service free of cost.”“The district will share the data regarding the patients, areas from where a large number of patients are being reported and facilities available with the group and then they will provide us their findings, and prediction-based models. It will help the administration in understanding the reason behind the spread of the infection in different areas, and also help us in making adequate arrangements for the coming days”, he added.SDM, Ambala City, Sachin Gupta said “The idea is to introduce technology. It will help us in predicting the coming hotspots. Online meetings have been held with the team and we have apprised them of the requirements. They will use the data, analyse the trend and will help the administration in forming the strategy in notifying and de-notifying the macro and micro containment zones. Besides this, it will also help us in ensuring judicious use of oxygen in hospitals.”To predict oxygen demand, bed allocationA Delhi-based group, called ‘Data Fight Covid 19’, of young computer scientists and economists will use machine learning algorithmic interventions to predict the Covi-19 cases, oxygen demand for patients under hospitalisation and efficient bed allocation to needy patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/it-experts-economists-to-help-control-covid-spread-in-ambala-251400
12-05-2021||Parveen Arora||Post infection, 16 cops back on duty in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, May 11The second wave of Covid-19 has not only affected the common people, but also the frontline warriors, including police personnel, who have been out on the roads 24x7 to enforce the lockdown. As many as 54 police personnel of the district got infected in April and May.Balraj Singh, posted with highway pilotWanted to join course so I got myself testedI wanted to join Dial 112 course, so I got myself tested. My report came positive even though I had no symptoms. After beating the coronavirus, 16 police personnel, who got infected with the virus, have now resumed their duty. Their passion and dedication towards duty is similar as it was before being infected. They appealed people not to be afraid, but to fight against the dreaded disease. They urged people to follow SOPs such as maintaining distance, wearing masks, and social distancing.“After developing symptoms, I got myself tested and my report came as positive on April 27. I got myself quarantined and took medicines advised by doctors. I never gave up and my positive thoughts encouraged me to recover from this disease. I urge people to remain positive if they get infected,” said Lalit Kumar, SHO, Butana, who has been sent to Panchkula on dial 112 service. “I have joined my new assignment and I have no health-related issue so far,” said Lalit.Similarly, 53-year-old Balraj Singh, posted with highway pilot, said for the Dial 112 course, the RT-PCR negative report was mandatory. “I wanted to join this course, so I got myself tested and my report came positive even though I had no symptoms,” said Balraj, adding that he has resumed duty. He asked people to keep their spirit high.Jasbir Singh, posted at Sector-4 PCR, said he was infected with the virus while discharging duty on April 16, and he resumed duty on May 3. “The panic among people is at its peak due to the increasing number and deaths, but I want to say we should keep patience and follow the medicine chart and social distancing,” he said.Kuldeep Singh, driver of the Taraori SHO, said he resumed duty today and now he had no health-related issue. “I urge people to maintain social distancing and wear mask to save themselves from the dreaded virus,” he said.Congratulating the cops who have defeated the virus, Ganga Ram Punia, Superintendent of Police, said 54 police personnel got infected with the virus, of them 1 died of Covid, while 16 police personnel have joined duty. The remaining cops are all set to resume their duty in couple of days. “I congratulate all police personnel who have been working round the clock to enforce law and order and helping people to abide by the guidelines of the lockdown,” said the SP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/post-infection-16-cops-back-on-duty-in-karnal-251401
12-05-2021||Rohtak||Rohtak residents turn to havan to cleanse air of coronavirus||Even as medical scientists devise ways and means to combat Covid-19, residents of the region are turning to the age-old practice of havan to eliminate the dreaded coronavirus and purify the atmosphere.Havans are being performed in numerous villages of Haryana to ward off the disease-causing micro-organisms. After performing the havan, the vessels containing the burning havan-samagri are passed through the villages on tractor-trailers to cleanse the environment.“Community havans have been going on in the villages with participation of the residents. Now, we are organising havans in the urban areas as well,” says Rampal Arya, the president of Arya Pratinidhi Sabha, Haryana. He asserts that havan is a scientific method to eliminate the disease-causing micro-organisms in the environment and can eradicate coronavirus as well. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-residents-turn-to-havan-to-cleanse-air-of-coronavirus-251403
12-05-2021||Chandigarh||Tocilizumab, remdesivir as donation from MNC pharmas||Haryana has received 1,440 injections of tocilizumab and 2,180 of remdesivir from the Centre as donations from pharma companies manufacturing these items.Nearly 50,000 injections of tocilizumab have been received as donation from Roche Pharmaceuticals, a US-based multinational company, while Gilead Sciences, another US-based multinational firm, has donated over 78,000 injections of remdesivir, according to a letter by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. A senior doctor associated with the allocation of tocilizumab injections in the state said the injections were likely to reach Haryana by tomorrow. Among other states in the region, Punjab has got 1,390 injections of remdesivir and 910 injections of tocilizumab, Himachal Pradesh will get 610 injections of remdesivir and 400 of tocilizumab, Jammu and Kashmir 920 injections of remdesivir and 600 of tocilizumab and Chandigarh has got 160 injections of remdesivir and 100 of tocilizumab. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tocilizumab-remdesivir-as-donation-from-mnc-pharmas-251430
12-05-2021||Faridabad||100-bed hospital opens in Faridabad||A 100-bed Covid hospital became functional at Chhainsa village in the district on Tuesday morning after its formal inauguration.The announcement to start this hospital had been made by the Haryana CM on April 26. The hospital will be able to admit Covid patients requiring oxygen support.The hospital building, located about 20 km from the district headquarters, had been lying idle since 2015 when it was closed down by its management (private) due to financial crisis.While it was taken over by the state government last year, the authorities decided to use it as Covid treatment facility last month. However, the hospital will be run by doctors and staff of the Western Command of the Indian Army.Stating that the move was a part of ‘Operation Namaste’, Lt Gen Manjinder Singh, COS, Western Command, said that a team of Indian Army doctors and paramedics would handle the treatment of patients here. Local MP and Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment, who was chief guest at the inauguration, thanked the Indian Army and expressed his gratitude for providing services in this crisis.Maj Gen Sanjay Hooda, GOC, Nine Infantry Division, Moolchand Sharma, Minister of Transport, Haryana, Narender Gupta, MLA, Faridabad, and Seema Trikha, MLA, Badkhal, were among those present.Revealing that admission of patients here would be done after reference by Civil Hospital Faridabad, DC Yashpal Yadav said that all help and logistic support would be provided to the Army team for smooth operation. He said while 30 ventilator beds have been provided, around 700 gas cylinders have been made available. The Army has deputed a team consisting of 10 doctors and support staff consisting of nursing attendants and other employees.This hospital will also be able to refer critical patients to the ESIC hospital, it is claimed. — TNS200 Roadways buses now ambulances||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/100-bed-hospital-opens-in-faridabad-251416
12-05-2021||Sushil Manav||Now, food department to manage Oxygen supply in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 11With the black marketing and hoarding of Covid-related drugs rampant, the government has relieved the drug control officers from the management and distribution of medical oxygen and handed over the work to the Food and Supplies Department officials.Anurag Rastogi, ACS, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumers AffairsTO MEET HIGH DEMANDThere is a huge demand of oxygen cylinders for patients in home isolation. These plants need to be monitored for timely oxygen supply to patients. Therefore, the government has decided that the food department should monitor this task.Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Food, Civil Supplies and Consumers Affairs, Anurag Rastogi has written to the District Food and Supplies Controllers to station three Inspectors or Sub-Inspectors at bottling plants in their respective areas for maintaining the record of the quantity of oxygen received by the units through tankers and the number and size of cylinders filled by it.“There are about two dozen oxygen cylinder bottling plants in the state. Due to the Covid spread, there is a huge demand of oxygen cylinders for patients in home isolation. The monitoring of such plants is of utmost importance for the timely supply of oxygen to such patients. The government has, therefore, decided that the department should accordingly monitor this task,” the ACS said in his letter.On April 24, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, Rajeev Arora had assigned duties to all drug control officers and senior drug control officers in all 22 districts of the state for the management and distribution of medical oxygen in the state.“When drug control officers were busy managing the distribution of oxygen, there was no enforcement of drug laws, leading to black marketing and hoarding. It was left to the police to check these activities, as our officers were busy in managing the medical oxygen,” said a senior officer in the Haryana Food and Drug Administration.Till May 1, the Haryana Police had arrested 33 persons for the black marketing of Remdesivir injections by lodging 13 FIRs against them in eight different districts after the recovery of 101 vials from their possession. Besides, the police had unearthed the sale of fake Remdesivir injections at Karnal, Ambala, Yamunanagar and in some other districts last week.“Our officers have not been trained to check the sale of spurious drugs and are not equipped to handle such a crisis or data management,” the officer added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-food-department-to-manage-oxygen-supply-in-haryana-251405
12-05-2021||---||33 empty Oxygen cylinders seized in Ambala||Ambala, May 11The district administration seized 33 empty oxygen cylinders from a factory and handed over them to the health department for utilisation in Ambala on Tuesday.Deputy Commissioner Ashok Sharma and other senior officials found the cylinders in the Mahesh Nagar area while inspecting the macro and micro containment zones in Boh and Babyal villages. The factory representative failed to give any satisfactory reply, following which the DC directed officials to seize the cylinders. He also directed the officials to initiate appropriate action in this matter.Sharma said, “We appeal to all factory owners and other institutions to hand over their oxygen cylinders to the administration so that the same could be used in providing relief to Covid patients.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/33-empty-oxygen-cylinders-seized-in-ambala-251406
12-05-2021||Karnal||LPG crematoriums set up in Assandh||To contain the Covid spread, the Urban Local Bodies Department has started Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG)-based crematoriums in Assandh and Taraori, said Vikram Kumar, Karnal Municipal Corporation Commissioner. Earlier, the Gharaunda crematorium had the similar facility.The MC Commissioner said the machines equipped with the LPG furnaces had been installed in Taraori and Assandh. “The Urban Local Bodies Department had allotted the tender, through which the machines are being installed,” he said, adding that in the crematorium that uses LPG, the body was placed directly into the furnace fuelled by the gas, thus reducing direct contact. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lpg-crematoriums-set-up-in-assandh-251407
12-05-2021||---||Haryana CM to officials: Set up isolation centres in villages||Chandigarh, May 11Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, while taking cognisance of the surge in Covid cases in rural areas, has directed the officers concerned to set up isolation centres in villages that come in the hot-spot category by May 15. He also directed that medical investigation in these villages should be started at the earliest. He said this while presiding over a special meeting held here today with high-level officials for discussing the Covid situation in the state.He said the medical, paramedical and ASHA workers etc should be deputed on 24x7 duty in these centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-to-officials-set-up-isolation-centres-in-villages-251408
12-05-2021||---||30-bed Oxygen equipped centre opens in Karnal||Karnal, May 11After opening a 100-bedded Covid care centre at a banquet hall, the district authorities have started a 30-bedded oxygen cylinders-equipped Covid health care resource support centre at Nirankari Bhawan here.This was stated here today by Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, who visited the centre with Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia.Yadav thanked the management of the Nirankari Bhawan for the initiative taken by them.He said the GM Roadways, Kuldeep Singh, had been assigned the duty as nodal officer for the centre, while the Health Department had deployed doctors and paramedical staff here.Subhash Saluja, regional convener of Nirankari Bhawan, said they had deployed volunteers to ensure the smooth supply of water, electricity and also ensure cleanliness at the place. He said a waiting hall had also been built for the attendants.Meanwhile, a day after the directions of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to set up Covid hospitals at the community health centre (CHC) level, the district administration on Tuesday started two Covid hospitals — one having 20 beds at Indri CHC and another with 15 beds at Kunjpura CHC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/30-bed-oxygen-equipped-centre-opens-in-karnal-251409
12-05-2021||---||No oxygen crunch in state: Haryana CM||Chandigarh, May 11Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday virtually inaugurated a 150-bed Covid facility at Baba Tara Charitable Hospital and Research Centre in Sirsa.Beds with ventilators have also been installed along with the facility of oxygen.After the inauguration, Khattar said now there was no shortage of oxygen in Haryana. The state quota has increased from 152 MT to 282 MT. Besides this, the demand for getting additional oxygen quota had also been made to the Central government, he added.He said to date, the Covid infection was limited to urban areas but the virus had now started spreading in rural areas too. Therefore, everyone has to remain vigilant.Teams have been constituted to conduct door-to-door investigation in villages and every department was cooperating for this purpose, the CM said. The CM said ‘theekri pehras’ should be imposed in villages to curb the virus spread.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-oxygen-crunch-in-state-haryana-cm-251410
