13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt to bear PMJJBY premium for BPL families: Khattar||Amid the grim COVID-19 situation in the country, the Haryana government on Thursday decided to pay the premium of a life insurance policy in the name of the prime minister, entitling a below-poverty-line person’s nominee to Rs 2 lakh.Chief Minister ML Khattar said the state government has decided to bear the premium amount to be paid under the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) for the BPL families.Those who are yet to fill up the form under the Yojana can go to the bank to fill the form and get the benefit, he said.Forms of this scheme can be filled till May 31, said Khattar.The poor families who have lost their members, many of them young and earning ones, during the second wave of COVID-19 and for some reason could not fill the form for the Yojana, will also be given a benefit of Rs 2 lakh by the state government, an official statement said.“For the beneficiaries of the Yojana, as soon as the instalment premium of Rs 330 is deducted from the Jandhan account of the holder, the amount of premium will be deposited in the account by the state government,” the statement said.The scheme is for people between ages 18 to 50 years with an annual premium of Rs 330.“For the eligible BPL families, the premium of this scheme will be deposited in their account every year in future also. Under this scheme, the family gets an insurance benefit of Rs 2 lakh on the death of an eligible person due to any reason,” the chief minister said in the statement.He said the great pain is caused by the loss of a loved one.“Many families are not able to cope with the loss. Since many poor families lose a breadwinner at a young age, a crisis arises for that family. This scheme will be helpful for such families,” he told reporters.He said even before this, the Haryana government was running several schemes of financial assistance for BPL families during the Covid pandemic. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-to-bear-pmjjby-premium-for-bpl-families-khattar-252384
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19: Haryana records 163 fatalities, 12,286 fresh cases||Haryana on Thursday reported 163 COVID-19 related deaths taking the cumulative toll to 6,238 while 12,286 fresh infections pushed the total case count to 6,65,028.According to the health department’s daily bulletin, the latest deaths include 17 each from Gurugram and Rohtak, 15 from Karnal, 14 from Hisar and 12 from Bhiwani.Among the districts which continued to report a big spike in cases include Gurugram (2,159), Sirsa (1,350), Faridabad (1,091) and Hisar (1,166).The number of total active cases in the state was 1,03,140 while the total recoveries so far were 5,55,650.The cumulative positivity rate was 8.24 per cent and the recovery rate was 83.55 per cent. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-haryana-records-163-fatalities-12-286-fresh-cases-252383
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Suspend stir, it's spreading COVID to villages: Khattar to farmers||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday urged farmers to suspend their stir against farm laws amid the grim Covid-19 situation, claiming that their movements to and from dharna sites were spreading the infection in villages.Khattar said farmers may resume their agitation later if they wish, but they must stop it as of now.“If they wish to restart these dharnas once the situation is under control, they are free to do so,” Khattar told a news conference digitally.He said he had appealed to farmers' leaders even a month earlier to suspend their dharnas so that the disease does not spread.Referring to farmers' movement to and from dharna sites, Khattar said, “What is coming to the fore now is that because of these dharnas, this (infection) has spread.” “In many villages, hotspots have emerged because their people are regularly coming and going back from dharna sites,” the chief minister added.Farmers have not only been sitting in protest near the Singhu and Tikri borders but in many other parts of Haryana too.“Their leaders should understand the situation even now. They keep ranting that they will take the vaccine but will not get themselves tested. If they do not get tested, one doesn't know who might have been impacted by COVID,” said Khattar.“They should come forward to be tested so that those found positive can be treated and other necessary measures can be taken accordingly,” he added.Referring to protesting farmers' reluctance to be tested for the infection, the chief minister said “everyone should have faith in the health and medical system. If we start doubting it, it displays our narrow mindedness. So, I appeal to farmers sitting on dharnas to get their tests done”.Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, Khattar had earlier nearly a month ago too had urged farmers to withdraw their stir on "humanitarian grounds".He had then said while it is the constitutional right of every person to protest and the state does not have a problem with anyone doing so in a peaceful manner, the situation due to rising COVID cases is a matter of concern.Days after the CM's appeal last month, Haryana BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni had then said protesting farmers should not be compelled to get themselves tested or vaccinated and if health workers tried to force them, they will not allow them to enter protest sites.Khattar, meanwhile, was also asked to comment on the allegations that a woman from West Bengal, who died after showing COVID-like symptoms, at a hospital in Bahadurgarh, had been raped by two men she had accompanied to a farmers' protest site at the Tikri border.“Police are conducting investigations. Whosoever is found guilty in investigations, strict action will be taken against them as per law,” said Khattar.Haryana Police had on Sunday formed a special investigation team to probe the allegations after the 25-year-old woman's father lodged a police complaint.Six people, including two prime accused, have been named in an FIR lodged on a complaint by the father of the deceased woman on Saturday. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/suspend-stir-its-spreading-covid-to-villages-khattar-to-farmers-252372
13-05-2021||---||Screening of all villagers in Haryana in 10 days: CM Khattar||Chandigarh, May 13 Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has given directions to get sanitisation done in every village of the state. The Chief Minister was presiding over the meeting of Deputy Commissioners and Nodal Officers here on Thursday to review the plans for conducting home screening and general health screening in the villages. Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala was also present during the meeting while Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij joined the meeting through video conferencing. The Chief Minister said 8,000 teams have been formed to conduct door-to-door screening and health screening in rural areas of Haryana, out of which 1,000 teams will start functioning in an active manner soon.  The Chief Minister directed that within 10 days every person of every village should be screened and general health check-up done. The Chief Minister said keeping in mind the increasing cases of COVID-19, arrangements have been made for the villages so that the infection can be controlled at the earliest.  He said refilling and home delivery of oxygen cylinders for COVID-19 patients who are in home isolation should be arranged on time. Patients, who have registered on the prescribed portal, should get the cylinder as soon as possible. For this, PCR facility should also be availed. He said for the Home Isolation patients who do not have oxygen cylinders, the concerned Deputy Commissioner should ensure to arrange the cylinders at their level.  Along with this, oxygen concentrators can also be used according to capacity. He said that 20 vehicles each have been given from the police department in every district while 5 mini roadways buses each have also been converted into ambulances. Therefore, no patient should have any problem related to transport. The Chief Minister said that funds have been issued to set up Isolation Centers and other arrangements have been made for control of COVID-19 in the villages. The officers concerned should get the village sanitation done as soon as possible and also arrange for fogging keeping malaria in mind.  He said that some beds in private hospitals should be earmarked for referral cases. COVID-19 hospitals in Panipat and Hisar will start functioning soon. Referral cases from nearby districts should also be sent to these hospitals. The Chief Minister said for three consecutive days, there has been a decrease in the number of COVID-19 patients. Despite this, we need to act more cautiously, he added. The Chief Minister was also apprised of the number of hot spots in the villages from each district and directed to make necessary arrangements as soon as possible. The Chief Minister said arrangements should be made for vaccinating the people living in the far flung areas and to give priority to those who have to take second dose. The Chief Minister said that if complaints regarding private hospitals charging more than the rate prescribed by the government for COVID-19 patients are received then a case should be registered immediately.  He said that private hospitals will be given a sum of Rs. 1000 per person per day on admission of patients of Haryana.  For this, it is mandatory for the hospitals to upload the patient’s admission and discharge on gmdahrheal.com portal. During the meeting, Haryana Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan directed to provide food and transport facilities to nurses and other medical staff working for COVID in hospitals and medical colleges.  He directed to establish communication with the families of employees working on the front line and make necessary arrangements for them. He said that Deputy Commissioners and Superintendents of Police should go to the field and know the problems of the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/screening-of-all-villagers-in-haryana-in-10-days-cm-khattar-252342
13-05-2021||New Delhi||Congress MLA from Faridabad demands all-party probe||Congress MLA, from NIT, Faridabad Neeraj Sharma on Thursday has demanded an All-party probe into the alleged siphoning off Haryana's share of Medical Oxygen to Delhi by a Palwal-based private firm.He has also written a letter to Chief Minister ML Khattar, in the matter highlighting, the fly-by-night operation of the firm.He alleged that the firm has the patronage of administrative machinery, and political bigwigs in the state.The firm is the single Filler agency for both Haryana and Delhi. Hence, the gas would come from Panipat Plant, producing the gas. It was responsible for the onward supply of the gas to the two states as per their prescribed share.In a statement, Sharma alleged that on May 3 the gas had officially reached the firm premises from Panipat to be supplied to Haryana and Delhi. However, the share of Haryana was not supplied to it.Tankers marked exclusively for Haryana and Delhi were set off from the Panipat plant to the firm on May 3 after there was suspicion that the quantity of gas was filled erratically and supplied to Haryana, and thus depriving it of its share for the past about one month.Earlier, the gas would come to the firm in common containers which would be subsequently segregated for onward supply to the states. Sharma alleged that management representatives of hospitals in Faridabad had staged demonstrations against an erratic and short supply of Medical Oxygen on April 23."A Committee representing all political parties in Haryana must probe into the alleged irregularities which accounted for untold hardships of Covid patients in Haryana, especially in Gurgaon and Faridabad," said Sharma.Sharma said that the firm cheated Haryana which in any case was officially getting a lesser quantity of gas compared to Delhi.In this context, he said that Haryana Chief had recently apprised the Union Cabinet Secretary on the short supply, and urged for enhancement of the share.Sharam said the patients and their kins in Haryana would take up the case of cheating against the State to its logical conclusion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-mla-from-faridabad-demands-all-party-probe-252309
13-05-2021||Rohtak||Dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim discharged from Rohtak PGIMS||Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh Insan, who was admitted at Rohtak PGIMS, was discharged at 3.15 pm on Thursday.He was shifted from Sunaria Prison to the local hospital on Wednesday evening after complaining of dizziness. Despite the uneasiness, the chief has refused to give a sample for a Covid test, said the PGIMS administration. "We will ask him to give his samples today as Covid-testing is mandatory as per protocol in view of the prevailing situation,” said the PGIMS Medical Superintendent, Dr Pushpa Dahiya, while talking to reporters.“As of now, he is stable, and has been kept under observation. His blood samples have been sent for testing and other examinations are also being carried out,” she stated. The jailed Dera head, who has been convicted and sentenced for the rape of two of his women disciples and murder of journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati, was taken to the PGIMS under tight police security on Wednesday.District police spokesperson Sunny Laura had confirmed that the Dera chief had been taken from Sunaria jail to Rohtak PGIMS.As per official sources, the jailed Dera head has been suffering from hypertension and diabetes and complained of dizziness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dera-head-gurmeet-ram-rahim-discharged-from-rohtak-pgims-252307
13-05-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Haryana to float global tenders for Covid vaccines||Chandigarh, May 13Haryana has decided to float global tenders for purchasing Covid vaccines to ensure people in age group of 18+ get the jab on timely basis.The announcement was made by the state Home Minister Anil Vij through his twitter handle.Haryana will float Global tenders to purchase Corona Vaccine for people of Haryana so that free vaccination could be provided to every 18+ citizens of the State at the earliest.  Haryana joins the list of over half a dozen states which have decided to float global tenders for vaccines. The country has been facing a huge vaccine shortage with a raging second wave of pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-float-global-tenders-for-covid-vaccines-252278
13-05-2021||Ambala||National Technology Day observed||Student wins lido learning contestKarnal: Tanuj, a Class IX C of Pratap Public School, Sector 6, Karnal, won both offline and online competitions organised by lido learning (an ed-tech Company). He established his claim to fame by being one of the top 5 per cent students all over India in phase-I (written test comprising MAT, SAT (maths, science and English in 2019) to reach phase II in which he had an online quiz/interview with the top most professors of IIT, Madras, Duke University, Harvard University and Stanford University in Maths trial class. He has been conferred with 50 per cent scholarship in Lido Learning Young Master Programme. Principal Dr Puja Waalia Mann congratulated him and his parents. She wished him good luck for his future endeavours.Seven students get placementsHisar: Seven students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, have been selected in the e-campus placement drive of Gurugram-based Ecom Express Private Limited organised by training and placement cell of the university. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor and Prof Avnesh Verma, registrar of the university congratulated the selected students. Pratap Singh, director, placement, said 70 students of BTech, CSE, IT, ECE, MCA and MBA of 2021 batch participated in the e-campus drive. After an online test followed by two online technical interviews, seven students Preeti of B.Tech CSE, Amit Kumar, Ishika, Satyam Dua of BTech ECE and Rahul Nirol, Pratibha Arya and Harshita of MBA of 2021 batch have been selected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/national-technology-day-observed-251944
13-05-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Stubble burning unabated||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Stubble burning unabatedAfter harvesting of wheat crop, like every year, farmers have once again started burning wheat stubble in their fields, so that they can sow cotton crop. The atmosphere is full of burnt ash which can be seen over parked cars and roofs of houses in the morning. It creates a lot of pollution. Looking at the way Covid is spreading, the administration must persuade the farmers not to do so, otherwise it will increase breathing problems of the elderly and Covid patients. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaSchools must use NCERT books for CBSE affiliationApropos "Pvt schools must use NCERT books, orders Edu Directorate" (TT, 11 May),education is getting commercialised and parents are being cheated in the name of quality. Students of CBSE-affiliated private schools find it difficult to switch over to NCERT books for their school-leaving examinations. NCERT books are designed by teachers and educationists specialising in their respective fields. Schools intend to challenge the government order to exercise their freedom of choice. Courts need to keep the interest of students paramount and involve parents' associations in the litigation. CBSE needs to make NCERT books compulsory for affiliation of a school with it. Lalit Bharadwaj, Panchkula||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stubble-burning-unabated-251940
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||‘Thikri pehras’ in rural areas||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/thikri-pehras-in-rural-areas-251924
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Wheat purchase in mandis today||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wheat-purchase-in-mandis-today-251925
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||DCs asked to update Covid data regularly||Chief Minister’s Principal Secretary V Umashankar has directed all Deputy Commissioners to regularly update on the official portal the data regarding treatment of Covid patients who have been admitted to hospitals.He gave the directions during a review meeting of DCs and nodal officers held here today through video-conferencing. Umashankar said oxygen cylinders must be refilled on the doorstep of patients within 12 hours of receiving a request in that regard. “After having refilled the cylinders, officers must call patients to ask whether or not the cylinders reached them on time,” he said.He said in case of any difficulty in refilling the cylinders, the headquarters should be informed and timely arrangements should be made. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dcs-asked-to-update-covid-data-regularly-251926
13-05-2021||Karnal||Rs 50 lakh relief sought for kin of safai workers||Irked over not providing safety equipment to cleaning staff during the pandemic, the Nagarpalika Karamchari Sangh today demanded the state to implement its last year promise, in which it had reportedly assured Rs 50 lakh aid and a job to a family member of the safai worker, who died of Covid.Naresh Kumar Shastri, state president of the sangh, said several employees had lost their lives while working on the frontline, but the state government was not concerned about the health of the cleaning staff. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-50-lakh-relief-sought-for-kin-of-safai-workers-251928
13-05-2021||---||Free home delivery SIM service in Ambala||Ambala, May 12Due to the ongoing lockdown, the BSNL has offered free home delivery SIM service to e customers of Ambala, Yamunanagar, and Kalka. The customers have to provide complete address with an alternative mobile number on 9485988988 through WhatsApp.The BSNL will deliver the SIM free of cost at the customer’s desired location after getting valid ID-cum-residence proof form him/her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/free-home-delivery-sim-service-in-ambala-251929
13-05-2021||---||Nursing staff honoured in Karnal||Karnal, May 12Members of JCI Agile, Karnal, on Wednesday celebrated International Nursing Day at Civil Hospital with the nursing and paramedical staff members.They honoured around 80 nursing staff and lauded their role in recovery of patients.Vivek Bansal, president of JCI Agile, along with other members appreciated the contribution of the nursing staff members and called them the backbone of hospitals. He said the nurses contributed a lot in the recovery of patients.Dr Piyush Sharma, Principal Medical Officer (PMO) Civil Hospital, also lauded the contribution of the nurses. Mamta Bansal, chairperson of JCI Agile, Rajesh Singla, Munish Bansal, Dr Tarun Goel, Shruti Bansal, Urvashi Gupta and members also honoured the nursing staff members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nursing-staff-honoured-in-karnal-251930
13-05-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Illegal constructions unabated in Aravalli forest area||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, May 12Despite a ban, illegal constructions have been on in the Aravalli forest area in the district, with the authorities concerned failing to curb these.While the Forest Department lodged a complaint with the police against the owner of a farmhouse and an ashram developed on the main Surajkund road recently, it was revealed that an FIR under provisions of Sections 4 and 5 of the PLPA Act, 1900, was still to be lodged. Sources said this had come in the wake of complaints lodged with the forest and police departments that certain illegal constructions had come up in the area.Though a case had been filed in the NGT by a local in 2019 in which the authorities had been directed to probe the matter and check any such activity if detected, a complaint addressed to the CM has also been sent to officials of the Forest, Local Bodies and Police departments, besides the DC and MC Commissioner on April 4, this year, seeking action against the accused.It is alleged that with rampant constructions in the protected forest belt going on unchecked, the land mafia had even been putting advertisements on the social media for the sale of farmhouses, starting from Rs 75 lakh.Stating that while a total area under illegal occupation could be over 200 acres, Vishnu Goel, an activist, said action had been pending against the 120 farmhouses detected as illegal by the MC in 2018.Claiming large-scale anti-forest activities, Jitender Bhadana of the “Save Aravalli”, an NGO, said illegal constructions had been going on unabated due to the patronage of influential persons and inaction by the departments concerned. Only a damage report is issued and a majority of the accused go scot-free after paying penalty of just Rs 400 per case.”Meanwhile, DFO Rajkumar said while 11 FIRs had been recommended or lodged since January 1 this year, but it were the police that had to take further action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-constructions-unabated-in-aravalli-forest-area-251931
13-05-2021||---||BJP-JJP govt missing in action, says Randeep Surjewala||Kurukshetra, May 12Congress leader Randeep Surjewala on Tuesday slammed the BJP-JJP government and said it was missing in action.He was speaking to mediapersons at the residence of Congress leader Ashok Arora in Kurukshetra. Surjewala said: “As per the state data, as many as 5,766 people died of Covid till Monday, but the actual figures are much higher than what the government has been showing. For the first time, tokens are being issued for cremation. People are dying due to the non-availability of beds, oxygen and medicines. The BJP government has turned the Covid-19 crisis into an opportunity.”He had reached Kurukshetra to distribute PPE kits, sanitisers and sodium hypochlorite in hospitals and clinics. Surjewala alleged that oxygen was not being provided to non-Covid patients in hospitals. “Life-saving drugs are not available in the market while liquor is easily available.”The Congress leader said soon a ‘Charlie Tornado’ machine and sodium hypochlorite for sanitisation would be sent to Kurukshetra city. A free oxygen help service will also be launched in the district by the Congress and the facilities will be monitored by Arora.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-jjp-govt-missing-in-action-says-randeep-surjewala-251932
13-05-2021||Yamunanagar||Arhtiya killed in road mishap in Yamunanagar village||An arhtiya has been killed when his car was allegedly hit by another car near Bhoot Majra village of the district. The deceased has been identified as Pankaj Mittal of Saraswati Nagar of the district.A case was registered against the unidentified car driver under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC on May 11 on the complaint of victim’s brother Ankit Mittal.The complainant said he and his brother Pankaj had gone to Kurukshetra togive blood to a relative, who was admitted to a hospital there on May 10.He added that when they were returning home from Kurukshetra, their car was hit by another car. Pankaj was driving the car and he sustained serious injuries in the accident.He added that Pankaj was rushed to Civil Hospital, Yamunanagar, where he was declared brought dead.The complainant said after committing the accident, the accused managed to escape from the spot, but he noted down the registration number of his car. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arhtiya-killed-in-road-mishap-in-yamunanagar-village-251933
13-05-2021||Rohtak||Dera head shifted to Rohtak PGIMS||Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh Insan, who is undergoing imprisonment at the Sunaria jail in Rohtak, was shifted to the PGIMS this evening after he complained of dizziness.The dera head, who has been convicted and sentenced for the rape of two of his women disciples and murder of journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati, was taken to the PGIMS under tight police security.District police spokesperson Sunny Laura confirmed that the dera chief had been taken from the jail to the hospital.As per official sources, the jailed dera head has been suffering from hypertension and diabetes and had some dizziness. A team of doctors examined him at the prison. Later, he was shifted to the PGIMS, where he was being examined and kept under observation till the time of filing this report. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dera-head-shifted-to-rohtak-pgims-251935
13-05-2021||Ravinder Saini||SIT fails to track phone location of key accused||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, May 12The SIT has failed to trace the locations of the two main accused — Anil Malik and Anoop Singh — in the alleged sexual assault on a Bengali woman at the Tikri border as their cellphones continue to remain switched off ever since the registration of the case.The team is also waiting for the receipt of the cellphones of the victim to collect further evidence, if any, after going through the WhatsApp chats, text messages and pictures.“We are yet to get the victim’s cellphone as it is with her father, who has gone to West Bengal for some rituals. He will hand over the phone after returning here in three-four days. But his statement in the case has been recorded,” DSP Pawan Kumar, SIT head, said, adding that a notice for appearance had been served on Kavita, Amit Sangwan and Chitwan Godara.The DSP said Kavita was a co-accused in the case while the names of Amit and Chitwan had appeared during the investigation hence they had been asked to appear before the SIT for their statements.Sources said Jasbir Kaur and Rajinder Deep Singh from Punjab, who were associated with the farm stir, joined the probe today as Yogita, a co-accused, told the police on Tuesday that she had informed Jasbir about the molestation incident. “I met the Bengali woman when she was hospitalised in Bahadurgarh. She told me that Anil had molested her on the train. Later, Yogita too came to me and informed about the incident.,” Jasbir said.TIKRI ASSAULT: Women safety Panel formedThe national working group of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee on Wednesday reviewed the Tikri sexual assault incident. Thereafter, it set up a ‘Mahila Suraksha Committee’ to look into all gender-related crimes and protect the rights of women at all its functions and gatherings, including the ongoing farmers’ stir and the incident at Tikri.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sit-fails-to-track-phone-location-of-key-accused-251936
13-05-2021||Nitish Sharma||Amid surge, salon business falls on bad days||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, May 12The ongoing lockdown and the high-risk nature of their business have hit barbers and salon business hard.People engaged in the business said even last year the business suffered heavy loss due to the lockdown and this year again they are out of work while most of the barbers living a hand-to-mouth existence.Rajesh Kakran, runs SalonGovt should understand our situationWe understand that the government requires at least a time period of 15 days to break the chain but at the same time the government should also understand that keeping shops closed for so many days will disturb our financial condition.Shahnawaj (25), who runs a barber shop in Ambala Cantonment, said, “After my father’s demise last year, I took the responsibility of the shop and I am the only bread earner of the family. Due to the lockdown, we are not able to open the shop while the expenses are the same. I have to pay the rent, salaries for three workers and bills for which I will be using my savings. We are getting calls from customers, but we are not able to open the shops.”Riyasat, another barber, said, “I came here with my family from Bijnour in 1998 and since then I have been working here. The only relief for me is that I have my own shop. People are calling us at their residence, but it is not possible to go in such circumstances. Moreover, it is time-consuming. Under such circumstances, it is very difficult for us to run our livelihood. Some people are providing service at customer’s residence so that they could earn some money. The shops remain closed on Tuesday and even on Thursday and Saturday, we don’t get many customers. So the government should allow us to operate on the remaining days and also set the timings.”Rajesh Kakran, who runs a salon, said “We understand that the government requires at least a time period of 15 days to break the chain but at the same time the government should also understand that keeping shops closed for so many days will disturb the financial condition. People who are running big salons can survive as they have backup but those who have been running small barber shops in colonies are struggling.”Harish Kakran, president of the Barbers’ Association in Ambala, said, “The barber and salon business has suffered a huge loss due to the Covid pandemic. The shops and salons are being run in rented buildings and the expenses are almost the same. It will be great relief if the government allows us to start operations with limited working hours and reduced capacity. We are ready to take every precaution.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amid-surge-salon-business-falls-on-bad-days-251937
13-05-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Folk artistes in Haryana turn labourers to make ends meet in lockdown||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 12With no cultural programmes or social functions being organised for more than a year due to the prevalence of Covid-19 pandemic, hundreds of folk artistes across the state have been compelled to work as labourers to earn a living during the lockdown.“I belong to a family of folk artistes. I am an MA and MPhil and have been leading a folk-dance troupe for about 22 years. Our group has performed before the President, Prime Minister and other dignitaries at national and international events. We are out of work for more than a year as no cultural programmes are being organised anywhere due to the lockdown. I have now joined a nut-bolt factory as a helper to make ends meet,” says Surender Singh, a Haryanavi folk-dancer.Another folk-dancer, Subhash Kumar of Rohtak, who has also participated in several national programmes, at present operates an auto-rickshaw to eke out a living.Jitender Singh, an accomplished shehnai player who has performed at top events of the National School of Drama and Sangeet Natak Akademi, is now trying to make ends meet by whitewashing houses and shops in the Gandhi Camp area of Rohtak. Ravi Kumar, a noted nagada-player, who has performed at several youth festivals, goes to the vegetable-market, where he earns a meagre amount by loading and unloading sacks of fruits and vegetables.Sunny Sawariya, a raagni-singer, who has won accolades for his performance at several cultural events in different states, at present runs a small kiryana shop in Rohtak.Financial aid sought||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/folk-artistes-in-haryana-turn-labourers-to-make-ends-meet-in-lockdown-251938
13-05-2021||Parveen Arora||School teacher on mission to replace conventional taps with hand-free ones||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, May 12Amid rise in number of Covid cases when people avoid touching taps at public places to drink water, a teacher of Government Senior Secondary School, Nigdhu, has come up with a novel initiative of hand-free taps, which can be operated with foot.Dinesh Chaudhary, a PGT (physical education), has kept the target of replacing 100 conventional taps at public places with the foot-operated ones. As of now, he has replaced one or two taps at Trauma Centre, Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC), old bus stand, new bus stand, Mini-Secretariat and a gurdwara in Chandigarh.“Due to the scare of getting infected with coronavirus, people prefer to remain thirsty as they do not want to touch taps, so I thought of replacing these taps with foot-operated ones. I assemble these taps myself. I start replacing conventional tap with the permission of the authorities concerned,” said Chaudhary.Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, appreciated his step and said the‘use-tap-with-foot’ model might help in reducing the spread of coronavirus. Almost a zero budget solution, this model will eliminate the need to touch a tap with hands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/school-teacher-on-mission-to-replace-conventional-taps-with-hand-free-ones-251934
13-05-2021||Gurugram||Gated societies in Gurugram for vaccine camps on premises||Accounting for a number of Covid cases in the city, gated societies have now sought special vaccination drives on their premises.“The highest percentage of active cases are from societies and vaccination is the biggest weapon against Covid. Private hospitals do not have any stock. There is no slot available and if we get one at PHC then villagers don’t allowus,” said an official spokesperson for the United Association of New Gurugram, representing 47 RWAs.“Our society has so many cases, but no drive was held here. We don’t want a camp in every society, but at one place for nearby society members can come,” said an RWA member of the Golf Course Society.“The health authorities, who have denied vaccination camps at societies that are Covid hotspots, are allegedly organising free camps for local councillors,” he added.“We have limited stock of vaccines and concentrating on second dosage now. There are PHCs near societies, they can approach them. We don’t have enough resources or manpower,” said a senior official. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gated-societies-in-gurugram-for-vaccine-camps-on-premises-251941
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||67 black-marketeers held in 18 days in Haryana: DGP||The Haryana Police have arrested 67 persons for the black-marketing of oxygen cylinders and Remdesivir injections in the past 18 days across the state.Since April 23, a total of 33 FIRs were registered while 409 oxygen cylinders and 130 Remdesivir vials were recovered from the accused.DGP Manoj Yadava on Wednesday said police teams had conducted raids in different districts following inputs on the helpline numbers and arrested those indulging in the black marketing of oxygen and Remdesivir, which was in high demand for the Covid treatment.“A total of 13 FIRs have been registered in connection with the black marketing of oxygen in seven districts of the state and 19 accused have been arrested, which led to the recovery of 409 cylinders,” he said.People can inform the police about the black marketing of oxygen cylinders and Remdesivir on 7087089947 and toll-free number 1800-180-1314, the DGP added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/67-black-marketeers-held-in-18-days-in-haryana-dgp-251942
13-05-2021||Ambala||24 seized Remdesivir injections found fake||The 24 Remdesivir injections, which were recovered by the Ambala Police last month, have been found to be fake.As per the Health Department, the injections were sent to the company for verification and it confirmed that the vials were fake.Civil Surgeon Ambala Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “The police had recovered 24 injections of Remdesivir last month and the sample was sent to the company. The injections were fake. The matter is being investigated.”On April 21, police officials on curfew duty checked two vehicles. During checking, they seized 24 injections of “Hetero Remdesivir” from one of the cars.The four men failed to produce any bill or give any satisfactory reply regarding the injections.The accused claimed that they had arranged the injections for a Covid patient in Delhi. However, the police suspected that they had procured the injections for sale. The investigation was handed over to the CIA-2.Last week, the CIA-2 unit arrested Gaurav, a resident of Yamunanagar, who had supplied the injections. The 24 injections were sold for Rs 1.20 lakh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/24-seized-remdesivir-injections-found-fake-251943
13-05-2021||---||Set up isolation centres in 2 days, Haryana CM tells DCs||Chandigarh, May 12In view of the recent surge in Covid cases in villages, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has directed Deputy Commissioner to set up isolation centres in 50 or more villages (if hotspots) in each district in a couple of days and subsequently submit the action-taken report to the office of Director General, Development and Panchayats.ML Khattar, CMOxygen quota increasedOf the 363 NGOs that have registered for home supply of oxygen cylinders, the registration of 332 has been approved. The state’s oxygen quota has been increased from 156 MT to 282 MT. Khattar said Chief Executive Officers of zila parishads would be the nodal officers, while District Development Panchayat Officers (DDPOs) and Block Development Panchayat Officers (BDPOs) would help the DCs in setting up the isolation centres.Gram sachivs and members of village committees constituted by the BDPOs would supervise the centre daily. Nodal officers would be required to report to the state headquarters every day.Schools, panchayat ghars or community centres may be converted into isolations centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/set-up-isolation-centres-in-2-days-haryana-cm-tells-dcs-251939
13-05-2021||---||Haryana Abhibhavak Ekta Manch to move court against overcharging by private hospitals||Faridabad, May 12The Haryana Abhibhavak Ekta Manch has decided to move court against arbitrary charges by private hospitals from Covid-19 patients.Manch spokesperson Kailash Sharma said the decision had been taken in the wake of no action by the district or state authorities in connection with alleged overcharging from the patients by many private hospitals so far.Claiming that despite giving evidence of overcharging by certain hospitals, he said the district authorities had only issued warning or advisory to the concerned with no action in connection with the complaints lodged till date.Violating government directions and regulations in this regard, he said there was hardly any hospital which had been following these rules.According to the rules, a Covid patient has to pay Rs 12,000 for ordinary bed, Rs 15,000 for oxygen bed and Rs 18,000 per day for an ICU or ventilator bed.Despite all regulations, private hospitals had been issuing hefty bills and the helpless patients had been paying with no one from the authorities to redress their grievance. One of the hospitals here recently charged Rs 60,000 from a patient, who was admitted just for a single day, he claimed.He said Health Minister Anil Vij had said any hospital found violating the fee rules would be entitled for legal action and punishment, but no action had been taken so far in the district.Helpline number for complaints||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-abhibhavak-ekta-manch-to-move-court-against-overcharging-by-private-hospitals-251927
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM flags off 10 ambulances for Panchkula, Ambala||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday flagged off 10 ‘minibuses-turned-ambulances’ from Chandigarh.These ambulances will bring serious Covid patients to hospitals in Panchkula and Ambala. Total 110 such ambulances have been prepared to cover the state.Before flagging off these ambulances, Khattar interacted with their drivers and motivated them to work to deliver their best in this sensitive time of Covid. The CM explained to them that transporting serious patients to hospitals through ambulances during Covid was not only a job but a service to the mankind.The passenger seats of 110 mini buses of the Haryana Roadways have been replaced with beds to take serious Covid patients to hospitals immediately. Each district will be given five minibuses-turned-ambulances. Each ambulance has four beds, two oxygen cylinders, masks, sanitizers, PPE kits and first-aid kits, etc. In addition, every district there will have one large AC bus, which can be utilised as an isolation centre. — TNSFive buses handed over to Health DeptKurukshetra: Five minibuses-turned-ambulances were handed over to the Health Department on Wednesday. The buses will be used to ferry Covid patients from villages to health centres. Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha said: "Covid cases have been increasing in rural areas. The state has been making efforts to being the situation under control.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-flags-off-10-ambulances-for-panchkula-ambala-251945
13-05-2021||Deepender Deswal||With 500 Oxygen beds, Hisar school to open doors to Covid patients||Tribune News ServiceHisar, May 12Om Prakash Jindal Modern School in Hisar is being converted into a 500-bed Covid hospital in view of rising cases. The work on the temporary facility, which will get an uninterrupted oxygen supply from an adjoining Jindal Steel unit, is under way on a war footing.All beds at the hospital will have oxygen support.Deputy Commissioner (DC) Priyanka Soni said the hospital was likely to become operational by May 16, ahead of the May 18 deadline fixed by the state government.“Over 80 per cent work on the project has been completed. Besides four blocks for admission, the centre will have an OPD, pharmacy unit and a store,” said the DC.With 647 deaths so far, Hisar district has recorded the highest number of fatalities, leaving behind Gurugram and Faridabad, which have registered 612 and 598 deaths, respectively.Vinod Mehta, Principal Media Adviser to the Chief Minister, said the CM had visited Hisar on April 27 to finalise a Covid centre at the school. “The facility will get piped oxygen from the Jindal Steel plant located close to the school,” he added.Facility available from May 16||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/with-500-oxygen-beds-hisar-school-to-open-doors-to-covid-patients-251946
13-05-2021||---||98 Karnal prisoners infected in 3 days||Karnal, May 12With 41 new Covid-19 cases among jail inmates, the number of infected has climbed to 98 in the last three days in the district jail, prompting the health authorities to declare the jail as a hotspot.Most of the inmates are asymptomatic and they have been traced during random sampling. Among the infected inmates, nine are women. The jail authorities have developed two Covid wards on the jail premises. “In one ward, men inmates have been isolated, while in another ward women have been kept,” said Jail Superintendent Amit Bhado.So far, the source of infection is not determined. “After the directions of the DGP, jail, we got conducted a random sampling on the jail premises. So far, 98 inmates have tested positive,” said Bhado.Earlier, 38 cases were reported on Monday and 19 on Tuesday.Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon, said they were trying to trace the source of infection among the jail inmates. “It is a cause of concern for us that a large number of cases have been reported from an area. We are taking samples of the staff and other inmates too,” the Civil Surgeon said, adding that the inmates’ treatment has been started.Denying any angle of community transmission in the jail, he says all precautionary measures are being taken to tackle the situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/98-karnal-prisoners-infected-in-3-days-251947
13-05-2021||---||45 villages in Jhajjar, Rewari turn hotspots||Jhajjar, May 12The Covid spread in rural areas has put the administration in Jhajjar and Rewari on toes. As many as 45 villages in both districts been declared as hotspots.Of these, 27 villages are in Jhajjar and 18 in Rewari district. The active cases in these districts are more than 20 and many other residents are suffering from Covid-like symptoms.Several deaths have been reported in the villages in the past week, forcing the district authorities to come into action mode to control the situation. A plan is being chalked out to isolate the infected persons.In Jhajjar district, Dubaldhan, Chhuchhakvaas, Machhrauli, Patauda, Silani, Kharar, Rohad, Dighal, Dujana, Dulhera, Badli, Gubhana, Dadri Toa, Chhara, Mandothi, Kheri Jassaur, Ladrawan, Aasuda, Nuna Majra, Sankhol, Jassuar Kheri, Matan, Nilothi, Saray Aurangabad and Barahi villages have been declared as Covid hotspots.In Rewari district, Nandha, Mayan, Balwadi, Nimoth, Bolni, Gudiyani, Jainabad, Lilodh, Gokulgarh, Jatusana, Bhadavaas, Luhana, Bawwa, Bhakli, Katopur, Jhaal, Gidokhar and Teent are the villages where a spurt in Covid cases has been recorded.Jhajjar DC Jitender Dahiya said, “Covid patients need to be isolated hence we have decided to establish quarantine centres in the 27 hotspot villages of the district. Officers of the Panchayat Department have been directed to make arrangements of hand sanitiser, bed, food, steamer and potable water in these centres.”He said the Civil Surgeon had been directed to provide services in the centres.Meanwhile, Dr Krishan Kumar, Civil Surgeon, Rewari, said a special survey was launched in Nandha, Mayan, Balwadi, Nimoth villages on Wednesday to carry out testing, contract tracing and treatment of patients in order to contain the virus.Rewari DC Yashendra Singh said the teams of the Health Department were visiting all those villages where more than 10 Covid cases surfaced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/45-villages-in-jhajjar-rewari-turn-hotspots-251919
13-05-2021||Ravinder Saini||Nodal officers appointed in Mahendragarh to check virus spread||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, May 12The district administration has appointed nodal officers at the village level to make villagers understand the seriousness of the pandemic and enforce Covid protocols in villages.They have been living in denial mode, refusing to believe that Covid is on their doorstep even though 38 people died of Covid from May 1 to 11 in the district.Ajay Kumar, Mahendragarh DCGram sachivs, patwaris and health workers have been appointed as nodal officers who will remain in touch with community and public health centres.Deputy Commissioner Ajay Kumar said, “Gram sachivs, patwaris and health workers have been appointed as nodal officers, who will remain in touch with community and public health centres.”The officers will also be required to help health officials in collecting samples.In all, 7,423 cases were reported in the district in the past 11 days. A majority of the cases were from villages. The worst-hit being Ganiyar, Pathera, Bhushan Kalan, Dhani Maliayan, Koriavaas, Ateli, Dublana, Agihar, Atali, Khanpur, Khairali, Silarpur, Guda, Dhanauda, Khudana, Buchavaas, Majra and Mahlhrabas.Many people with Covid-like symptoms died at home. In spite of this, door-to-door survey and testing are yet to start, say sources.The district administration has directed the Block Development and Panchayat Officers (BDPOs) to rope in healthy youths to ensure that people comply with Covid protocols in their villages.They would not only stop gatherings at “chaupals” and other public places in villages, but also encourage villagers to get themselves tested if they developed Covid-like symptoms such as dry cough, fever, headache and body ache.The DC said, “Isolation centres equipped with five to ten beds are being set up in villages, where the number of cases is high. The centres will be established in government schools or dharmshalas. Buildings near private schools can also be used for the purpose.”He added 21 micro-containment zones had been set up in the district to check the spread of Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nodal-officers-appointed-in-mahendragarh-to-check-virus-spread-251920
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||High Court seeks ground report on situation in rural Punjab, Haryana||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today made clear its intent to examine Covid intrusion in rural areas by calling for affidavits from secretary-level health authorities in Punjab and Haryana. The Bench also made it clear that the states were required to examine bringing into play a rule that made vaccination mandatory for government employees to make offices fully functional at the earliest.Doctors can’t switch off phones: courtThe Bench left it to the two states and Chandigarh UT to ask corporate houses to join the fight against the pandemic by providing ambulances, oxygen beds, ventilators, CT scan machines, etc., to government hospitals.As the matter came up for resumed hearing this morning, the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh asked Punjab A-G Atul Nanda on monitoring the situation in the rural areas. “It is directed that an affidavit be filed by an officer not below the rank of Principal Secretary, Health,” the Bench ordered. Haryana A-G Baldev Raj Mahajan submitted that senior officer had been deputed in every district to monitor the situation in the villages. “This court, however, needs a detailed report on the work done at the ground level... by an officer not below the rank of Additional Chief Secretary, Health,” the Bench said.Speaking for the Bench, Justice Gupta said nodal agencies in all districts could monitor ambulance facilities provided by private operators. Additional Solicitor-General of India Satya Pal Jain submitted that pursuant to the HC orders, the Centre had increased oxygen supply to Punjab from 227 MT to 247 MT and to Haryana from 267 MT to 307 MT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-seeks-ground-report-on-situation-in-rural-punjab-haryana-252060
13-05-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram may use cow dung to cremate dead||Amid rising Covid deaths, environmentalists of Millennium City have urged the Haryana Government to approve the use of cow dung for cremation instead of wood.Up against the state Urban Local Bodies’ reported demand for 20,000 tonnes of wood from the Forest Department, local environmentalists have asked the state government to allow use of cow dung cakes in crematoriums and revoke the decision that permits felling of trees amid the statewide lockdown.Environmentalists put forth suggestions“Times when people are struggling for oxygen, we must understand that every tree should to be saved. At 3.6 per cent, Haryana is infamous for its lowest forest cover. Cities like Delhi, Nagpur, Bhopal and Varanasi have already taken the lead by replacing wood with cow dung cakes for cremation. Why are we still sticking to the outdated method?” reads a letter shot to Chief Secretary Vijay Vardhan by Vaishali Rana Chandra and Vivek Kamboj, noted environmentalists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-may-use-cow-dung-to-cremate-dead-252062
13-05-2021||Chandigarh||HC seeks details from Punjab, Haryana about COVID situation in rural areas||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Wednesday sought details from the governments of the two states regarding the COVID situation in rural areas.The court has sought a detailed report from Haryana on the work done at the ground level.On a query put by the high court bench comprising Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh to Punjab’s Advocate General Atul Nanda “about monitoring of the situation in the rural areas where virus has spread rapidly”, he submitted that he will file a short affidavit on the next date of hearing. The prayer was accepted by the bench.Read also: Second wave sweeps Punjab’s rural beltThe court’s directives came during resumed hearing through video conferencing on a petition pertaining to the COVID-19 pandemic management in Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh.When asked about the spread of the disease in rural areas, Haryana’s Advocate General Baldev Raj Mahajan submitted that a plan has been drawn up and a senior administrative officer has been deputed for every district in Haryana to monitor the situation. Physical inspection in all rural areas/districts is being carried out.“This court, however, needs a detailed report of the work done at the ground level. The status report may, thus, be filed in this regard by an officer not below the rank of Additional Chief Secretary, Health,” the bench ordered.While accepting the prayer of Nanda to file the affidavit on the next date of hearing, the court directed that it be filed by an officer not below the rank of Principal Secretary, Health, Punjab government.With both Punjab and Haryana witnessing a surge in COVID cases in recent weeks, there have been concerns about the infection spreading in rural areas.Nanda brought to the court’s notice that 82 ventilators have been supplied to Punjab (by the Centre), out of which 71 are faulty.He further submitted that 24 oxygen containers are available with them. The state has raised a demand for more.However, if six containers are arranged at the earliest, it would ease out the situation in Punjab somewhat, Nanda submitted.About 85,000 injections of remdesivir have been supplied whereas demand of 37,000 injections is still pending. He further submitted that Punjab needs about 4 lakh vials of Covishield vaccine immediately.Additional Solicitor General of India Satya Pal Jain submitted that the request made by Punjab for supply of six more containers and release of pending quantity of remdesivir injections and vaccine shall be looked into forthwith.As regards 71 faulty ventilators to Punjab, he submitted that the matter shall be examined immediately and necessary steps taken for rectifying the fault, if any, at the earliest.He informed the court that the Centre has increased the daily oxygen supply to Punjab from 227 metric tonnes to 247 MT and to Haryana from 267 MT to 307 MT.Nanda highlighted that under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) incorporated in Section 135 of the Companies Act, it is obligatory for the companies to contribute at least 2 per cent of their profit as social responsibility to the society in this period of crisis generated due to the pandemic.“It is left to the three states to ask the corporate houses to participate in fighting the crisis by providing ambulances, oxygen beds, ventilators, CT scan machines etc. to government hospitals so that economically weaker strata of the society has easy access to such facilities. The states shall apprise the court about response, if any, received in this regard,” the bench said.Touching upon another issue, the bench said Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh may impress upon the private diagnostic centres to reasonably slash their rates for CT scan for COVID patients.The court has fixed the next date of hearing in the case on Tuesday.Pankaj Jain, senior standing counsel, Chandigarh, submitted that in view of the order passed by the court on May 7, a common strategy has been drawn up and ‘Uniform Anti-Corona Measures’ are being undertaken in the tricity (Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali).Anupam Gupta, senior counsel, highlighted that though publication of the availability of the hospital beds has been started by Chandigarh but it is not in consonance with the established practice being followed in other states particularly, Haryana.Pankaj Jain submitted that the same format shall be adopted and accurate information shall be publicized therein.On another issue, Satya Pal Jain said the request of 5 MT of oxygen for PGIMER, Chandigarh exclusively, would also be processed expeditiously. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-seeks-details-from-punjab-haryana-about-covid-situation-in-rural-areas-251891
13-05-2021||---||Dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim complains of dizziness, shifted to Rohtak PGIMS||Rohtak, May 12Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, who is undergoing imprisonment at Sunaria jail in Rohtak district, was shifted to Rohtak PGIMS on Wednesday after he complained of dizziness.The jailed dera head, who has been convicted and sentenced for the rape of two of his women disciples and murder of journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati, was taken to the PGIMS under tight police security.District police spokesperson Sunny Laura confirmed that the dera chief had been taken from Sunaria jail to Rohtak PGIMS.As per official sources, the jailed dera head has been suffering from hypertension and diabetes and complained of dizziness.A team of doctors examined him at the prison. Later, he was shifted to the PGIMS, where he was being examined and kept under observation till the time of filing this report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dera-head-gurmeet-ram-rahim-complains-of-dizziness-shifted-to-rohtak-pgims-251886
