14-05-2021||  Chandigarh||Haryana’s active COVID-19 cases slip under 1 lakh after 14 days||Haryana witnessed a little dip in new COVID-19 cases on Friday and the number of active cases came down to under a lakh for the first time in 14 days—developments that look somewhat positive.The state reported 10,608 positive cases on Friday. What remains a cause for worry, however, is Haryana’s death toll---the state reported 164 more COVID-19 deaths.Of that number, Rohtak reported 16 deaths, Gurugram 15, Jind 12, Hisar, Panipat and Bhiwani all 11, and Bhiwani 10.The state’s death toll current stands at 6,402 since the pandemic began last year.Of the new infections, Gurugram reported the highest at 2,144, followed by Hisar (1,146), Faridabad (826) and Sonipat (748).Haryana also reported 14,577 recoveries, taking the state’s active cases to 99,007.The state’s positivity rate stands at 15.94 per cent.Meanwhile, 50,716 people received their vaccine jabs on Friday---29,475 got their first dose and 21,241 their second. COVID-19 metre Total cases: 10,608 Deaths: 164 Active cases: 99,007 Vaccinations: 50,716 Worst affected districts Gurugram: 2,144 cases; 15 deaths Faridabad: 826 cases; 8 deaths Hisar: 1,146 cases; 11 deaths Sonipat: 748 cases; 6 deaths Rohtak: 368 cases; 16 deaths||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryanas-active-covid-19-cases-slip-under-1-lakh-after-14-days-252876
14-05-2021||Hisar||Talk show on ethical hacking||NCC cadets aid Covid patientsRohtak: NCC cadets owing allegiance to the NCC Group Headquarters, Rohtak, have volunteered to extend a helping hand to the Covid-19 patients in Gurugram. Brigadier Rohit Nautiyal, Group Commander, NCC Group Headquarters, Rohtak, said the Gurugram Deputy Commissioner, Dr Yash Garg, had sought NCC cadets to assist the district administration in reaching out to the home-quarantined patients to know about their well-being and know about their requirements for medicines, medical equipment and healthcare assistance. A portal containing the details of the home-quarantined Covid patients has been created for the purpose. These patients are contacted to ascertain their status and know if they require any help or assistance. As many as 60 cadets of 5 Haryana Battalion, Gurugram, have volunteered for the service and started to serve.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/talk-show-on-ethical-hacking-252733
14-05-2021||It was truly encouraging to learn that Punjab||Tricity fighting Covid together a welcome step||Replicate Corona Sahayata Samiti in all villagesI feel really bad to know that Haryana state has reported the highest wastage of Covid vaccine. It cannot be approved by any right-thinking person. We have to ensure judicious use of the vaccine which calls for monitoring its use on a daily basis and fix the responsibility of the person concerned. The exemplary response to the Covid outbreak at Barwa village in Bhiwani by forming a 'Corona Sahayata Samiti' which must be replicated everywhere. — Mm Goel, KurukshetraGovt focus should be on healthcare systemLatest trend indicates that number of Covid 19 patients is growing at an alarming rate in our rural areas. Already, health infrastructure is stretched in the cities, it is inadequate and lacking in the villages. The pandemic has exposed the stark reality of country's healthcare system, which merits highest priority and focus during budget allocation in the coming years. Notwithstanding, both centre and state governments should now act swiftly in a coordinated manner, ignoring party lines, to serve the masses who elected them. R S Khurb, RohtakIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tricity-fighting-covid-together-a-welcome-step-252732
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||49-year-old cop falls prey to virus||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/49-year-old-cop-falls-prey-to-virus-252726
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Former Chief Secy loses Covid battle||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-chief-secy-loses-covid-battle-252725
14-05-2021||---||Rs 14K cr paid to farmers for
procurement||Chandigarh, May 13Haryana has so far paid Rs 14,693 crore directly into the account of the farmers till today on account of procurement of wheat.Giving information in this regard, an official spokesperson said so 84.38 lakh tonnes of wheat has reached the mandis in the state. He informed that today 21,314 tonnes of wheat had been procured by the state procurement agencies at the minimum support price and so far, 82.58 lakh tonnes had been procured. He said instructions had been issued to all concerned that the wheat procurement in the mandis should be ensured on a daily basis. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-14k-cr-paid-to-farmers-forprocurement-252678
14-05-2021||---||After harvest, farmers return to Singhu||Karnal, May 13After the harvesting of wheat crop, farmers from Punjab have started returning to the Singhu border, where they had been staging a dharna since November, last year, to press their demand of repealing the three farm laws passed by the Union government.Farmers are determined to continue their struggle even in adverse weather conditions. On the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, water flooded into tents and other structures at the Singhu border. “While farmers were prepared for at least six months of struggle when they first came to Delhi in late November, this time, they are prepared for a long period. Therefore, along with langar and stay, farmers are making other necessary arrangements as well,” said leaders of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) in a joint statement.Leaders, including Abhimanyu Kohar, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Dr Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Hannan Mollah, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Yudhvir Singh and Yogendra Yadav said the farmers had set up a flour mill at the Singhu Border.Farmer organisations have also kept a large stock of drinking water. All these efforts of the farmers are a direct message to the Union Government that till their demands are not met, they will continue to fight with full force.“The agricultural laws are a bigger disaster than any natural calamity. The government is responsible for the troubles that the farmers are facing,” they said.Leaders of 12 political parties have also demanded that the government should repeal the farm laws, so that the farmers’ lives can be protected in the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-harvest-farmers-return-to-singhu-252673
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Restore MLA’s membership, demands Hooda||Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has written to the Assembly Speaker, seeking restoration of the membership of MLA Pradeep Chaudhary from the Kalka seat.  In the letter, he said on April 19, the HP High Court had stayed the decision of the court of Judicial Magistrate, Nalagarh, in Solan district, on the basis of which the membership of Chaudhary was terminated. “Chaudhary personally met you on 26.04.2021 and delivered the copy of the judgment of the ble High Court and also requested for the restoration of his membership,” the letter said. The Leader of Opposition said the Speaker should not delay the restoration of Chaudhary’s membership after the High Court order. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/restore-mlas-membership-demands-hooda-252674
14-05-2021||---||Trucks with spurious liquor, beer seized in Faridabad||Faridabad, May 13The local police on Wednesday seized two trucks containing 1,250 boxes of beer and 1,800 litres of spurious liquor.In the first case, a truck containing the illicit liquor was found parked in the sabzi mandi at Dabua here, when the cops raided the spot following a tip-off.Two persons identified as Saqir and Adib, residents of Nuh district, had reportedly brought beer from Goa and were on their way to Noida in UP. As the accused could not produce valid documents of the liquor, the police seized it along with the truck and registered a case under the Excise Act and the NDMA against the accused, who were arrested, said a police official.In another case, the police recovered around 1,800 litres of spurious liquor from two persons, who were carrying it in a truck in Sector 48 area. The truck was intercepted by the police after a tip-off.It was brought from the Badli area of Jhajjar and was being taken to Aligarh in UP in an illegal manner, sources say. Two persons identified as Mahender and Rattan, both local residents, were arrested. While the accused were sent to judicial custody, the police said it had launched a hunt to nab the main accused identified as Madan Gopal, truck owner.Case registered against four in AmbalaAmbala: A team of the CM flying squad and excise department seized 30 boxes of country-made liquor from a vehicle in Barara, Ambala on Wednesday. The cops arrested driver Rohit of Tandwal village and Pradeep. They disclosed they were on their way to Ugala village to deliver the stock on directions of Rohtash and his salesman Rajkumar. A case has been registered against all four under Sections 188, 269, 270, 420 and 120b of the IPC, 61 of the Excise Act and 51 of the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/trucks-with-spurious-liquor-beer-seized-in-faridabad-252675
14-05-2021||---||Over 2,000 convicts to be released on special parole||Chandigarh, May 13  A high-powered committee (HPC) under the chairmanship of Justice Rajan Gupta, Judge, Punjab and Haryana High Court, and Executive Chairman, Haryana State Legal Services Authority, today allowed — on special parole — the release of convicts sentenced to imprisonment for more than seven years who were released earlier due to Covid pandemic.  Since the first meeting of the HPC held on March 24, 2020, 2,580 convicts who are sentenced for more than seven years imprisonment were released on special parole.  Similarly, 2,094 convicts /undertrials who are sentenced up to seven years / facing trial for offences which stipulate maximum imprisonment up to seven years were released on special parole/interim bail under the orders of HPC. Subsequently, with decrease in Covid cases, HPC had directed return of convicts released on parole in cases where they were undergoing imprisonment for more than seven years in nine phases.  Till date 2,170 convicts have surrendered in jails under eight phases and ninth phase consisting of 280 convicts is to start from May 14. Now, considering the situation in and around due to sudden spike in Covid, the HPC has decided to release all the convicts sentenced to imprisonment for more than seven years who were released earlier on special parole under the categories prescribed by this committee on special parole till August 31. Special parole granted to convicts who were to surrender in ninth phase starting from May 14 has also been extended till August 3. However, convicts who have failed to surrender on date fixed or are absconding or against whom new case/cases were registered while on special parole are not entitled to special parole.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-2-000-convicts-to-be-released-on-special-parole-252676
14-05-2021||Gurugram||DLF files plaint against arrested RTI activist||Real estate developer DLF has moved a police complaint against RTI activist Harinder Dhingra for allegedly trying to grab its land near his house. As the part of ongoing investigation, the police have verified that four old vehicles belonging to Dhingra family were parked there. Dhingra had parked his four old vehicles on DLF land and fenced the plot. When the officials of DLF asked him to vacate the plot, he used to threaten them.  “The owners of all vehicles are Dhingra’s family members. Some vehicles have been bought on loan and the owners are not even paying the EMI,” said Subhash Bokan, official spokesperson, Gurugram police.  Meanwhile, the bail application of Dhingra will be heard on Monday. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dlf-files-plaint-against-arrested-rti-activist-252677
14-05-2021||Ravinder Saini||Tikri sexual assault: SIT gets victim’s phone after five days||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, May 13After five days of registering the case, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the sexual assault on a Bengali woman at the Tikri border finally received the cellphone of the victim on Thursday.Significantly, the SIT chief had on Wednesday said the cellphone was with the victim’s father who went to West Bengal for some rituals and would hand it over to the police after his return in a couple of days.Clarifying the issue, DSP Pawan Kumar, the SIT chief, said on May 10, the victim’s father was asked to hand over the cellphone for investigation but he went out of station. “On Thursday a person known to him, who is also associated with the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), handed over the victim’s phone to us. Moreover, Kavita, a co-accused, and two advocates were also questioned about the case as it came to the fore during investigation that they too were aware of the incident. All those persons whose names have appeared in the investigation will be summoned,” he added.Countering the allegations of the victim’s father that he had accused only two persons in the complaint but the case had been booked against six, the SIT chief said the names of all suspects were mentioned in the complaint hence they had been named in the FIR. Their role in the case was being investigated from various angles. They knew about the incident and hiding the facts was also an offence, he added.Sources, however, said the SIT might get some vital evidence from WhatsApp chats, text messages and pictures available on the cellphone. The call details of the victim might also prove instrumental in the investigation to find out about those who were in contact with the victim, the sources added.Meanwhile, SKM Leader Yogendra Yadav has put the SIT in the dock, claiming that his statement recorded by the police was being wrongly interpreted. Yadav again made it clear that he learnt about the sexual assault incident on May 2 after the victim’s death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tikri-sexual-assault-sit-gets-victims-phone-after-five-days-252670
14-05-2021||---||Dera chief found fit by doctors, discharged||Rohtak, May 13Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, who was shifted from Sunaria prison in Rohtak district to the local PGIMS last evening, was discharged and sent back to jail this afternoon after being found fit by the doctors.The jailed dera head, who is undergoing 20-year imprisonment after being convicted and sentenced for the rape of two of his women disciples and murder of journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati, had complained of dizziness and restlessness.He was kept under observation and examined by a special medical board comprising seven senior doctors of the PGIMS, including super-specialists and specialists of different departments, but no considerable health issues were detected.“His ECG, ultrasound and blood investigation reports were normal, but he refused to undergo test for Covid, angiography and holter-test despite being advised and persuaded to get these done,” said sources.As per the sources, the medical board has also recorded that the patient had been advised to undergo Covid test, holter test and angiography, but he refused to get these tests done.Confirming this to The Tribune, PGIMS Medical Superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya maintained that a patient cannot be subjected to a medical test if he/she refuses to get it done. Asked why the Covid test was skipped, she pointed out that the patient was asymptomatic and unwilling for the test.The Medical Superintendent said the dera chief had been suffering from hypertension and diabetes. He was brought to the PGIMS from the jail after he complained of dizziness and restlessness. As per the jail administration, his blood pressure was found to be considerably low.“He was kept under observation and thoroughly examined by the board of doctors. No major health issues were detected in his medical examination. Hence, he has been discharged from the PGIMS,” said Dr Pushpa.The dera head was lodged at the PGIMS under tight security. Even the doctors who went to examine him had to pass through a three-layered security cover and keep their phones outside.Patients' kin inconvenienced||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dera-chief-found-fit-by-doctors-discharged-252671
14-05-2021||amunanagar||Lightning kills 22 goats in Yamunanagar||As many as 22 goats died when a tree under which they were standing was struck by lightning in Pirthipur village of Yamunanagar district. The incident took place when Fazla of Taharpur Kalan village, Yamin and Shakeel, both residents of Jaitpur village, were grazing their goats in Pirthipur village on Wednesday afternoon. A source said three goats of Fazla, Yamin and Shakeel were standing under a tree to take shelter from the rain. “In the incident 22 goats died and one had a narrow escape,” the source added. The source said a veterinary doctor, a patwari and policemen visited the spot after getting the information of the incident to take stock of the loss. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lightning-kills-22-goats-in-yamunanagar-252672
14-05-2021||Deepender Deswal
||83 villages set up isolation wards||Tribune News Service  Hisar, May 13 The district administration has identified 83 villages which have large number of cases of Covid 19 in the district and has started the process of setting up isolation wards in the villages.  Health teams have been deputed in the villages for sampling of patients having Covid-like symptoms. As a result of testing in rural areas, almost 50 per cent of the positive cases belonging to the villages indicated the report of the Heath Department. As many as1,166 positive cases have been detected in the district today.  Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni today visited several villages for the inspection of isolation centres where the Covid patients would be kept in isolation. The DC said the villages having higher number of Covid patients would be categorised as containment zones. The DC said the sanitation drive had started in the villages.  The administration today declared several areas in Narnaund and adjoining villages as micro containment zones and buffer zones. The DC said the villagers had been asked to stay indoors in view of the spread of the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/83-villages-set-up-isolation-wards-252660
14-05-2021||---||60 centres being built in Karnal rural areas||Karnal, May 13 With the increasing number of Covid-19 in rural areas, around 60 isolation centres are being established in villages by the district administration, where asymptomatic patients will be kept. Besides, door to door health screening of residents will also be done. The authorities claim that these measures will help the administration in breaking the chain of Covid-19 in the rural areas. Nigdhu, old Nilokheri, Sikri, Samanabahu, Barana, Nilokheri town, Sandhir, Gharaunda CHC, Barsat, Chaura, Kalram, Bastara, Assandh PHC, Jaisinghpura, Rahra, Bilona, Ardana, Bahri, Chochra, Kabulpur Khera, Panghala, Alawala, Agondh, Gonder, Brass, Barota, Narukheri, Sirsi, Jundla, Rajepur, Badagaon, Madhuban, Uncha Samana, Gangar, Shamgarh and other villages are where the isolation centres are being set up. “We have constituted teams for field survey at the village level, field level and headquarters’ level. Asha worker, anganwari workers, teachers, prominent people of the villages and social activists have been kept in these teams who conduct door to door health screening of the people to break the chain,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner. The infected people will be kept at the isolation centre in the village. If the oxygen level dips, the patients will be shifted to Covid hospital at the CHC level and if the health condition deteriorates, the patient will be sent to the KCGMC. “We have started the process of establishing these isolation centres for which locations have been identified,” the DC maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/60-centres-being-built-in-karnal-rural-areas-252661
14-05-2021||Parveen Arora||Lockdown-hit traders turn to govt for aid||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, May 13The Covid-induced lockdown has hit the industrial units as well as markets of the district hard, due to which traders and industrialists are now eyeing the government for financial relief.They urged the Centre to waive the interest on loan amount for the first quarter of the current fiscal. Besides, the state government has also been requested to waive minimum/fixed charges in electricity bills.“Trade has been affected badly due to the lockdown. We request the Centre to waive at least the interest on the loan amount for the three months – April, May and June,” said Manoj Arora, president, Karnal HSIIDC Industrial Welfare Association.He said industrialists and traders were looking towards the government for relief.Som Sachdeva, honorary secretary, Karnal Agricultural Implements Manufacturer Association (KAIMA), said the industry was reeling under stress due to the Covid-induced lockdown. The district’s industry caters to 60 per cent demand of the country for sowing implements. The current days are considered a part of the peak season period, but industrialists are not getting any orders. Their implements are piling up on their premises. In such circumstances, the industrialists are not able to feed their workforce.“The Centre should extend a helping hand to the industrialists and traders. The interest on loan amount as well as the power charges should be waived,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lockdown-hit-traders-turn-to-govt-for-aid-252662
14-05-2021||---||Study on black fungus underway at PGIMS||Rohtak, May 13 A study is being conducted on the black fungus infection and its association with Covid and other factors such as the administration of steroids and age-group of the affected patients at the ENT department of Rohtak PGIMS.  Medical experts said a spurt had been witnessed in the cases of black fungus during the prevalence of the pandemic, though Covid was not the only cause behind the dreaded infection. “Black fungus is not a new infection. It was usually seen in immuno-compromised patients like those taking anti-cancer drugs, medicines given after kidney transplant, and those having uncontrolled diabetes and old age. But a sudden influx of black fungus cases is being witnessed since last year during the Covid prevalence,” said Dr Aditya Bhargava, head, ENT department, PGIMS. Hisar: A suspected black fungus infection was detected in a Covid-positive patient in Fatehabad district on Thursday. The civil hospital authorities have referred the patient to PGIMS at Rohtak. The patient, a 45-year-old woman, tested positive 10 days ago and was under treatment in the civil hospital in Fatehabad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/study-on-black-fungus-underway-at-pgims-252663
14-05-2021||Jhajjar||3 petrol pumps looted in Jhajjar||Two motorbike-borne armed youths looted Rs 44,000 and two cell phones at pistol-point from three petrol pumps located between Matanhel and Khanpur Khurd village under the Salhavaas police stations on Wednesday night.  Though the crime was captured by CCTV cameras installed on the pumps, the looters are yet to be identified as they covered the face with masks and wore helmets. The police have filed separate cases of loot on the complaint of the petrol pump employees. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-petrol-pumps-looted-in-jhajjar-252664
14-05-2021||---||Haryana CM announces aid for BPL families||Chandigarh, May 13The Haryana Government has decided to pay the premium of the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana under which the BPL families are paid Rs 2 lakh after the death of the insured person.Scheme benefits unregistered tooBesides the poor, who have lost their family members prematurely during the second Covid wave and for some reason could not fill the form for the benefit of this scheme, will be given Rs 2 lakh by the state. This was announced by CM Manohar Lal Khattar while addressing a digital press conference here on Thursday.He urged the poor families to fill up the form so that they could get the benefit of the scheme by May 31.For this, the first instalment of the premium must be in the account of the holder. As soon as the instalment is deducted from the account, the premium would be deposited in it by the government, he said. The scheme was for people aged 18 to 50 years with an annual premium of Rs 330, he said.For the eligible BPL families, the premium of this scheme will be deposited in their account every year in future also after deducting it from their accounts.On overcharging, he said strict action would be taken against defaulters under the Criminal Act and could lead to repercussions.He said the delivery of oxygen was being done at home on doctor’s prescription. By Thursday noon, 6,000 patients registered for oxygen and over 3,000 cylinders were refilled and delivered to homes.On vaccine crunch, he said the drive was under way in phases. So far, about 47 lakh jabs have been administered. Also, order of 50 lakh doses had been given (18 to 45 years), of which 6 lakh vaccines had been received so far, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-announces-aid-for-bpl-families-252665
14-05-2021||Ambala||505 Oxygen cylinders seized from factory||The administration has seized 505 oxygen cylinders, including 300 filled, from a factory in Mandour village of Ambala late on Wednesday evening. Following a tip-off about the factory using oxygen cylinders for industrial purposes, DC Ashok Sharma formed a team and raided the place. RTA secretary Gauri Midha said: “The factory provides services to the Railways and manufactures girders for overbridges. The cylinders  will be used in the treatment of Covid patients.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/505-oxygen-cylinders-seized-from-factory-252666
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Screen all villagers in 10 days, officials told||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar gave directions to sanitise every village of the state, while presiding over the meeting of DCs and nodal officers here today, to review the plans for conducting health screening in rural areas.Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala was also present, while Health Minister Anil Vij joined the meeting through videoconferencing.The CM said 8,000 teams had been formed to conduct door-to-door screening in rural areas, of which 1,000 would start functioning in an active manner, soon. He said every person should be screened within 10 days.He said refilling and home delivery of oxygen cylinders for the home-isolated should be arranged on time. Patients, who have registered on the prescribed portal, should get the cylinder as soon as possible, he said. For this, PCR facility should also be availed, he said. The DC concerned should ensure cylinders at their level for the patients.Twenty vehicles each had been given from the Police Department in every district, while five mini roadways buses each had also been converted into ambulances, he said.Covid hospitals in Panipat and Hisar will start functioning soon. Referral cases from nearby districts should be sent to these hospitals, the CM said. He said arrangements should be made for vaccinating people in far-flung areas and priority would be given to those, who had to take the second dose. The CM said if complaints of overcharging byprivate hospitals were received, a case should be registered immediately. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/screen-all-villagers-in-10-days-officials-told-252667
14-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to go for global tenders to buy vax||Health Minister Anil Vij said that global tendering would be done for the purchase of Covid vaccine for the people of the state. The Health Minister said that with this decision of the government, the vaccine would be made available for the citizens of Haryana over the age of 18 years soon. This is a major step taken by the Haryana Government for the vaccine.  He informed that free vaccine would be given to all citizens above 18 years of age in the state.  Vij said that there is a need to review oxygen allocation. He has raised this matter in front of the Centre in a meeting of Health Ministers from across the country in a video conference. He said that 700 MT oxygen is being given to 85,000 active patients in Delhi and 258 MT oxygen is being given to more than one lakh active patients in Haryana. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-go-for-global-tenders-to-buy-vax-252668
14-05-2021||Sushil Manav||ECMO treatment in Rohtak, Karnal hospitals by next week||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 13With nearly 2,000 people losing their lives to Covid in the past 12 days, the state has decided to introduce the extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) technique to treat critical patients in two government hospitals.Available in two or three big private hospitals in the NCR, the state is now planning to start the technology at the PGIMS, Rohtak, and Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC), Karnal, from next week.“Two ECMO machines are lying unused in the PGIMS for the past few months, the CM has ordered the purchase of another one for the KCGMC with immediate effect from the CSR funds,” said Vinod Mehta, Principal Media Adviser to the CM.The ECMO technology, also known as extracorporeal life support (ECLS), is largely derived from cardiopulmonary bypass, which provides shorter-term support with arrested native circulation. Generally, the technique is used either post-cardiopulmonary bypass or in late-stage treatment of a person with profound heart and/or lung failure, although it is now seeing use as a treatment for cardiac arrest in certain centres, allowing treatment of the underlying cause of arrest while circulation and oxygenation are supported.During the pandemic, ECMO is being used to support patients with the acute viral pneumonia associated with Covid cases, where artificial ventilation is not sufficient to sustain blood oxygenation levels.Sources said since the technology is available in a very few private hospitals in the state, there is a lot of pressure on them and people had been approaching politicians to get critical patients treated through these machines.“The CM has directed the officers that the machines must be made functional by next week,” Mehta said.Meanwhile, Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, head, pulmonary department, PGIMS, said though two ECMO machines had arrived in the institute a few months ago, they could not be put to use because of the want of consumables. He said the machines were operated by cardiothoracic surgeons and were used only in very critical cases, where lungs were badly damaged.HOW IT WORKS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ecmo-treatment-in-rohtak-karnal-hospitals-by-next-week-252669
14-05-2021||---||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar blames farm stir for spike in villages||Chandigarh, May 13Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today blamed the ongoing farmers’ agitation against three agricultural laws for a spike in Covid-19 cases in rural areas.“The rise in cases in rural areas is because of the (farmers’) dharnas. Many villages have seen a spike as people are coming from and going back (to dharna sites),” Khattar said while addressing a virtual press conference here today. The CM said he had appealed to farm leaders last month to suspend their agitation till the pandemic was brought under control.Again urging the farm leaders to end the stir, he said they should understand the situation. “They say they will take the vaccine, but will not get tested. If we do not conduct tests, how will we know who is infected? Therefore, they should come forward to get the tests done,” he said, adding that everyone should have faith in the healthcare system. On the alleged gang-rape of a West Bengal woman at the Tikri border, he said the police were conducting investigation. “Whoever is found guilty, strict action will be taken against them,” he added.Aid for BPL families||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-blames-farm-stir-for-spike-in-villages-252565
