15-05-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Woman out to buy chicken gangraped in Gurugram||A 21-year-old woman was allegedly abducted and gangraped by three men when she was out buying chicken with two of her friends late on Friday night, police said on Saturday.Police said the victim, who’s from Bihar and lives with her sister in Gurugram’s Sector 52, had gone to Pataudi with two friends to buy chicken because all shops near her were closed due to the lateness of the hour. The suspects drove a Scorpio SUV and intercepted their bike and abducted them, the victim said in her complaint.  “They took us to fields near Judola village where they tied hands of my friends and asked them to sit inside car and they took me to fields where they raped me one by one. It was late night when they stuffed us in car and fled after dumping us outside of a mall in Sector 82. They my mobile phones as well but one of my friends managed to keep his. He dialled 100 to alert the police,” the victim told the police.A friend of the victim’s told the police that they intervened when the suspects tried to molest the woman, but the suspects threatened them and beat them up. Their bike, the friend said, was left on the side of the road when they were abducted.Doctors who medically examined the woman are believed to have confirmed the rape.  Police have booked three yet unidentified suspects for gangrape, molestation, wrongful confinement, and criminal intimidation, among other criminal charges.“We’re still investigating,” Inspector Poonam Hooda, SHO of Manesar’s women police station, which is investigating the case, said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-out-to-buy-chicken-gangraped-in-gurugram-253306
15-05-2021||---||Black fungus declared 'notified disease' in Haryana: Anil Vij||Chandigarh, May 15Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij on Saturday said that black fungus has been declared a notified disease in the state.This notification came on the day The Tribune highlighted that 27 cases of black fungus have surfaced in the state, five in the last one week.Also read: Study on black fungus underway at PGIMS27 black fungus cases in Haryana, 5 this weekGiving information in this regard, the Health Minister said that black fungal disease has been notified in Haryana.Now, if a patient of black fungus is diagnosed in any government or private hospital of the state, it will have to be reported to the CMO of the local district so that appropriate steps can be taken to prevent the disease.Vij said that for the treatment of the disease, senior doctors of PGIMS (Rohtak) will conduct video conferencing with all the doctors who are treating corona in the state and will inform them about the treatment of this disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/black-fungus-declared-notified-disease-in-haryana-anil-vij-253265
15-05-2021||New Delhi||Samyukta Kisan Morcha to observe May 26 as 'black day' marking 6 months of protest against farm laws||Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions, on Saturday announced that it will observe May 26 as ‘black day', marking six months of their protest at Delhi's borders against the Centre's three farm laws.In a virtual press conference, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal appealed to people to raise black flags at their houses, vehicles and shops on May 26 to protest against the contentious farm legislations."On May 26, we will complete six months of this protest and it also happens to mark seven years since PM Modi formed the government. We will observe it as black day," Rajewal said.A large number of farmers reached Delhi's borders on November 26 after facing water cannons and police barriers as part of their "Delhi Chalo" march against the Centre's farm laws.Thousands of farmers from across the country joined the protest in the following months at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders around the national capital.Rajewal appealed to people to support the call for observing ‘black day' on May 26."We appeal to people of the country and also Punjab to hang black flags at their house, shops, trucks and other vehicles. We will also burn effigies of (PM) Narendra Modi as a form of protest," he added.He said that the government has not heard the farmers demands to repeal the three farm laws and "with increasing prices of fertilisers, diesel and petrol, the farming business is not possible".Hundreds of farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since November 2020 demanding that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back, and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops.However, the government, which has held multiple rounds of formal dialogue with the protestors, has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samyukta-kisan-morcha-to-observe-may-26-as-black-day-marking-6-months-of-protest-against-farm-laws-253253
15-05-2021||Hisar||Haryana cops book 'Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah' actor Munmun Dutta for making alleged casteist slur in video||The Haryana police has booked actor Munmun Dutta featuring in the TV serial 'Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah' for allegedly using a casteist slur against scheduled caste people in a video.Even before the case was registered, the actress had "apologized to every single person" who, she said, has been "unintentionally hurt" by her due to the wrong usage of the word.Dutta had claimed she used the wrong word “because of her language barrier” and added she was genuinely misinformed about its meaning.The FIR against Dutta was registered in Haryana's Hansi town on a complaint by National Alliance for Dalit Human Rights convenor Rajat Kalsan.The Hansi police lodged the FIR against Dutta under various provisions of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.The complainant has alleged that Dutta made derogatory remarks against people belonging to the scheduled caste.Police said Kalsan had submitted a written complaint and a CD containing Dutta's purported video to the Hansi police superintendent on May 11.Acting on the complaint, Hansi Superintendent of Police Nikita Gehlot had ordered the registration of an FIR against her.A case was subsequently lodged against Dutta in the Hansi city police station in the Hisar district.Hansi city police station's SHO Dalbir Singh said an FIR has been registered against actress Dutta and further investigations were in progress.Dutta had taken to Twitter on Monday to put her side of the story.“This is in reference to a video that I posted yesterday wherein one word used by me has been misinterpreted. It was never said with the intent to insult, intimidate, humiliate or hurt anyone's feelings. Because of my language barrier, I was genuinely misinformed about the meaning of the word,” she had said in a statement, which she also shared in Hindi. “Once I was made aware of its meaning, I immediately took the part down. I have the utmost respect for every single person from every caste, creed or gender and acknowledge their immense contribution to our society or nation,” she wrote.“I sincerely would like to apologize to every single person who has been unintentionally hurt by the usage of the word and I sincerely regret the same,” she added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cops-book-taarak-mehta-ka-ooltah-chashmah-actor-munmun-dutta-for-making-alleged-casteist-slur-in-video-253219
15-05-2021||Deepender Deswal||Veterinary surgeons deployed in isolation wards in Haryana villages for Covid patients||Tribune News ServiceHisar, May 14Veterinary surgeons will take care of Covid patients in the isolation wards being set up in villages in Hisar district.The civil surgeon, Dr Ratna Bharti, has written a letter for deployment of 61 veterinary surgeons to the Deputy Director of Animal Husbandry and Dairying (DDAH&D) department in Hisar.The order has assigned the duties to 61veterinary doctors in the PHC and CHCs in rural areas and in small towns, including Hansi, Barwala and Uklana in the district.Most of the surgeons have been assigned the villages where they were already posted in the government hospitals while some others have been deputed to adjoining villages and small towns.Meanwhile, the veterinary surgeons association has expressed concern about their safety. The association has demanded that they should be declared as Covid warriors and should be given insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh each alike the health workers.The district administration has set up isolation wards in government schools, panchayat ghar dharamshalas in the villages. The veterinary surgeons are attached to these isolation wards who will keep a record of the patients and send the reports to the officials.The association also demanded that the they should be provided enough resources, including masks, sanitisers, thermometers, oximeters as these were short in supply at the PHC and CHC, said Dr RS Khasa, district president of Animal Veterinary Surgeon Association in Hisar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/veterinary-surgeons-deployed-in-isolation-wards-in-haryana-villages-for-covid-patients-253216
15-05-2021||Deepender Deswal||Surge in deaths, fear grips Hisar villages||Tribune News ServiceHisar, May 14Uklana block’s 31 villages reported 133 deaths in the past one week. Of them, 38 deaths were suspected to be caused by Covid, authorities claimed. Notwithstanding this, there is a sense of fear among villagers — the fear of contracting the virus and succumbing to it.The fear is palpable. Village streets, otherwise buzzing with activity, are deserted. Gatherings have been banned and agricultural work suspended.Rachna, the sarpanch of Kinala village which witnessed 12 deaths in a week, said: “Earlier, people did not take Covid seriously. They neither maintained social distancing nor followed protocols, but the recent surge in deaths made them realise the seriousness of the situation. There is a sense of fear among villagers.”A team of the Health Department visited the village today and collected samples of 76 persons. An isolation ward has been set up, but none of the ailing villagers has been admitted there.Realisation dawnsEarlier, people did not take Covid seriously. They neither maintained social distancing nor followed protocols, but the recent surge in deaths made them realise the seriousness of the situation. There is a sense of fear among villagers. —Rachna, Sarpanch, Kinala villagePvt hospitals overchargeFleecing by private hospitals was a major reason that villagers were shying away from treatment. A family living in a village cannot afford exorbitant room charges of Rs15,000 to Rs25,000 per day. —Raju Maan, Member, Cong covid relief panelRamniwas, numbardar of the village, said: “Villagers believe they would die if they get admitted to hospital. Persons having fever and other symptoms prefer to take medicines from quacks rather than visiting hospitals.”In Prabhuwala village, 22 persons died in the past 10 days but, until yesterday, the district administration did not take any action.“An isolation ward came up only yesterday. A majority of villagers have fever, but they avoid getting themselves tested,” said Prabhuwala resident Bhagwan Dass.The sense of fear is so much that no one visits bereaved families to offer condolences.“There are no ‘hookah baithks’ and gatherings at ponds. Villagers venture out of homes only for emergency work. Even work in the fields has been suspended,” Dass added.Raju Maan, a member of the Congress Covid relief committee, said fleecing by private hospitals was a major reason that villagers were shying away from treatment.“A family living in a village cannot afford exorbitant room charges of Rs 15,000 to Rs 25,000 per day in a private hospital,” he said, adding doctors and para medical staff from rural areas had been deployed at civil hospitals in urban areas.Oxygen beds, doctors and medicines should be immediately made available in villages if the state government was serious about getting rural areas out of the grip of the virus, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/surge-in-deaths-fear-grips-hisar-villages-252891
15-05-2021||Our Correspondent||Gurugram police searching for absconding wrestler||Gurugram, May 14Wanted Olympian wrestler Sushil Kumar is reportedly hiding in Gurugram. Suspecting that he is hiding in some under-construction residential society in new Gurugram, the crime unit has launched a massive search operation and is combing suspected societies.Sushil is absconding in the murder of a wrestler during a fight at the Chhatrasal Stadium in Delhi. According to crime unit sources, just before the killing of wrestler Sagar Rana at the stadium on the night of May 4, some miscreants and wrestlers of the Sushil group came to Gurugram. They were looking for a house on rent and PG facility in the area around IFFCO Chowk, but returned without finalising any house.Sagar Rana and others had allegedly occupied Sushil’s flat located in Delhi’s Model Town area.The police have reportedly got leads about him hiding in a society where construction is still on and only a handful of flats are ready.Such societies have been known to be perfect hideouts in the past also. Gangster Jitender alias Gogi, who carrying a reward of Rs 6.5 lakh on his head, was nabbed in March last year from a society in Sector 82. The special cell of the Delhi police also nabbed three shooters of Gogi gang from the same society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-police-searching-for-absconding-wrestler-252893
15-05-2021||Ravinder Saini||Poor infra to blame for surge, not us: Farmers||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 14Hitting back at Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for his remarks that the farmers’ protest is responsible for a spike in Covid cases in rural areas, protesting farmers at Tikri and farm organisations alleged the government intended to sabotage the protest through these baseless statements.But the farmers are firm on not moving from Delhi borders until the three farm laws are repealed.“We condemn the CM’s remarks. The governments at the Centre and in the state have failed to control the Covid and people are losing their loved ones due to poor health infrastructure,” said Phool Singh Sheokand, state president, All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS).‘Like Tablighis, govt defaming farmers’Earlier, the state had defamed the Tablighi Jamaat for the Covid spread. Now, it is defaming farmers. People working in Delhi, Gurugram and Faridabad, who visit their villages, could be the reason behind the spike. —Gurnam Charuni, BKU leaderSumit, working secretary of the AIKS, said if the protest was responsible for the spread of Covid, why infection was rampant in states where the farmers’ movement was negligible. “The CM must explain the factors behind the surge in cases in other states,” he added.Inderjit Singh, a senior member of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, said how could the CM make such a baseless statement when the death of no farmer camping on the Delhi borders had been reported due to Covid in the past five months.Gurbaksh Singh, a protesting farmer at Tikri, said the Chief Minister intended to scare the farmers by making such illogical statements so that they start moving from the borders but the farmers had vowed not to go back home without getting their demands met.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/poor-infra-to-blame-for-surge-not-us-farmers-252896
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Active cases under 1L after 14 days||Even as the number of active cases dropped below 1 lakh for the first time in the past 14 days, Haryana today witnessed a little dip in new Covid cases as 10,608 tested positive in the state.However, with the death of 164 more persons, fatalities continue to be a worry.In all, 16 people succumbed to the virus in Rohtak today, followed by 15 in Gurugram, 12 in Jind, 11 each in Hisar, Panipat and Bhiwani, and 10 in Ambala.Till Friday, 6,402 people have lost their lives in the state since the Covid outbreak.Today, 2,144 new infections were reported in Gurugram, followed by 1,146 in Hisar, 826 in Faridabad and 748 in Sonepat.With 14,577 recoveries, the number of active cases came down to five figures for the first time in May, as the figures had crossed 1 lakh mark on May 1. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/active-cases-under-1l-after-14-days-252898
15-05-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||33.29% drop in active Covid cases in a week in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, May 14The Covid situation in the district has shown a visible southward trend with the number of active cases declining by 33.29 per cent in the past one week. The number of deaths has, however, been above the average of seven daily.The number of active cases, which was recorded at 1,587 on May 7, slipped to 1,091 on May 13 (Thursday), according to the details compiled by the Health Department.The recovery level, which was lower than new cases on May 6, took a turnaround on May 7 when for the first time the number of recoveries (1,703) surpassed the figure of fresh cases (1,587) in the district after the surge of the second wave.The recoveries stood at 1,928 against the number of new cases of 1,091 on May 13. With the daily average of 1,469 new cases, the daily average of recoveries has been 2,133 in the past seven days, according to the officials concerned.The active cases graph has also declined by 33.29 per cent, as this number slipped to 9,571 on May 13 from 14,224 on May 7. The district recorded the highest number of new cases on May 3, when 1,805 persons were found positive against 1,037 recoveries. However, a total of 53 deaths took place in the past seven days.Describing the improvement due to better management and coordination, DC Yashpal Yadav said increased testing, contact tracing, coupled with vaccinations and implementation of containment zone policy had led to the marked decline. He said the situation was expected to improve further, as he claimed that various stakeholders had been making all efforts to curb the menace.Meanwhile, the district authorities have announced a three-member committee to look into the complaints of overcharging by private hospitals for treatment of Covid patients. The committee includes the incident commander, ACP and senior medical officer of the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/33-29-drop-in-active-covid-cases-in-a-week-in-faridabad-252901
15-05-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Residents come to aid of ailing health facilities||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 14With the government health facilities hard-pressed for resources in view of the high influx of Covid patients, several residents and voluntary social organisations have come forward to their aid.Good Samaritans and residents’ associations are donating medical equipment like oxygen concentrators for critical patients, personal protective gear like PPE kits, N95 and surgical masks for doctors and healthcare workers and blood for thalassaemic children and other patients at Rohtak PGIMS and Civil Hospital. The Association of Haryanvis in Australia (AHA) has donated 10 oxygen concentrators of 10 litre capacity each to the Rohtak PGIMS. Association president Sewa Singh Redhu said they decided to donate oxygen concentrators on the advice of Dr Naveen Malhotra, incharge of Pain Clinic at the PGIMS.Also serving cooked meals to patients, attendantsProf OP Kalra, Vice-Chancellor, Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences, Rohtak, has expressed gratitude to the association.Sumeet Bhayana, founder of Ram Saran Dass Bhayana Memorial Trust, has donated five advanced oxygen concentrators capable of providing high-flow oxygen to critical patients to the local civil surgeon’s office, while five more are in the pipeline. Rohtak Deputy Commissioner Capt Manoj Kumar and Civil Surgeon Dr Anil Birla have appreciated the notable contribution of the trust. Several social organisations of Rohtak like Sati Bhai Sai Dass Sewa Dal, Shri Himodevi Jain Charitable Trust, Jan Sewa Sansthan and Hari Om Sewa Dal are also supporting the state-run health facilities by setting up quarantine centres for Covid patients, arranging oxygen concentrators and cylinders, delivering cooked meals to Covid patients and attendants. These social organisations have proved to be great helping hands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/residents-come-to-aid-of-ailing-health-facilities-252903
15-05-2021||---||25 booked  for gangraping woman  in Palwal, 1 held||Palwal, May 14The police have arrested one of the 25 accused booked in connection with the gangrape of a young woman here recently.According to a complaint lodged with the police on Wednesday, the victim had developed friendship with a youth, Sagar, hailing from Ramgarh village. She was gangraped by the accused when she reached Hodal town to meet him in connection with a marriage proposal on May 3.According to the complainant, the accused took her to a tubewell in the fields where one Samunder, brother of Sagar, and 19 other unidentified persons gangraped her. The victim said the next day, five other youths raped her. She was dropped off near the Badarpur border in Faridabad on May 4. Claiming that she was bedridden and unable to move for many days, she approached the police for lodging the complaint on May 12.“While Sagar, the main accused, has been arrested, the police have launched a hunt to nab the remaining culprits in connection with the case,” said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/25-booked-for-gangraping-woman-in-palwal-1-held-252905
15-05-2021||---||Man held for stabbing wife||Faridabad, May 14A man has been arrested in connection with the murder of his estranged wife on May 12. The accused, identified as Shashi Kumar, a native of Firozabad (Uttar Pradesh), was remanded to two days’ police remand today.On May 12, Kumar met his wife Anmol, who had been living separately, near Badkhal flyover here and tried to resolve the matter. He insisted on her to return with him, but she refused. Argument ensued and Kumar took out a knife and stabbed Anmol several times. She succumbed to injuries before she could be taken to hospital.It has been found out the couple, who had been residing in a rented accommodation in Sector 37, had fought after Kumar found Anmol talking to someone on phone. Subsequently, she left home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-for-stabbing-wife-252907
15-05-2021||Jhajjar||Factory making fake products raided||A joint team of the local police, Food and Supply Department and representatives of private companies on Friday raided a factory indulging in selling ordinary detergent, shampoo, tea and spices under the brand name of prominent companies. The factory was located at Patel Nagar locality in Bahadurgarh town here.Sources said the items were being packed when the team raided the factory. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/factory-making-fake-products-raided-252908
15-05-2021||Parveen Arora||Blood shortage another challenge||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, May 14Amid the rising number of Covid cases, blood shortage has emerged as another challenge for the Health Department as people are reluctant to donate blood because of the pandemic.The Civil Hospital is left with only 100 units of blood. It requires around 25 units of blood daily for the delivery of babies and medical surgeries. Besides, around five units of plasma and six to seven units of platelets are required daily for patients. To tide over the problem, the department has initiated a pick-and-drop facility along with the issuance of e-passes for people who wish to donate blood. The department cannot hold a blood donation camp owing to the pandemic.Dr Sanjay Verma, Regional Blood Transfusion Officer, said: “The department cannot hold a big blood donation camp because of Covid. Small camps are the only option.”“Since the Civil Hospital has been converted into a non-Covid facility, all emergency and pregnancy-related surgeries are being conducted here, leading to high demand for blood units,” he said, adding social organisations were helping the department in collecting blood units. Pankaj Gaba, a social activist, said he has been holding camps with the help of his friends since April 27 last year. “So far, we have organised 44 camps and donated around 1,500 units,” he added. In May, they have orgnaised four camps, in which 80 people donated blood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/blood-shortage-another-challenge-252910
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||ESI staff deputed with Health Dept||As per the directions of Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, the ESI Corporation has decided to provide its medical and paramedical staff to the Health Department to control the spread of the pandemic.The staff will be on deputation in the 500-bed Covid hospitals being constructed in Panipat and Hisar.In all, 136 Medical Officers, 88 Pharmacists and 17 Lab Technicians will be sent on deputation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/esi-staff-deputed-with-health-dept-252912
15-05-2021||Saurabh Malik||Life term to man for rape of 3-year-old girl||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 14Amid rising number of Covid cases, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has decided a decade-old case to ensure justice to a girl raped at the age of three by a father of seven. Her widow mother not only had to face the trauma of seeing her daughter being raped, but was also accused of implicating the rapist following his refusal to marry her.To substantiate his plea, the accused in his defence had examined his wife as a defence witness. She stated that the complainant-mother wanted to marry her husband and had filed a false case as he had refused to marry her. She also stated that prosecutrix suffered injuries while she was playing on a swing. The defence, however, failed to find favour with the Bench, which described it as a “faint attempt” to secure acquittal.Mom heard screamThe matter was placed before the Bench of Justice Ritu Bahri and Justice Archana Puri after the 42-year-old convict filed an appeal against the State of Haryana challenging the judgment of conviction and order of life sentence passed in the rape case in February 2012 by the Fatehabad Additional Sessions Judge.The Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that the victim on October 13, 2010, had gone out of the house to play. The complainant went looking for her after she did not return. In the process, she reached the hut of the accused and entered after hearing her daughter’s screams.Refusing to interfere with the trial court orders, the Bench asserted: “Keeping in view the age of the appellant, who is married man having seven children, as gathered from the evidence and also considering the age of the prosecutrix, the sentence so imposed upon the appellant is just and reasonable”.The Bench added much emphasis was laid throughout the arguments on the complainant’s sole testimony. It was submitted that her statement was not trustworthy and reliable. But the submission was not tenable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/life-term-to-man-for-rape-of-3-year-old-girl-252913
15-05-2021||Yamunanagar||2 arrested for double murder||The Yamunanagar police have claimed to have solved the mysterious murder of a retired bank employee and his wife.The CIA team has arrested two persons, Rajat of Gaumati gali of Jagadhri and Harsh, alias Lakki of Indira Colony of Jagadhri in connection with the murder.The accused were on Friday produced before a court in Jagadhri, which remanded them in three-day police custody.The accused reportedly killed the couple to commit robbery in the house. After committing the murders, they took away cash and gold jewellery from the house.The bodies of Rishipal Goyal (80) of Gaumati gali, Jagadhri (a retired bank employee) and his wife Sneh Lata (75) were found lying on separate beds in a room of their house on May 10.On the complaint of the son of the deceased, Amit Goyal of Bhattanwali village of Ponta Sahib (Himachal Pradesh), a case was registered against unknown persons under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC at the Jagadhri City police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-arrested-for-double-murder-252914
15-05-2021||Kurukshetra||Shahabad MLA faces protest by farmers||Shahabad JJP MLA Ramkaran Kala faced opposition from BKU (Charuni) activists and villagers when he reached a dharna site at Yari village in Shahabad on Friday.Alleging discharge of polluted water and gases, villagers staged a dharna outside a factory in Shahabad. BKU (Charuni) activists led by union spokesman Rakesh Bains had reached in support of the villagers. After getting information regarding the dharna, the MLA also reached the spot, but he faced a protest.Shahabad SHO Prateek managed to pacify the farmer leaders and provided a safe passage to the MLA.Bains said, “Residents of Yari village had assembled to mark protest against the discharge of polluted water and gases from a factory. Later, a committee was formed by the administration to check the factory. Meanwhile, the JJP MLA reached the dharna site. We had already asked him not to visit villages till the farm agitation is on. We held a demonstration and asked him to leave.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/shahabad-mla-faces-protest-by-farmers-252915
15-05-2021||Our Correspondent||2 killed in accident||Gurugram, May 14Two persons were killed in a head-on collision between a car and bike on the Dwarka expressway. The bike rider died on the spot while the car driver succumbed to his injuries at a private hospital later. The police handed over the bodies to kin after a postmortem today.According to the police, the accident occurred on Thursday evening on the expressway when Manish Kumar, a resident of Surat Nagar Colony, was going on his bike. A WagonR car hit his bike near near Sobha City. While Manish died on spot, the car driver identified as Shiv Kumar, a resident of Nihal Colony, was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him “brought dead.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-killed-in-accident-252916
15-05-2021||Sumedha Sharma||Covid leaves other patients in the lurch||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, May 14While surge in Covid cases has left the health infrastructure overburdened, it has left the non-Covid emergency patients in lurch.In a tragic incident, three patients reportedly died on the premises of government hospitals waiting to be attended. While two deaths were reported from the Civil Hospital, Gurugram, another patient died at Sohna.In the first case, 10-year-old Radhika of New Colony was rushed to the Civil Hospital emergency after she fell from the roof of her house.The family alleged that doctors did not even inspect her and referred her to Safdarjung Hospital. The family begged for an ambulance, but didn’t get one and the girl succumbed to her injuries on the hospital premises.“They just wrote a referral and asked us to leave. She lay there while I begged all ambulance drivers there and even made calls for ambulances, but got none and she died there,” said her father.Similarly, a family member of TB patient from Ashok Vihar, Anil, alleged that they were made to run from one room to another in the hospital for a check-up, but nobody attended him and he died on a wheel chair.“They sent us from one room to another, saying go to staff and get yourself checked. He died in front of us,” said the patient’s wife. Another death has been reported from Sohna, where one Ratan Singh was allegedly admitted to the hospital, but was not attended and family was allegedly asked to take him to a bigger private hospital. They got him home and by the time they could arrange the money he had died.These are not lone cases, but several cases of non-Covid patients dying in ambulances and stretchers outside top private hospitals after not being let in are being reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-leaves-other-patients-in-the-lurch-252917
15-05-2021||Chandigarh||Special wheat procurement drive today||The Haryana Government has decided that on May 15, wheat of those farmers whose produce is still in the mandis will be procured. No new loaded vehicles of crops will be allowed to enter the market.Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said some farmer organisations had requested that some farmers were still keeping their wheat in the mandis with arhtiyas without getting the gate pass. In such a situation, agreeing to their demand, the state government has decided that on May 15, the farmers can come to the mandis themselves and get their wheat procured. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/special-wheat-procurement-drive-today-252919
15-05-2021||Karnal||61 new cases in Karnal jail||With 61 fresh cases, the number of Covid cases reached 159 in the district jail on Friday. Besides, 25 new cases have been detected in juvenile safety home, Madhuban. “Patients, most of them asymptomatic, have been admitted to the Covid ward,” said Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/61-new-cases-in-karnal-jail-252921
15-05-2021||For decades||Government should publicise harmful effects of hookah in villages||Follow norms to curb virusPublic should exercise utmost precautions against the prevailing second wave of coronavirus because of the tiny virus-laden particles in the surrounding environment, due to which it is highly contagious and easily transmissible between children, youth and the elderly. Prevention is always better than cure. —Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaAllotting land to hospitals for Covid infra a good moveIwas pleased to know that the DDA will allot vacant land to hospitals and medical institutions to set up Covid care infrastructure on a temporary basis. The proposal has been approved by Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal. A good move indeed to tackle Covid-19 cases in the times when the number of cases are rising day by day. —Subhash C Taneja, GurugramWHAT OUR READERS SAYIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/government-should-publicise-harmful-effects-of-hookah-in-villages-252936
15-05-2021||Karnal||Webinar on International Nurses Day||Passing out ceremonySonepat: The passing out ceremony for pre-commission and direct commission of the senior division of the Army and Navy was held recently at the National Cadet Corps Officer Training Academy at Kamptee with traditional military decorum. Major General Alok Beri Commandant, NCC, OTA, reviewed the pipping ceremony where 181 officer cadets became Associate NCC Officers. An Officer Cadet goes through a rigorous training package of 90 days to enable him to conduct a National Cadet Corps training effectively in their respective institutes. During the passing out ceremony, Dr Pardeep Singh of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Chandigarh directorate was awarded with the DG's Baton and gold medal. Dr Singh at present works as assistant professor in Physics Department of Deen Bandhu Chhotu Ram University of Science and Technology, Murthal, Sonepat, Haryana.28 students get placementsHisar: Recently 28 students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, have been selected in the e-campus placement drive of Sonepat-based New Directions Counselling Services organised by the training and placement cell of the university. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor and Prof Avnesh Verma, registrar of the university, congratulated the selected students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/webinar-on-international-nurses-day-252937
15-05-2021||Sushil Manav||27 black fungus cases in Haryana, 5 this week||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 14Even as Covid continues to devastate people in Haryana as also in other parts of the country, mucormycosis, or black fungus as it is commonly called, is posing a new threat in the state.Since the start of the pandemic, 27 cases of black fungus have so far come to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) and two private hospitals in Gurugram. Of the infected, two have died and 12 are currently under treatment, said Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, Head of Pulmonary Department of the PGIMS and state nodal officer for Covid 19.What is worrying is the fact that a majority of these cases have come to the hospital during the second wave of the deadly virus – 5 of these came in the past one week.“Almost all those who survived the infection had to undergo surgeries of the ear, nose, throat (ENT) or the eyes,” revealed Dr Chaudhary. Doctors say that mucormycosis is a very rare infection, which is caused by exposure to mucor mould, a fungi, which is commonly found in soil, plants, manure, and decaying fruits and vegetables.The black fungus attacks the sinuses, brain and lungs and can be life-threatening in diabetic or severely immunocompromised patients.Doctors believe mucormycosis, which has an overall mortality rate of 50%, is perhaps being triggered by excessive use of steroids, which are being administered to severe and critically ill Covid-19 patients to save their lives.Doctors are prescribing steroids to reduce inflammation in the lungs due to Covid-19. But as a side-effect, the steroids also reduce immunity and raise blood sugar levels in both diabetic and non-diabetic Covid-19 patients.“Whenever a suspected case of mucormycosis comes to the hospitals, ENT surgeons do a nasal endoscopy to diagnose the infection. Once confirmed, the treatment which can include surgeries begins immediately. The fungus grows speedily and once it affects the brain, it can be life-threatening,” said Dr Chaudhary.He said the PGIMS has in stock 180 injections of Liposomal Amphotericin B that are needed in the treatment and order has been placed for 400 more since nearly 30 injections are normally consumed on a single patient.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/27-black-fungus-cases-in-haryana-5-this-week-253030
