18-05-2021||Hisar||Angry farmers call panchayat meeting after police register FIR over Sunday’s clash||Farmers called a panchayat meeting in Hisar on Wednesday after reports said police registered a First Information Report in connection with Sunday’s clash with police.A clash broke out on Sunday evening over a visit of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, a senior leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Farmers have been protesting three controversial agriculture laws that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led central government passed against all opposition in September year and that has since been the source of a bitter and a thus-far unrelenting impasse between farmers and the Centre.Khattar was visiting Hisar to inaugurate a Covid care centre. Sunday's standoff lasted two hours until a meeting between farmers and the police administration helped calm the situation.Farmers said they would hold their panchayat meeting at Ramayan toll plaza.A district police spokesperson denied the FIR first, but it was later confirmed by Inspector General of Police, Hisar, Rakesh Kumar Arya.Arya said that FIR had already been registered when the farmers came to him on Sunday evening, and that he’d made “no commitment” to them that there would not be one over Sunday’s violence. Farmers mainly from Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh have been protesting on the outskirts of Delhi since November---a matter that has become particularly concerning for a nation that is still in the throes of the devastating second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Opposition parties in India recently wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to repeal the controversial agriculture laws---the key demand of the protesting farmers---to prevent the pandemic from spreading among the protesters.Farmers fear that the laws, which weaken the existing mandi system, leave them powerless against private players and powerful corporate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/angry-farmers-call-panchayat-meeting-after-police-register-fir-over-sundays-clash-254772
18-05-2021||New Delhi||Man held in Haryana for going back on supplying Remdesivir vials: Delhi Police||A 32-year-old man was arrested from Haryana for allegedly duping people on the pretext of providing Remdesivir injections, Delhi Police said on Tuesday.The accused has been identified as Sachin Yadav, a resident of Mahendragarh in Haryana, they said.Police recovered two mobile phones and freezed Rs 59,855 in the bank account of the accused.A case was registered at Greater Kailash police station on May 6 where complainant Amrita Mallick said her mother was admitted in a hospital. The complainant's mother was critical and six doses of Remdesivir injections were prescribed by the doctor, a senior police officer said.She came across a phone number through WhatsApp and called on it for the Remdesivir vials. Mallick, then, transferred Rs 49,200 in the account of the alleged person. Thereafter, the mobile number got switched off, the officer said. “During investigation, one suspicious person in Najafgarh was zeroed in. Police conducted a raid and found a clue regarding the accused. Later, another raid was conducted at Mahendragarh in Haryana and the accused was arrested,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said. During interrogation, Yadav disclosed that he had circulated messages on various social media platforms regarding the availability of the vital injections for coronavirus affected patients, Thakur said.Yadav started getting calls regarding Remdesivir vials and received money in his account on the pretext of providing the injection. He had duped nine people.The accused has been sent to judicial custody, police said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-in-haryana-for-going-back-on-supplying-remdesivir-vials-delhi-police-254745
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Jailed Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim seeks emergency parole to meet ailing mother||Jailed Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, who is currently lodged in Rohtak's Sunaria jail, has sought 'emergency parole' to meet and attend to his ailing mother, officials said on Tuesday.Serving a 20-year jail term in Rohtak's Sunaria jail since 2017 for raping two of his women disciples, the 53-year-old Sirsa-headquartered sect chief has submitted some documents regarding the ailment of his mother to the prison authorities.The Dera chief has sought 21-day parole to meet and attend to his ailing mother Naseeb Kaur, prison officials said.“Following his emergency parole plea, we have written to the Haryana Police in this regard and sought NoC from them,” Sunaria jail superintendent, Sunil Sangwan told PTI over phone.The prison officials have also forwarded the documents regarding the ailment of Dera chief's mother to the concerned authorities to verify them.Before taking a decision on parole plea, considerations mainly on law and order ground will be taken into account, sources said.Notably, the Dera head had earlier been given a day's parole to meet his ailing mother in October, 2020.Last week, he had been admitted to the PGIMS hospital in Rohtak for a day with complaints of dizziness and blood pressure fluctuations.The Dera chief was in August 2017 sentenced by a special CBI court in Panchkula to 20 years in jail in the two rape cases. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jailed-dera-sacha-sauda-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-seeks-emergency-parole-to-meet-ailing-mother-254735
18-05-2021||Karnal||Lockdown puts brakes on Karnal Smart City projects||Several projects of the Karnal Smart City flagship programme of the Union Government have come to a halt due to the shortage of labour and non-availability of construction material owing to the ongoing Covid lockdown.Some of the projects had come to a standstill just after they started, while some were in the tender process and work on a couple of projects was yet to start. Three projects costing around Rs 15 crore, including beautification of spaces under seven flyovers on the national highway-44, redevelopment of Karan Lake as a tourist hub, and beautification of western Yamuna Canal bank are the major projects which have been stopped.Work on flyovers hitAs much as 30 per cent of the work to beautify spaces under seven flyovers on the national highway-44, including Zhilmil Dhabha underpass, Baldi bypass, ITI Chowk, Nirmal Kutiya Chowk, Sector-6 Chowk, Tau Devi Lal Chowk and Namaste Chowk has been completed. But due to the lockdown the work was stopped, said sources in the Smart City project. These spaces will have modernised parking, table tops and crossing, graffiti or murals on the walls of these flyovers. The smart lighting facilities will beautify the flyovers. The cost of the project is around Rs 3 crore.The beautification of around 1.8km stretch of the western Yamuna Canal on the pattern of Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmadabad at a cost of Rs 6.3 crore, has also come to a halt due to the shortage of manpower and construction material. The stretch will have an open air theatre, open gym, food courts, green room, kiosks, picnic hut, linear landscape, yoga deck, viewing deck and a parking of around 150 vehicles.The phase one of the redevelopment of Karan Lake as a tourist hub is in its initial stage. It was stopped before it started, said the sources.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav who is also the Chief Executive Officer of Karnal Smart City Limited, said works would be restarted this week and would gain pace soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lockdown-puts-brakes-on-karnal-smart-city-projects-254524
18-05-2021||Hisar||PhD girl scholar found dead at Guru Jambheshwar University, suicide suspected||A PhD girl scholar allegedly committed suicide at the Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology in Hisar today.Sonia, 26, was a student in the microbiology department of the university. The police said she consumed poison in the laboratory of the department and was rushed to hospital where she died. The victim had reportedly written a suicide note which was recovered by the police.The suicide note mentioned that “she had failed to fight the battle and that her soul was wounded”.The victim’s father alleged that her daughter was being harassed by a senior faculty member in the university. He said she had also written to the university authorities on the issue. The police said they had registered an FIR under Section 306 of the IPC against two faculty members of the university and started investigation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/phd-girl-scholar-found-dead-at-guru-jambheshwar-university-suicide-suspected-254525
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||HCS officer gets additional charge||The state government today transferred an HCS officer. Mukesh Kumar, Additional Director (Administration), Health Services, has been given the additional charge of Additional Director (Administration), Elementary Education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hcs-officer-gets-additional-charge-254526
18-05-2021||Ambala||Ambala politicians come to the rescue of Covid patients||From delivering oxygen cylinders to assisting kin of Covid patients in arranging medicines and beds in hospitals, local politicians have come forward to rescue the Covid patients in Ambala.Mithun Verma, a municipal councillor, who could be seen delivering oxygen cylinders in different areas, said, “On the directions of Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja, a control room was setup at the Congress Bhawan in Ambala Cantonment where we have been getting daily requests for oxygen, medicine, food and availability of beds in hospitals. We have been providing six to seven oxygen cylinders to home-isolated patients every day. We have come across patients who were discharged from hospital after treatment with advice of arranging oxygen cylinders at home but the cylinders were not being provided to them.”Haryana Democratic Front general secretary Chitra Sarwara has launched ‘I Help’ helpline to assist Covid patients. Chitra said “We had been getting calls from people who needed help and also from the people who want to help. So instead of just sharing the contact numbers, we decided to collaborate with the people who have the resources and provide help to the people in need. So we started a helpline on Saturday to assist people in getting medicines, oxygen, and in registration for vaccination. We have observed that in the absence of proper guidance, people have been finding it hard to arrange medicine and registration for vaccination. We have deployed around 10 volunteers to assist people. Earlier, the front had handed over 143 oxygen cylinders to the district administration.”Ambala City BJP MLA Aseem Goel, who has started an oxygen bank at his residence on Sunday, said, “With the help of different social orgnisations and NGO ‘Mera Aasmaan’, we have started an oxygen bank through which Covid patients will be provided oxygen concentrators. Currently, there are five machines available and the kin of patients can get it as per their requirement for a period of two to five days after producing Aadhaar card, and a doctor’s prescription. Efforts are being made to procure more concentrators. We have received a lot of support from different organisations. NGO Mera Aasmaan has started a campaign to arrange more medical equipment so that the number of beds for Covid patients could be increased. The medical equipment will be handed over to the Health Department for the treatment of Covid patients.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-politicians-come-to-the-rescue-of-covid-patients-254527
18-05-2021||Karnal||5,220 bottles of illicit liquor seized||The Sonepat police intercepted a vehicle carrying 5,520 bottles of illicit Indian Made Foreign Liquor near Rai on the National Highway-44 in the wee hours on Monday.The vehicle was bound for Arunachal Pradesh from Chandigarh. The truck driver managed to flee from the place after leaving behind the truck. Jashandeep Singh Randhawa, SP, Sonepat, said the police intercepted the truck, bearing Madhya Pradesh number, on a tip-off and seized 460 cartons of different brands.“Preliminary investigation revealed that the liquor was being smuggled from Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh to Arunachal Pradesh. The liquor has a mark of distilleries in Chandigarh and Sirmour (Himachal Pradesh),” the SP said. A case was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-220-bottles-of-illicit-liquor-seized-254528
18-05-2021||Jhajjar||Rs 15,000 looted at pistol point||Three unidentified masked miscreants reportedly looted Rs 15,000 from a dairy owner at pistol point in the Palika Bazar market here last night.The looters fled from the spot after committing the crime, but the incident was captured by CCTV cameras installed on the premises. The police started investigation after booking a case against three persons in this regard. The crime was committed when the dairy owner Dhirendra was sitting at his shop. Though the police sealed all border points of the district on getting information about the crime, they could not nab the accused.Investigation officer Om Prakash said three youths were seen in the CCTV footage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-15-000-looted-at-pistol-point-254529
18-05-2021||Ambala||Virtual annual concert||Azadi Amrit Mahotsav seriesHisar: The Speakathon Club under the mentorship of the training and placement cell, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, has initiated a new programme, 'Aazadi Amrit Mahotsav series' to commemorate the 75 years of Indian Independence by remembering the freedom fighters who sacrificed their lives to free India. The series was inaugurated by Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, who was also the chief guest. Prof Deepa Mangla, Dean Student Welfare, was present as the guest of honour. The VC highlighted how India got independence and how all could become free from coronavirus. He said the country would be free of the virus when all would put in efforts along with the government. Pratap Singh Malik, director, said under this programme, on every Wednesday, students would speak on one freedom fighter. He said this programme had been designed to sharpen the communication skills of students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/virtual-annual-concert-254530
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Govt extends settlement plan to recover builders’ CLU dues||The Haryana Government has unveiled a bonanza for the recession-hit realty sector by extending the ambit of the one-time settlement scheme “Samadhan se Vikas”.The BJP-JJP government has provided further relief to the builders defaulting on the payment of change of land use (CLU) charges. Earlier, the state government decided to implement the scheme for builders defaulting on the payment of the external development charges (EDC).INTEREST WAIVERThe new deadline for payment of the outstanding amount will now be July 15, 2021, an order issued by AK Singh, Principal Secretary, Town and Country Planning, said.Sources said the scheme had been extended to give a boost to the property transactions during the economic crisis triggered off by the prevailing Covid pandemic.Under the scheme, the defaulters paying 100 per cent outstanding principal EDC amount and 25 per cent of the accumulated interest and penal interest within six months will now get a waiver on the rest of the 75 per cent interest.The colonisers paying 50 per cent of the outstanding principal amount and 50 per cent interest and penal interest will get a waiver on 50 per cent interest. However, they’ll have to deposit the rest of the outstanding principal amount (50 per cent) by four six-monthly instalments with 8 per cent interest.Sources said the builders would be benefitted as they would not have to pay any penalty in case of default of instalments within the prescribed period of two years for the deposit of instalments.However, if any amount of the balance 50 per cent principal amount and interest was not deposited within two years, the coloniser would lose all benefits under the policy and the original schedule of the EDC payment would be restored, the stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-extends-settlement-plan-to-recover-builders-clu-dues-254541
18-05-2021||Ambala||Fire breaks out in Ambala gurdwara||A fire broke out at a gurdwara situated at Paras Nagar in Ambala Cantonment on Monday. No causalities or injuries were reported in the incident. Short circuit is suspected to be the reason behind the incident. One fire tender was pressed into service.After getting information Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij reached the gurdwara and inquired about the incident. He met the members of the gurdwara committee and assured them of all possible help.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fire-breaks-out-in-ambala-gurdwara-254542
18-05-2021||On my way home||Wastage of wheat alongside flyover in Narwana||Take support of help groups to fight Covid in villagesIt is open to everyone that there is surge in the number of Covid cases in rural Haryana. The need of the hour is to boost the morale of the villagers. Each village has self-help groups (SHGs) formed under rural development and other socio economic activities. The services of local members of these groups can be utilised. Moreover, with in the radius of 3 to 4 kms all government service buildings, particularly schools, need to be converted into temporary hospitals with minimum staff .This would not only build confidence but would alleviate pressure on city hospital where people pour in for checkup. — Gian P Kansal, Veena Kansal, Ambala CityLet there be no further lockdownIt is a matter of great satisfaction that after the lockdown put in place in Delhi and Haryana, Covid cases have come down manifold and the situation has become quite normal. Of course credit goes to residents of both places to adhere the protocols strictly. Besides this, recovery is outnumbering the new cases. In view of this changed situation, I feel that there should be no further lockdown as it will become difficult to feed the masses. — Subhash C Taneja, GurugramIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wastage-of-wheat-alongside-flyover-in-narwana-254548
18-05-2021||Karnal||50 Sonepat villages declared hotspots, district administration on toes||With around 700 Covid cases in the past 10 days, 50 villages of Sonepat have been declared hotspots of the district, prompting the authorities to set up isolation centres there.Besides, of eight Community Health Centres (CHC) and one urban dispensary, four health centres having 29 oxygen beds have been turned into Covid hospitals. Apart from it, a massive sampling and vaccination drive had also been launched in these villages.Control Room set up“Each of the 50 villages have reported, 10 to 15 cases. We have started the process to establish village-level isolation centres,” said Shyam Lal Poonia, Sonepat Deputy Commissioner.‘Testing facility must in villages’“We have constituted 50 coordination teams comprising principal or headmaster of the village, secretary, ANM, Asha worker, Anganwari worker, ex-sarpanch and numberdar to screen all residents. If anyone is found to be asymptomatic, they will be shifted to a village-level isolation centre and if any patient requires oxygen support, they will be referred to the CHC,” the DC added.For further treatment, the patients will be shifted to the ICU facility at the Bhagat Phool Singh Government Medical College, Khanpur, and the Sonepat district hospital. “The village isolation centre and timely screening of the patient will help reduce the burden on the tertiary care health centre,” he said.Apart from it, the Sonepat administration has also started the teleconsultation facility for the home-isolated patients. “We have roped in 120 interns and PG students to reach out to the home-quarantined. These students have been divided into 30 teams, who have been monitoring the health of these patients. If they feel any patient needs to be shifted to a hospital, the department will do so,” the DC added.Meanwhile, Sonepat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said 10 Innovas, received for the ‘Dial 112’ service, have also been roped in as ambulances to ferry the patients. Four buses of the Haryana Roadways have also been converted into ambulances, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/50-sonepat-villages-declared-hotspots-district-administration-on-toes-254557
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Diaspora from Oz donates 110 Oxygen concentrators||The Association of Haryanvis in Australia (AHA) has donated 110 oxygen concentrators (OC), 3,000 pulse oximeters and 2,500 thermal scanners for Haryana and NCR under the ‘Operation Sanjeevani’ campaign.According to a government spokesperson, these medical devices have been sent to India in two phases. The PGIMS-Rohtak received the first consignment of 10 oxygen concentrators on May 13, while 1,000 oximeters were delivered to the Haryana Government and GIEO Geeta Sansthan.Similarly, 100 oxygen concentrators, 2,000 oximeters and 2,500 thermal scanners were received on May 16.AHA Trustee Ashok Kundu said Haryanavis living in Australia had donated for these lifesaving equipment.Seva Singh, who has been a part of the association in Sydney, said medical equipment were being sent to health institutions in Haryana and NCR through government-appointed nodal officers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/diaspora-from-oz-donates-110-oxygen-concentrators-254559
18-05-2021||Faridabad||Isolation centres in 50 Faridabad villages||The district administration has set up isolation bed facilities in 50 villages, which witnessed a surge in Covid cases recently.“Each isolation bed facility is equipped with two to five beds. The facilities have been set up either in vacant school buildings or public spots such as community centres and ‘chaupals’,” said Deputy Commissioner Yashpal Yadav.The district administration has designated at least 10 villages as hotspots, where 12 or more cases surfaced recently. The villages are Nevada, Seekri, Hirapur, Sagarpur, Prahladpur, Javan, Atali, Kurali Dayalpur and Junhera.A senior official said, “The administration has deployed teams of the Health Department with Community Health Centres (CHC) and Primary Health Centres (PHC) to carry out surveys and conduct antigen tests every day.”He said those reporting serious symptoms would be shifted to district-level Covid care centres or main hospitals equipped with oxygen and ventilators.As of Sunday, active cases in the district were 7,932, while the positivity rate was 12.4 percent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/isolation-centres-in-50-faridabad-villages-254560
18-05-2021||Karnal||In Karnal, woman dies of black fungus||A 65-year-old woman has died of black fungus at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) here, the first such case in the district since the Covid breakout.Dr Jagdish Dureja, Director, KCGMC, has confirmed this.4-time councillor passes awayThe deceased has been identified as Rajwanti (65), a city resident. She was admitted to the hospital on May 2 after she complained of fever for 12 days and worsening breathlessness for two days.Her Covid test report came out positive. She passed away on May 14 and her report for black fungus came out positive the next day.“The report confirmed she had black fungus, acute respiratory problem and pneumonia,” said Dr Dureja.Another patient of black fungus, Sanjay (39) of Bal Pabana village in Assandh, is admitted to the KCGMC. He was admitted on April 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-karnal-woman-dies-of-black-fungus-254563
18-05-2021||Gurugram||40 cases of black fungus in Gurugram||About 40 cases of black fungus have been reported in the district, the health authorities have said. Sources, however, put the number at 49.Gurugram and Faridabad districts account for 70 per cent of black fungus cases in the state.A majority of the patients are from NCR districts and Delhi, which lack treatment for the disease.“There are 40 cases of black fungus in Gurugram. The health authorities have asked all hospitals to share data regularly,” said Dr Virender Yadav, Chief Medical Officer.Meanwhile, the increase in cases has raised the demand for Liposomal amphotericin B injection, which is being sold on the black market at four times the price.Social media is flooded with requests for the injection after the state government declared black fungus a disease. The drug control department is working with hospitals and pharmacies to regulate the supply and sale. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/40-cases-of-black-fungus-in-gurugram-254566
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Weekly Covid cases drop across Haryana||Even as the Covid curve shown a downward trend during the week that ended on Sunday, the number of deaths in the past seven days remained almost close to the mortalities of the preceding week in Haryana.According to the state’s weekly status report on Covid, 78,530 persons tested positive between May 10 and 16. As many as 1,01,009 cases were reported in the preceding week from May 3 to 9. The weekly cases were 90,569 from April 26 to May 2 and 67,348 from April 19 to 25.Haryana to procure DRDO medicineHealth Minister Anil Vij on Monday said the state government would buy the drug 2DG prepared by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for the treatment of Corona patients. He said the drug was expected to provide speedy recovery to corona patients and would reduce the need of extra oxygen for the patients.It is for the first time since cases started showing an upward trend from February 8 that the new infections in a week are lesser than the previous one.However, apprehensions are being raised over the official figures as the testing remains “poor” in rural areas.On the other hand, there is little respite as far as the number of deaths is concerned. At least 1,080 persons succumbed to the virus in the past seven days against 1,119 deaths reported in the preceding week.Doctors say a corresponding dip in the number of deaths is expected to be witnessed in the next seven to 14 days as the critical patients of the past two weeks are still under treatment in hospitals and ICUs.The second wave of Covid-19 has seen the maximum number of deaths in the state. Of the 6,685 persons who died in Haryana since the outbreak of the pandemic in March last year, almost half (3,270) have lost their lives in the past four weeks (from April 19 to May 16).Although new infections have shown a downward trend, the Health Department is in no hurry to assume that the state has crossed the peak of the current wave.“This is a welcome trend, but let us wait for another week before we can say with surety that the peak is over,” said Rajeev Arora, ACS, Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/weekly-covid-cases-drop-across-haryana-254567
18-05-2021||Rohtak||Haryana CM’s promise to add 650 more beds at Rohtak PGIMS only on paper||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced during a media interaction here on April 26 that the number of beds for Covid patients at the PGIMS would be increased from 350 to 1,000 soon.However, more than three weeks after the announcement, the CM’s promise has failed to materialise.On the night of April 25, the PGIMS administration had pasted a notice at the Trauma Centre (designated Covid hospital), stating that no more patients could be admitted due to oxygen shortage.Tata hospital sends 98 O2 concentratorsTata Memorial Cancer Hospital, Mumbai, has sent a consignment of 98 oxygen concentrators and 25,000 N95 masks to the Rohtak-PGIMS. Prof (Dr) Dhruva Chaudhry, state nodal officer for Covid-19 and head of the department of pulmonary and critical care medicine at PGIMS, has expressed gratitude towards PGIMS alumnus Dr Ashish Gulia and Tata Memorial Centre Director Dr Rajendra Badwe for the goodwill gesture.However, shortly before the CM’s visit to the institute on April 26, the PGIMS authorities announced that the admissions of Covid patients had been resumed.As of now, there is no official notice stating that Covid patients would not be admitted to the PGIMS, but even critical patients are being denied admission at the state’s premier medical institute.“It is a tough task even for us to get a Covid patient admitted to our own institute,” says a senior consultant.The PGIMS authorities say more beds will be of little use without adequate supply of oxygen as a majority of patients require high-flow oxygen.“Though we have sufficient quantity of liquid oxygen as of now, but oxygen cylinders are also required to maintain the requisite pressure. We can admit more patients if we have regular and adequate supply of oxygen cylinders,” says Dr Pushpa Dahiya, Medical Superintendent, PGIMS.On the other hand, the district authorities seem to be in a denial mode regarding the issue, with the local administration announcing every other day that sufficient oxygen is available at the PGIMS and other government-run as well as private health facilities in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cms-promise-to-add-650-more-beds-at-rohtak-pgims-only-on-paper-254568
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||DLF gives 10K pulse oximeters to Haryana Medical Services Corporation Limited||The DLF Foundation has provided 10,000 pulse oximeters to Haryana Medical Services Corporation Limited (HMSCL).Expressing gratitude to DLF Foundation, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said, “The DLF Group and DLF Foundation have certainly shown their commitment to provide resources and support to help the community in all possible ways during this unprecedented pandemic crisis.”The DLF Group and DLF Foundation were also helping by augmenting medical infrastructure and organising free Covid vaccination drives for 10,000 persons in Delhi and NCR.The foundation has also deployed ambulances at strategic locations for emergency evacuation of patients from urban slums to nearby hospitals. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dlf-gives-10k-pulse-oximeters-to-haryana-medical-services-corporation-limited-254569
18-05-2021||Sonepat||SKM condoles death  of farm activist||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has expressed grief over the death of Major Khan, an ex-serviceman and farm activist. Khan, who belonged to Jhandi village of Patiala district, passed away on Monday.In a joint statement, SKM leaders, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Dr Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Hannan Mollah, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Yudhvir Singh, Yogendra Yadav and, Abhimanyu Kohar, said Khan was actively involved in the mobilisation of farmers. “Major Khan was an invaluable asset to the movement. He had been camping at Singhu since November 26,” they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/skm-condoles-death-of-farm-activist-254570
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar apprises Amit Shah of farmer-police clash in Hisar||A day after a violent clash between protesting farmers and the Haryana Police in Hisar, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar met Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday in New Delhi and apprised him of the incident.Khattar said the BJP leadership agreed that the protesting farmers should not have opposed the inauguration of a Covid hospital.“The main agenda of the meeting was to discuss the second wave of Covid and the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three Central laws,” he told the media.“The meeting was broadly about two issues — Haryana’s preparedness to handle the second wave of Covid in the coming days and the farmers’ agitation. I have apprised the central leadership of the incident and it says the protesters should not have opposed the inauguration of a Covid hospital,” Khattar said.A violent crash broke out between farmers and the police on Sunday after a group of farmers tried to march towards the venue of a programme in Hisar, where Khattar had gone to inaugurate a hospital.Many, including several police personnel, got injured in the incident.He said he was informed at the meeting that the Centre was importing medicines for black fungus cases reported in Covid patients, which would be distributed among states. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-apprises-amit-shah-of-farmer-police-clash-in-hisar-254571
18-05-2021||Hisar||Clash among farmers and police: BJP, Cong leaders flay Haryana CM, seek his apology||The clash among farmers and police, injuring nearly 60 persons, has resulted into a political stir. Two BJP and Congress leaders on Monday raised questions over the need to inaugurate the temporary Covid hospital in Hisar by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar under the prevailing circumstances.Resignation must to save state: INLDINLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala has demanded the CM’s resignation over the Hisar violence. He described the attack on farmers as a cowardly act. “Khattar has no right to continue as the CM. No CM has caused as much damage to the state as he has done. If the state is to be saved, Khattar should resign immediately.”BJP leader and former Union Minister Birender Singh condemned the violence and stressed the need to resume a dialogue with the agitated farmers to end the ongoing stalemate between them and the government. On Monday, Birender, whose son Brijender Singh is a BJP MP from the Hisar parliamentary constituency, tweeted: “There is a need to go to the root of the farmers’ issue to prevent recurrence of such events in future.”He expressed his intention to play a role in the resumption of talks with the farmers and said he was committed to making fresh efforts in this direction.Former state Home Minister Sampat Singh termed the incident as shameful. On his Twitter handle, he pointed fingers at the government, stating that its adamant attitude was responsible for shedding the blood of farmers and jawans (policemen). He questioned, “Does the provision of Section 144 and lockdown applied in different ways on the common men and politicians?”Meanwhile in Barwala on Monday, Congress national spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said the CM himself was responsible for violating the lockdown during his visit to Hisar. “Why the CM came to Hisar to tease and provoke the farmers? Moreover, he did nothing except cutting the ribbon of the temporary Covid hospital as the Jindal family has provided the land and oxygen for it,” he said.Congress’s Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhary too lambasted the CM for visiting Hisar to inaugurate the temporary hospital, saying he should have done that virtually to avoid the clash.Meanwhile, the district administration issued statements on behalf of BJP MLA Kamal Gupta and various social organisations and termed the protesters as anti-nationals and violent miscreants who were out to damage to the newly set up Covid hospital and demanded the registration of a criminal case against them.In Chandigarh, state Congress leaders will on Tuesday submit a memorandum to the DCs of all districts to seek an apology from the CM over the Hisar incident where farmers were allegedly beaten up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/clash-among-farmers-and-police-bjp-cong-leaders-flay-haryana-cm-seek-his-apology-254572
18-05-2021||Kurukshetra||BKU activist Pankaj Habana released||BKU (Charuni) activist Pankaj Habana, who was arrested in connection with a case registered under various charges, including using criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty, voluntarily causing hurt, rioting and violating Covid norms, was released from the Kurukshetra jail on Monday.Pankaj said, “We opposed the JJP Shahabad MLA Ramkaran Kala during his visit to Yari village, following which a case was registered and I was arrested.”After his arrest while Pankaj was sent to judicial custody, the BKU activists had gheraoed the Shahabad police station on Saturday and started a dharna. However late in the evening, the farmers lifted their dharna after Kurukshetra SP Himanshu Garg reached the Shahabad police station and held a meeting with the farm leaders.BKU spokesman Rakesh Bains, said, “We have asked BJP and JJP leaders not to visit villages till the farm stir is on. The police had registered a case under political pressure and arrested Pankaj, following which we held a demonstration. Pankaj has been released today and the panchayat scheduled for Wednesday has been cancelled.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bku-activist-pankaj-habana-released-254573
18-05-2021||Chandigarh||Bail for 5 in loot, arson case at Capt Abhimanyu’s house||The court of CBI Special Judge, Panchkula, today granted regular bail to five accused in a case related to looting and arson at Capt Abhimanyu’s house in Rohtak.The accused, Gaurav Hooda, Sandeep Rathee, Jitender Singh, Sumit Singh Malik and Vijaydeep Panghal, were on interim bail since 2018.Capt Abhimanyu was a minister in the BJP government in the state during the Jat reservation agitation in 2016 when the incident took place.2016 Jat quota stir incidentOn February 19, 2016, during the Jat reservation agitation, a huge crowd had gathered outside the house of BJP minister Capt Abhimanyu and it was set on fireHooda is the son of former Congress minister Krishan Murti Hooda. Panghal submitted that as he had served as secretary of the Jat Arakshan Sangharsh Samiti and had once given a representation on quota to former Union minister Birender Singh which was forwarded to the CM, so he was falsely implicated in the case.CBI counsel Kanwar Pal Singh argued that the possibility couldn’t be ruled out that if released on bail, the accused would try to influence the material witnesses.Defence counsel Satish Kadian said the accused were falsely implicated.While allowing bail applications, the judge put the conditions that the accused “will not tamper with the evidence, they will not influence the witnesses, they will not flee away from India without prior permission of the court” and “they will not use the delay tactics to prolong the judicial proceedings”.They were ordered to be released on furnishing the bail bond of Rs 1 lakh each with one surety each in the like amount.On February 19, 2016, during the Jat reservation agitation, a huge crowd had gathered outside the house of Capt Abhimanyu and it was set on fire.A case was registered for criminal conspiracy, rioting, attempt to murder, dacoity, causing property damage, causing mischief by fire, tresspass, using criminal force against public servant, obstructing public servant, and disobedience of prohibitory orders under the IPC and Arms Act at Urban Estate Police Station, Rohtak.The case was handed over to the CBI on September 30, 2016. The investigating agency registered the case on October 6, 2016.The CBI court’s order said, “It is worthwhile to mention that the applicants-accused were not arrested at any point of time by the CBI. It is not the case ofthe prosecution that anything is to be recovered or interrogated from the applicants/accused.”It added, “It is pertinent to mention that the conclusion of the trial will take a long time. There is nothing on record to show that if released on bail, the applicants/accused may run from the process of law or misuse the concession of bail.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bail-for-5-in-loot-arson-case-at-capt-abhimanyus-house-254574
18-05-2021||---||Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee condemns lathi-charge on protesting farmers in Haryana||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, May 17The core committee of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee(KMSC), Punjab, at its meeting held here on Monday condemned the Manohar Lal Khattar government for lathi-charge on farmers protesting peacefully and arresting more than 200 of them.The organisation demanded immediate release of the arrested farmers. The committee workers held protests in different villages across the state against and the Union Government.Satnam Singh Pannu, state president, and Sawinder Singh Chutala, vice-president of the organisation, while addressing the protesters, said the village-level units of the committee would observe a black day on May 26 on the completion of six months of the farmer agitation on Delhi borders. The leaders said that the committee activists would hoist black flags at rooftops and burn effigies of the Modi government. The leaders demanded repeal of the three farm laws. The leaders alleged that the Union and state government had failed to provide proper treatment to the Covid-19 infected persons. The organisation demanded vaccination for all in government hospitals.The protesters warned the government that if their demands were not accepted they would intensify their stir in the coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kisan-mazdoor-sangharsh-committee-condemns-lathi-charge-on-protesting-farmers-in-haryana-254534
18-05-2021||Rohtak||46 isolation centres in Rohtak without facilities||Isolation centres have been set up in 46 villages in Rohtak district, but not a single Covid patient has reported there over the past three days.Villagers avoid coming to these centres citing non-availability of proper facilities. The authorities, however, say the centres are meant for providing isolation space to those who can’t do so at home. “How can patients move to isolation centres that don’t have doctors, support staff, medicines etc. Patients need at least attendants to give them water, food and medicines etc. on time, but there is no such arrangement. Hence, staying at home is better than shifting to these centres,” said an ailing resident of Bainsi village.Bainsi Sarpanch Krishan Chhabra said many villagers were running fever, but in the absence of Covid testing they were not shifting to these isolation centres. “A 10-bed isolation centre was set up in the village three days ago, but it has no doctor, nurse or medicines. I have written to the Civil Surgeon to arrange necessary facilities there,” he said. Around 25 villagers had died in a month, he added. Similar is the situation at CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s Nindana village where over 20 persons are suffering from Covid, but none of them has gone to the isolation centre.Mahesh Kumar, CEO (DRDA)-cum-nodal officer for isolation centres, confirmed that not a single patient had come to any of the 46 centres in the district so far. He, however, said, “Basic facilities like beds, drinking water, conveniences, medicines etc. have been made available at these centres and a health official will also visit these centres daily for examining patients. Those developing complications will be shifted to a hospital immediately.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/46-isolation-centres-in-rohtak-without-facilities-254338
18-05-2021||Pest management||Sensitise farmers to minimise pesticide residue||SS ChahalRice is one of the major foodgrains and a dominant crop of India. With 120 million tonnes in the 2020-21 financial year, India accounts for 20 per cent of the rice production worldwide. Basmati and white rice are preferred the most for general consumption. The area under basmati generally falls in northern states/UTs such as Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttarakhand and western Uttar Pradesh. In 2019-20, India exported 44.55 lakh metric tonnes of basmati worth $4.25 billion. However, the export consignments have to undergo stringent quality checks before acceptance by the importing countries. According to data provided by the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), the export of basmati decreased consistently to countries such as UAE, Qatar, Belgium, Germany, Italy, Brazil, Croatia, France, Greece, Portugal, Spain and Switzerland between 2017-18 and 2019-20. In 2013, the export of basmati to the US suffered a setback after the United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) stopped all basmati consignments which were having tricyclazole level more than 0.1 parts per million (ppm).The issue of pesticide residue has hit basmati export from India like never before. Around 10 per cent of the country’s annual export is to the member countries of the European Union (EU). The EU has reduced the maximum residue limit (MRL) from 1.0 ppm to 0.01 ppm for tricyclazole, a systemic fungicide applied against the blast disease of rice. This has reduced the export by more than 45 per cent to EU countries. To avoid such rejection, the Central Government has made testing compulsory before exports. The Export Inspection Agency (EIA) examines rice consignments for pre-shipment testing of 22 pesticides for their residue. The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare has also taken the initiative to develop Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), initially for tricyclazole and buprofezin, and Good Agricultural Practices (GAPs) for the farmers to follow, enabling them to eliminate residue of these pesticides in rice grains.It is estimated that various insect pests and diseases cause 25-30 per cent yield losses every year under humid and warm weather conditions in almost all rice ecologies. Pesticides are used to reduce such huge losses caused by pests infecting the rice crop from the seedling to the panicle stage. About two dozen insect pests and mites cause biotic stresses in rice-growing areas, including rice stem borers, which are widespread under all conditions. Asian rice gall midge, leaf folder, brown plant hopper, white-backed plant hopper and green leaf hopper cause enormous losses. Gundhy bug mainly appears in irrigated and low land areas. The major diseases are sheath blight, bacterial leaf blight, brown leaf spot, pyricularia blast, false smut, kernel bunt, sheath rot and stem rot. Basmati rice also suffers from foot rot or bakanae.Usually, factors like monoculturing, heavy fertilisation and an intensive cropping system create a favourable environment for insect pests and diseases. Hence, various contact and systemic pesticides are widely used as part of the control measures. Often, these prescriptions are not adhered to as per the specified procedure, dosage, economic threshold level (ETL), timings, time intervals and without following other SOPs and GAPs. Mostly, farmers are prone to using a higher quantity of chemicals and non-judicious and indiscriminate pesticide applications because of their foremost interest to get maximum returns for their produce and aim to get shiny and marketable grain free from pests, thus leading to pesticide residue in the grains of such crops. Systemic pesticides applied less than 25-30 days before ripening are almost sure to persist in the grains. Where there is a need to curb such practices, efforts should be made to develop SOPs and GAPs for all 22 pesticides identified for pre-shipment testing by the EIA for residue in export consignments of rice to the EU and other countries. It can only be achieved through sensitisation of farmers for their implementation as well as discouraging the use of harmful pesticides. It is equally important to come out of pesticide-dependant pest control and promote the adoption of alternative pest and disease management practices in an integrated fashion in paddy cultivation.The adoption of pest-resistant varieties is a key component of Integrated Pest Management (IPM) strategies. Green manuring with Sesbania or mungben enhances soil health by increasing the percentage of organic matter and also supports the multiplication of plant growth promoting microflora. Sesbania cannabina, commonly known as dhaincha, grown as a pre-kharif crop and used as green manure, is reported to contribute almost 25-kg nitrogen/hectare. Rice seeds may be treated with a generic fungicide, carbendazim, or bioagent trichderma viride or T. harzianum against seed and soil-borne diseases. Seed treatment with chloropyriphos is useful in termite-endemic areas. Biological control is the basis for IPM strategies to exploit the potential of naturally occurring antagonistic fungi, bacteria, parasitoides, predators and entomopathogens. Other activities under IPM include planting of 2-3 seedling/hill, adequate spacing, judicious fertiliser application, use of straw bundles for augmentation and conservation of beneficial insects like spiders, application of fungicides and pesticides based on ETL and manual weed management. While carrying out validation and impact analysis of such IPM modules on basmati rice, the National Research Centre for Integrated Pest Management has found significant reduction in the incidence of bakanae, brown plant hopper, conservation of beneficial organisms under ETL-based application of pesticides and carbendazim residue below the detectable level with highly favourable yield benefit-to-cost ratio.There is great scope for young innovators to set up startups employing modern digital technologies like artificial intelligence and drones for bringing precision to the application of pesticides to targeted sites only, which can reduce indiscriminate use of pesticides. Last year, Punjab, a major basmati-growing state, had banned the use of acephate, carbendazim, thiamethoxam, triazofos, tricyclazole, buprofezin, carbofuran, propiconazole and thiophanate methyl on basmati rice, necessitating the popularisation of IPM procedures for raising healthy crops, avoiding yield losses and improving quality of the produce.Organic cultivation of basmati rice has the potential to supply world-class produce in the international market. However, it is yet to pick up to the desired level.The author is former V-C of Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology, UdaipurSend your feedback to letters@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sensitise-farmers-to-minimise-pesticide-residue-254016
