20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Eight die of black fungus in Haryana; 316 cases in state||Eight people have died of black fungus in Haryana as the state has so far reported 316 cases of the deadly infection, officials said on Thursday.Of the total cases, the maximum 114 were recorded in Gurgaon, followed by 45 in Sirsa, 42 in Faridabad, 31 in Hisar and 20 in Rohtak, they said.Forty-eight fresh cases of black fungus were reported in Haryana on Thursday, the officials said.With cases of black fungus or mucormycosis in the state on the rise, a meeting regarding management of the disease was held under the chairmanship of Health Minister Anil Vij on Thursday.Vij said he has ordered to float a global tender to procure anti-fungal injection Amphotericin B along with one crore Covid-19 vaccines and Tocilizumab injection. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/eight-die-of-black-fungus-in-haryana-316-cases-in-state-255843
20-05-2021||Rohtak||Walk-in admissions, free-of-cost treatment at Chhatarpur Covid centre for all: ITBP||Here is some good news for the Covid patients from Haryana and other states in the vicinity of the national capital: The 500 oxygen-bedded Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre (SPCCC), established on the premises of Radha Soami Satsang Beas at Chhatarpur in New Delhi, which is being managed by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), is open for the Covid patients from all states.“The Covid-Care Centre and Hospital is well-equipped with ventilators, oxygen concentrators and medicines required for the treatment of Covid-19. It serves the patients who require oxygen support and provides walk-in admissions and treatment to all Covid-affected residents completely free of cost,” said ITBP Director-General S.S.Deswal while talking to The Tribune today.The Union Ministry of Home Affairs had mandated the ITBP to provide doctors and paramedical staff for the centre. The centre started functioning on April 26 and has admitted 1,223 patients till May 19, of whom 935 have been discharged. As of now, around 200 beds are occupied at the centre. Oxygen supply and medicines are being provided for the patients admitted at the centre by the Delhi administration.  “Services of stress counselors from the ITBP are being provided to the patients admitted at the centre,” the Director-General said, adding that yoga and meditation sessions are also organized daily.It may be pertinent to mention here that the ITBP had established and managed the world’s largest 10,000-bedded Covid-Care Centre and Hospital at Chhatarpur during the first wave of pandemic, wherein more than 12,000 patients had been treated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/walk-in-admissions-free-of-cost-treatment-at-chhatarpur-covid-centre-for-all-itbp-255803
20-05-2021||Ambala||Ambala: Traders seek relief, nod to operate on alternate days||With the extension of lockdown, industrialists and traders have now started asking the government for financial relief and permissions to operate on alternate days.While the industrialists claim that closure of markets have badly affected the supply chain resulting in sharp increase in the prices of raw material, the traders claim that with the shops lying closed, it will be hard for them to pay salaries, bills, rent and repay loans.Lockdown woesWhile industrialists claim that the closure of markets has badly affected the supply chain, resulting in sharp increase in the prices of raw material, the traders claim that with the shops lying closed, it will be hard for them to pay salaries, bills, rents and repay loans.Atul Mahajan, president of a market association in Ambala Cantonment, said, “The shops and showrooms were lying closed for the past couple of weeks and the lockdown has been further extended. While announcing the lockdown and other guidelines, the government should pay attention towards the traders and shopkeepers too. We appeal to the government to allow the shopkeepers and traders to reopen their establishments on at least alternate days as it was allowed last year in the form of odd-even formula and left-right formula. The government should understand that business has its own expenses. With no income, it will be impossible to pay the rent, salaries of staff, repay loans and other bills.”Satish Kumar, a trader, said “The government should ask the local administration to chalk out strategies at the district level and open markets accordingly. The markets have come to a standstill and payments have got stuck. If the markets continue to remain completely closed, it will disturb the financial condition.”Sanjay Gupta, president of the Ambala Scientific Instruments Manufactures Association, says “Due to the closure of markets, the supply chain of raw material has got affected and it has resulted in spike in the prices of raw material. The government has allowed the industry to work, but it paid no attention towards the supply chain as it closed the markets. We request the government to allow the markets to open on at least alternate days to maintain the supply chain. The glassware industry is completely closed as there is no supply of oxygen which isvery important for glassware. In the current condition, we have reduced the production and workers are sitting idle.”“Even the employees don’t want to sit at home due to the apprehension of salary cut. The industry is in no position to pay the salary of full staff as the industry is already going through a tough phase. Like last year, the Centre should introduce relief in the form of EPF contribution, extend helping hand to tide over the working capital related issues, while the state government should at least waive the fixed power charges”, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-traders-seek-relief-nod-to-operate-on-alternate-days-255587
20-05-2021||Rohtak||Help desks for Covid patients at PGIMS Rohtak||People from civil societies have come forward to help Covid patients and their attendants by setting up two help desks — one outside casualty ward and second outside Covid ward — at the PGIMS here today. The help desks were inaugurated by Swami Parmanand Maharaj while PGIMS Director Rohtash Yadav, Medical Superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya and Health University’s Registrar Dr HK Aggarwal were present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/help-desks-for-covid-patients-at-pgims-rohtak-255589
20-05-2021||Yamunanagar||US body raises $10K for Oxygen concentrators||Austin Arya Samaj based in Austin, Texas, US, has collected $10,000 for oxygen concentrators to be sent to India.Professor Swaran Mahendru, chairperson, Arya Samaj, US, and a member of DAV College Managing Committee, New Delhi, said NRIs donated $10,000 to Austin Arya Samaj for providing oxygen concentrator to India.She said this would help Covid patients, who were struggling for their survival for want of oxygen. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/us-body-raises-10k-for-oxygen-concentrators-255590
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||A first: Haryana farmers get 9% interest for delayed payment||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Wednesday said after the sale of wheat crop, Rs 15,598 crore had been deposited directly to the bank accounts of farmers.Addressing a press conference here, he said for the first time in the country, the Haryana Government made a provision under which 9 per cent interest was paid to the farmers if there was a delay in making payment. About Rs 77 lakh had been given to such farmers as interest, he added.He said this time, wheat procurement by the state government started from April 1, 2021, and a total of 85,30,000 MT of produce had been procured so far.He said since June 1, the procurement of sunflower would commence in the state, for which seven mandis had been earmarked. So far, 8,283 farmers have registered on the portal to sell their sunflower crop.He said the state had fixed the MSP of Rs 5,885 per quintal for sunflower.Giving information about the mustard crop, he said last time, more than 7 lakh MT of mustard was procured at the MSP but this time, it had been increased to Rs 4,650 per quintal. The state did not have to procure a single grain of mustard at the MSP, as farmers were paid Rs 7,275 per quintal in the market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/a-first-haryana-farmers-get-9-interest-for-delayed-payment-255591
20-05-2021||Kurukshetra||330 get jab at Kurukshetra camp||The Veterans Air Warriors Association, Haryana, organised a Covid vaccination camp for public in coordination with the Health Department on Tuesday. In the camp held at Seth Tara Chand Public school, Kurukshetra, 330 people of the age group 45 and above were vaccinated. They were told to observe Covid-appropriate behaviour in order to contain the spread and break the chain of surging Covid infections.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/330-get-jab-at-kurukshetra-camp-255592
20-05-2021||Ambala||Anil Vij lauds social outfits for help||Home and Health Minister Anil Vij today lauded social organisations for their contribution during the Covid pandemic, and said that with collective efforts, the state would soon defeat the virus.On Wednesday, Kamalpreet Sabherwal, who runs an online news portal in Ambala, handed over 10 BiPAP machines to Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh in the presence of Vij. Surender Sehgal, a representative of Glassco Laboratory, also donated 10 BiPAP machines, while Dr Surjit Angra, president, Rotary Club, Ambala Central, handed over 26 surgical beds. Vij said, “Social organisations have been coming forward to help the state government fight the pandemic.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anil-vij-lauds-social-outfits-for-help-255593
20-05-2021||Yamunanagar||ASHA workers struggle to upload data on app||Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) are finding it difficult to upload data related to villagers’ health on ‘ASHA Survekshan’ app as this government portal is not working smoothly.ASHA workers, a part of field level teams of the local administration constituted to screen people of rural areas to contain the spread of Covid, have to upload data on this government portal everyday without fail.Haryana Villagers General Health Checkup Scheme (HVGHCS) had been launched in 20 villages of this district on May 15 to contain the spread of Covid. Under this scheme, the screening of villagers has now started in 52 villages.Under the Haryana Villagers General Health Checkup Scheme, the local administration has formed two types of teams — headquarter level and field level teams — for every village.The field level teams have been given a pro forma for asking queries about general health condition of the persons at home. After screening, the task of uploading data of villagers’ health on ASHA Survekshan app has been entrusted to ASHA workers.With the help of smartphones given to them by the Health Department, they upload the data soon after completion of screening work of a family, but most of the times, they can’t do this work at that time as the site either remains slow or non-functional.Rekha Bakana, president, ASHA Workers Union, Radaur block, said, “After screening of villagers, we have been asked to upload data related to their health on ASHA Survekshan mobile app. But at most times, this portal is either slow or non-functional.”She said that after conducting the survey, ASHA workers were forced to upload the data till late in the evening.Neeru Bala, district president of ASHA Workers Union, said that the government should solve this problem immediately.Dr Vijay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, Yamunanagar district, said that the problem being faced by ASHA workers in uploading data had come to his notice.“We have informed our higher authorities of the Health Department and requested them to solve this portal-related problem soon,” said Dr Vijay Dahiya.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/asha-workers-struggle-to-upload-data-on-app-255594
20-05-2021||Karnal||Oxygen bank opened at Jain temple||An oxygen bank has been established at Shri Atma Manohar Jain Aradhana Mandir, Indri road, on Wednesday for providing medical oxygen free of cost to Covid-19 patients, who are in home isolation.Piyush Muni, head of mandir, and District Sessions Judge Jagdeep Jain along with representatives of various political parties and other prominent people of the district started the facility. Earlier two days ago, the management of the temple has given 5five concentrators to the district administration. As many as 100 oxygen cylinders and 15 concentrators have been kept here in the temple for public. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/oxygen-bank-opened-at-jain-temple-255596
20-05-2021||Ambala||Intoxicating tablets seized, 1 arrested||The CIA-1 unit of the Ambala police on Wednesday recovered a large quantity of intoxicating tablets and capsules from a person. The accused was identified as Baljit Singh, a resident of Baldev Nagar.Acting on a tip-off, the CIA-1 set up a naka near the Sector 10 stadium in Ambala city and recovered 33,000 Lomotil tablets, 2,700 Alprazol tablets, 1,438 Spsphen Plus capsules and 1,400 Provon Spas capsules from the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/intoxicating-tablets-seized-1-arrested-255597
20-05-2021||Karnal||Philanthropists come to aid of Covid patients||To strengthen the medical infrastructure in the district to combat Covid-19, more philanthropists are coming forward to donate oxygen concentrators, oxymeters, steamers or PPE kits.The Give India Foundation has given 100 oxygen concentrators and also assured to provide 100 more in coming days to the district administration.Noble causeCricketer Sumit Narwal also donated 85 flow meters and three oxygen concentrators.Members of the Lions Club donated 50 oximeters and 1,000 sanitisers. “Our members stand by the Health Department and the administration in this time of crisis,” said Ramesh Midha and Vaneet Bhatia from the Lions Club. As many as 10 oxygen concentrators have been donated by Khalsa Aid, 25 by Sant Nirankari Bhawan and five concentrators by Jain Muni Ashram.Private companies are also not behind in the noble cause. IVL Dhunseri Petrochem Industries Pvt Ltd donated 30 oximeters in the presence of the Mayor Renu Bala Gupta to DC Yadav on Tuesday. Mayor Gupta said several Good Samaritans were coming forward in the time of need.Deloiitte India Advisory Services Pvt Ltd, Maharashtra, has provided six ambulances with staff to the department for six months. It has also donated 6,500 oximeters, thermometers and steamers for making home isolation kits. The company will also give Rs 5,000 per MBBS student as honorarium who are doing tele-consultation for patients in home isolation. “With the support of these people we are preparing for the third wave. In rural areas we have been strengthening our health infrastructure,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/philanthropists-come-to-aid-of-covid-patients-255605
20-05-2021||Kurukshetra||Make hospitals self-sufficient: Gadkari||IGU changes MA nomenclatureRewari: Indira Gandhi University (IGU) has changed the nomenclature of MA (Economics) programme with M.Sc (Economics) on the pattern of Indian Institute of Technologies and other premium institutions. Prof SK Gakhar, Vice Chancellor, said the move aims at offering a comprehensive and practical curriculum to students in order to enrich their understanding on economic policies at the national and international level. "The programme intends to infuse specialisation and develop analytical thinking among students in the areas of their interest. It will enable students to get research opportunities in premier educational institutions and to become more competitive in getting jobs," said Dr Sonu, Head, Department of Economics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/make-hospitals-self-sufficient-gadkari-255608
20-05-2021||It is disturbing to observe that the Tricity is not only facing an unprecedented spurt in positive cases but also the number of deaths is rising. The situation virtually is getting from bad to worse. Since there is no room for any complacency||Need to follow Covid guidelines||No cashless medical facility for govt staffI am raising concern regarding cashless medical facility for Haryana government employees and pensioners. Despite CM's announcement, cashless medical facility has not been implemented for Haryana government employees. HPGCL employees and pensioners are still not availing the cashless facility in this digital era. Information received through RTI from the HPGCL shows that no work was under process regarding cashless medical facility in the department till now. — Tarun Chopra, FaridabadPvt hospitals fleecing patientsSince the number of serious Covid patients is increasing rapidly, patients prefer to go to private hospitals in the hope of getting better treatment. But some hospitals are charging exorbitant rates for their services. No rates are displayed anywhere and the final amount turns out to be huge. There must be transparency. The hospitals should realise their social responsibilities to serve the suffering mankind in this hour of crisis. — Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/need-to-follow-covid-guidelines-255609
20-05-2021||Yamunanagar||Low positivity rate in Yamunanagar rural areas||Rural areas of a majority of the districts in the state are in the grip of Covid infection, but Yamunanagar villages are showing a stark contrast with low positivity rate.Strictness in following the Covid protocols, having a good immune system and low population in the villages are some of the reasons being reported for the low positivity rate.Consequently, the district has no crisis of ICU beds, oxygen or normal beds, and medicines.“Only four persons have tested positive in our village since April 1 this year. Our village has a population of 1,300 and no Covid death has been reported so far,” said Praveen Kumar, sarpanch of Bakarpur village.Similarly, no Covid death has been reported in Khurdban village, which has a population of 2,500.Yuvraj Sharma, sarpanch of Khurdban village, said, “Our gram panchayat motivated people to follow the Covid protocols. As a result, no Covid death has been reported so far. Only two persons were found infected in the village.”Om Lata, sarpanch of Tigra village, said a 75 year-old man died on Sunday. He had fever for a few days, but his Covid report was negative. Due to the awareness, only 15 persons had tested positive among a population of 2,200, she added.Yamunanagar district has 655 villages. Except 21 villages, where about 200 persons were found infected, people in most of the rural areas are still being reported safe from Covid. This is the result of the strictness by DC Mukul Kumar, SP Kamaldeep Goyal and Civil Surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya in implementing the Covid norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/low-positivity-rate-in-yamunanagar-rural-areas-255611
20-05-2021||Jhajjar||81 die in Jhajjar villages in 18 days||In all, 81 persons have so far died of Covid in four villages of Jhajjar district this month. However, the health authorities claimed merely six deaths related to Covid.Meanwhile, villagers say the majority of the deceased were suffering from fever and breathing problems.Sources at the Panchayat Department said 33 persons lost their lives in Dubaldhan village in the past 18 days while 17 deaths have been recorded in Dighal, 16 in Barhana and 15 in MP Majra village.Taking note of the spate of deaths, the district administration has turned Dubaldhan into a macro-containment zone to break the chain of infection while the police are keeping a vigil to check the movement of villagers.Dubaldhan Bidhyan panchayat sarpanch Mahavir, who is suffering from fever, said at least one or two members of every family in the village had either recovered or had fever. However, the death rate had come down in the past couple of days as residents were following the Covid protocols, he added.Pradeep Kadian, another resident of Dubaldhan, said the village was in the grip of fever but a majority of the residents were not getting themselves tested.Similar situation prevailed in Dighal, Barhana and MP Majra villages. “A majority of those who died in our village were elderly people. Several died after suffering from fever and breathing problems, while some suffered a heart attack,” said Dharampal of Barhana village, adding that they had performed a hawan to clean the environment.Meanwhile, Dr Sanjay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, said there were 23 active Covid cases in Dubaldhan, 18 in Dighal, 11 each in Barhana and MP Majra villages. Door-to-door survey and testing were being carried out, besides providing medicines to those in home isolation, he added.Beri SDM Ravinder did not respond to phone calls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/81-die-in-jhajjar-villages-in-18-days-255612
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Court: Can order compulsory jab for common man||Amid the continuous rise in Covid cases, the High Court has pointed out that directions under the National Disaster Management Act could be issued for the compulsory vaccination of the common man, but it was stopping short of doing so in view of the paucity of vaccines.The Bench also made it clear that mobile service providers could be directed to publicise area-specific numbers of doctors providing tele-consultation instead of running the same old message of “wash your hands and maintain distance”.“The particulars of the mobile telephone companies, who are licensed to operate in all three states (Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh) be furnished to this court on the next date of hearing,” the Bench directed, making it clear that the court could even consider “whether they have the right to be granted licences if they are shirking social responsibility in the current situation”.The Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh asserted: “We know that someday or the other, it shall become necessary for the governments to go in for compulsory vaccination of even the common man. As far as the private citizens are concerned, there is a provision in the Act, where such a direction can be given…. We are also aware of the paucity of vaccines. Therefore, we are not inclined as of today to exercise our extraordinary writ power.”The Bench also took exception to Additional Chief Secretary Rajeev Arora’s stand put forth in an affidavit placed before the HC that the state had decided not to invoke Rule 24 of the Haryana Services Rules, making vaccination mandatory for government employees. “The Additional Chief Secretary is speaking against the rule, which is legislative in nature,” the Bench asserted.Advocate General Baldev Raj Mahajan submitted that the affidavit was probably “not happily worded”. He added the issue was being considered as guidelines by the Centre might have an overriding effect. The guidelines, he added, provided that vaccination should be voluntary and preference has to be given to frontline workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/court-can-order-compulsory-jab-for-common-man-255613
20-05-2021||Gurugram||5 Nuh villages declared hotspots||While the Covid numbers in Nuh district have started to dip, on an average one death a day is reported in a majority of villages.Five villages have emerged as major hotspots, with Ujina taking the lead with almost 30 deaths in the last 20 days as all deceased reported Covid-like symptoms, but a majority failing to get tested.Twentyone people reportedly died in 28 days in Indri village. Ghasera village reported 25 deaths in 23 days, Tawdu 28 in 25 days and Sahsola 15 casualties.“The village is facing crisis and people are dying complaining of fever and choking. There is no testing,” said Indri sarpanch Kamal Panwar. “People are responsible. They run away and hide patients and even fight with teams when they visit them. They are going to quacks,” a health official said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-nuh-villages-declared-hotspots-255615
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||6,818 cases, 153 die in Haryana||In all, 6,818 new Covid cases were reported on Wednesday, taking the tally to 7.17 lakh. Besides, 153 more persons died.In all, 22 persons died in Karnal, 15 in Gurugram, 14 in Hisar, 10 in Panipat, nine each in Faridabad and Ambala, eight in Bhiwani, seven each in Rohtak, Kaithal and Jind, and six each in Sonepat and Yamunanagar.At 1,161, Gurugram reported the maximum cases, followed by Hisar (565), Sonepat (492), Faridabad (435) and Panipat (407). In all, 11,821 persons got cured in the past 24 hours, while the active cases reduced to 70,758. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-818-cases-153-die-in-haryana-255617
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Bhupinder Hooda seeks Rs 5L  for kin of victims||Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today demanded financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh each to families who lost their loved ones because of Covid.He also demanded a survey to identify affected families.“Families, who have lost their breadwinner, should be given a monthly pension of Rs 5,000 per month, while children should be provided with free education,” he said.The former CM added, “The government should conduct the survey in a fair and transparent manner.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhupinder-hooda-seeks-rs-5l-for-kin-of-victims-255618
20-05-2021||Ambala||96 Ambala villagers found Covid +ve in 4 days: Survey||Ninetysix persons tested positive for Covid during the ongoing Haryana Villagers General Health Scheme over the past four days in different villages of the district.As per the data shared by the Health Department, 1,108 rapid antigen tests were performed in which 96 persons tested positive.The teams covered 58,867 households, covering 2,71,639 people till May 18. However, the tendency of hiding symptoms during the screening and not reporting on time at the centres for testing after being advised by the health teams has been a matter of concern for the health authorities.During the screening, the teams found 834 people with influenza-like symptoms, but only 472 people, including some people who came voluntarily, reported for testing.Ambala Deputy Civil Surgeon Dr Balwinder Kaur said “It has been observed that people are still hiding their symptoms and many people don’t report on time when they are advised to visit the health centre for rapid antigen test.”“So far, a majority of the patients were being home isolated, but now we have started asking them to shift to dedicate Covid care centres set up in the district. The administration has set up four centres with capacity of 100 beds each. The patients will be provided round the clock health care facility,” she added.Besides the four centres, the administration has set up 26 isolation centres in villages.In Kurukshetra, 373 villages have been covered during the door-to-door survey, screening over 2 lakh people. During the survey, 484 people were found with ILI symptoms who were advised to get rapid antigen tests, but 248 people reported. The team had performed 205 tests in which 15 people were tested positive.DC Ashok Sharma said, “The situation in villages has improved over the past few days and the number of cases has decreased. In villages, people share common bathrooms and it increases the risk of spreading infection among other family members. If the team, during survey, finds that the patient doesn’t have proper home isolation facility, patients are shifted to dedicate Covid care centres.”Meanwhile, Deputy Civil Surgeon Dr RK Sahai said: “People showing influenza-like symptoms are advised to report to village headquarters team for rapid tests, but still many are shying away from getting tested. We appeal people to cooperate with the teams for early detection.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/96-ambala-villagers-found-covid-ve-in-4-days-survey-255621
20-05-2021||Chandigarh||Hospitals notified for black fungus treatment||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has said all medical colleges, including the PGIMS in Rohtak, should be notified for the treatment of black fungus.A government spokesperson said the PGIMS had been authorised to treat patients from Rohtak, Jind, Mahendragarh and Charkhi Dadri districts.5 more cases in Karnal, 20-bed ward set upShaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College, Nuh, has been authorised to treat patients from Hathin, Palwal and Gurugram. Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College, Khanpur Kalan, Sonepat, can treat patients from Panipat and Sonepat districts.Patients from Hisar, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Bhiwani can get themselves treated at Maharaja Agrasen Medical College, Agroha, Hisar, while those from Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar can get the treatment at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, Karnal.The World College of Medical Science and Research and Hospital, Jhajjar, has been authorised for Rewari and Jhajjar districts, while Adesh Medical College and Hospital, Shahabad, Kurukshetra, has been authorised for Ambala and Kurukshetra.Meanwhile, the Maharishi Markandeshwar Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, Mulana, Ambala can treat patients from Panchkula and Ambala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hospitals-notified-for-black-fungus-treatment-255624
20-05-2021||Karnal||28 teachers volunteer for Covid care services||Twentyeight teachers here have volunteered for manning the Covid control room set up at Saral Kendra in the Mini-Secretariat, where they attend distress calls of people.Three teachers each man the control room in three shifts in a day. The duty of each group comes after two-days.“On the call of the DEO Rajpal Chaudhary and district scouts and guides incharge Siya Ram, we have extended our services voluntarily at the control room,” said Rakesh Kumar, a teacher.“These teachers have volunteered their services for the control room. They are giving round-the-clock duty here.”Besides, around 150 teachers have been deployed in the field to assist the Health Department and village-level teams in tracing cases. “We have provided the details of the teachers for field work,” the DEO said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/28-teachers-volunteer-for-covid-care-services-255625
20-05-2021||Parveen Arora||Karnal oxygen plant installed under PM Cares Fund stops working||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, May 19The oxygen generation plant set up under PM Cares Fund at the local Civil Hospital on May 4 stopped functioning a week ago.The authorities claim the compressor gets heated up due to technical lapses during installation, forcing them to shut the plant. The authorities have called the agency assigned the task of installing the plant to resolve the issue.The plant was made functional by a Sonepat-based expert, Prof Joginder Singh, whom Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had approached following oxygen crisis in the state. Engineers of the agency hired by the Centre had got stranded in Mumbai and later in Delhi due to lockdown.Hospital Officials cite technical lapsesThe plant has the capacity to generate around 200 litres of oxygen per minute with the help of natural air. Dr Piyush Sharma, Principal Medical Officer, said, “The plant gets heated up quite often. It could be dangerous, so we have shut it down. The agency has started working on it. It is hopeful of restarting the plant in a couple of days.”According to the Deputy Commissioner, Nishant Kumar Yadav, the administration had sufficient supply of oxygen as of now. “I have asked the officials concerned in the Principal Medical Office to get the plant functional at the earliest,” he said. Prof Joginder Singh claimed there was no technical lapse during installation. “The plant has heating issues due to space crunch. I had told the authorities to install heavy duty exhaust fans at the facility, but to no avail,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-oxygen-plant-installed-under-pm-cares-fund-stops-working-255516
20-05-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Unclaimed bags of ashes in Gurugram||Gurugram, May 19With 60 cremations on an average daily, the local crematoriums are flooded with unclaimed ashes. Over 350 bags of uncollected or unclaimed ashes in crematoriums across the city are yet to be immersed.Sources said a majority of the cremated were Covid victims whose families were either themselves infected or had not come to claim the ashes fearing infection. With the bags piling up, some of the overburdened crematoriums have now either started immersing the ashes in the Yamuna or handing over these to the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG). “We have over 300 bags of ashes which have not yet been collected or claimed. In many cases, we have called up the families on the numbers provided by them, but fearing infection they have refused to come. In some cases we don’t know whom to contact, so we have started immersing the ashes that have been lying here for a month in the Yamuna,” said an employee of Mokshdham crematorium here.In another crematorium near the IFFCO chowk, a volunteer collects the remains of Covid victims every evening. He places the ashes in bags, which are stored in lockers on the cremation ground premises.No clear guidelines: Medical officerIt’s a matter of personal choice… it’s between people and crematoriums. Some claim the ashes, others tie up with crematoriums for the immersion. —Dr Asish Singla, MO, MCG“We don’t have much space, so we can’t store the ashes for long. So far we have no guidelines on how to deal with the situation. We have been handing over the ashes to the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram because if we do the immersion ourselves, people could object,” said the volunteer at the Rambagh crematorium in Madanpuri.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/unclaimed-bags-of-ashes-in-gurugram-255574
20-05-2021||Sonepat (Haryana)||2 die at Singhu, one due to Covid||Two farmers from Punjab, who were part of the group protesting here against the new farm laws, passed away with one of them found Covid positive, officials said on Wednesday.The two farmers – Balbir Singh (50) and Mahender Singh (70) – residents of Patiala and Ludhiana respectively – died on Tuesday.They were part of the group protesting near the Singhu Border.Sonepat’s Chief Medical Officer Jaswant Singh Punia said Balbir had been suffering from fever for a couple of days.He was declared brought dead at a government hospital and a test revealed that he had COVID, said Punia.Rai Station House Officer (SHO) Bijender Singh, however, said they were yet to receive the report from the health officials.Mahender’s body was sent for post-mortem and the exact cause of his death was yet to be ascertained, said Kundli SHO Ravi Kumar.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and elsewhere have been protesting at various border points near Delhi, including Singhu and Tikri, for the past six months demanding rollback of the Centre’s new farm laws. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-die-at-singhu-one-due-to-covid-255357
