22-05-2021||Chandigarh||98 deaths, 5,021 fresh virus cases in Haryana||Haryana on Saturday reported 98 coronavirus deaths as 5,021 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection count to 7,33,628, a Health Department bulletin said. The infection has killed 7,415 people till now in the state.According to the bulletin, nine deaths each were reported from Gurgaon and Hisar, seven each from Ambala and Karnal and six each from Faridabad and Rewari districts.Gurgaon reported the maximum 516 cases, followed by Jhajjar (384) and Rohtak (296).Currently, the state has 47,993 active cases.So far, 6,78,220 people have recovered from the infection in the state, the bulletin said.The cumulative positivity rate stands at 8.53 per cent while the recovery rate is 92.45 per cent. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/98-deaths-5-021-fresh-virus-cases-in-haryana-256876
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Three criminals carrying reward held: Haryana Police||The Haryana Police have arrested three criminals, carrying a collective reward of Rs 1 lakh, an official said on Saturday.In the first operation, a police team arrested a wanted criminal, identified as Kapoor from Lalwa Mor-Nuh Road in Palwal district, said a spokesperson of the state police.Carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 on his arrest, Kapoor is wanted in half a dozen cases, including murder and loot.He is an accused in the murder case of a youth, who was killed on March 29 this year at Janauli village in Palwal, said police.In another incident, two wanted criminals absconding for the past 10 months were arrested from Delhi, said the spokesperson.Both were apprehended by a team of the Rohtak Special Task Force.Both accused, identified as Vikas, alias Vicky; and Rohit, alias Dada, carried a reward of Rs 25,000 each. Residents of Jhajjar’s Aasoda village, they were wanted in a murder case. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-criminals-carrying-reward-held-haryana-police-256862
22-05-2021||Rohtak||Black fungus: Shortage of Amphotericin-B injections at Rohtak PGIMS; DC says being imported||In view of the increasing cases of Mucormycosis (black fungus), the administration of Rohtak PGIMS has reserved two wards – 8 and 11 – for the patients of black fungus and constituted a committee of medical experts to manage the dedicated wards.As of now, 63 patients of black fungus and one of white fungus are undergoing treatment at the PGIMS.Two patients of black fungus were operated upon at the institute today while three were on the waiting list.However, shortage of Amphotericin-B injections required for the treatment of black fungus infection persists at the institute.A PGIMS spokesman informed that 6,000 vials of the injections had been demanded from the state authorities.Meanwhile, Rohtak Deputy Commissioner Capt Manoj Kumar has maintained that the injections would be made available at the PGIMS soon.“The Haryana government has decided to import 10 lakh vials of Amphotericin-B injection and adequate number of injections will be supplied to the PGIMS as soon as available,” he stated while addressing a news conference here today.As per an office order issued by the PGIMS Medical Superintendent, a five-member committee headed by Dr Aditya Bhargava, Senior Professor and Head, Department of ENT, has been setup for the management and setting up of the wards dedicated for the treatment of black fungus.The other members of the committee include Dr Raman Wadehra (ENT), Dr Urmil Chawla (Ophthalmology), Dr Sandeep Goyal (Medicine) and Dr Gopal (Neurosurgery).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/black-fungus-shortage-of-amphotericin-b-injections-at-rohtak-pgims-dc-says-being-imported-256856
22-05-2021||Gurugram||11 oxygen plants soon to come up in Gurugram||At a time when the entire country is battling the oxygen crunch, the Gurugram administration has been working round-the-clock to tide over the crisis and its efforts have paid off as 11 new plants would be set up soon in the district.Five oxygen plants are being installed in Gurugram in collaboration with Maruti Suzuki India Ltd (MSIL).An oxygen plant has already been set up in the General Hospital in Gurugram's sector-10 while other plants are being installed at ESI hospital Sector-9, Manesar, Sohna and Pataudi sub-division hospitals.Also, 2 to 3 oxygen plants will be operational within next four-five days while remaining two plants will come up soon.This was revealed by the Gurugram Deputy Commissioner Yash Garg during a virtual Covid-19 management review meeting chaired by Union Minister of State for Statistics and Gurugram Lok Sabha MP Rao Inderjit Singh.In the meeting, the arrangements made for black fungs, Covid management, oxygen supply, oxygen plant, vaccination, ew hospital building and the construction of medical college in Gurugram were discussed, according to an official statement of the district administration.During the meeting, Garg informed that the Gurugram district has a surplus of oxygen stock."At present, about 85 metric tonnes of oxygen stock is available in Gurugram and an oxygen refilled tanker has been kept on standby for any emergency. Also, under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programme the administration has approached various companies for oxygen plant installations.Besides, the oxygen plant has 1,000 litres per minute capacity at the Covid Care Centre built at Tau Devi Lal Stadium. An another oxygen plant is is being prepared by the Honda company at a covid care centre situated in Shikohpur village of Gurugram," Garg said.He added that the district administration is shaking four such oxygen plants where approximately 1200 cylinders will be filled every day with this 60 per cent to 70 per cent of oxygen requirements of small hospitals in Gurugram will be fulfilled."In the next 2 to 3 months, 11 oxygen plants will be prepared in Gurugram district. Around 20 metric tonnes of oxygen from Bhiwadi in Rajasthan based oxygen plant are being given mainly to 6 big hospitals, including Artemis, Fortis, Max, Medanta, Metro Hospital and Park Hospital," Garg said, adding that three oxygen plant will also be installed in Nuh and Rewari district under the CSR programme.--IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/11-oxygen-plants-soon-to-come-up-in-gurugram-256854
22-05-2021||Ravinder Saini
||Mahendragarh launches advisory service for livestock owners||Tribune News Service Mahendragarh, May 21  Livestock rearers, especially those residing in Covid containment zones in the district, will no longer have to face problems in getting medical aid for their animals in a situation when veterinary surgeons have been engaged in Covid-related duties. They will now be able to get veterinary surgeon’s consultancy while sitting at home by dialing a cell phone number. The district administration has launched Livestock Advisory Services / Pasupalak Advisory Service to provide uninterrupted veterinary services in order to help them in this time of crisis. Deputy Commissioner Ajay Kumar claimed this service is the first of its kind and Mahendragarh is the first district across the state where it has been launched. Livestock owners would be able to consult their nearest veterinary surgeon directly by dialing mobile number 94857-80800. This service would remain available from 10 am to 1 pm daily, he added. “The facility has been initiated in collaboration with Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (LUVAS), Hisar, e-Pashu Chikitsa Service of CSC, New Delhi, and local office of Animal Husbandry and Dairy Department. It will assist cattle rearers to a large extent in the prevailing situation. On getting good response, the service will be linked to video call in the future,” said the DC.  He said livestock owners can consult veterinary surgeon regarding feeding, vaccination and government schemes through this service without going to the hospital. After launching the service, the DC also talked to a veterinary surgeon by dialing this number. Dr Nasib Singh Yadav, Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Department, said the service would further strengthen the reach of veterinarians with the masses.  Dr Davinder Singh, a scientist, said the facility would also protect livestock owners from harassment at the hand of unauthorised persons engaged in treating animals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mahendragarh-launches-advisory-service-for-livestock-owners-256448
22-05-2021||---||Rs 20.67 crore approved for Khelo India Games in Panchkula||Chandigarh, May 21  The Central Government has approved financial assistance of Rs 20.67 crore for the fourth edition of Khelo India Games to be held from November 21 to December 5 in Haryana. Giving information in this regard, Minister of State for Sports and Youth Affairs, Sandeep Singh said there would be an agreement between the Sports Authority of India (SAI) and the Haryana Government for organising the games. He informed that this was the fourth edition of Khelo India Youth Games to be held in Panchkula, which was a national-level sports competition of its kind. This competition brings out the best young sports talents from across the country. Athletes selected under Khelo India are awarded an annual scholarship of Rs 6.28 lakh, which includes an out-of-pocket allowance of Rs10,000 per month. He informed that the main objective of the Khelo India Games was to build and strengthen the sports ecosystem throughout India so that more players could win medals in the upcoming Olympic Games.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-20-67-crore-approved-for-khelo-india-games-in-panchkula-256450
22-05-2021||Rohtak||Free treatment at Chhatarpur Covid centre for all, says ITBP||Here is some good news for Covid patients from Haryana and other states in the vicinity of the national capital: Around 300 oxygen-beds, ventilators and other medical facilities are available free of cost at the 500 oxygen-bedded Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre (SPCCC) established on the premises of Radha Soami Satsang Beas at Chhatarpur in New Delhi. The centre is being managed by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and is open to Covid patients from all states.  “The Covid care centre and hospital is well-equipped with ventilators, oxygen concentrators and medicines required for the treatment of Covid. It serves patients who require oxygen support and provides walk-in admissions and treatment to all Covid-affected residents free of cost,” ITBP Director-General SS Deswal told The Tribune on Thursday. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs had mandated the ITBP to provide doctors and paramedical staff for the centre. The centre started functioning on April 26 and has admitted 1,223 patients till May 19, of whom 935 have been discharged. As of now, around 200 beds are occupied at the centre. Oxygen supply and medicines are being provided for patients admitted at the centre by the Delhi administration. “Services of stress counsellors from the ITBP are being provided to the patients admitted at the centre,” the Director-General said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/free-treatment-at-chhatarpur-covid-centre-for-all-says-itbp-256452
22-05-2021||---||Oxygen concentrators set up in Rohtak village||Rohtak, May 21  Many isolation centres in the district lack basic medical facilities to take care of the Covid patients but the isolation centre in Bainsi village is equipped with oxygen concentrators and PPE kits for doctors and visiting health officials.  Thanks to two Gurugram-based social outfits — Anand Charitable Trust and Life Tree Foundation -– which have donated four oxygen concentrators, 15 PPE kits, two oximeters and as many steamers and protective equipment like gloves, masks, shoe covers, head covers etc after coming to know that the isolation centre does not have adequate facilities. Krishan Chhabra, sarpanch of Bainsi village, claimed that his village’s isolation centre was the first one across the district where the facility of oxygen concentrator was available. The health authorities have also assured him of providing a doctor for the centre soon. “Office-bearers of both the social outfits came to the village two days ago to donate oxygen concentrators and other medical equipment. They also visited the isolation centre and promised us more help if needed in the future. After installation of the concentrator, a villager having low oxygen saturation was treated in the isolation centre,” said the sarpanch. Notably, The Tribune had, in these columns, highlighted the non-availability of basic medical facilities at isolation centres set up in 46 villages of the district.  Mahesh Kumar, Nodal Officer, isolation centres, said the facility of medicines, oxygen meters, thermometer, bed, drinking water and toilet had been made available in all isolation centres in the district.  “Villagers have started using the facility in several villages. An isolation centre is meant for providing isolation space to those who cannot do so at home. Health officials visit these centres daily and those developing complications will be shifted to a hospital immediately,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/oxygen-concentrators-set-up-in-rohtak-village-256455
22-05-2021||---||2,500 registries in two days in Haryana||Chandigarh May 21 In all, 2,459 land deeds were registered in tehsils and sub-tehsils of the state and revenue of Rs 39.58 crore received in the past two days. Sanjeev Kaushal, Additional Chief Secretary and Financial Commissioner Revenue, gave this information today.   “On May 17, 1,120 deeds were registered in 75 tehsils and 143 sub-tehsils against 1,617 e-appointments. The revenue of Rs 22.02 crore was received. The next day, 1,339 deeds were registered against 1,838 e-appointments and revenue of Rs 17.56 crore was received,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-500-registries-in-two-days-in-haryana-256457
22-05-2021||---||Step up virtual contact with public, Haryana AAP to cadres||New Delhi, May 21  The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Haryana plans to expand its base in the state on the back of the Covid pandemic. The AAP leadership has asked its cadres to step up public contact, albeit virtually, and raise voice against the state government with regard its alleged “shoddy” handling of the pandemic. AAP’s strategy for Haryana was prepared during a meeting of party’s senior leaders with Delhi Chief Minister and party national convener Arvind Kejriwal a few days ago.  “The government has failed miserably and the main Opposition Congress has not risen to the occasion,” Haryana’s AAP in charge and Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Gupta said here on Friday. Gupta said it is an opportune moment for activists of the party to rise to the occasion and present AAP as an alternative to both the ruling BJP and Congress. AAP has raised the ante with the demand that Haryana Government should reach out with medicine and vaccinations to farmers protesting at several places in the state against the three farm laws. Also, the government must start conducting free tests on farmers to check them with regard to Covid infection. Gupta said the pandemic has spread in the villages of Haryana. “The Haryana Government has failed to control it,” Gupta said, and added that the government should raise the state’s annual budget for health from the present 5 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/step-up-virtual-contact-with-public-haryana-aap-to-cadres-256459
22-05-2021||Palwal||Palwal: 2 doctors, ambulance driver booked for fleecing  patients||The police have booked two doctors and an ambulance driver for allegedly fleecing the kin of a Covid patient here. No arrest has been made so far.Several complaints of fleecing of patients have surfaced in the district during the pandemic.A police spokesperson said Dr Anup, Dr Tejender and Naterpal, the driver of an ambulance associated with Guru Nanak Hospital, have been booked under Sections 384, 288, 269, 270 and 120-B of the IPC.According to the complainant, he was charged Rs 1.2 lakh to transport his sick mother to Chandigarh from Palwal recently.He alleged that the accused took the money without issuing him any receipt.DC Naresh Narwal said as many as four complaints of overcharging by hospitals and ambulances had been resolved by a committee headed by the Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/palwal-2-doctors-ambulance-driver-booked-for-fleecing-patients-256461
22-05-2021||---||7.2L Palwal villagers screened in six days||Palwal, May 21 The Health Department conducted a check-up drive in Palwal villages and found 3,471 persons having influenza-like symptoms and 65 Covid-positive of total 7.29 lakh screened in the past six days. The infected persons have either been home isolated or shifted to hospitals for treatment. Revealing that the drive was aimed at covering each and every household, a senior district official said as many as 920 teams had been working overtime to cover all 282 villages in the district. Besides it, he said another 60 teams had been deputed in urban areas as well. While around 7,04,464 individuals have been screened in rural areas till Friday, Civil Surgeon Dr Brahmdeep Singh said around 24,900 persons were checked in urban pockets since April 16, when the drive was launched. Claiming that while the drive was expected to be over in two days, he said the department would continue with the check-up indefinitely with help of available infrastructure and staff deployed in field in order to curb the infection. With about 47 functional isolation centres, the district has a total of 87 beds with oxygen support in the ICU and another 217 such beds in the non-ICU category. However 50 per cent of the beds have been lying vacant at present. Admitting poor response to isolation beds set up in rural areas, officials claimed that 40 beds with oxygen facility had been made functional in rural pockets with 165 micro-containment zones. The department has received 10 oxygen concentrators and 300 oxyflometers under the CSR so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/7-2l-palwal-villagers-screened-in-six-days-256463
22-05-2021||---||Post-Covid centres soon: Health Minister Anil Vij||Chandigarh, May 21Health Minister Anil Vij has said that soon, post-Covid centres named ‘Umang’ would be started in government hospitals of the state.Vij said that at these centres, Covid-recovered patients would not only be treated but would also be given training by trainers for their physical fitness through yoga and ‘pranayam’.The services of physiotherapists and other physicians will also be available at these centres.He said that due to increasing cases of Covid, patients were facing problems even after recovering from it and the state government was all set to tackle this situation.The Health Minister said that due to the spike in the cases of black fungus, its medicine would be imported for treatment.The state is floating global tenders for one crore doses of vaccine and other essential injections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/post-covid-centres-soon-health-minister-anil-vij-256464
22-05-2021||---||56 black fungus cases in Rohtak PGIMS; hospital seeks more drugs||Rohtak, May 21The Post-graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) has witnessed an influx of black fungus patients from different parts of Haryana and neighbouring states.One more dies in Karnal facilitySources say 56 patients are under treatment at the PGIMS. The hospital authorities have requested the state government to send more drugs for the treatment of the disease.As per a notification by the state government, the PGIMS is supposed to treat black fungus patients from Rohtak, Jind, Charkhi Dadri and Mahendragarh districts. However, patients from other districts are also thronging the hospital.Medical Superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya said, “It will be better if patients are admitted to civil hospitals of their districts and then referred to medical colleges authorised to admit them. Nevertheless, the PGIMS is like a mother institution for all residents of the state. Though we are supposed to admit black fungus patients from only four districts, we cannot refuse treatment to those from other parts of the state.”She added prolonged oxygen support to Covid patients, compromised immunity, chronic diseases such as diabetes and cancer, consumption of immuno-suppressant drugs given to patients of renal transplant and lack of oro-dental hygiene could lead to black fungus infection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/56-black-fungus-cases-in-rohtak-pgims-hospital-seeks-more-drugs-256465
22-05-2021||---||Free treatment for BPL patients in private hospitals||Chandigarh, May 21  Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has announced that the treatment cost of Covid patients belonging to the below poverty line (BPL) category would be borne by the state government. Earlier, the government had announced a financial assistance of up to Rs 35,000 to BPL patients. “All BPL families, who are not covered under the Ayushman Bharat scheme, will be eligible for free treatment in private hospitals. Deputy Commissioner will ensure that the financial help reaches the needy,” said the Chief Minister while chairing a review meeting of Covid management with the DCs and administrative secretaries held here today through video conferencing. The Chief Minister was apprised that about 10,000 oxygen cylinders had been delivered to patients on their doorstep to date. So far, 378 NGOs have been registered on oxygenhry.in supply cylinders. Khattar said the DCs should make efforts to convince agitating farmers to cooperate with the government to fight the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/free-treatment-for-bpl-patients-in-private-hospitals-256466
22-05-2021||---||Allow shops to reopen for limited duration: Haryana traders||Hisar, May 21 After 10 villages in Hisar and Jind districts defied lockdown restrictions, traders and shopkeepers in towns have urged the district authorities to allow reopening of shops for a limited duration. Ajay Saini, president, Rajguru Market Association, Hisar, said shopkeepers had incurred heavy losses because of prolonged lockdown. “There are nearly 4,000 shops in the market. Because of the lockdown, traders are incurring a daily loss of Rs 10-12 crore.” “The association requests the state government to allow opening of shops from 10 am to 5 pm. Shopkeepers will ensure that buyers wear masks and maintain social distancing,” he said. JP Kaushik, president, vyapar mandal in Bhiwani, urged Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to allow shops to operate till 3 pm so that the flow of transaction continued. “Shopkeepers will promote online shopping and deliver products on people’s doorsteps within the city limits.” In Sirsa, shopkeepers said that on one hand, rent and electricity bill were piling up and, on the other, they were unable to earn a rupee because of the lockdown.  In Jind’s Narwana town, shopkeepers are adamant on opening the shops, but the local administration has warned them of action if they do so.  Traders said the district administration should allow the shops to open till 2 pm. Haryana Vyapar Mandal president Bajrang Dass Garg demanded a relief package, especially for small and marginal traders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/allow-shops-to-reopen-for-limited-duration-haryana-traders-256467
22-05-2021||---||Rs 500 cr given to healthcare units: Dy CM Dushyant Chautala||Chandigarh, May 21To discuss the present scenario of the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in Haryana, Assocham today organised a virtual conference “Haryana MSME Samvaad” addressed by Union Minister of State for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Pratap Chandra Sarangi and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, among others.Sarangi said, “Haryana has signed MOUs with global e-commerce players to increase the MSME footprint in the state.”Dushyant said the state was home to several industries and it was looking forward to welcoming more units.“In light of the Covid pandemic, the state government has provided MSMEs with relaxation and special rebate for establishing liquid oxygen plants. Manufacturing industries related to healthcare have been given Rs 500 crore,” said the Deputy Chief Minister.Assocham president Vineet Agarwal said, “MSMEs are going through a tough time. The cost of raw materials has increased. Payments have been delayed, badly impacting the sector.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-500-cr-given-to-healthcare-units-dy-cm-dushyant-chautala-256468
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Cases dip for 13th day in row in Haryana||Covid cases and deaths dipped for the thirteenth day in a row. In all, 5,643 new cases were reported today, taking the tally to 7.29 lakh. Besides, 112 more persons succumbed to the virus.Black fungus cases reached 332 today with the addition of 64 more cases.In all, nine deaths each took place in Hisar and Sirsa, followed by eight in Jind and seven each in Gurugram, Faridabad and Rohtak. The maximum cases were reported from Gurugram at 623. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cases-dip-for-13th-day-in-row-in-haryana-256469
22-05-2021||Nitish Sharma
||Private doctors roped in for free teleconsultation||Tribune News Service Ambala, May 21  In order to provide telemedicine services to citizens, Naraingarh SDM Dr Vaishali Sharma and local IMA members have come out with the ‘Hello Doctor’ initiative at the sub-division level. They have engaged private practitioners to provide free teleconsultation. As per information, doctors will give consultation through WhatsApp in two shifts of five hours a day.  Speaking to The Tribune, the SDM, who has served as medical officer in the Nutrition Rehabilitation Centre of the Bulandshahr District Hospital, said: “I observed that there was a lot of panic among the general public about medicines, oxygen cylinders and other things. They were irrationally taking steroids, antibiotics and antivirals because they were not able to take proper consultation from a skilled doctor. Government doctors were overburdened with vaccination, sampling and door-to-door visits to monitor the home-isolated that even they were not able to devote much time to the OPD consultation. So, we thought of involving local private practitioners for teleconsultation.”  She said, “Naraingarh IMA came forward to support us and give their services for free. They have made a roster so that various specialist doctors can give their services for a defined duration. Doctors will be available five hours a day from 10 am to 1 pm and then from 4 pm to 6 pm. After consultation, the prescription will be sent through WhatsApp. We have shared the contact numbers of the doctors who will be providing the consultation. We are hoping that it will help in curbing the panic, reduce stress in hospitals and also provide timely consultation to residents as per their convenience.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/private-doctors-roped-in-for-free-teleconsultation-256470
22-05-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Farm unions to oppose BJP in UP, Uttarakhand||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, May 21Riding high after the Assembly poll results in West Bengal, the protesting farmer unions have decided to oppose the ruling BJP in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, where the Assembly elections are scheduled to be held next year.Farm leaders, during a meeting at the Kisan andolan office on Thursday, discussed a strategy for the same. Earlier, the SKM had held scores of rallies against the BJP in the poll-bound states of West Bengal and Assam.Kulwinder Singh Sandhu, general secretary of the Jamhuri Kisan Sabha, said that the Assembly elections were scheduled to be held in UP, Uttarakhand and Punjab in 2022.Thousands of farmers were protesting at the Delhi borders in support of their genuine demands, but the Central Government had refused to budge, he alleged.“Farmers have decided to launch a campaign against the BJP in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand while the atmosphere in Punjab is already in favour of farmers,” he added.Harender Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of the BKU (Lakhowal), said farmer unions would hold rallies in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarkhand.He said the decision had been taken at a meeting of 32 farmer unions from Punjab, but it would be finalised at the meeting of the SKM.Meanwhile, the SKM’s meeting at Singhu, which was scheduled for today, has been postponed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farm-unions-to-oppose-bjp-in-up-uttarakhand-256471
22-05-2021||---||Resume dialogue, Samyukt Kisan Morcha writes to PM||Sonepat, May 21The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the farmers’ movement against the three Central laws, on Friday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for resuming the dialogue with them.Notably, thousands of farmers are protesting at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders, seeking the repeal of the three farm laws and legal guarantee for the MSP since November 26 last year.The SKM had held 11 rounds of talks with the Centre during their protest. The talks were halted since January 24 after the January 26 violence in the national capital during the tractor parade.In a joint statement, farm leaders said the protesters did not wish to expose anyone to the health hazards of the pandemic, but couldn’t also give up on the struggle as it was a matter of life and death and for future generations.“Any democratic government would have repealed the three laws that have been rejected by the farmers in whose name these were enacted and seized the opportunity to provide legal guarantee of the MSP to them. As the head of the government of the largest democracy in the world, the onus of resuming a serious and sincere dialogue with the farmers lies with you,” says the letter.Meanwhile, the SKM also warned to further intensify the movement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/resume-dialogue-samyukt-kisan-morcha-writes-to-pm-256472
22-05-2021||Kurukshetra||Karnal resident held for ‘killing’ wife, step-daughter||A man has been arrested for allegedly drowning his wife and step-daughter to death in a canal on May 19. The accused has been identified as Raj Verma (25), a resident of Karnal.  The deceased have been identified as Shalley (39) and her daughter Tanya (21).  Raj had earlier claimed that their motorcycle fell into the Bhakra canal after he lost balance over it and Shalley and Tanya drowned. While the body of Shalley was recovered and cremated, Tanya’s body is yet to be found. However, suspecting foul play, Shalley’s sister Monika approached the police.  In her complaint, she said that her sister had got married in 1997, but her husband died in 2016. She came in contact with Raj on Facebook and they got married. They had been living at Nigdhu village in Karnal, but following some dispute, they shifted to a rented accommodation at Prem Nagar in Karnal. Shalley had sponsored Raj’s trip to Portugal in 2020, but he came back due to Covid.  On the basis of the complaint, Raj Verma and six members of his family have been booked under Sections 302, 201, 34, and 120b of IPC.  SHO, KU police station, Rakesh Kumar said Raj had been arrested. Raj told the police that he wanted to go abroad again, but Shalley wasnot supporting him this time. He hatched a conspiracy to kill the duo.  Raj was produced in a court, which sent him to a one-day police remand. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-resident-held-for-killing-wife-step-daughter-256473
22-05-2021||Gurugram||Congress starts free kitchen for patients||It was inaugurated by state Congress in-charge Vivek Bansal and senior party leader Capt Ajay Yadav. The party  also decided to distribute masks in villages and carry out sanitisation exercise. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-starts-free-kitchen-for-patients-256474
22-05-2021||Gurugram||40 nasal oxygen machines donated||Hyundai Motor India Foundation yesterday donated 40 high-flow nasal oxygen (HFNO) machines to the state government for distribution among hospitals. Puneet Anand, AVP and Group Head-Corporate Affairs of the foundation, handed over the machines to Dr Pankaj Poonia, manager, Gurugram Regional Drug Warehouse, Haryana. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/40-nasal-oxygen-machines-donated-256475
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Adjust dismissed PTIs: Assn to Haryana CM||The Sarv Karamchari Sangh has sent a representation to the Chief Minister demanding “suitable adjustment” of over 1,600 dismissed physical training instructors (PTIs). Stating that the families of the dismissed PTIs are on the verge of starvation, the representation reminded the CM of his promise that they would be “suitably adjusted” by the state government. The ongoing Covid had put the families under severe financial stress, the representation said, alleging that 17 of these teachers had died due to heart failure following stress due to job loss. As many as 29 of these teachers had become widow during this period.  The state government has also stopped the monthly ex-gratia to the  widows of 52 of these teachers. The sangh demanded that the state government should honour its promise of adjusting them as “special school sports assistants” immediately to mitigate their financial difficulties. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/adjust-dismissed-ptis-assn-to-haryana-cm-256477
22-05-2021||Sanjay Yadav
||Vaccinated but no record, Gurugram locals post plaints on social media||Gurugram, May 21 While the “Vax on wheels” model is being lauded and adopted across the NCR, many people who got the jab in two such drives in Gurugram and one in Noida claim to have not received their certificates so far.  Taking to social media, the people who received their second shot said unlike the first dose they didn’t get their certificates on the spot nor had it been uploaded on CoWIN website or Aarogya Setu app.  “My 85-year-old mother and I got the jab on May 14 in a drive-through vaccination. The entire experience was quite smooth. We had got our first dose in a hospital that gave us our certificates there itself but we got nothing here and were told that it will be available on CoWIN. We have mailed it to the organising company and the administration but to no avail,” a local posted on Facebook.  “I was vaccinated on May 16 and still waiting for a certificate. Have raised the issue on Twitter and called on the Covid helpline, but to no avail. There is no clarity on how will I get my certificate,” said Suresh Kumar, a resident of DLF Phase 3.  Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a virtual meeting with the District Magistrates, which included Gurugram DC Yash Garg, lauded the steps taken by the administration for testing and vaccination campaigns.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vaccinated-but-no-record-gurugram-locals-post-plaints-on-social-media-256478
22-05-2021||---||Two get 25-year jail term for kidnapping, raping minor||Karnal, May 21 Additional Sessions Judge Poonam Suneja, Kaithal District Court, today sentenced two men to 25 years in prison and awarded a 20-year jail term to another man for kidnapping and raping a 15-year-old girl.  Those who had been convicted were Pawan Kumar of Jind, Ravinder Kumar of Mandi village and Lakhwinder, alias Lucky, of Polar village, said Lokender Singh, SP Kaithal. While Pawan has been awarded a 20-year jail term and fined Rs 25,000, Ravinder and Lakhwinderhave been sentenced to 25 years in prison under the POCSO Act and Section 506 of the IPC and penalised 27,000 each. The SP said a man had approached the police on October 30, 2020, and alleged that his daughter had been kidnapped. Later, the police arrested Pawan Kumar of Jind, who revealed that after raping the girl, he sent her to Kaithal in a bus.   Later, Ravinder Kumar and Lakhwinder, alias Lucky, took her to fields on a bike and raped her. The police recovered the girl and handed over to her family. Ravinder and Lakhwinder were arrested on November 7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-get-25-year-jail-term-for-kidnapping-raping-minor-256479
22-05-2021||Chandigarh||Plea to promote telemedicine||Ashim Sanyal, COO of Consumer Voice, said telemedicine had been a boon during Covid and had helped reduce disparities in access. “Patients who have underlying health conditions should not delay or suspend their treatment and avail of remote consultations. Seeking teleconsult with your doctor will keep you safe.” tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/plea-to-promote-telemedicine-256480
22-05-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Three arrested for murdering friend||The police have nabbed three men for the murder of a 29-year-old body builder who was a resident of Bandhwari village. He was allegedly beaten to death by his friends after a brawl broke between them while playing cards. A spade has been seized by the police that was used in the murder. The arrested men were identified as Dinesh alias Major, Jagbeer and Praveen, residents of Bandhwadi village. The victim was identified as Sandeep Kumar alias Kalu, said the police.  As per the complaint filed by Vijay Pal Singh, deceased’s father, Dinesh came to his home on May 17 to take Sandeep along but he declined. On May 19, Jagbeer came to their home late in the evening and took his son with him to play cards at Surajmal’s plot. “After an hour, I reached the plot where I met Praveen. On asking, he told me that my son was sleeping inside the room. When I entered the room, my son was lying in a pool of blood. He was rushed to a hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead,” Vijay told the police. An FIR has been registered under Sections 302, 120-B, IPC, at DLF phase-1 police station. Today, the police nabbed the three accused and are conducting raids to nab another accomplice. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-three-arrested-for-murdering-friend-256481
22-05-2021||---||Dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim visits ailing mother; back in prison||Rohtak, May 21Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, who is undergoing imprisonment at Sunaria prison in Rohtak district, was taken to meet his mother at some undisclosed location in Gurugram under tight security on Friday.The dera head, who was convicted and sentenced to jail for the rape of two of his women disciples and murder of journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati, was granted emergency parole to visit his ailing mother.Sources maintained that the dera chief was taken to Gurugram early in the morning under police custody and returned to the prison in the evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dera-head-gurmeet-ram-rahim-visits-ailing-mother-back-in-prison-256482
22-05-2021||---||Residents hesitant to park vehicles in parking lot||The parking lot provided in the HSVP, Sector-19, Part-2 is in a bad shape. Residents going to Devi Lal Park for morning and evening walks are hesitant to park their vehicles in the earmarked parking. The rough surface of the parking lot is a major irritant forcing the visitors to park their vehicles elsewhere. The residents complain that neither the HSVP administration itself has taken note of the prevailing conditions in the parking area nor it has paid heed to the complaints of the residents. The authorities concerned should take note and act at once.Satish Seth, Kamal Chaudhary and other residents, KaithalDilapidated rural health infrastructureThis public health centre, which was set up around 30 years ago, is in a dilapidated condition and needs immediate repairs. The centre provides healthcare to a cluster of 20 villages, having a total of 25,000 population, near here. There is no doctor and the compounder who is posted here comes rarely. Under such circumstances, one can imagine the pitiable condition of villagers who cannot even get medicines for fever or cough. How can the government handle the Covid pandemic in such a situation.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaWhat Our Readers SayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/residents-hesitant-to-park-vehicles-in-parking-lot-256485
22-05-2021||Hisar||2nd edition of Azadi Amrit Mahotsav||Online placement driveHisar: Two students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, have been selected in the e-campus placement drive of Jind-based Lakshay Food India Limited organised by the training and placement cell of the university. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, and Prof Avnesh Verma, registrar of the university, congratulated the selected students. Pratap Singh, director, placement, said 12 students of MBA 2021 batch participated in the e-campus drive. Dr Aditya Vir Singh, assistant director said the selected students were Kulvinder Yadav and Mohit Malik.Inter-school event organisedYamunanagar: The seventh Dr Amrit Lal Sehgal Commemorative Trophy, a national level inter-school event, was organised by St Lawrence International School, Jagadhri. Students from more than 100 schools of Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Delhi, Jharkhand, Bihar, UP, Uttarakhand and Chandigrah participated in various events. Essay writing, declamation contest and slogan-writing competitions were conducted through virtual mode due to the lockdown.New principal at Rai sports schoolChandigarh: The Haryana Government on Friday appointed Lt Col Ashok Mor as the Principal and Director of Moti Lal Nehru Sports School, Rai. This was stated by an official spokesperson here.Anti-Terrorism Day observedRohtak: Pandit Lakhmi Chand State University of Performing and Visual Arts (PLC SUPVA), observed Anti-Terrorism Day on Friday. To mark the occasion, a pledge was administered online by registrar Dr Kiran Kamboj, to the deans, head of departments, other faculty members and the non-teaching staff. The pledge was administered with the objective to uphold and promote peace, social harmony and understanding among fellow human beings. Observing the importance of the day, Dr. Kamboj delivered an awareness message where she motivated the faculty and staff to be vigilant about the menace of terrorism and to oppose the culture of violence with full strength. Considering the Covid scenario, the anti-terrorism pledge was taken solemnly by the officials through video-conferencing, keeping in view the safety of participants and the Covid protocols.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2nd-edition-of-azadi-amrit-mahotsav-256487
22-05-2021||Vijay C Roy||Banks fail to achieve export credit target in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 21Despite repeated deliberations by stakeholders, export credit has failed to take off in Haryana. Against the national target of 2% of total advances, the disbursement in Haryana was just 0.05% in the last fiscal. The total advances in the state were Rs 3,25,641 crore.While reviewing the performance of banks from March 2020 to March 2021, Swarup Kumar Saha, executive director, Punjab National Bank, said “Though the pace of credit dispensation by banks was disrupted due to the lockdown last fiscal, the banks’ performance on many parameters was satisfactory except in export credit.”The share of export credit is on downward trend for the past few years. In 2019-20, the advances to export sector was 0.05% of the total advances while it was 0.10% in 2018-19. The timely availability of export credit is crucial for exports and any decline in credit offtake takes a toll on exports, especially hitting the MSME sector that always faces fund crunch.During deliberation with bankers in February this year, Haryana Additional Chief Secretary (Finance & Planning) TVSN Prasad had called a meeting of bankers operating in major export clusters such as Gurugram, Faridabad and Panipat to discuss impediments behind the low credit growth.“The bankers need to find out reasons behind the slow growth in export credit. Since the credit growth is stagnant for almost two years and even banks are not able to meet the designated national goal of export credit, they need to sit down and remove stumbling blocks,” a senior banker said.Export finance plays a crucial role in enabling exporters to execute their orders efficiently. While the pre-shipment export finance is required as working capital for accomplishing timely production, packing and shipment of the orders, the post-shipment finance helps in sustaining exporters’ operations while awaiting payments from foreign buyers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/banks-fail-to-achieve-export-credit-target-in-haryana-256700
22-05-2021||Ambala||Haryana IGP seeks FIR against DGP||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-igp-seeks-fir-against-dgp-256671
22-05-2021||Naina Mishra||Black fungus cases on the rise, PGI getting 10 to 15 cases daily||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 21The cases of mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus, are on a rise in the city. In the past one week, the Microbiology Department at the PGI has been diagnosing 10-15 patients with the infection on a daily basis.In the pre-Covid times, the institute used to witness 50 cases annually.Though not every patient needs to be admitted to the hospital, there are currently 21 mucormycosis cases admitted to the NHE Covid block of the PGIMER, of which nine are from Punjab and seven from Haryana.Prof Arunaloke Chakrabarti, Head, Department of Medical Microbiology, said, “Patients with mucormycosis symptoms are showing up in the emergency block of the hospital and a lot of them are from other states.”“The samples of patients are sent to the Microbiology Department laboratory for assessment. A majority of patients who are diagnosed with the disease in our institute have recovered from Covid-19,” said Prof Chakrabarti.“Almost 80 per cent of the suspected cases are diagnosed with mucormycosis. The symptoms are facial pain, nasal blockage, etc.As per the previous studies, the mortality rate of mucormycosis was found to be 50 per cent,” Prof Chakrabarti added.Emphasising the role of an ENT specialist in post-Covid care, Prof Chakrabarti said, “It is highly unlikely that patients come to the hospital in the early stage of mucormycosis as OPDs are shut and they can only visit emergencies. There should be involvement of ENT specialists in the post-Covid clinics so that such patients can be treated in time.” ‘Set up task force’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/black-fungus-cases-on-the-rise-pgi-getting-10-to-15-cases-daily-256545
22-05-2021||Saurabh Malik||Black fungus: Come up with preventive measures, directs Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 21Taking cognisance of the increasing number of black fungal infections, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today asked Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to come up with possible preventive measures. “In case any such steps are possible, the same be taken immediately,” the Bench directed. As the matter came up for resumed hearing, the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh made it clear that its worry travelled beyond ordering medicines for treating black fungus.“The concern of this court is as regards preventive steps, if any, possible. Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh and the Union of India would assist this court on the issue,” the Bench asserted.Justice Gupta said the Bench was “not happy” with the tele-consultation services provided to Covid-19 patients. “The telecom companies are busy sending meaningless messages to consumers...,” he asserted.Justice Gupta made clear that the Bench was not talking about mobile applications and websites, but the simple act of providing local numbers to patients for consulting health professionals. Expressing concern over the rural spread of the virus, Justice Gupta asserted it was a recent phenomenon and “the reasons you know why”. People living in urban areas wanted to go to the countryside as the chances of contracting the disease were less there because of the open space. “The court, under the circumstances, is trying to help the states.”Justice Gupta also said the issue of overcharging by certain laboratories, except the charitable ones, was required to be addressed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/black-fungus-come-up-with-preventive-measures-directs-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-256559
22-05-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||In Haryana, 28% Covid victims had no serious health issues, shows data||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 21The percentage of Covid patients having no comorbidities, who died in Haryana since April 1, rose from 11.9 to 27.7. In some districts like Bhiwani, Jhajjar and Sirsa, the percentage was more than 50.As per the official data, since the outbreak of the pandemic till March 31 this year, 375 people died in the state who didn’t have any comorbidities, while there were 2,780 victims who had comorbidities. The share of victims with no serious health issues was 11.9 per cent.From April 1 till May 20 this year, 4,050 patients died in the state. Of them, 1,121 (27.7 per cent) didn’t have comorbidities.“We will analyse the data. In most cases, patients are reporting late at hospitals. Sometimes they are not even aware of their comorbidities,” said Dr Sapna Gahlawat, CMO, Bhiwani.Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, state nodal officer for Covid, said, “Comorbidities are usually present in the older population. This time, the younger population was affected the most by mutant variants.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-haryana-28-covid-victims-had-no-serious-health-issues-shows-data-256520
