24-05-2021||---||Storms destroy 40% mango crop in Yamunanagar||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, May 23The storms that have occurred this month have destroyed about 40 per cent of the mango crop in Yamunanagar district.Strong winds have caused immature fruits to fall to the ground, causing big loss to the farmers.The fallen mangos are much smaller in size. Therefore, they couldn’t be sold in the market.With 5,600 hectares area, Yamunanagar district has the highest area under mango crop in Haryana.“Our mango orchards are spread over 35 acres in Chhachhrauli town. We have lost about 40 per cent mango crop due to the storms that occurred here this month,” said Suraj Bhatia, a mango farmer from Chhachhrauli town of Yamunanagar district.He said that farmers did not collect the immature mangoes that were knocked off the trees in orchards.“When the storms came this month, the size of the mangoes was very small. We didn’t collect the fallen mangos because we couldn’t sell them in the market to prepare pickle or other by-products like ‘amchur’. Therefore, all fallen mangoes are rotting on the ground in the orchards,” said farmer Suraj Bhatia.Another mango farmer, Satish Kumar of Kalesar village, said that besides storms, insects namely mango hopper and mango mealy bug had also caused heavy damage to the mango crop during flowering and fruiting season.Dr Harpal Maan, District Horticulture Officer, Yamunanagar, said that the storms had caused loss to the mango crop in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/storms-destroy-40-mango-crop-in-yamunanagar-257514
24-05-2021||Palwal||Criminal with Rs50K bounty arrested||The crime branch of the local police has arrested a criminal carrying a cash reward of Rs 50,000 on his head. The accused, identified as Kapur (28) hailing from Sagarpur village of Faridabad, is wanted in at least six cases filed between July 2019 and May 2021.According to the police, he was arrested from Lalwa-Nuh road in the district Friday night after a tip-off. The accused had been involved in the murder of a youth at Janoli village on March 29, said a police official. While several cases of crime including murder, attempt to murder, assault and loot had been pending against him, Kapur had been on run since he had been released on bail about six months ago. Kapur was remanded to two-day police custody by the local court on Saturday.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/criminal-with-rs50k-bounty-arrested-257515
24-05-2021||Yamunanagar||Woman duped of Rs18L; 3 booked||The police have booked three persons for allegedly duping a woman of Rs 18 lakh on the pretext of sending her son to the US.On the complaint of Laltesh of Malikpur village, a case was registered against Praveen Kumar of Bank Colony, Monika Chaudhry and Amit Kumar of Muzafat village under Sections 406, 420, 506 of the IPC and Sections 10, 24 of Immigration Act at City police station, Jagadhri, on May 22.Laltesh said: “Monika and Amit are our relatives. The trio took Rs 18 lakh from me in instalments and sent my son to South Africa in December 2017. He returned in July 2018. Later, they sent him to Greece on October 7, 2018, promising that he will be sent to the US, but they failed. Later when asked about the money, they refused.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-duped-of-rs18l-3-booked-257526
24-05-2021||---||Ex-sarpanch shot in Sonepat village||Sonepat, May 23Former sarpanch of Karewri village was shot dead near railway lines in the village late on Saturday night. The railway police registered a murder case against members of a criminal gang.The deceased has been identified as Naresh, alias Neshi (44). Family members alleged that he had been murdered due to political enmity.Rahul, nephew of the former sarpanch, in his complaint to GRP said that he along with his friend Vishal went to withdraw money from the ATM at Chitanavillage. Meanwhile, he received information that his uncle Naresh had been shot at in the farm.He immediately reached there and found that his uncle was lying in the fields and his motorcycle was lying nearby.They immediately rushed him to Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College for Women at Khanpur where doctors declared him dead.He alleged that members of Ajay, alias Kannu, gang (Kannu had died in Punjab in a police encounter) had murdered his uncle due to political enmity. He also alleged that Sahil of the village and Kannu’s mother was involved in the murder conspiracy.Rahul said that Naresh had defeated Kannu’s brother Sanjay in the poll for sarpanch five years ago. That led to enmity between them. It was also alleged that Kannu had also shot at Naresh in 2015. After some time, Sanjay died in a road accident and Kannu died in a police encounter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-sarpanch-shot-in-sonepat-village-257527
24-05-2021||Rewari||Rewari youth shot dead||A youth, identified as Kanwar Singh, alias Paikari, of ward number 4, was shot dead by two motorbike-borne assailants in Dharuhera town here on Saturday night. The incident was captured by CCTV cameras there.The crime was perpetrated when the youth was sitting along with his friends at ward number 4 in Dharuhera town. A police spokesman said those who indulged in the crime had been identified. Some youths had been rounded up for questioning. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rewari-youth-shot-dead-257528
24-05-2021||Kurukshetra||20-yr-old woman arrested in murder case||The local police have arrested Bharti, a 20-year-old woman from Kaithal, in connection with the murder case of Shalley, who was drowned by her husband Raj in a canal in Kurukshetra along with her daughter Tanya.The police said Bharti was involved in the conspiracy. She was sent to judicial custody. The police said Bharti had been asking Raj to divorce Shalley and marry her. Earlier, Raj had told the police that he wanted to go abroad againbut Shalley was not supporting him. So he hatched a conspiracy to kill the duo.SHO, KU police station, Rakesh Kumar, said, “Raj and Bharti came in contact on Facebook when he was in Portugal. They wanted to get married. Bharti was asking Raj to get divorced but Shalley was not ready.”On May 19, Raj had claimed that his bike fell into the Bhakra canal after he lost balance and Shalley and Tanya drowned. While Shalley’s body was recovered and cremated the same day, Tanya’s body was recovered on Sunday. The autopsy will be conducted on Monday.However, suspecting foul play, Shalley’s sister Monika approached the police. In her complaint, she said that her sister got married in 1997, but her husband died in 2016. She came in contact with Raj on Facebook and they got married.They had been living at Nigdhu village in Karnal, but following some dispute, they shifted to a rented accommodation at Prem Nagar in Karnal. Shalley had sponsored Raj’s trip to Portugal in 2020, but he came back due to Covid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/20-yr-old-woman-arrested-in-murder-case-257529
24-05-2021||Gurugram||Property dealer beaten to death||A 38-year-old property dealer, a resident of Sikandarpur Badha village, was killed when he and his friend were brutally thrashed by a group of armed assailants, led by Mukesh Yadav, brother of gangster Rakesh Hayatpur.The accused attacked the duo over a dispute of Rs 35 lakh. The property dealer died today in a private hospital. An FIR was registered against Mukesh and others at the Kherki Daula police station.Sources said the police had detained Mukesh and his five associates. Meanwhile, a close associate of gangster Rakesh Hayatpur claimed on his behalf that he had no relationship with his brother since 2018 when Mukesh had got an FIR registered against him.Cops said on Saturday afternoon the property dealer, Har Gobind, was returning from Farrukhnagar in his car along with his friend Sandeep, whi said when they reached at Canal Chowk in Sector 86, Mukesh and 15 armed men stopped them after overtaking them. “They were carrying baseball bats, hockey and iron rods. First they held us hostage at gunpoint and then thrashed us. No one came to save us and when Har Gobind fainted, they fled the spot.”An FIR of brawl and attempt to murder was registered, but later Section 302 of the IPC was added in the FIR.“Har Gobind and Mukesh were doing property business. A financial dispute was going on between them and Har Gobind had mortgaged his land’s paper with Mukesh, but he always threatened him and his family. He killed Har Gobind,” said Krishan Kumar, brother-in-law of the victim.Police sources said the victim and his friend also had criminal record as a kidnapping case was registered against them earlier. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/property-dealer-beaten-to-death-257530
24-05-2021||Kurukshetra||Webinar on skill development||Guidance on psycho-social skillsJhajjar: The State Institute of Advanced Studies in Teacher Education (SIASTE) organised a webinar on "Guidance on psycho- social skills during epidemic" under the 'campus cleanliness and water power' programme. SIASTE Director Dr Rishi Goel said this phase of the epidemic was affecting every section of society. Psycho social skills can be acquired through a positive approach and proper routines. "In the Corona era, there is a sense of great disappointment among students and every college should form a Covid team to solve the problem of the students, in which the professor, counsellor, some students can give proper guidance to the students if needed," said Dr Ranbir Singh Button, Adviser, Mahatma Gandhi National Council for Rural Education. Programme coordinator Dr Rohen Meetei said such webinars not only generated positive ideas in students but enabled them to deal with future choices.Anti-Terrorism Day programmeMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) marked Anti-Terrorism Day by organising an online programme. Vice Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad administered a pledge to all teaching and non-teaching staff that they should always be ready to make every possible contribution against terrorism and to work together to protect the unity, integrity and human values of the country. On the occasion, teachers from various departments spoke about their achievements. Dr Surendra Kumar, Dr Harish Kumar, Dr Vikas Garg, Dr Dinesh Kumar, Dr Indrajit Kaur, Dr Manoj Gupta and Dr Ram Gopal Nitharwal provided information regarding their research paper publications.Online yoga camp organisedKarnal: Pratap Public School, Jarnailly Colony, Karnal, organised an hour-long online yoga camp for its ancillary and support staff under the guidance of director principal Poonam Navet. The session convened and conducted by Shiv Kumar who emphasised on boosting immunity and maintaining good oxygen levels in the body through yoga and pranayam. Several asanas boosting immunity and overall health for daily practice were highlighted and were performed by one and all present in the camp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/webinar-on-skill-development-257532
24-05-2021||After the Covid-19 has spread its tentacles in Haryana villages||Black fungus drug should be readily available||Shakti Singh, KarnalUnhygienic conditions spread diseaseThe Covid-induced mucormycosis, known as black fungus, is spreading fast across the country and unhygienic conditions have a possible role to play in the spread of infection. We must say unhygienic condition prevailing in Faridabad could be a potential cause of black fungus infection. Preventive measures must be taken by the government and civic authorities.Devinder Singh Surjewala, FaridabadInclined road railing a danger to commutersOn the busiest Faridabad-Gurugram road near Sainik Colony road, a railing has been damaged, which is inclined towards the middle of the road since weeks, posing risk to commuters. The authorities concerned and officials are in deep slumber and waiting for some untoward incident to happen.Tarun Chopra, FaridabadOld Kaithal-Ambala highway needs repairAThe dilapidated bridge over Kaithal drain on the old Kaithal-Ambala road highway passing through this town, constructed about five decades ago, has outlived its life and is in a very bad shape. It is congested and causes great inconvenience to road users and resulting fatal accidents frequently. Neither the Haryana PWD Department nor local public representatives have cared to get the existing road and bridge widened despite steep increase in the number of vehicles moving on this road. The 9-km stretch of the old highway from Kaithal town to the new national highway touching Delhi Public School should be immediately widened and a new wide bridge constructed on the Kaithal drain without delay.Satish Seth, KaithalIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/black-fungus-drug-should-be-readily-available-257533
24-05-2021||Hisar||HAU donates 200 tonnes of dry wood||Haryana Agricultural University (HAU) has donated 200 tonnes of dry wood to the Municipal Corporation for the cremation of Covid victims.Dr BR Kamboj, HAU Vice Chancellor, said: “The university stands united with affected families in this hour of crisis. The HAU will continue to donate dry wood for performing the last rites of the victims.”Earlier, the university auctioned off dry wood. Rajesh Kumar, an MC employee who is part of the team that performs the last rites at Rishi Nagar cremation ground, said: “Nearly 20 bodies are cremated every day and this requires \ 72 quintals of wood. The HAU’s gesture will help us tide over the shortage of dry wood.” An HAU spokesperson said the university donated 100 medical kits each among six villages — Talwandi Rukka, Balsamand, Mangali, Agroha, Gawar and Mohabbatpur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hau-donates-200-tonnes-of-dry-wood-257511
24-05-2021||Rohtak||People sit under ‘peepal’ for oxygen||Liquor smuggling on in lockdownCharkhi Dadri: The lockdown seems to have given an opportunity to unscrupulous elements to resort to liquor smuggling. The Charkhi Dadri police crackdown on such elements has led to seizure of 3,516 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) and about 1,000 bottles of country-made liquor in the district during the lockdown. SP Vinod Kumar said that they registered 23 criminal cases and arrested 25 persons involved in liquor smuggling. He said that the police have set up 17 permanent ‘nakas’ and 11 temporary ‘nakas’, constituted 49 patrolling parties and 11 riders for round-the-clock patrolling in the district. However, it seems that liquor smugglers are undeterred by these measures.Gita Pariwar’s ambulance serviceKarnal: Global Inspiration and Enlightenment Organisation of Bhagavad (GIEO) Gita Pariwar on Sunday dedicated an ambulance for the public. Swami Gyananand, founder of Shri Krishan Kripa Dham in Mathura (Vrindavan), MP Sanjay Bhatia, Mayor Renu Bala Gupta, Gharaunda MLA Harvinder Kalyan and others inaugurated the ambulance service at Shri Krishna Dham, Sector-9. Employees of the Karnal Municipal Corportaion who are cremating Covid bodies were given safety kits. Meanwhile, the BJP also started an oxygen bank at its office. MP Sanjay Bhatia has extended the support of seven oxygen concentrators for it.Tea for frontline workersAmbala: Surprising frontline workers, Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel on Saturday night reached Civil Hospital, Ambala City, and started serving tea and ‘rusk’ to on-duty doctors, nurses and other staff members. Later, he did the same at Mission Hospital and at several police ‘nakas’ in the city. Aseem said, “Frontline workers have been performing their duties efficiently and I salute them for their hard work. We have started Mission Shukriya Ambala and under that programme, frontline workers will be served tea every evening.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/people-sit-under-peepal-for-oxygen-257537
24-05-2021||---||Private schools seek Prez help on CBSE Class X evaluation policy||Ambala, May 23Unhappy with the CBSE directions regarding the constitution of eight-member panels to prepare Class X results, the National Independent Schools’ Alliance (NISA) has sought the intervention of President Ram Nath Kovind, Disaster Management chairman, Human Rights Commission and Women and Child Development Department for directing the board to reconsider its oKulbhushan Sharma, NISA president, said: “In order to prepare Class X results, the CBSE has asked schools to constitute eight-member committee. The board has also instructed the school managements and evaluation committees to refer to the past three years’ results and internal tests, exams of the particular year. The CBSE has suggested an online process to evaluate, but without referring the hardcopies of the previous years’ data it is not possible to prepare the results. The managements are thus forced to open schools during the lockdown.”The NISA, in its memorandum, said: “It appears that this circular was issued by the CBSE without any prior consultation or permission of the Disaster Management Authority and other departments concerned. If a management of a school does not constitute the result committee then they, as per this circular, can face disciplinary action and be de-affiliated. Under such circumstances, teachers are forced to attend the school to do internal assessment of marks.”“The board can consider 20 per cent internal assessment to be 100 per cent this year, multiply the marks obtained by students in internal tests and half-yearly exams sent earlier by the schools and declare the result accordingly. The same has been done by state boards like Board of Tamil Nadu and Board of Telangana. It will save the school managements from risking the lives of teachers and other staff members,” NISA demanded.Kulbhushan said: “We have requested the President and the ministers of the departments concerned to intervene into the matter, asking the National Disaster Management Authority to direct the CBSE to reconsider its decision related to Class X exams so as to save lakhs of teachers and other staff members, including their family members, from being exposed to Covid.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/private-schools-seek-prez-help-on-cbse-class-x-evaluation-policy-257512
24-05-2021||---||Survey: 23 % college students underweight, 11% overweight||Yamunanagar, May 23About 62 per cent students fall in the normal weight category whereas 23 per cent underweight and 11 per cent were found overweight with about 4 per cent obese.The findings emerged in the body mass index survey conducted by the physical education department of Maharaja Agrasen College, Jagadhri, with a sample of 267 students of the college.15% urban students overweightThe survey also revealed that about 15 per cent of the urban students were overweight in comparison to about 8 per cent rural students.According to information, the gender wise analysis of data revealed that only 50 per cent of the girls were in normal weight category while 68 per cent boys maintained normal weight. “It clearly indicates that around half of the girls require health intervention as about 34 per cent of them keep lower weight while 14 per cent are overweight and 2 per cent obese,” said Prof Hemraj Kaushish, head of the department of physical education of the college. The survey also revealed that about 15 per cent of the urban students were overweight in comparison to about 8 per cent rural students.It was further revealed that about 31 per cent of urban girls were underweight in comparison to about 40 per cent of the rural girls while 16 per cent of the urban girls and 9 per cent of the rural girls were found overweight. Over 3 per cent of the urban girls were found obese while none from among girls from rural areas.“The survey reveals a notable gap between rural and urban students as about 13 per cent rural boys and 21 per cent urban boys are underweight while 13 per cent of the urban and 8 per cent rural boys are overweight. It was also noticed that about 3 per cent of the urban boys and 4.45 per cent of rural boys are obese,” said Prof Hemraj Kaushish.Principal of the college Dr PK Bajpai expressed his satisfaction that about 62 per cent of the students were healthy but also shown his concern that there were a good chunk in both rural and urban areas who needed immediate intervention in terms of health and nutrition education and holistic well-being.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/survey-23-college-students-underweight-11-overweight-257513
24-05-2021||Ravinder Saini||120  Covid-positive women gave birth to healthy kids at PGIMS, Rohtak, in two months||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, May 23Deliveries of over 120 Covid-positive women were performed at the gynecology and obstetrics ward at Pt BD Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in the past two months. In all cases, the Covid patients gave the birth to healthy children.Significantly, many doctors and nurses contracted infection while extending treatment to Covid patients, but it failed to dampen their spirit and discharged their duties with devotion and enthusiasm in the time of crisis. They recovered from infection and again joined duty, said Dr Pushpa Dahiya, Medical Superintendent (MS) of the PGIMS.Aware of their plightIt was not less than a challenge to treat and to ensure safe delivery of Covid-positive women during the first wave of Covid last year when a panic-like situation prevailed all around, but our doctors and nurses took up the challenge. Consequently, Rohtak PGIMS became the first institute across Haryana to perform first Caesarean section of a Covid patient in 2020. — Dr Pushpa Dahiya, Medical Superintendent of the PGIMSShe informed, nearly 500 Covid positive women were treated at the gynecology and obstetrics ward in the past one year. Around 240 among them underwent deliveries and over 50 per cent such deliveries were performed in April and May this year when the Covid was playing havoc across the state, she added.“It was not less than a challenge to treat and to ensure safe delivery of Covid-positive women during the first wave of Covid last year when a panic-like situation prevailed all around, but our doctors and nurses took up the challenge. Consequently, Rohtak PGIMS became the first institute across Haryana to perform first Caesarean section of a Covid patient in 2020,” said the MS, adding that thereafter, cesarean deliveries of over 130 Covid patients have been done so far.Dr Pushpa, who is also a senior professor at the department of gynecology and obstetrics, informed that rapid antigen and RT PCR test of women patients were performed on coming to the ward. Since the RTPCR report comes after 24-hour hence the patients are kept in isolation in the ward until then. Those tested positive were taken to the Covid care centre in the trauma ward for delivery. The newborn babies were separated from their mothers post delivery to prevent him/her from infection, she added.“Infants are kept at the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) of the PGIMS where doctors take care of the babies. The mother remains at the Covid care centre until she recovers from the infection while Covid test of the newborn is also done. Generally, such babies are found negative,” she maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/120-covid-positive-women-gave-birth-to-healthy-kids-at-pgims-rohtak-in-two-months-257510
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||4,400 fresh cases of Covid, 97 deaths in Haryana||The state today reported 4,400 fresh Covid cases, taking the tally to 7.38 lakh. Besides, 97 more people succumbed to the virus. the toll has reached 7,517.Hisar and Bhiwani reported the maximum of eight deaths each from by Karnal (7) and Ambala, Faridabad and Jind (6 each).Meanwhile, 52.8 lakh persons have been vaccinated against Covid so far. In all, 23,745 received the jab today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-400-fresh-cases-of-covid-97-deaths-in-haryana-257534
24-05-2021||---||Black fungus cases rise to 421 in Haryana||Chandigarh, May 23The total number of black fungus cases in Haryana rose to 421, with the maximum 149 cases reported from Gurugram district, the Health Department said on Sunday.There are 88 cases in Hisar, 50 in Faridabad, 26 in Rohtak, 25 in Sirsa, 17 in Karnal, 15 in Panipat, 11 in Ambala and eight in Bhiwani.Around 20 beds have been reserved for black fungus patients in each medical college.With rising number of black fungus or mucormycosis cases in the state on the rise, Health Minister Anil Vij had recently chaired a meeting of senior officials regarding management of the disease.He had earlier said that the state government has ordered a global tender to procure anti-fungal injection Amphotericin B.“The state has sought 12,000 injections from the Centre,” Vij said on Sunday.Besides, experts have been asked to look for alternative anti-fungal infections for the treatment of black fungus cases, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/black-fungus-cases-rise-to-421-in-haryana-257516
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Fix treatment rates on Rajasthan pattern: Cong||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) chief Kumari Selja has said that the rates fixed by the BJP-JJP government for the treatment of Covid patients in private hospitals of Haryana are beyond the reach of the common man.In a statement issued here, she alleged that these rates were double the rates of neighbouring Rajasthan.“The government should immediately fix the rates of treatment in Haryana on the lines of the Congress government of Rajasthan and provide relief to the people by halving the existing rates,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fix-treatment-rates-on-rajasthan-pattern-cong-257517
24-05-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Cases drop, so does bed occupancy in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, May 23With a drop in Covid cases in the district, the occupancy of beds with oxygen support in various hospitals has dipped to 30 per cent. Around 90 per cent of isolation beds are also lying vacant in the district.“Of 425 isolation beds set up in Covid care centres in the past one month, almost 90 per cent have remained unoccupied since the facility came into being,” reveals Vikas Kumar, secretary, District Red Cross Society.SITUATION IMPROVINGOnly 30% of 2,200 oxygen beds are occupied, while 40% of ventilator beds are vacant. — Yashpal Yadav, DCClaiming that only 12 to 13 beds of total 75 isolation beds at the district de-addiction centre in Sector 14 had been occupied so far, he said 90 to 95 per cent beds in three other such facilities in the city, with a capacity of 350 set up by residents or private institutions, had also been lying vacant due to a drop in the number of Covid patients.Similarly according to officials of the Health Department, almost all beds in the isolation centres that were set up in 50 villages of the district a week ago had also been lying unoccupied mainly due to the fact that a majority of the patients in rural pockets prefer to be quarantined at their homes, where their kin look after them.“The Isolation centres set up in rural areas had no additional facility other than beds and this was perhaps the main drawback. Residents having homes nearby do not want to shift to the centre even if there are symptoms,” says Jaswant of Chandawali village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cases-drop-so-does-bed-occupancy-in-faridabad-257518
24-05-2021||---||Karnal hospital gets ECMO machine for critically ill patients||Karnal, May 23Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) has received an extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) machine for critically ill Covid patients, whose lungs are damaged and require ventilator support.The authorities say the machine works as a pair of artificial lungs. It removes carbon dioxide from the patient’s blood and adds oxygen to it.1,855 have ILIA survey has found 1,855 persons in Yamunanagar district have influenza-like illness (ILI) ; 120 have difficulty in breathingBesides, 31,382 people have been found suffering from diabetes and hypertensionThe teams of ASHA workers have been conducting the survey since May 15The ECMO machine works by inserting a plastic tube into a large vein and/or artery through the neck, chest or groin of the patient. This tube allows the patient’s blood to flow out into an oxygenator, or artificial lung. The oxygenator adds oxygen and removes carbon dioxide from the blood, before a pump sends this blood back into the patient through a different tube.“The machine will increase the chances of survival,” said Dr Jagdish Dureja, Director, KCGMC.He thanked Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for providing Rs 50 lakh from his discretionary funds for the machine.Khattar will inaugurate the machine on Monday through video-conferencing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-hospital-gets-ecmo-machine-for-critically-ill-patients-257519
24-05-2021||---||PGIMS, Rohtak, to use experimental drugs||Rohtak, May 23Owing to the non-availability of Amphotericin-B, the injectible drug used for the treatment of mucormycosis (black fungus) infection, the authorities of the Rohtak PGIMS have decided to use experimental drugs which are alternative to the mainline treatment module prescribed in medical text/ICMR guidelines.A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting held under the chairmanship of the PGIMS director, Dr Rohtash K Yadav, on Sunday afternoon.Another fatalityA PGIMS spokesperson said 56 patients of black fungus were under treatment at the institute. Of them, two are in the ICU. Three patients were operated upon on Sunday, while one died. The government says eight persons have died of black fungus.“The drugs which are experimental in nature and are alternative/adjunctive to the mainline treatment module prescribed in medical text/ICMR guidelines are to be used very sparingly and judiciously,” state the minutes of the meeting.The minutes of the meeting further maintained that “such experimental drugs, which are likely to be procured on the basis of the advice of the expert committee, will be administered with the written consent of the patient. The consent of the patient will be sent to the Ethical Committee for its approval”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pgims-rohtak-to-use-experimental-drugs-257520
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Sanjeevani scheme to be launched today in Haryana||Haryana will launch an anti-Covid “Sanjeevani Pariyojana” on Monday to provide for supervised and quick medical care at home largely for people in rural areas with mild to moderate symptoms of the disease.“Sanjeevani Pariyojana” would extend medical care to rural areas where awareness of the second wave of Covid and how to treat it remained low, an official spokesperson said here on Sunday.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar will roll out the initiative through video conferencing.Optimum utilisationThe initiative will comprise an Integrated Command and Control Centre for managing critical resources such as hospital beds and oxygen supply. — Govt spokespersonThe spokesperson described the programme as an important step in bringing much-needed medical care to people “who need it the most, when they need it the most”.“The initiative will comprise an Integrated Command and Control Centre for managing critical resources such as hospital beds availability, oxygen supply, ambulance tracking and door-to-door awareness campaign to enable a bird’s eye view of the entire healthcare system for the district administration,” the spokesperson said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sanjeevani-scheme-to-be-launched-today-in-haryana-257521
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||17 more villages of Haryana get 24-hour power supply||The state government has extended the ‘Mhara Gaon Jagmag Gaon’ scheme to 17 more villages with the aim of providing 24-hour electricity supply.There are nine villages of Sonepat district, five of Rohtak and one each of Panipat, Jhajjar and Kaithal districts. Now, 5,287 villages of the state are getting 24-hour power supply. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/17-more-villages-of-haryana-get-24-hour-power-supply-257522
24-05-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Post harvest season, Punjab leaders to strengthen protest||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, May 23Farm leaders of Punjab have now decided to strengthen the protest at the Delhi borders after the harvesting season ends in the region. They have decided to launch a special campaign to increase the number of farmers at the borders from May 28 to June 10.Notably, the crowds gathered at the Singhu border had been thin due to the harvesting season in Punjab and Haryana. The number of farmers in each trolley and tents was now 3-4 as compared to 10-15 earlier.As per sources, the farmers’ strength was at peak in December and January but it reduced after the January 26 violence in Delhi. The reducing number of protesters at borders had raised concern about the movement.Now, Punjab farm leaders held a meeting and decided to intensify the movement again at the Delhi borders, especially Singhu and Tikri.All the unions have been asked to bring groups of farmers at the Delhi borders and even leaders of all 32 unions have been assigned their duties. Even the unions have fixed the number of farmers to be brought to the Delhi borders and even the days have been fixed according to the schedule, said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, BKU (Lakhowal).Maximum senior farm leaders of Punjab unions have moved to the state to prepare for a successful protest on May 26 and the special campaign, he added.We have also decided that a lot of farmers will not be brought at the borders due to the pandemic but the number in each trolley will be increased from 3-4 to 7-8, Lakhowal claimed.Meanwhile, Yogender Yadav, member, Samyukt Kisan Morcha, said it was a unanimous decision of the SKM to strengthen the agitation at the Delhi borders again keeping in view the Covid protocols.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/post-harvest-season-punjab-leaders-to-strengthen-protest-257523
24-05-2021||Ravinder Saini||Farmers to hoist 5K black flags at Tikri||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, May 23The protesting farmers have set a target of hoisting 5,000 black flags at the Tikri border on May 26 to protest against the Centre on the completion of six months of the farmers’ movement at the Delhi borders and seven years of the government formation. They will also wear black badges to register their protest.“We have already placed the order of 5,000 black flags, which will not only be put on tractors and other vehicles of the farmers but also be hoisted at their huts at the Tikri border. Preparations are also in full swing to distribute the flags among residents of nearby villages so that they can also hoist them on their houses and shops,” said Pargat Singh, a leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal).Rotational dutyAs part of the rotational duty, a large number of farmers from Karnal district left for Singhu on Sunday to show their strength to the government. They will stay at the border for seven days and starting next week, another district will hold the morcha. — Gurnam Singh Charuni, BKU (Charuni) presidentPargat said a meeting of farm organisations from Punjab was held at Tikri on Sunday to chalk out a strategy to put up a good show on May 26. The meeting decided to hoist black flags on the main stage as well as the 12-km-long protest site from Jakhoda turn (Bahadurgarh) to the Tikri border. It had also been resolved that Sikhs would tie black ribbon on their turbans while others would wear black badges in their hands, he added.Purushottam Singh Gill, a leader of the BKU (Lakhowal), said besides registering the protest, the event also aimed at making the government realise that farmers were here for a long haul and would not move back without getting the three farm laws repealed. “We have spent around six months at the Delhi borders and have no issue in spending more time than it,” the farm leader added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-to-hoist-5k-black-flags-at-tikri-257524
24-05-2021||Karnal||On Charuni’s appeal, hundreds leave Karnal for Singhu border||A large convoy of farmers from Karnal district on Sunday left for the Singhu border to join the ongoing protest against the farm laws.They will remain at the border for a week as a part of the rotational duty assigned by Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni, who had appealed to farmers to hold a district-wise morcha every week to maintain the strength at the borders.Carrying BKU flags, hundreds of farmers led by Gurnam Singh Charuni assembled at the Bastara toll plaza on the national highway-44 and left for the Delhi borders in their vehicles.On being asked about the letter sent by the SKM to the Centre for resuming dialogue, Charuni said the farmers’ body was always ready for talks with the government, but the latter wasn’t willing to do so.About future strategy, he said farmers would observe May 26 as a ‘black day’ to mark six months of their protest at the Delhi borders. He said they would also burn the effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Charuni also criticised the government for the registration of FIRs against farmers in Hisar and said a meeting would be organised in this regard on Monday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/on-charunis-appeal-hundreds-leave-karnal-for-singhu-border-257525
24-05-2021||---||Haryana extends lockdown; eases curbs for shops||Chandigarh, May 23The Haryana Government today extended the lockdown for another week till May 31 with major relaxations for shops. An order issued by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan said, “While the lockdown has been extended, certain relaxations have been given.”Odd-even basisNow, standalone shops will remain open, except when the night curfew is in place. Other shops will open from 7 am to 12 noon on an odd-even basis. While odd number shops will open on odd days, even number shops will open on even days, the order said, adding that shopping malls would remain shut.A cap of 11 persons has been enforced for weddings and funerals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-extends-lockdown-eases-curbs-for-shops-257545
24-05-2021||---||Another face-off: Punjab, Haryana farmers head to Delhi border to mark ‘black day’||New Delhi, May 23With the Union Agriculture Ministry showing reluctance in resuming talks with protesting farmers unless they propose a solution other than the repeal of the three farm laws, the stage is set for another face-off between the government and farmers.Even as farmers’ union leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said there was no question of going back on demands, the government appears to be in no mood to concede to unions’ demand for resumption of talks.Their demandsWhile Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has reiterated his earlier stance on the issue, official sources said at a time the country is passing through such a bad phase, the demand of unions is unjustified. Besides, the success of the rabi marketing season in Punjab and Haryana is a proof of the Centre’s intention and commitment towards farmers, they said. Tomar said the unions neither accepted the offer to put off the laws for 18 months nor proposed anything apart from the demand for repeal of the laws. “If the unions offer an alternative, we will talk,” Tomar said. Charuni said the unions would observe May 26 as “black day” to mark the completion of six months of their agitation. Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana are headed for Delhi for the protest.At least 12 Opposition parties, led by the Congress, have extended support to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha. “We support the SKM’s call to hold nationwide protests on May 26,” said a statement signed by the Opposition leaders, including Congress president Sonia Gandhi, JDS’ HD Deve Gowda, NCP’s Sharad Pawar, TMC’s Mamata Banerjee, Shiv Sena’s Uddhav Thackeray, DMK’s MK Stalin, JMM’s Hemant Soren, NC’s Farooq Abdullah, SP’s Akhilesh Yadav, RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav, CPI’s D Raja and CPM’s Sitaram Yechury.The statement noted that on May 12, the Opposition leaders had written to PM Narendra Modi demanding repeal of the farm laws. The leaders also demanded legal entitlement to MSP as recommended by the MS Swaminathan Commission.“The Centre must stop being obdurate and immediately resume talks with the SKM on these lines,” the statement read.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/another-face-off-punjab-haryana-farmers-head-to-delhi-border-to-mark-black-day-257541
24-05-2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown extended in Haryana till May 31 with major relaxations for opening of shops||With a view to contain the spurt in Covid-19 cases, the Haryana government on Sunday extended the lockdown for another week from May 24 to 31 with major relaxations for the opening of shops.An order issued by Vijai Vardhan, Chief Secretary-cum Chairman of the State Executive Committee constituted under the Disaster Management Act, said “Mahamari alert—Surakshit Haryana”(pandemic alert-safe Haryana) had been extended but certain relaxations had been given.Now, the standalone shops will remain open except when the night curfew is in place. The other shops will remain open from 7 am to 12 noon on odd-even basis.While odd number shops will open on odd days, the even number shops will remain open on the even days, the order said adding that shopping malls would remain closed.Under the lockdown orders, a cap of 11 persons had been enforced for the marriage functions and funerals.The marriages would be allowed to be conducted in either homes or courts with strictly no movement of baraat procession allowed in the state.The movement of only essential services, including hearth, police and emergency and municipal services and services engaged in Covid-19 duty would continue to exempted from these restrictions. However, people would be required to get e-passes for any movement within or outside the state.Highlights*Standalone shops to remain open except when night curfew is in place.*Other shops to open from 7 am to 12 noon on odd-even basis.*Shopping malls to remain shut.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lockdown-extended-in-haryana-till-may-31-with-major-relaxations-for-opening-of-shops-257281
