25-05-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||POCSO convict commits suicide in Bhondsi jail||A 27-year-old convicted inmate in Bhondsi jail allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself Monday night.He hung himself in the barrack with a noose made from a towel.It is being speculated that he was suffering from an allergy and might have taken this extreme step owing to this but the real reason behind the same is yet to be ascertained.A magisterial probe has been ordered in his death while police handed over the body to the kin after the post-mortem today.The deceased inmate is identified as Gautam (27), a resident of mohalla Kajiwada in Sohna, who was nabbed for raping a minor girl in 2018 and was booked under POCSO act at Sohna city police station.Some months ago, he was convicted in the case and a local court sentenced him to four years and he was lodged in barrack 6 of Bhondsi jail.Police said he was in the barrack last night where he hung himself from a grill with a noose made from a towel. It was today around 5 am when other inmates raised an alarm after seeing his body.The jail officials and wardens reached the spot and called doctors who declared him as brought dead. Jail superintendent informed local police and a police team along with forensic team reached the jail and collected the evidence.Police said that the inmate committed suicide due to some unknown reasons but probe is on.In presence of the magistrate, the post-mortem was conducted and police handed over the body to the kin.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pocso-convict-commits-suicide-in-bhondsi-jail-258284
25-05-2021||Chandigarh||33 new black fungus cases||In all, 33 fresh cases of black fungus were reported in the state on Monday, taking the total number to 454.On Monday, the maximum (7) cases were reported from Hisar, followed by Gurugram (6), Faridabad (5), Panipat (4), Ambala and Fatehabad (3 each), Rewari and Sirsa (2 each) and Rohtak (1).3 die in jhajjar, one in karnalThree persons died of black fungus in Jhajjar district in the past 48 hours. They had been under treatment at the World College of Medical Science. In Karnal, a 40-year-old Covid patient reportedly died of black fungus at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College.Meanwhile, three persons died of black fungus in Jhajjar district in the past 48 hours. They had been under treatment at the World College of Medical Science. The deceased belonged to Jhajjar city, Badli and Raiya villages.Civil Surgeon Dr Sanjay Dahiya confirmed the deaths were because of black fungus.In Karnal, a 40-year-old Covid patient reportedly died of black fungus at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College. With this, the number of deaths due to black fungus has reached four in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/33-new-black-fungus-cases-258140
25-05-2021||Panipat||‘Protest Day’ preparations in full swing||Farmers’ organisations have begun preparations for the “Protest Day” on May 26 to mark six months of their agitation at the Delhi borders against the three controversial farm laws. The day also coincides with seven years of the Modi government. Farmer leaders said 11-km stretch at Singhu would be covered with black flags that day.  On the call by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, protesting farmers will hoist black flags on their trolleys, tractors, sheds and tents at Singhu. The main stage will be draped in black. Rajinder Singh Deep Singhwala, vice-president of the Kirti Kisan Union, said he visited Punjab to mobilise support for the “Protest Day”.  Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, BKU (Lakhowal), told The Tribune over phone he was in Punjab for the preparations and return to Singhu after May 26. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protest-day-preparations-in-full-swing-257793
25-05-2021||Sushil Manav||Active cases down 50%, deaths 20% in one week in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 24With Covid cases declining in the past two weeks, and increase in recoveries, the total active cases in Haryana have witnessed a dip of over 50 per cent in the last seven days.However, the fatalities during this period have dipped by 20 per cent only, as 827 persons succumbed to the virus during the week that ended on Sunday, against 1,080 during the preceding week.Medical experts attribute this relatively fewer dip in fatalities to the higher number of cases in the state, 10 to 14 days ago.“For mortalities, one has to refer to the number of cases the state recorded 10 to 14 days back, because it takes a Covid patient 10 to 14 days to recover from the virus, and even those who succumb to it, normally grapple with the disease for a few days before the virus overpowers them,” said a senior doctor treating Covid-19 patients.As on Sunday, the total number of active cases in the state stood at 42,816 against 90,066 cases, a week ago.The active cases per lakh population have also witnessed a dip from 354 to 168 during this period.Now, five districts of Haryana — Charkhi Dadri, Kaithal, Nuh, Palwal and Sonepat — have less than 100 active cases per 1 lakh population.Gurugram (329) has the highest active cases per 1 lakh population, followed by Panchkula (304), Hisar (274), Mahendragarh (259), Sirsa (248) and Fatehabad (229).Haryana recorded 43,601 cases during the week that ended on Sunday, but against this, 90,024 people recovered from the virus during these seven days.The recovery rate in the state has also improved from 86.07 per cent to 93.18 per cent in a week. The fresh cases have dipped to four-week low this time. The state had registered 40,090 cases during the week from April 12 to 18.With the surge in cases during the second half of April and the first week of May, fresh cases recorded during the next three weeks were 67,346, 90,569 and 1,01,009, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/active-cases-down-50-deaths-20-in-one-week-in-haryana-257794
25-05-2021||Sanjay Yadav
||Odd-even rule goes for a toss in Gurugram’s Sadar Bazaar||Gurugram, May 24 Giving two hoots to the orders of opening shops on odd-even basis, blatant violation was seen in the Sadar Bazaar main lane. The police reached the spot and shut the shops opened in violation of the order. However, shops in the adjacent lanes remained open. The shopkeepers got angry and alleged cops followed a pick-and-choose policy. Traders blamed the police for ‘harassing’ only small shop owners, while all major showrooms stayed open. “I reached at 9 am, and soon after that, cops came and closed the shutter of my shop. They told me there is an odd-even rule to be followed, but all big shops are in the same lanes stayed open. On asking, they clearly asked me to shut my shop, otherwise they will issue a challan,” said Sunil Kumar, a trader at Sadar Bazaar. As per the guidelines, the Deputy Commissioner ordered that standalone shops could be opened during the day. In crowded markets, shops had been allowed to open on odd-even basis. Odd-numbered shops will open from 7 am to 12 noon, and even-numbered could be opened the next day during the same time, as per the order. “The time for opening shops is not favourable for traders, as customers visit after 11 am. Soon after, there are orders to shut the shop at 12 noon,” said Dalip Singh, owner of a shop dealing in beauty products. All shops on both sides of the roads, including the Old and New Railway roads, Sheetla Mata Road, New Colony, Madanpuri, and markets of various sectors were opened. Only shopping malls were closed, while liquor vends stayed open and saw a huge gathering. “The directives need to be followed in totality and no violation will be toleratedin terms of timings ordays,” DC Yash Garg said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/odd-even-rule-goes-for-a-toss-in-gurugrams-sadar-bazaar-257795
25-05-2021||---||Order flouted in Rohtak as MC fails to number shops||Ravinder Saini Tribune News Service Rohtak, May 24 Most of the shops in all main markets of the city remained open, violating the government’s orders on the first day of the extended lockdown on Monday, as the Municipal Corporation (MC) failed to mark them as odd-even. A huge rush was seen on the main roads for the first time in the past three weeks. However, the police were deputed at the key points of the city. “Traders and shopkeepers cannot be blamed for opening the shops, as their shops were not marked as odd-even. It was the duty of the MC to either to mark numbers on the shops or to apprise the shopkeepers of it, but nothing was done. The work of numbering the shops was done today. Hence, the shops will be opened as per the odd-even system from tomorrow,” said Gulshan Ishpuniyani, president, Shouri Cloth Market Association. Raising questions over opening of shops from 7 am to 12 noon, he said this timing neither suited the shopkeepers nor the customers. “A large section of customers comes from villages and they reach the market after 10 am. The government should allow the shops to open from 10 am to 5 pm, or the relaxations won’t serve any purpose,” Ishpuniyani said. Bittu Sachdeva, president, Quilla Road Traders’ Association, said they learnt about opening of the shops as per the odd-even system through media. “The customers were negligible, hence the shopkeepers spent time in cleaning the shops. Moreover, the timing of opening the shops is not suitable to the owners. The government should reconsider its decision,” he said. DC Manoj Kumar said all shopkeepers were bound to follow standard operating procedures. “Those markets will be closed for three days if traders there are found keeping their goods outside the shops or on the government area,” he added. Surendra Goyal, Land Officer at the MC, said five teams had been marking the shops since morning. All shops would be covered by night. “From tomorrow, a penalty will be imposed if shops open in violation of the odd-even system and beyond 12 noon,” Goyal added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/order-flouted-in-rohtak-as-mc-fails-to-number-shops-257796
25-05-2021||Ambala||HP factory owner nabbed in fake Remdesivir scam||The police have held a Himachal-based factory owner in connection with the fake Remdesivir injections recovered in Ambala last month.  The accused, Dalpreet, runs a pharmaceutical factory in Nalagarh in HP. On April 21, cops, on curfew duty, stopped two vehicles and while checking, they recovered 24 injections of ‘Hetero Remdesivir’ from a cars. Later, the Remdesivir injections were found fake. Ambala Cantonment Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Ram Kumar said: “Following the seizure of injections, a probe was started by the CIA-1. Later, 399 more injections were seized and 11 persons have been arrested so far. We suspect that 399 injections seized later are also fake as there were no labels on them.” Dalpreet, however, claimed he had nothing to do with the injections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hp-factory-owner-nabbed-in-fake-remdesivir-scam-257797
25-05-2021||---||In Hisar, tense  moments before truce||Deepender DeswalTribune News ServiceHisar, May 24The day started with a massive build-up of farmers and the police in the town as the apprehension of a clash loomed large. The mini-secretariat and residences of the senior bureaucratic, police and judicial offices were heavily guarded. Vajra Vahan, riot control vehicles and mounted police vehicles took position early in the morning.‘Pro-stir Villages reporting deaths’About 10,000 farmers riding tractors gathered at Krantiman park from Hisar and adjoining districts. Leaders said the purpose was to get criminal cases against farmers withdrawn today itself.On May 16, the police had lathicharged protesting farmers who had gathered to oppose Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s visit to the city to inaugurate a Covid hospital. Subsequently, 300 farmers were booked for attempt to murder, among other charges.Around noon today, the district administration sent the invitation for talks to farmers.Subsequently, farmers’ leaders Rakesh Tikait, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Suman Hooda, Sikkim Devi, Anu Sura and Reeman Nain reached the mini-secretariat, where Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni and other officials were waiting at the entrance.The meeting concluded around 5 pm. The farmers’ leaders emerged out of the mini-secretariat with smiles on their faces.Ugrahan claimed to the media that the district administration had agreed to withdraw criminal cases against farmers, dispelling all apprehensions of a clash as the day passed off peacefully.Sources say that during the meeting a police official took a tough stand and blamed farmers for the violence during the CM’s visit to Hisar on May 16.The farmer leaders countered him by saying that the police had not removed the barricades and that they had failed to convey to protesters that the CM had left the venue.During the meeting, the DC expressed regret over lathicharge on women activists, said a farmer leader.The All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), Haryana, termed the acceptance of demands as a “victory” for farmers’ mobilisation today.Inderjeet Singh said the massive gathering resolved to intensify the farmers’ agitation at the Delhi borders and toll plazas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-hisar-tense-moments-before-truce-257798
25-05-2021||---||Project to boost village healthcare infra begins||Karnal, May 24Aiming at strengthening the healthcare infrastructure in rural areas and also reducing the pressure on the tertiary care system, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday launched a pilot project - “Sanjeevani Pariyojana” on the theme of “Swasth Karnal, banega missal” through video-conferencing, under which end-to-end healthcare will be ‘ensured’ to home-isolated patients who are around 94 per cent of the total patients in the district.Supervised home care to combat 2nd waveIt is a Karnal model of supervised home care to combat the second wave of the Covid-19 and it will be implemented in other districts of the state subsequently, claimed the authorities. The district administration with the help of a multinational company, Deloitte, had chalked out this project, under which six facilities have been extended, particularly in rural areas.CM Khattar emphasised on collaborative efforts and congratulated Punit Renjen, a native of the state and CEO of Deloitte, along with the district administration for the project. The CM referred the Sanjeevani Priyojana as a giant step in augmenting healthcare services in the state.Khattar also stressed on post Covid care and asked the doctors to ensure proper treatment for black fungus.On the probable chances of the third wave of Covid-19 in which infants and toddlers are likely to be affected, the CM exhorted the authorities to make proactive arrangements –sufficient beds, medicines, so that the state will be able to provide enhanced healthcare facilities for infants and toddlers.About the project, Additional Chief Secretary, Public Health Engineering Department, Devender Singh, who is also the in-charge of Karnal district, said 200 students of Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) are providing tele-consultation to the home-quarantined patients. Besides, 6,500 kits with essential medicines, pulse oxymeters, thermometers, steamer and triple-layer masks are being distributed to home- isolated patients. In Karnal, nine field hospitals having the capacity of 216 oxygen beds have been established in the district. The facility of lab tests is being provided to those isolated at home, free of cost. Eight advanced life support ambulances have been hired and deployed at all CHCs for 24 hours. Two drivers and lab technicians each are deployed on every ambulance in shifts to expedite transport and admission of Covid patients to the field hospitals and district hospital, the ACS said. He said the integrated command and control centre had been established in Sector 12 to check the live status of availability of beds, usage of oxygen in the district, status of tele-consultation, live medical vitals of home-isolated patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/project-to-boost-village-healthcare-infra-begins-257799
25-05-2021||Nitish Sharma
||KU teaching employees await salary for April||Tribune News Service Kurukshetra, May 24  The teaching staff of Kurukshetra University is yet to receive salaries for April. In March, the state government had allocated a budget of Rs 220 crores for the financial year 2021-22 to Kurukshetra University. Of Rs 220 crores, Rs 180 crores was for the recurring grant, Rs 40 crores for non-recurring grant.  A teacher said, “The university has been facing financial crunch due to drop in the numbers of affiliated colleges and rising number of pensioners. Meanwhile, the Covid pandemic has further worsened the situation. The government had increased the grant of the university and we were expecting that the salaries will be disbursed on time, but it has again been delayed. The teachers also have financial commitments and any delay can cost them heavily.” Kurukshetra University Teachers Association (KUTA) president Dr Pramesh Kumar said, “There are around 360 regular teachers. The staff is yet to get salary for April. The KUTA has raised the matter with the Vice-Chancellor and we have been assured that the salaries will be released in a couple of days.” Meanwhile, Abhinav Kataria, president of the Contractual Teachers Association, said “There are 171 contractual teachers of which several are yet to get salaries for April.” Besides the teaching staff, some non-teaching staff members of the rank of superintendents, assistant registrars and deputy registrar are yet to get salaries, informed Neelkanth Sharma, president of the Kurukshetra University Non-Teaching Employees Association.  A senior official of the university said, “The government had allocated a budget of Rs 220 crore and we have received all sanctions. Due to Covid, the release of grant has been delayed. We are expecting that the quarterly grant will be released in a couple of days  and the salaries will be released soon.” Dr Brajesh Sawhney, director (public relations), Kurukshetra University, said, “The bills have been cleared and the grant is expected to be released from the treasury in a day or two. As soon as the grant is released, the salaries will be disbursed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ku-teaching-employees-await-salary-for-april-257800
25-05-2021||---||459 held for violating lockdown in Faridabad||Faridabad, May 24 As many as 459 persons have been arrested and 368 cases registered, till date, in connection with the violation of the lockdown guidelines during the Covid-19 pandemic, in the district. Revealing this, a senior police official said cases had been registered as part of the measures to implement the lockdown in a proper manner.  Besides them, 14 persons had also been arrested on charges of black marketing of medicines and oxygen cylinders recently, he said. The police have collected a total penalty of Rs 1.72 crore on 34,494 persons, who have been challaned for not wearing masks at public places during this period. As per the officials concerned, the department has distributed 87,295 masks to the residents and helped the district administration in tracing 61,896 contacts of Covid patients, so far.  A spokesperson of the department claimed around 181 cops out of 346 personnel, who contracted the infection during their job, had returned to duty after recovering. The Police Department was on its toes to ensure proper implementation of law and order during the lockdown, the spokesperson said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/459-held-for-violating-lockdown-in-faridabad-257801
25-05-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat
||Angioplasty to rescue of Covid patients||Tribune News Service Faridabad, May 24 With the incidence of heart attack or complications during the pandemic, 36 angioplasties have been done in the past two months in the district. “Lives of 12 patients suffering from Covid have been saved with angioplasties done in the recent past,” says Dr SS Bansal, senior intervention cardiologist of the SSB Hospital here. He said patients with co-morbidities such as cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and hypertension were at the highest risk in case of such infection. Claiming that heart attacks in Covid patients could occur due to clot formation in arteries called coronaries, he said the lives of such people could be saved by emergency angioplasty of the blocked artery. “The total number of angiography and angioplasties done in April and May 2021 (to date) has been 333, of which 10 angioplasties on have been done on Covid patients,” he says, adding that the infected belonged to a wide range of age group of 30 and 79 years. Adding that while none of the staff contracted the infection during the treatment, he said one of the patients aged 30, who hailed from Rohtak, approached our hospital after some of the others did not agree to this type of surgery due to Covid risk. While the angioplasty done on him was under the high-grade Covid fever, the patient became stable and was discharged in a good condition later, he added. Claiming that cardiovascular diseases remain the world’s biggest killer, Dr Bansal said emergency angioplasty to any patient suffering from heart attack or unstable angina just because of Covid fear could not be denied as transmission could be prevented by using double mask and face shield for the entire staff. According to sources in the Health Department, an average of six to eight cases of angioplasty had also been done in four other main hospitals in the city during this period. “One procedure has been performed in the local Civil hospital last month,” an official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/angioplasty-to-rescue-of-covid-patients-257802
25-05-2021||---||CM launches engg works portal||Chandigarh, May 24  Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday launched the Haryana Engineering Works (HEW) portal,https://works.haryana.gov.in, to facilitate ease of access and doing business with the government. The portal will help contractors desiring to work on various projects of three primary engineering departments of the state, namely Public Works Department, Irrigation and Water Resources Department and Public Health Engineering Department. The portal will enable the contractors desirous of participating in various tenders of these departments to register themselves for the purpose. Every contractor will have to create a profile on the portal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cm-launches-engg-works-portal-257803
25-05-2021||---||Lockdown to ease if positivity rate falls: Vij||Chandigarh, May 24  Home Minister Anil Vij today said relaxations in lockdown would be granted only if the positivity rate dropped below 5 per cent. At present, it is around 9 per cent. “Shopkeepers have been given permission to open shops in the odd-even basis from 7 am to noon. There is complete lockdown in Uttar Pradesh and other neighbouring states, including Delhi, but the Haryana Government has given some relaxation on the appeal of traders,” he said. The minister expressed concern over the surge in black fungus cases in the state and said the government was making efforts to arrange injections.  “The government received 550 vials two days ago. Hopefully, more enough injections will be available,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lockdown-to-ease-if-positivity-rate-falls-vij-257804
25-05-2021||---||8 oxygen plants to be set up by June 30||Chandigarh, May 24Health Minister Anil Vij on Monday said that oxygen plants would be set up in eight districts of the state in collaboration with the Centre.6,210 beds to get supplyThis work, which is being done by DRDO, will be completed by June 30.The Health Minister said that setting up of these plants would help in supplying oxygen to 6,210 beds including 550 beds at Government Aided Medical College Maharaj Agrasen Medical College Agroha, Hisar.Similarly, 550 beds in Military Hospital (MH), Ambala, 750 beds at AIIMS Jhajjar, 550 beds at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College Karnal, 652 beds at SHKM Government Medical College Nalhar, 658 beds at Western Command Chandimandir, Panchkula, 2,000 beds at PGIMS Rohtak and 500 beds in BPS Government Medical College Khanpur Kalan Sonepat would also be benefitted.The plants will be installed at all these locations and will have capacity of producing 1,000 litres per minute (LMP) of oxygen. Vij said that for the construction of the plants, the government would select locations in hospitals.In addition, in the event of power interruption, DG sets would be installed that would have the ability to provide 24-hour power backup.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/8-oxygen-plants-to-be-set-up-by-june-30-257805
25-05-2021||ibune News Service
||Outfits allege lapses in activist’s treatment, demand investigation||Karnal, May 24 Alleging lapses and negligence in the treatment of social activist Manoj Gautam, who died of Covid three days ago at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC), representatives of various social organisations on Monday met DC Nishant Kumar Yadav and handed over a memorandum for Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Health Minister Anil Vij. They demanded an inquiry into the death of Gautam. They also demanded to enhance the facilities at the KCGMC, due to lack of which councillor Sudarshan Kalra was referred to the PGIMER, where he died.  The DC assured the delegation to constitute a coordination committee and set up a helpdesk at the KCGMC, where an official of the district administration along with two members of different organisations will sit daily to ensure that patients and their attendants don’t suffer and get the required facilities without any hassle. Pritpal Pannu, NIFAA chairman, said Gautam had posted the about the alleged lapses and lack of coordination at the KCGMC on his Facebook account during his stay there. He also highlighted that how he had to suffer while getting a bed. At the time of admission, his lungs were damaged 35 per cent but in the absence of proper treatment, the organ continued to deteriorate. Later, his lungs were 85 per cent damaged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/outfits-allege-lapses-in-activists-treatment-demand-investigation-257806
25-05-2021||---||Monoclonal antibody therapy starts at PGIMS||Rohtak, May 24 The monoclonal antibody therapy for high-risk Covid patients began at the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) here today. Two patients were given monoclonal antibody injections on the opening day of the therapy. Monoclonal antibodies are artificially created antibodies that aim to aid the body’s natural immune system.  They target a specific antigen — a protein from the pathogen that induces immune response.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/monoclonal-antibody-therapy-starts-at-pgims-257807
25-05-2021||---||Rohtak sees 50% decline in cremations||Rohtak, May 24Crematoriums in the city have recorded more than 50 per cent drop in the number of cremations in the past 10 days, indicating a dip in the number of Covid cases.The period between April 25 and the second week of May saw a surge rise in cremations. It was suspected that the reason for the surge was Covid, but it could not be confirmed because patients were unwilling to get themselves tested.“More than 350 bodies were cremated in the Ram Bagh crematorium from April 25 to May 13 — on an average 20 bodies every day. The number has now reduced. In the past 10 days, nearly 10 bodies were cremated daily,” said Surendra Batra, vice-president, Ram Bagh crematorium management committee.He further said multi-fold rise in deaths had created shortage of dry wood. “Local suppliers preferred to supply wood to Gurugram and Delhi as they were getting a good price there. So, the crematorium management committee bought dry wood from Rajasthan at a hefty price.”Batra has been associated with the crematorium management for the past three decades, but it was for the first time that he saw the crematorium flooded with bodies. “Cremations started early in the morning and continued late in the evening,” he said.Meanwhile, MC Commissioner Pradeep Godara said: “The number of Covid deaths has considerably reduced in the past week. More than 50 bodies were cremated in a day when the pandemic was at its peak. Now, the number is less than 20, indicating some respite.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-sees-50-decline-in-cremations-257808
25-05-2021||Rewari||Rewari Congress MLA sanitises houses, shops||Congress MLA Chiranjeev Rao along with his supporters on Monday sanitised several houses, shops and hospitals in the Model Town locality here to motivate people to ensure cleanliness around them and check the Covid spread.  “As markets opened on Monday after three weeks, I thought no work can be better than sanitising the area when the pandemic is playing havoc. There is no political motive behind it and I have done it just for the sake of humanity. Leaders of other parties should also come forward and contribute,” Rao said, adding that the work would continue in coming days as well. The MLA demanded from the state to provide Rs 5 lakh aid to the kin of Covid victims. He said black fungus was swiftly spreading its tentacles in the state hence the government must take some vital steps to ensure the availability of free treatment and medicines for the patients. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rewari-congress-mla-sanitises-houses-shops-257809
25-05-2021||Gurugram||Former wife of MLA’s brother booked for assault, trespass||High drama prevailed at the residence of Badshahpur MLA Rakesh Daultabad on Sunday when Payal, ex-wife of Daultabad’s deceased brother Sandeep, reached there with her family to meet her children.  She had reportedly divorced Sandeep recently and had come after he succumbed to Covid. Following a fight, the police were called and she and the others accompanying her were taken to police station. An FIR was registered against Payal and others under Sections 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (causing hurt), 354-B (sexual assault), 452 (house trespassing), 506 (criminal intimidation), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC at women’s police station on Sunday. Payal and her family, however, are accusing the MLA of using his clout to get them harassed. She alleged that while they were attacked and thrashed, the police made them the accused and detained them illegally.  Payal has also submitted a counter-complaint but no FIR was registered till the filing of this report. On Monday, another FIR has been registered against Payal and her friend Lovepreet under Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC at Palam Vihar police station. The complaint has been filed by Pawan Kumar, a cousin of the MLA, alleging that Lovepreet threatened to kill them.  The MLA and his family have refrained from issuing any statement. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-wife-of-mlas-brother-booked-for-assault-trespass-257810
25-05-2021||Rohtak||Village rises to occasion, collects Rs 4L for wedding of victim’s kin||As a noble gesture, residents of Kakrana village collected nearly Rs 4 lakh for the wedding of two daughters of a barber, who had died of Covid last year. The two weddings were solemnised recently. Thandi Ram, a barber of Kakrana village, had tested positive for Covid and died during the first wave of the pandemic last year. He is survived by his wife, two daughters and as many sons. Rambir, a schoolteacher at Kakrana village, said: “Not only village residents, but natives who live elsewhere contributed to the wedding of Thandi Ram’s daughters.” Thandi Ram’s brother Sajjan said, “The entire village stood by us and blessed my nieces on their wedding. The family is grateful to elders for their blessings.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/village-rises-to-occasion-collects-rs-4l-for-wedding-of-victims-kin-257811
25-05-2021||The UHBVNL should replace open electric wires over trees with insulated wires to prevent short circuiting and electrocution. The location of new transformers should not be in close proximity to trees to avoid any stray fire incident||UHBVNL must Install insulated wires over trees||Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaHSVP should clear road at the earliestA week ago, there was a thunderstorm and lightning, which uprooted many trees. The tree in front of a shopping complex close to the milk booth in Sector 9, Ambala City, fell on the road and blocked it. The vehicular movement was restricted. The HSVP workers cut the protruding portion of the tree, while the remaining part is still lying there, which is causing inconvenience to the people. It may cause serious injury or lead to fatal accidents during odd hours. The HSVP authorities should take cognisance of the issue and get the passage cleared.Gian P Kansal, ambala citySanitation drive at snail’s paceThe nagar parishad started a sanitation drive last month and till now it hasn't covered even half of the town. They just have one tractor and that too on rent, which is assigned this mammoth task. Many thickly populated residential and commercial areas are yet to be sanitised. The municipal authorities should arrange more vehicles and staff so that entire sanitation work is completed at the earliest.Subhash C Taneja, gurugramWhat Our Readers SayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/uhbvnl-must-install-insulated-wires-over-trees-257814
25-05-2021||---||Webinar on nanomaterials||Rewari: Indira Gandhi University organised a two-day national webinar on "Nanomaterials: Fundamentals and applications". Vice-Chancellor Prof SK Gakhar while inaugurating the webinar highlighted the significance of nanomaterials while Prof Rajiv Kumar, Member Secretary, AICTE, New Delhi, as a chief speaker elaborated on the role of the new education policy and the AICTE in terms of higher education. Guests of honour Prof Bansi D Malhotra of Delhi Technological University (DTU), and Prof SK Chakarvarti, visiting adviser research, Manav Rachna, International Institute of Research & Studies, Faridabad, described various aspects of nanotechnology.MDU officials distribute masksRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) under its outreach programme distributed masks and tablets of Vitamin C in Balambh village here. Prof Ranbir Singh Gulia, NSS coordinator and Prof Raj Kumar, dean student welfare (MDU), along with NSS volunteers also motivated the villagers to maintain social distancing to protect themselves from Coronavirus. He maintained Balambh had been adopted by the MDU for creating awareness among the villagers about health and social issues.Two-week value-added courseFaridabad: As many as 450 participants from different branches of science and engineering have been participating in the two-week online value-added course on "An interactive approach to learn mathematical applications of C/C++". The course was inaugurated by Member Secretary of AICTE Prof Rajeev Kumar, while it was presided over by Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar. Earlier, the chairperson of the mathematics department, Dr Neetu Gupta, welcomed the guests and participants and gave a brief introduction about the department and the course. Dinesh Kumar explained the significance of learning C and C++ in today's scenario. Prof Rajeev Kumar apprised the students of the uses of computer language C and C++ and its applications in mathematics, and advised the department to start new courses like "BTech in mathematics computing" which was the need of the hour. He congratulated the department for organising such type of value-added course for students' benefit.achievement certificate for studentKurukshetra: Tagore Global School student Seerat Kaur of Class VI has received an achievement certificate for building a face recognition application using python programming language in The Guinness World Record event organised last month. A total of 1,12,314 persons participated in the 'AI for India' initiative organised by Guvi and All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). The event was aimed at up-skilling Indians in python programming language.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/webinar-on-nanomaterials-257816
25-05-2021||Deepender Deswal||Stalemate ends, Hisar to drop criminal cases against farmers||Tribune News ServiceHisar, May 24In a major boost to farmers, the district administration today agreed to withdraw all criminal cases registered against them in the district during the past month. The decision, taken at a meeting between farmers’ leaders and district and police officials in the mini secretariat here, ended the weeklong stalemate between the two sides.After attending the meeting, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait told mediapersons that the administration had accepted farmers’ demands and the FIR against 350 farmers on May 16 which included the attempt to murder charge would be withdrawn.“The FIR registered on May 16 and three or four other cases registered against farmers in Hisar will be withdrawn as per the legal process which will start within a week. The administration will award compensation to the farmers whose vehicles were damaged during the May 16 clash,” said BKU leader Joginder Singh Ugraha.He said the farmers would continue to boycott the BJP and JJP leaders across Haryana as per the call of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. However, they had accepted the administration’s appeal not to damage public property.The SDM, Hisar, Jagdeep Singh, who was also present at the meeting, said it was decided that the cases would be withdrawn tentatively within one month. A family member of the farmer Ramchander of Ugalan village who died of heart failure during the protest demonstration today would be given a contractual job in Hisar.It took nearly two hours for the two sides to reach the agreement. In the meantime, about 10,000 farmers held a dharna at Krantiman Park, about 2 km from the mini secretariat. A heavy police force was deployed near the mini secretariat and residences of top bureaucratic, police and judicial officials in the district.Agreement reached after 2-hour meeting||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stalemate-ends-hisar-to-drop-criminal-cases-against-farmers-257981
25-05-2021||Hisar||Hisar administration agrees to withdraw criminal cases against farmers after hours of impasse||Hisar administration said on Monday they would drop criminal charges in connection with a clash between police and farmers last week—a development that comes after talks with farmer leaders earlier in the day after a massive protest in the city by farmers.An 11-member farmer delegation lead by Rakesh Tikait held talks with police and district administration officials at the mini-secretariat to resolve the deadlock over the clash with police in the district on May 16  that left several wounded on both sides last week.The clash broke out just before Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar was to visit the city to inaugurate a new Covid care centre. Among prominent farmer leaders who attended the meeting were Rakesh Tikait and Joginder Singh Ugraha, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Yudhvir Singh, and Abhimanyu Kohar. Also present were some women activists.Farmer leaders said they were satisfied with the conclusion of the meeting and with the assurance that the administration gave them.The leaders said that their protest against the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Jannayak Janata Party will continue.Ugraha said that the administration has also promised to compensate farmer activists whose vehicles were damaged in the May 16 clash.The meeting came after a standoff between farmers and the district administration after farmers threatened to gherao the mini secretariat.District administration issued a statement later in the evening saying that the criminal charges registered against farmers on May 16 will be dropped after "due legal process", and that such a process will begin soon. It however gave no deadline for dropping the charges and made no mention of any other criminal charges against farmers, even though the farmer leaders who addressed the press earlier said the administration had agreed to withdraw all criminal cases filed against farmers this month.A massive build-up of protesters from Hisar and adjoining districts put authorities on the tenterhooks in the town. While the town turned into a virtual fortress with heavy deployment of police, the force has so far not restricted the farmers from entering the town. A farmer, Ramchander Kharab, from Ugalan village died of heart failure in Hisar. He was here to participate in the protest demonstration.Around 1,000 farmers gathered at the Krantiman park located on the Matka Chowk. Farmer leaders, including Rakesh Tikait and Gurnam Singh Charuni, have also reached the town. Meanwhile, the mini secretariat and the residence of the senior administration, police, and judicial officers were virtually sealed by police who have deployed multiple layers of security. Sources said that 70 police companies were deployed in and around Hisar. The farmers were upset after the police booked about 350 of them on charges of attempt to murder and other sections of the IPC last Sunday (May 16) in connection with a violent clash with the police during the inauguration of the Covid hospital by the Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in Hisar.The violence erupted when the farmers tried to stage a protest demonstration on the visit of the CM. While the CM left the venue before the protests could reach the venue, a clash between farmers and police clash ensued which resulted in several injures on both sides.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-administration-agrees-to-withdraw-criminal-cases-against-farmers-after-hours-of-impasse-257542
