26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Law for recovery of damage to property during protests comes into effect in Haryana||A law which allows the authorities to recover compensation from violent protesters who cause damage to property has come into effect in Haryana.Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said on Wednesday that the Act was notified by the state government earlier this month.“With the implementation of the Act in the state, any damage done to people’s shops, houses, government offices, vehicles, buses and other public property in guise of any movement will be recovered from the protesters,” he said, as per an official statement.Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya had given his assent to the Haryana Recovery of Damages to Property During Disturbance to Public Order Bill, 2021 last month after it was passed by the state Assembly in March.The law allows the authorities to recover compensation for damage caused to both public and private properties.When the Bill was brought in the Assembly in March, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Home Minister Vij had denied the Congress’ charge that the decision to bring it was linked to the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s farm laws.For adjudicating upon pleas for compensation for damage to properties, the new law provides for the government to set up claim tribunals in the state.These tribunals will be headed by Haryana Superior Judicial Services officers, to be appointed in consultation with the chief justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The tribunals will determine the liability, assess the claims for compensation and decide the monetary value of damages, and on such determination, award suitable compensations. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/law-for-recovery-of-damage-to-property-during-protests-comes-into-effect-in-haryana-258818
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan gets threat messages||An unknown person has been booked by the UT police for allegedly sending threat and vulgar messages to Haryana Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan.According to the police, Vardhan, a resident of Sector 7, in his complaint, mentioned that he received several threat and vulgar messages on his WhatsApp on May 21. The messages were received between 10.45 am and 11.20 am.The complainant provided the phone number and the screenshots of the messages received by him to police for investigation.A case under Section 67 of the IT Act has been registered against the unknown person and the matter is being investigated by Inspector Jasbir Singh, SHO of the Sector 26 police station.The police said the suspect would be traced through the phone number provided by the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-chief-secretary-vijai-vardhan-gets-threat-messages-258598
26-05-2021||Stray dogs can be seen frequently roaming in the streets of Faridabad. The threat of these biting passersby looms large. The population of stray dogs has increased manifold. On many occasions they have attacked people. Due to stray dog menace||No end to Stray dog menace in Faridabad||Devinder Singh Surjewala, FaridabadAxing of trees rampant at mango orchard in P'kulaWe request the authorities to take note of trees being axed in the mango orchard, adjacent to Suncity Parikrama, Sector 20, Panchkula. Trespassing, encroachment, garbage dumping is increasing day by day. Recently, a video of someone driving a two-wheeler in this jungle went viral, which may have adverse effect on the wildlife as this orchard. This orchard is a house to the national bird too. Akhil Goel and others, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-end-to-stray-dog-menace-in-faridabad-258672
26-05-2021||Karnal||Pricing of crop, livestock produce||Emerging media opportunitiesFaridabad: The Vice-Chancellor of Makhanlal Chaturvedi National University of Journalism and Communication, Bhopal, Prof KG Suresh, advised young media professionals to pursue their career in digital journalism rather than conventional media. Prof Suresh was addressing the webinar on "Emerging opportunities in media" under the ongoing webinar series titled "Media Ki Baat - Aapke Sath" organised by the Department of Communications and Media Technology of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad. Describing digital journalism as an emerging field for a better career opportunity in the media industry, Prof. Suresh said that from big media honchos to new media startups, all were investing and betting heavily on online media. For a young trained professional, it was easier to start a career in online media than conventional media, adding that with the new-age news mediums like TV, radio and new-media Internet platforms coming to dominate the industry, digital journalism had emerged as a very lucrative career option for youngsters interested in this field.How to handle Covid, stressKarnal: A webinar on 'How to handle Covid and stress' was organised by Mount Litera Zee School for students and parents. The resource person was Dr Mosam Vijay Phirke. Principal Deep Bedi along with staff members and students of Classes VI to XII and their parents participated in the webinar enthusiastically. The main motive of this session was to make them aware of the preventive measures to be taken during the Covid-19 pandemic and effective techniques which could be used for psychological and physical development. Children, staying at home away from their school and friends may experience anxiety, distress, social isolation, and an abusive environment that can have short or long?term effects on their mental health. To help offset negative behaviours, parents are required to stay calm, deal with the situation wisely, and answer all the child's questions to the best of their abilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pricing-of-crop-livestock-produce-258666
26-05-2021||---||Ambala admn starts new system to provide early Covid results||Ambala, May 25To provide early results of the RT-PCR tests, the Ambala District administration has started a new system wherein, an SMS is sent within 6-8 hours to all patients who have recently been tested for Covid.Chief Minister’s Good Governance Associate Utsav Shah, said, “Earlier, the lab was sending the results to the Health Department after processing all batches of the day, then the Health Department was sharing the data with the administration and then the patients used to get their results. The whole process was taking a period of around 24 to 36 hours. But in the new process, the lab will share the results with the district administration after processing every single batch, instead of processing the complete lot of batches, and then the results will be sent to the concerned person on his mobile number through the district NIC office in the form of an SMS. The entire process will be completed within 6-8 hours.”Will lead to quick isolationChief Minister’s Good Governance Associate Utsav Shah said the initiative was taken to inform patients of their status as soon as possible that they could isolate themselves and resort to Covid appropriate behaviour immediately.“The SMS sent clearly mentions whether the patient had tested negative or positive. This initiative was taken with a view to informing the positive patients of their Covid medical status as soon as possible so that they could isolate themselves and resort to Covid appropriate behaviour immediately. A message to citizens testing negative is also sent so that the citizens are informed of their test results in a timely manner to reduce their anxiety and anticipation of the results. The SMS also includes the link to the portal from where, the Covid test report can be downloaded after 24 hours of the testing,” he added.Deputy Commissioner Ashok Sharma said, “The objective of this entire initiative is to ensure that the citizens do not have to make multiple calls to the district or health officials for their test results and to avoid the potential positive patients stepping out of their homes to find their test results/reports and contaminate other people on the way”.In another initiative, the local administration has roped in 22 IMA doctors for tele-consultation service.“Ambala residents, who are facing any complications due to Covid, will be able to consult doctors through the Covid tele-consultation service. The doctors will be available from 7 am to 11 pm as per their schedule. Their numbers are being shared. They will be answering queries regarding symptoms, dos and don’ts during Covid infection, side effects, after effects, medication, dosage, dietary changes, and vaccination-related information, the DC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-admn-starts-new-system-to-provide-early-covid-results-258485
26-05-2021||Parveen Arora||Asymptomatic patients prefer home isolation, village centres lying vacant||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, May 25Around 720-bed village-level isolation centres, set up in 50 villages around 10-day ago, have been lying vacant as asymptomatic patients in these villages prefer staying at home. In fact, at present 48 out of 50 isolation centres do not have any patient. The remaining two have one or two patients at present, said officials associated with the project.Personal care, better hygiene and lesser chances of aggravation of infection at home are some of the issues that weigh on the minds of asymptomatic Covid patients, due to which they prefer home quarantine to village-level isolation centres. Besides a check on freedom and social stigma of being exposed to a Covid patient are also considered to be reasons behind it.After a surge in the rural areas, the Health Department had identified 50 hotspot villages and village-level isolation facilities with an average 10 beds capacity, at schools, primary healthcare centres, community centres, Radha Soami Satsang Bhawan and other places in the district.As many as 818 patients tested positive in these 50 villages in the past few days. Of them, so far, only 15 patients at a couple of centres preferred the village-level isolation centres, while the remaining preferred home isolation.Each centre has team comprising ANM, lab technician, multi-purpose health worker, one teacher and one data entry operator. They keep vigil on the saturation of oxygen, temperature and provide medicine. Similarly, nine CHC and sub-division level centres with the capacity of around 216 oxygen beds had also been established, where doctors, paramedical staff had been deployed for the patients. However, couple of CHCs have patients, said an official.“I have sufficient space at my house so I preferred home isolation,” said Suresh Kumar of Nilokheri block.Similarly, Rajiv, another patient, said there was freedom at home, whereas there were many restrictions at the isolation centre.Gaurav Kumar, CEO, Zila Parishad and nodal officer of the village isolation centres, said they had deployed teams for the door-to-door screening and were encouraging patients who did not have sufficient space at their homes for isolation at these centres. “We have started providing free food in these isolation centres. We expect occupancy to go up with this move,” he said.More freedom at home, less at facility||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/asymptomatic-patients-prefer-home-isolation-village-centres-lying-vacant-258487
26-05-2021||---||Two booked for murder||Yamunanagar, May 25 A 35-year-old man of a village of Yamunanagar district died under mysterious circumstances. The family members of deceased Sanjeev Kumar have alleged that he was killed by two persons of their village. On the complaint of the victim’s brother Jitender alias Kala of Yasin Majri, a case was registered against Baljit Singh and Jagir Singh of Yasin Majri under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code at Sadhaura police station on May 23. The complainant said that his brother Sanjeev Kumar had gone to the fields of Baljit Singh to work there as a labourer at about 8 am on May 23. He said that the body of his brother was found lying near the fields of Jagir Singh that evening. He further said that there was blood stain on one eye of his brother. “My brother, Baljit Singh and Jagir Singh consumed liquor together during the day time. I suspect that my brother was killed by Baljit and Jagir,” alleged the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-booked-for-murder-258491
26-05-2021||Yamunanagar||Woman raped on pretext of marriage||A man allegedly raped a woman several times on the pretext of marrying her in a village of Yamunanagar district. On the complaint of the victim, a case was registered against Aadil of her village under Sections 376 (2) N and 323 of the IPC at City police station, Yamunanagar, on May 24. The complainant said that she had married Mausin of a village of Yamunanagar district on October 2, 2016. She said after that, she became estranged from her husband. She said that Aadil belongs to her husband’s village and used to come to the house of her husband. “Aadil knew of the estrangement. So, he trapped me in his false love. He also promised to marry me,” alleged the victim. He said that Aadil called her to the house of his friend in Model Town of Yamunanagar on January 1, 2018. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-raped-on-pretext-of-marriage-258493
26-05-2021||---||Post-Covid care centre set up at Karnal Civil Hospital||Karnal, May 25 A post-Covid care centre “Umang” was established at the district Civil hospital on Tuesday by the authorities following the directions of the state government. Apart from having OPD facility for post-Covid patients for their check-up and follow-up, the centre has a six-bed post-Covid ward, where the patients will be admitted if the doctors suggest. Specialist service, oxygen, medicines and other facilities will be provided there to the patients, said Dr Piyush Sharma, Principal Medical Officer (PMO). Three specialists — one each chest and TB, general physician, and dental have been deployed in the OPD, while the other specialists such as orthopedician, ENT, and a general surgeon have been kept on call duty, Sharma maintained.  A physiotherapist and psychologist will be available at the centre for the rehabilitation and physiological advise, he added. Four doctors from Ayush have also been deployed who will also provide their service in the ward and the OPD round the clock, he maintained. In the general OPD, it has been witnessed that post-Covid patients are coming with complaints of breathlessness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/post-covid-care-centre-set-up-at-karnal-civil-hospital-258494
26-05-2021||Gurugram||Rape convict ends life in Bhondsi jail||A 27-year-old convicted inmate in Bhondsi jail allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself last late night. He hung himself in the barrack with a noose made of a towel.  It is being speculated that he was suffering from an allergy and might be have taken the extreme step due to it. The reason is yet to be ascertained. A magisterial probe has been ordered. The police handed over the body to the kin after the post-mortem examination today. The deceased inmate has been identified as Gautam (27), a resident of mohalla Kajiwada in Sohna.He was nabbed for raping a minor in 2018 and was booked under the POCSO Act at Sohna City police station. A few months ago, he was convicted in the case and a local court sentenced him for four years. He was lodged in barrack 6 of Bhondsi jail.  The police said he was in the barrack last night where he hung himself with a towel from the grill. Around 5 am today, other inmates raised an alarm after seeing the body. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rape-convict-ends-life-in-bhondsi-jail-258495
26-05-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Demand for Oxygen dips by 66% in 10 days in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, May 25With a remarkable slide in the number of new and active Covid cases, the demand of oxygen for home-isolated patients has dropped by 66 per cent in the past 10 days in the district.With more than 98,141 positive cases to date, Faridabad is placed second in the state.“The occupancy of the oxygen beds in the hospitals has also declined by 50 per cent in the past two weeks in the wake of the downslide in the number of new cases and handsome recovery achieved in the recent past,” said an official of the Health Department.He said this had resulted not only in a huge dip in the demand for hospital beds, but also the need of oxygen supply to both home-isolated and hospitalised patients.Claiming that the number of active patients and home-isolated ones had decreased by 65.6 percent and 72.7 percent, respectively, in the past one week, he said the demand for oxygen for home delivery had also reduced to half. The demand for the gas for home delivery, which was 182 cylinders on May 15, reduced to 61 cylinders on May 24, which was 61 per cent lower.Claiming that the supply and availability of oxygen had been streamlined and there was no shortage of gas for the past two weeks, DC Yashpal Yadav said the administration had provided gas at the doorstep to a total of 1,900 requests made so far.Stating that three plants with a capacity of 690 litres per minute had already been commissioned, he said a work order for setting up seven new plants with a cumulative capacity of 7,600 litres per minute had been released.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/demand-for-oxygen-dips-by-66-in-10-days-in-faridabad-258496
26-05-2021||---||Agroha hospital runs out of drug for black fungus||Hisar, May 25Maharaja Agrasen Medical College and Hospital in Agroha has 90 patients of black fungus, many of them in critical condition, even as the health facility has run out of medicines.Senior Medical Officers say they are helpless. “Seven more patients were admitted to the medical college today. Some of them are in urgent need of surgeries, but our hands are tied. Seven to eight families have got their patients referred to other hospitals,” said a senior doctor.In all, 12 black fungus patients have died in the Agroha medical college.Dr Geetika, in charge of Covid and black fungus at the medical college, said, “There is no option, but to stop the treatment and surgeries. I have no idea when the medicines will be available.”She further said the hospital had started OPD for suspected patients of black fungus as people, who recovered from Covid recently, were anxious.Two die in karnalKarnal: Two more Covid patients, infected with black fungus, died at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) here on Tuesday. The number of black fungus deaths increased to six at the KCGMC.Dr Jagdish Dureja, director, KCGMC, said a 48-year-old man and a 70-year-old woman of the district died on Monday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/agroha-hospital-runs-out-of-drug-for-black-fungus-258497
26-05-2021||---||Himachal unit making fake Remdesivir sealed||Chandigarh, May 25The Haryana Police on Tuesday said they along with Himachal Pradesh authorities have sealed a “pharmaceutical unit”, located at Nalagarh in the hill state, which was allegedly manufacturing large quantities of fake Remdesivir injections.The unit, Elfin Drug Private Limited, was sealed on Monday. It's owner, Dilpreet Singh of Mohali, was arrested on Monday.“In all, 11 accused have been arrested. They were selling injections to desperate people at an exorbitant rate,” the spokesperson said in a statement.266 injections seizedAmbala: The police seized 266 more Remdesivir injections from the pharmaceutical unit in Nalagarh. Ambala SSP Hamid Akhtar said, “The accused sold one injection for Rs6,000.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/himachal-unit-making-fake-remdesivir-sealed-258498
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Diagnostic test rates capped||Giving relief to the patients who may require to get investigated for the HRCT chest and other laboratory tests, the Haryana Government today capped the rates of these tests required for diagnosis or treatment for Covid and post-infection symptoms.  An official spokesperson said as per the orders, the rate of CT/HRCT scan of the chest was fixed at Rs 2,100.  For IL-6, D-Dimer, LDH, CRP, Procalcitonin, Ferritin, an amount of Rs 1,000, Rs 400, Rs 250, Rs 350, Rs 1500 and Rs 300, respectively, will be charged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/diagnostic-test-rates-capped-258499
26-05-2021||---||Haryana to spend Rs 2.5 cr on Coronil kits||Chandigarh, May 25 The Haryana Government is likely to give about Rs 2.5 crore to Patanjali Industries of yoga guru Baba Ramdev on the purchase of Coronil kits, which are to be distributed free of cost among Covid patients in the state. Meanwhile, the state unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has opposed the distribution of the kits to Covid patients. “The kit has no medicinal value and the Haryana Government’s decision is just to benefit Patanjali,” IMA state president Karan Punia said. Health Minister Anil Vij, however, claimed that Patanjali had agreed to bear 50 per cent cost of the kits (costing Rs 500 each) aimed at boosting immunity. He said the kit was being given in addition to the regular medical treatment to the Covid patients. Haryana had already got 50,000 Coronil kits. Vij had tweeted yesterday that one lakh kits of Patanjali would be distributed among Covid patients, sparking off controversy, with several organisations, including the IMA, opposing the decision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-spend-rs-2-5-cr-on-coronil-kits-258500
26-05-2021||Ravinder Saini
||Farmers set to hoist black flags at Tikri, Singhu||Tribune News Service Jhajjar, May 25  Farm leaders at Tikri and Singhu borders spent Tuesday in giving final touches to the preparations to put up a great show on Wednesday.  They plan to hoist black flags to protest against the Centre on the completion of six months of the farmers’ movement on the Delhi borders against three farm laws and completion of seven years of the government. Sources said in the pre-lunch session, the farmers held meetings with representatives of various farm organisations from Haryana and residents of nearby villages to discuss the burning of the PM’s effigy at Tikri and the villages, besides hoisting flags on the rooftop of houses.  After lunch, the leaders distributed black flags among the farmers camping at the borders. The farmers tied the flags on their tractors. “All farmers have been asked to assemble at the protest sites in Tikri on Wednesday morning to burn the effigy of the Prime Minister who is persistently turning a blind eye to our demands,” alleged Pargat Singh, a BKU (Rajewal) leader. Purushottam Singh Gill, a leader of BKU (Lakhowal), said Wednesday would be a historical day for every farmer as the ongoing protest would complete six months on that day. “We are all set to celebrate the occasion by putting up a good show against the Centre. Besides farmers, people of other sections of society will also participate in the protest by hoisting black flags on their rooftop,” he added. Inderjit Singh, vice-president, All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), said farm labourers, students and representatives of trade unions had announced to participate in the protest by hoisting flags and burning effigies of the Prime Minister in their areas. “Various groups of farmers have been camping at toll plazas across the state to ensure free passage to commuters. They too will hoist black flags on the toll barriers to contribute to the protest. They have also planned to put up black flags on vehicles passing through the toll plazas to spread the message of farmers’ unity,” he added. Singh said the festivalof Budh Purnima would also be celebrated with enthusiasm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-set-to-hoist-black-flags-at-tikri-singhu-258501
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Nuh MLA seeks aid for murder victim’s family||Former Congress Minister and Nuh MLA Aftab Ahmed on Tuesday demanded the arrest of all culprits in Asif murder case. He also sought financial compensation for the victim’s family. On May 16, Asif was allegedly murdered by a group of about 15 armed men when he, along with two cousins, was going to Sohna from Nuh to get medicines.  In a letter to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today, Deputy Congress Legislative Party leader Aftab Ahmed requested that the trial of the case should be handed over to a fast-track court and one member of the family be given a government job.  The case came to light after allegations of communal angle behind the murder were raised.  Ahmed said, “Mischievous elements shouldn’t be allowed to promote hatred and spread rumours. Strict action should be taken against them as they are disturbing the harmony of the region,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nuh-mla-seeks-aid-for-murder-victims-family-258502
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Minister: No power surcharge amid lockdown||Power Minister Ranjit Singh has said there would be no surcharge on electricity till the lockdown in the state.  Taking to the media here today, he said the power security of four months had been deferred for one year due to the pandemic. He said 236 teams of about 1,700 members had been formed in the department to conduct power theft raids in industries, brick kilns, shopping malls and resorts across the state. He said ever since he had taken the charge, about 2,600 power theft cases had been detected after raids in the field and accordingly, fine had been imposed on defaulters, generating revenue of Rs 536 crore. Showing concern over transparency in bills, he said the department had purchased 10 lakh smart meters. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minister-no-power-surcharge-amid-lockdown-258503
26-05-2021||---||In Karnal, caseload more in urban areas||Karnal, May 25Covid cases in urban areas have exceeded those in rural pockets of the district. The data of the Health Department shows that urban areas account for 58 per cent of cases and 60 per cent of deaths.In all, 38,137 cases have been reported in the district so far —22,053 from urban areas and 16,084 from rural. Besides, 467 persons have died — 280 in urban areas and 187 in rural.The second wave of Covid has been more fatal. Of the 467 persons who have died, 314 succumbed in the second wave till Sunday evening, a report of the department said. Among them, around60 per cent were from urban areas. The majority of the deceased were in the age group of 61-70.Meanwhile, Civil Surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma said, “Health teams have been conducting door-to-door screening in rural and urban areas to identify Covid cases. The health infrastructure has been strengthened in villages.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-karnal-caseload-more-in-urban-areas-258504
26-05-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana needs to convince Centre for talks: Hooda||Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Tuesday again urged the Centre to restart the process of dialogue with protesting farmers.  Hooda said the responsibility of convincing the Centre for talk with farmers rests with the state government. He said the state border with Delhi had been the epicentre of the farmers’ movement since the day it began and the BJP-JJP government should have convinced the Centre to find an honourable solution.  “The Centre should try to find a respectful solution after considering the demand of the farmers in broader national interest. The movement has completed six months and a large number of farmers have left their families and are sitting on the Delhi border. We urge the government to hold talks with the protesters with a positive mindset,” he added.  Hooda said the SKM had tried to break the deadlock and sent a proposal to the Centre for talks. “The government should now also take two steps forward and try to make talks fruitful,” he said.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-needs-to-convince-centre-for-talks-hooda-258505
26-05-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Palwal sailor among 11 missing after Tauktae||Tribune News ServicePalwal, May 25Thirty-year-old Vicky Kundu, hailing from Allika in Palwal, is among 11 sailors of a Merchant Navy ship that went missingin the Arabian sea following the devastating cyclone Tauktae nine days ago.The incident has left the family in shock, though their hope is not lost. The family has written to the Prime Minister and the Chief Ministers of Haryana and Maharashtra seeking help in tracing Vicky and his fellow sailors.His father Bhup Lal revealed that Vicky had contacted his wife Pooja on May 16 night and told her that his ship, which was approaching Mumbai, got stuck due to a storm and the crew members were trying to dock it to nearest point. He said there had been no information about his or the ship’s whereabouts, though unfiltered reports claim the ship got drowned and the crew was missing.Vicky had joined as a sailor three years ago after completing his studies and a course related to shipping. He had joined his latest job with one Gallery Shipping Management Company in September last year and had been sailing since then on a cargo ship named Dug Galori.Pooja said said a company official recently called to inform the family that the ship had drowned and all 11 crew members were missing. She said the ship had left Sri Lanka and was to reach Mumbai port on September 17. The couple got married in 2016 and has a three-year-old son.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/palwal-sailor-among-11-missing-after-tauktae-258506
26-05-2021||Saurabh Malik||High Court: Onus on accused to prove innocence in POCSO cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 25The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that presumption of guilt engrafted in Section 29 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act will operate against an accused unless rebutted.The ruling came as Justice Suvir Sehgal of the High Court denied anticipatory bail to an accused in a sexual harassment case involving a minor.REASON: LOW CONVICTION RATEIn normal course, an accused has the right to be presumed innocent until proven guilty. But under the POCSO Act, the burden is on the accused to prove his innocence. The concept of reverse burden was incorporated in the system apparently keeping in view the low conviction rate in cases of sexual offences against kidsSection 29 of the POCSO Act makes it clear that the special Court “shall presume” the accused to be guilty, when he is prosecuted for committing an offence of sexual assault against a minor.In normal course, an accused has the right to be presumed innocent until proven guilty. But in a case under the POCSO Act, the burden is on the accused to prove his innocence. The concept of reverse burden was incorporated in the system apparently keeping in view the low conviction rate in cases of sexual offences against children.Justice Sehgal asserted: “The victim, a young girl of 13, has levelled specific and categorical allegations against the petitioner, which have been duly supported by her in her statement under Section 164 of the CrPC. The presumption of guilt under Section 29 of POCSO Act, unless it is rebutted, operates against the petitioner.”Justice Sehgal added that the investigation in the matter was yet to be completed and concession of anticipatory bail could not be extended to the petitioner as there was a possibility that he might try to influence the complainant.The matter was placed before Justice Sehgal after the accused in the case filed a petition against the State of Haryana and other respondents seeking anticipatory bail in an FIR registered at the Model Town police station in Panipat district on January 5 for outraging modesty and other offences under Sections 354 and 323 of the Indian Penal Code, along with the provisions of the POCSO Act and the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act.The Bench was told that the FIR was registered on the basis of a complaint from the Panipat Child Welfare Committee, alleging that that the complainant/prosecutrix was taking care of an infant and doing odd jobs while working in a house for past one-and-a-half years.Whenever the owner went to her parental house at Jalandhar, she took her child and the complainant along. It was alleged in the FIR that the owner’s brother molested the complainant when she went to Jalandhar in October 2020 on one such occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-onus-on-accused-to-prove-innocence-in-pocso-cases-258507
