27-05-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Khattar govt sets up Law Commission to review existing laws, frame new ones||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 27The BJP-JJP government has set up the Haryana State Law Commission, an institutional mechanism for the review and amendment of the existing laws and enactment of fresh legislation to make justice speedy and effective for the general public.To be headed by a chairman, who will either be a chief justice/judge of the high court, the commission will have two full-time members. One of the members will be a serving or retired district and sessions/additional sessions judge and other an advocate with at least 15 years of legal practice. The tenure of the commission will be three years.Commission’s mandate*To study all existing state laws to determine their conformity with socio-economic conditions of society.*To examine statutory, non-statutory rules, especially under 309 of Constitution, and state rules. And to bring them in conformity with SC, high court orders.*To conduct post-audit of socio-economic legislations for the poor.*Recommendation of new legislations keeping in view changed socio-economic scenario.Outlining the mandate of the commission, a notification by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan said it would “examine all important state laws to recommend their modification and revision to make them conform to the changed socio-economic conditions of society”. It would also examine existing statutory and non-statutory rules, especially service rules enacted under Article 309 of the Indian Constitution and recommend their revision to bring them in conformity with various judgements of the Supreme Court and high courts. Besides service legislations of the government departments would be examined in detail.The commission will also conduct post-audit of various socio-economic legislations for the poor. An in-depth examination of the judicial administration to ensure that it is responsive to the reasonable demands of the times and eliminate various technicalities for delay in justice will also be under commission’s purview.The commission will ensure that the current laws are consistent with the Constitution of India.The commission will recommend removal of anomalies and ambiguities in the existing laws brought to light by the conflicting decisions of the Supreme Court and various high courts besides recommending removal of obsolete laws.Besides, suggesting ways and means for improving the administration of justice would be among its jurisdiction.Recommendation of new legislations keeping in view social, economic and financial changes in society would also among its tasks.The notification said the commission would forward its recommendations to the state government for placing them before the Haryana Assembly for passage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-govt-sets-up-law-commission-to-review-existing-laws-frame-new-ones-259330
27-05-2021||Ravinder Saini & Mukesh Tandon||Massive show of strength at Tikri, Singhu borders||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar/Panipat, May 26On the call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), protesting farmers on Wednesday observed a ‘black day’ at the Tikri and Singhu borders on the completion of six months of the ongoing agitation against three farm laws.The day also marked the completion of seven years of the Centre’s formation.At Tikri, where farmers from Punjab and Haryana have been camping for the past six months, a festive mood prevailed on Wednesday with black flags hoisted on every hut and vehicle. Women donned black salwar-suit and dupatta while men wore black badges on their arms to mark the day. The Sikh protesters tied black cloth on their turbans.Young protesters put up a show of unity by taking out a bike rally from Tikri to Dhansa border while passing through various villages. A play describing the Centre’s intentions for the farm laws and movement was also staged by artistes from Punjab at the main protest site.Residents from nearby villages holding black flags in their hands reached the border and expressed their solidarity. “Today’s protest was not only an epitome of farmers’ strength but also a slap on the face of the Centre, which is using all unfair means to sabotage the historical stir. We have been here for the past six months despite all odds and are prepared to spend as much time as needed to win this battle. So, the Centre should repeal the three laws without testing us more,” said Parminder Singh, a protester.Purushottam Singh Gill, a senior BKU (Lakhowal) leader, claimed the protest evoked an overwhelming response as people from every section of society contributed by hoisting black flags on their rooftops or vehicles. “The success of today’s protest is a clear indication that we are heading in the right direction,” he added.At Singhu, the protesters hoisted black flags at the main stage, on their tents, bamboo huts, tractor-trailers and two-wheelers. They also celebrated Buddha Purnima.Various SKM leaders said May 26 was marked as a “black day” for farmers, with lakhs of citizens expressing their resistance against the Centre in numerous ways. Multiple hashtags in support of the movement trended on social media since the morning, they claimed.Govt was mistakenMeanwhile, effigies of the Prime Minister were also burnt at Tikri, Pakoda Chowk in Bahadurgarh, the main gate of the kisan office at Singhu and across the state.Ambala: BKU activists burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Ambala and Kurukshetra. Leaders of the Congress, AAP and Haryana Democratic Front hoisted back flags on the rooftops of their homes.BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni appealed to Uttar Pradesh farmers to start opposing BJP leaders as the elections were scheduled in the state next year.Karnal/Kaithal: Farmers burnt the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Bastara toll plaza on the NH-44 in Karnal district, and at Titram Mor in Kaithal district. They also protested at Pehowa chowk, Pundri, Pai, Kalayat in Kaithal district.Tajinder Singh, a protester, said: “Farmers faced extreme cold and now they are protesting in scorching heat. We will not go back until the three laws are revoked.”Another protester Manju “We are not excited to observe ‘black day’. The Modi government has left us with no option, but to protest.”Rohtak: Farmers burnt the effigy of the Union Government outside Mansarovar Park here. They also celebrated the festival of Budhha Purnima. They reiterated that the government must revoke the three controversial farm laws.The effigies were also burnt in Sonepat and Panipat.Cong doesn’t want stir to succeed: VijChandigarh: The Congress doesn’t want the farmers’ movement to succeed and was not in their interests, said Home Minister Anil Vij. Interacting with the media on Wednesday, he said, “Everyone has a right to protest in independent India. The Congress and other parties are hiding behind the farmers' movement and have been exposed. They don't want the movement to succeed.” He pointed out that he and even farmers’ leaders had written to the Union Agriculture Minister for starting talks again. TNSShould start talks with farmers: SeljaChandigarh: Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee chief Kumari Selja on Wednesday supported the “black day” observed by farmers and appealed to the Central government to accept their demands. She said the BJP government at the Centre should immediately “do away with its ego” and start the process of dialogue with the farmers and withdraw the black laws. Besides, the Haryana Government should withdraw the cases registered against farmers in the state during the agitation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/massive-show-of-strength-at-tikri-singhu-borders-258916
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Damage to property Act enforced in Haryana||Home Minister Anil Vij said with the implementation of the Haryana Recovery of Damages to Property Act, protesters would now pay for any harm done to public property in guise of any movement.Vij said the notification of this Act had been issued by the state, after which it had been enforced. He said carrying out protests was part of democracy but it was incorrect to harm property in guise of it.He said a tribunal would be set up in this regard, which would take up such complaints and act against the offenders. He said the parties, who were opposing this Act, should clarify whether they were in favour of those who burn shops, houses, government offices, trains, buses and other public property or were in favour of those who had suffered in violent acts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/damage-to-property-act-enforced-in-haryana-258917
27-05-2021||Yamunanagar||Man booked for abusing Haryana CM in Facebook video||A man from the district’s Kalesar village has been booked for allegedly abusing Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in a video uploaded on Facebook.  The accused, identified as Shakti, lives in California, US.  On the complaint by Yogesh, who is posted in the cyber cell of the SP’s office, a case was registered under Sections 153-A and 504 of the IPC and the Information Technology Act at the Jagadhri police station on May 25. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-booked-for-abusing-haryana-cm-in-facebook-video-258918
27-05-2021||---||New auction policy for HSAMB okayed||Chandigarh, May 26The auction of shops/plots by the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB) will now be on the pattern adopted by the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) and Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP).The move will not only help the HSAMB to boost their revenue but will also make the entire process more transparent.A decision in this regard was taken at a review meeting held under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar here on Wednesday.The Chief Minister also directed the officers concerned to formulate a marketing policy so that the allotment of new shops in the upcoming mandis of the state would be done in a fair and transparent manner.“The possibility of setting up special purchase centres should be explored for farmers coming from neighbouring states located near to the border areas who wish to sell their crops in Haryana. For this, permission from the Food Corporation of India should be taken,” Khattar said.During the meeting, the Chief Minister was apprised that on April 1, 2021, the HSAMB had launched a one-of-its-kind scheme, ‘Vivaadon se Samadhan’, to give one last opportunity to the allottees, who defaulted in paying their instalments and extension fees.Sharing the details about the strategies adopted by the HSAMB for resource mobilisation, the Chief Minister was apprised that regular inspection of oil mills, cotton and rice sellers had been conducted, wherein the evasion of market fee and the Haryana Rural Development Fund (HRDF) to the tune of Rs 2.73 crore was detected during this financial year.Khattar was also apprised that the HSAMB would give spare land on lease to the Haryana State Warehousing Corporation for the construction of godowns on revenue-sharing basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-auction-policy-for-hsamb-okayed-258919
27-05-2021||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra passport scam: Pehowa postman held||The police have arrested a postman for his alleged involvement in the passport scam in which forged documents were used.The accused, Shiv Kumar of Pehowa, was sent to judicial custody. Four people have already been arrested.On March 20, Amritsar (Rural) SSP informed the Kurukshetra police that Harmanpreet Singh was a gangster. It had come to light that Harmanpreet got a passport which was issued from the Chandigarh Passport Office and the address mentioned on it was of Pehowa. He used fake documents for getting it.On April 16, the Kurukshetra police had brought Harmanpreet on production warrant. He disclosed about Mohit Guglani, who further disclosed about Vikram and Sumit, all were arrested.A police spokesman said, “During further investigation, the involvement of the postman came to light, who handed over the passport to the accused instead of delivering it to the given address.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-passport-scam-pehowa-postman-held-258921
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Delhi man creates fake govt website, arrested||The Haryana Police have arrested a New Delhi resident for allegedly creating a fake website of Parivahan Sewa and trying to dupe people seeking online driving licence.An official spokesperson said the incident came to light following a complaint lodged by a Hisar resident about the payment of fee for a driving licence at https://e-parivahanindia.online. He approached the policewhen he realised that he had been duped.He said a man filed a complaint alleging that he visited the Parivahan Sewa website on the Internet, thinking it was the official website of the Transport Department. He paid the prescribed fee ofRs 1,593 for driving licenceon the fake website.On receiving the complaint, a cyber crime team of the police started a probe and technical investigation led to the arrest of a suspect involved in the crime.The accused was identified as Kapil Kumar, a resident of Bhajanpura, Garhi Mandu, New Delhi.During investigation, it was found that apart from the Transport Department, arrested accused had also created fake websites of Passport Department (https://passportseva.co/index) and some other authorities like https://www.edrivinglicenceindia.in, and http://eparivahan.online/index.php, to dupe people on the pretext of online services.The accused was booked under relevant sections of the IPC and Information Technology Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delhi-man-creates-fake-govt-website-arrested-258922
27-05-2021||---||Jhajjar villagers set up Covid care centre in school||Jhajjar, May 26Residents of Silani village with the help of the district administration are operating a Covid care centre in a school to provide immediate treatment to the patients.Significantly, not only residents of Silani but natives of other villages are also coming here for treatment.“The idea to set up a Covid centre came to my mind on May 3 when three villagers fell ill and they needed immediate medical attention as their oxygen level dropped. Those were the days when neither beds nor oxygen was available in hospitals. We met a co-villager and Medical Officer Dr Sumit Chahar at the Silani PHC and shared the idea with him. He took an initiative and executed it,” said Arvind Chahar, a village youth.He said some beds and oxygen cylinders were arranged in the school and Dr Sumit treated the three patients there. Thereafter, 15 beds were provided by Jhajjar Gurukul and four oxygen concentrators by Dr Pawan Yadav, Medical Officer at the Patauda PHC. Later, patients from Patauda, Kot, Dhakla, Dighal, Dadri Toa, Jhajjar and Silana villages also started coming here for treatment, he added.“Dr Sumit and Dr Umang Saini from Jhajjar treat the patients here while my friends — Mohit and Manish — and I not only take care of them but also manage the centre by refilling cylinders and fulfilling other needs. An ambulance has been provided by the administration to bring the patients here,” Arvind added.Dr Sumit said the centre was adjacent to the PHC hence he spent his entire day there. Only one oxygen concentrator was available at the PHC when the centre was opened. “Thereafter, we managed to arrange more concentrators, beds and other essential things on our own. The administration has provided 10 beds and is also supplying medicines and other equipment,” he added.Meanwhile, Dr Vikas, Medical Officer associated with the Covid programme, said besides medicines and oxygen, all demands raised by the centre were fulfilled immediately so as to facilitate hassle-free treatment to the patients. “The centre has so far treated 32 Covid and 20 patients suffering other diseases. It has also become an inspiration for others,” he added.FACILITIES AVAILABLE||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jhajjar-villagers-set-up-covid-care-centre-in-school-258923
27-05-2021||---||Probe Covid admissions in private hospitals: Ashok Khemka||Chandigarh, May 26Senior IAS officer Ashok Khemka has asked the Health Department to inquire into Covid admissions in private hospitals from June 25 last year and asked to refund the excess amount, if any, charged by private facilities.In a May 25 letter to Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rajeev Arora, Khemka, who is the Covid in charge of Nuh district, said the Health Department had, on June 25, 2020, capped the rates for Covid treatment at hospitals accredited with the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) and non-NABH hospitals.He pointed out that the order issued on June 25, 2020, under Section 2 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, was binding on all private hospitals or medical colleges in the state for the Covid treatment.“Since many Covid patients have hypertension, diabetes and cardiovascular problems, the charges for medical care of co-morbidities formed a part of the package. However, experimental therapies (for example, Remdesivir), Covid diagnostic tests and IL-6 levels were excluded,” Khemka said.In an order dated May 4 this year, the state government had capped the rates for Covid treatment for all patients, irrespective of their domicile. Earlier, the rates were capped for only Haryana residents.Khemka said, “Unfortunately, the instruction is more honoured in the breach than in the observance. There are complaints of overcharging. During a review meeting on May 21, it was found that the Health Department was unaware of its own order issued last year. Hence, the contents of the order were read out during the meeting and its strict implementation was requested.”He added that strict enforcement of the department’s order and its wide publicity was required.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/probe-covid-admissions-in-private-hospitals-ashok-khemka-258924
27-05-2021||---||Market timings to be relaxed from May 31: Haryana CM||Karnal, May 26Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday assured the traders more relaxation in the timings of market from May 31 so that small traders could benefit to earn their livelihood.Khattar was chairing a meeting of officials, traders, representatives of the various social organisations, members of the IMA and also leaders of the BJP at Mini-Secretariat through video-conferencing.At present, the timing of the market is between 7 am and 12 pm owing to the Covid pandemic. The traders highlighted the issue, saying the timing was inappropriate and should be changed.Meanwhile, the CM dedicated three projects, worth Rs 1.33 crore, for the district through video-conferencing. He inaugurated an extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) machine at the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) for the critical care of the Covid patients. Besides, he dedicated an oxygen storage tank of the capacity of 10MT at KCGMC. The CM also dedicated jetting-cum-suction machine for cleaning purpose.Khattar said the ECMO machine could be used for critically suffering Covid patients, whose lungs were damaged and required ventilator support during their treatment. He said with this additional oxygen storage tank, the capacity had risen to 20MT at the KCGMC. The PGIMS, Rohtak, had an arrangement of around 30MT oxygen storage tank.“The government is focusing on arranging oxygen storage at places like Gurugram and Faridabad so that it can be availed easily during an emergency. Only big plants of Panipat and Hisar have production and storage capacity,” said the CM.Khattar lauded social and religious organisations for extending helping hand to overcome challenges during the pandemic.The CM said suggestions raised by the business community and social organisations would be considered and implemented. Khattar also announced to establish banks of oxygen concentrators across the state. He said after the use of medical equipment, these should be supplied to other critical patients.ECMO machine inauguratedCM Manohar Lal Khattar inaugurated an extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) machine at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College for the critical care of Covid patients. Besides, he dedicated an oxygen storage tank of the capacity of 10MT at the college.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/market-timings-to-be-relaxed-from-may-31-haryana-cm-258925
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Global tenders floated for vax: Haryana Health Minister||Health Minister Anil Vij has said that Haryana Medical Services Corporation Limited has issued two global tenders for one crore Covid vaccines and 15,000 vials of Amphotericin-B injection used in the treatment of black fungus.The Health Minister, through a tweet, said if more vaccines were available through global tenders, the state would soon be able to vaccinate all people.Vij said the situation was improving, but the government did not want to leave any stone unturned when it came to the health of the people.The minister said allopathy and ayurveda were two different disciplines, which were contributing in their own way in the present situation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/global-tenders-floated-for-vax-haryana-health-minister-258926
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccine wastage only 2-3%: Dept||The Health Department has improved the vaccine wastage data from 6 to 2-3 per cent.The vaccine wastage percentage was relatively higher in the data released by the Central government as there was data mismatch and the districts have now rectified it, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rajeev Arora said.He said in the data recently released by the Central government, Haryana had a 6 per cent vaccine wastage percentage of Covieshield and 10.2 per cent wastage of Covaxin.Thereafter, officials of the Health Department swung into action and identified that there was a data mismatch.He said the officials concerned corrected the data mismatch and subsequently the wastage percentages dropped from 6 per cent for Covieshield to 3.1 per cent and 10.2 per cent of Covaxin to 2.4 per cent. Thus, the average wastage percentage is between 2 and 3 per cent.Arora said the districts which were high on vaccine wastage were Hisar, Palwal, Nuh, Kaithal, Rohtak and Bhiwani. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vaccine-wastage-only-2-3-dept-258927
27-05-2021||---||Private hospital charges Rs 44,000 for 22 PPE kits; family files complaint||Karnal, May 26A private hospital here allegedly charged Rs 44,000 from a Covid patient for 22 PPE kits. A complaint in this regard was filed by family members of the patient with District Magistrate (DM) Nishant Kumar Yadav.The DM has constituted a committee, comprising MD Sugar Mill Aditi and Deputy Civil Surgeon Dr Kulbir, to investigate the matter. The team members recorded statements of the hospital authorities and the complainant.Meanwhile, the DM said no hospital could charge extra money for the PPE kits. He said he had told the hospital to refund this money taken from the complainant.Rohit Kumar, a resident of Assandh, said he got his father Balwinder Kumar admitted to a private hospital on May 4. He was discharged on May 25. He alleged that during his stay in the hospital, he was charged exorbitant bills. “I was given a bill of Rs 4,62,959, including Rs 44,000 for PPE kits, Rs 25,155 for tests, Rs 4,850 for CT scans and Rs 3,15,000 for the Covid ICU,” he alleged.“I have paid the entire bill and filed a complaint against the hospital against the charging of exorbitant rates,” he said.Dr Ranjana Sharma, medical superintendent, Park Hospital, CHD City, refuted the allegations of the patient’s kin, saying they had charged as per the guidelines of the government.Can’t charge extra for kits||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/private-hospital-charges-rs-44-000-for-22-ppe-kits-family-files-complaint-258929
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||3,138 cases, 106 deaths in Haryana||The state today reported 3,138 new Covid cases, taking the tally to 7.46 lakh. Besides, 106 more persons succumbed to the virus; the toll has reached 7,841.Meanwhile, 5.48 lakh persons have been vaccinated against the virus. In all, 7,08,255 patients have been discharged. The recovery rate is pegged at 94.72 per cent while fatality rate is reported to be 1.05 per cent.Karnal: Two more patients infected with black fungus died at KCGMC on Wednesday. With this, the number of black fungus deaths at the KCGMC rose to eight. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-138-cases-106-deaths-in-haryana-258930
27-05-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma
||KV to open in Yamunanagar||Tribune News Service Yamunanagar, May 26 The Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan has announced to open a Kendriya Vidyalaya in Yamunanagar district. The school will come up in Hadtaul village of the Bilaspur subdivision, but for the time being, the classes will be conducted at Aheadwala village until a building of the school is built at Hadtaul village.  The development has been welcomed by Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar and residents of the district. As per an order issued by DE Prabhakar, Joint Commissioner (Administration) on May 24, the classes will start from the current academic session 2021-2022. For the current academic session, the admission will be conducted for Classes I to V and the authorities concerned have been asked to complete the process  of admission within 30 days after the issuance of the  order. “It is a big achievement. It will be the first Kendriya Vidyalaya in Yamunanagar district. This school will come up in Hadtaul village, but, now, the classes will be conducted  in Aheadwala village, until a building of the school is built in Hadtaul village,” said Mukul Kumar, Deputy Commissioner. Haryana Education Minister, Kanwar Pal Gujjar thanked Union Minister of Education, Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and tweeted, “Thank you very much that our district received the gift of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Bilaspur.” This development has brought happiness among the residents of Hadtaul village. “We are happy that Kendriya Vidyalaya is being opened in our village. This school will help in providing better education to the children of this area and the district,” said Mohinder Singh, sarpanch of Hadtaul village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kv-to-open-in-yamunanagar-258931
27-05-2021||---||Subsidised food for needy at Civil Hospital, Ambala City||Ambala, May 26To provide lunch facility to attendants of patients and the needy who can’t afford to spend Rs 30-50 for a meal, ‘Hamari Astha Foundation’, a charity organisation, has come forward to provide meal to them at Rs 5 at Civil Hospital, Ambala City.It has started a canteen at the Civil Hospital and is currently preparing food for 300-400 people. The facility will be available from 11:30 am to 2 pm. Sandeep Anand, director of the foundation, said, “We decided to start a canteen for the needy. We apprised Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij and Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel of our plan and they helped us in setting up the canteen. Following their directions, the Health Department provided space to the foundation to prepare food and run the canteen.”“Since we started the canteen on Tuesday, we are providing lunch only and if everything goes right, we will start providing dinner as well. The objective behind the facility is to provide good quality food at subsidised rates to those in need. In a thali, we will provide two chapattis, rice and vegetable,” he added. Aseem Goel who also visited the canteen, said, “It is good to see that different organisations have come forward to help the people during the pandemic. The foundation has started providing food for Rs 5 only. It is a good initiative and it will motivate other people as well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/subsidised-food-for-needy-at-civil-hospital-ambala-city-258932
27-05-2021||Palwal||Man held for rape, murder||A 23-year-old man has been arrested on charges of raping and murdering a seven-year-old girl on Monday at a factory located under the jurisdiction of Mundkati police station.The accused, Anand Kumar, a native of Chhatarpur district in Madhya Pradesh, was sent to three days’ police custody.On Monday, Kumar had allegedly abducted the girl when she was alone at home as her parents were away to the factory for work. He took her to jungle on some pretext and allegedly raped her. Fearing that he would be caught, he strangled the girl. The same day, her father lodged a missing person complaint with the police. Subsequently, a manhunt was launched. SP DeepakGahlawat said Kumar had confessed to the crime. A postmortem was done and the viscera sent to a forensic laboratory for medical examination, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-for-rape-murder-258933
27-05-2021||With reference to the recent news in The Tribune that "PGI does not have its own oxygen plant" points to the inadequacy of healthcare funds successive governments have been allocating towards the health budget. The enormous difference between the government and private hospitals has always been alarming and stands fully exposed as of now. The pandemic has shaken the government from its deep slumber and let's hope that the future governments||Improve govt healthcare infra||Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaInstall GPS system to track vehicles collecting garbageThe Municipal Corporation of Yamunanagar-Jagadhri has 22 wards, which is divided into two zones. Of course, it has introduced a good system of door-to-door garbage collection but for better tracking of more than hundred vehicles used for this purpose, GPS and RFID systems should be installed at the earliest. It has been observed that these vehicles do not maintain proper timings and are irregular in collecting household wastage.Dr MK Sehgal, YamunanagarCustomers at banks ignore Covid protocolsAt almost all banks, especially private and some branches of State Bank in Narwana, a lot of customers, mostly village residents, gather outside in large numbers, ignoring all Covid protocols. They wear no masks and do not maintain social distancing. The police are nowhere to be seen to discipline them. When the police can discipline the shopkeepers, why it is so difficult to manage the crowds outside banks? .Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/improve-govt-healthcare-infra-258944
27-05-2021||Hisar||UG/PG courses exams in July, August||HAU adopts Six villagesHisar: Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University has adopted six villages in Hisar district, for which approved Corona medicine kits will be distributed. Vice-Chancellor Prof BR Kamboj handed over the medicine kit to Dr Ratna Bharti, Civil Surgeon, Hisar. He said the villages adopted in the first phase include Balsamand, Talwandi Rukka, Mangali, Agroha, Gawad and Mohabbatpur. He further said in six villages of the adopted district, kits of approved medicines have been handed over to the Civil Surgeon for the distribution through the PHC and social organisation. The Civil Surgeon appreciated the initiative of the university administration and said this type of cooperation would continue in future.Improving psycho-social skillsKurukshetra: Kurukshetra University Vice-Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva said students should voluntarily participate in social activities of the area they were living in. They should set a new example by being part of the Covid dialogue teams and inspire others to help as well. While speaking in a one-day online workshop on "Covid helpers skills: Guidelines for improving psycho-social skills during pandemic" jointly organised in collaboration with KU and Mahatma Gandhi National Council for Rural Education, Ministry of Education (Government of India) on Wednesday, the VC said the KU teachers and staff were already cooperating as Covid volunteers. Food was being provided to Covid patients through the kitchen run by the university. The health centre was providing thermometers, oximeters, medicines and health counselling to Covid patients round the clock. The sanitation workers of the university were also doing the cleaning and sanitising job throughout the day. The chairman of the Mahatma Gandhi National Council of Rural Education, Dr Ranbir Singh Batan said during the global epidemic, five teams of psycho-social skills had been formed, which include hospital management, non-hospital management, family support, emotional and right information team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ug-pg-courses-exams-in-july-august-258945
27-05-2021||ChandigarhThe Consumer Voice has urged the GST council to increase compensation cess on tobacco products in Haryana to generate additional revenue for the state. Ashim Sanyal||‘Raise cess on tobacco items’||Rohtak2-month extension to UHS VCPt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS) VC Prof OP Kalra, whose second term is ending on May 27, will continue to look after the charge for 60 days from May 28 or till the appointment of a new VC, whichever is earlier. tnsCamps in collegesThe government has decided to set up vaccination camps in all government and private colleges for students and staff. Principals of government, aided and private colleges have been instructed to coordinate with the DCs and Chief Medical Officers to organise camps. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/raise-cess-on-tobacco-items-258946
27-05-2021||Panchkula||Farmers, AAP hold protest at Chandimandir toll plaza||Hundreds of members of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha and the Aam Aadmi Party today staged a demonstration carrying black flags at the Chandimandir toll plaza and burnt an effigy of the government.Members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, led by its block president Karam Singh, and AAP workers, led by party’s Haryana secretary Yogeshwar Sharma, raised slogans against the Modi government. They burnt an effigy of the Central Government for its failure to withdraw three farm laws.A call for the nationwide protest was given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha for observing the day as “black day” by waiving black flags as the farmers’ protest completed six months.Karam Singh said their protest would continue till the government revoked the three contentious farm laws.Yogeshwar Sharma said the party would stand with the farmers and demand that the government should shun its rigidness and withdraw the three farm laws without any further delay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-aap-hold-protest-at-chandimandir-toll-plaza-258859
27-05-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||41 per cent deaths in rural Haryana during second surge||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 26Around 41 per cent of the total Covid deaths in Haryana during the second wave of infection occurred in rural areas, according to the state Health Department data.From April 5 to May 23, 4,321 Covid deaths were reported in the state and 1,773 of these (41 per cent) had occurred in rural areas.From the start of the pandemic to April 4 this year, the deaths in rural areas (964) comprised 30.2 per cent of the Covid toll (3,191) across the state.In fact, the rural areas witnessed a surge of 83.9 per cent in Covid deaths from April 5 to May 23, as compared with the figures since the start of the pandemic till April 4. The villages in Mahendragarh district are the worst affected with 81.4 per cent of the total Covid deaths taking place there during the second wave. Of the 86 deaths in the district from April 5 to May 23, 70 occurred in rural areas. On the other hand, around 38 per cent of the total Covid deaths in the district were reported in villages till April 4.In Charkhi Dadri, deaths in rural areas stood at 79.4 per cent during the second wave, while the figure was 65.4 per cent till April 4.Rural areas of Kaithal have a share of 68.9 per cent in total deaths, while Bhiwani saw 62.3 per cent deaths in villages in the same period.Fatehabad witnessed a jump from 33.6 to 59.8 per cent during the second wave. The villages of Jhajjar and Hisar had a share of 54.7 per cent and 54.3 per cent, respectively, in total deaths.“The infection seems to have reached villages. The challenge is that there is a stigma attached with Covid in rural areas. There is also a lack of awareness,” said Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, state nodal officer for Covid and senior Professor and Head of the Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, PGIMS, Rohtak.Health Minister Anil Vij said, “We have been screening the rural population. It was done earlier also.” The screening started on May 15. Till May 25, 1.1 crore persons had been screened. In all, 83,892 tests were conducted and 3,003 were found positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/41-per-cent-deaths-in-rural-haryana-during-second-surge-259107
27-05-2021||---||From Amritsar to Tikri, black flags hoisted to mark six months of farmers’ agitation||New Delhi/Chandigarh, May 26Farmers in Punjab and Haryana on Wednesday hoisted black flags atop their houses and vehicles and burnt effigies of the Union Government to mark the completion of six months of their agitation against the three contentious agri laws. Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders, spearheading the protest, said they were prepared to stretch the stir till 2024 when the next General Election is to be held.Speaking at an event in Delhi, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said the SKM was prepared for a long haul.“There is no going back,” he stressed. Protesters at Singhu and Tikri, the epicentres of the farm movement, hoisted flags at the main stage, atop tents, bamboo huts and vehicles. They gathered at the ‘Kisan Andolan’ office at Kundli and held a march amid sloganeering.At Tikri, male protesters wore black badges and the women black salwar-suits and dupattas. They held a bike rally that culminated at the Dhansa border while passing through Jhajjar. “Contrary to the government claims that the stir would end in the course of time, it has spread across the country,” a buoyant Gurnam Singh, BKU (Charuni) chief, said.Rallies were held across Punjab with farmers sporting black bands on turbans. At some places, the protesters burnt effigies of senior BJP leaders. Political leaders in Punjab backed the farmers by hoisting black flags atop their houses.While the Kirti Kisan Union held tractor marches, the BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), All-India Kisan Federation, BKU (Rajewal) and BKU (Dakaunda) organised foot marches. In Phagwara, Bharti Kisan Union (Doaba) general secretary Satnam Singh Sahni claimed shopkeepers and traders too put up black flags outside their shops in solidarity with the farming community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/from-amritsar-to-tikri-black-flags-hoisted-to-mark-six-months-of-farmers-agitation-259054
27-05-2021||Vibha Sharma||Ready to stretch stir against three farm laws till 2024: Samyukt Kisan Morcha||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, May 26Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders today said they were prepared to continue their agitation against the three farm laws and one on the MSP till 2024 when the next General Elections are due.Don’t be misled: BJP to farmersSpeaking at an event, organised by the Indian Women Press Corps on the six months of ‘kisan andolan’, BKU leader from Western UP Rakesh Tikait said the SKM was prepared for a long haul.“The talks will begin from where they ended. There is no going back. Only the government can now take back the agitation. We are prepared to continue the agitation till 2024,” he said. Tikait said they had not received any reply from the Modi government on their letter for resumption of talks, adding “we cannot leave them like this, it is a democratic country”.Speaking on the six-month agitation that had catapulted the farmers’ issue to the international level, Tikait and farm leader from Haryana Gurnam Singh Charuni said farm unions managed to gain the confidence of people.“This despite the government telling lies, making all sorts of allegations against us. Today, it will say that because of us Covid is spreading,” Tikait added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ready-to-stretch-stir-against-three-farm-laws-till-2024-samyukt-kisan-morcha-258865
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||7-year-old girl raped, murdered in Haryana’s Palwal village||A seven-year-old girl was allegedly raped and strangled to death by a 22-year-old youth in a village in Haryana’s Palwal district, police said, adding the accused has been arrested.The incident occurred on Monday when the girl’s neighbour, Anand, lured her while her parents were not at home, took her to a nearby field and committed the crime, they said, adding he dumped the body in a pit.When the girl’s parents returned home and didn’t find her, they lodged a missing complaint and her body was found.During investigation, it was found that Anand was the only person in their locality to have skipped work on the day of the incident.He was detained and subjected to “intense questioning”, during which he confessed to the crime, the police official said.The girl’s parents are daily wagers, who hail from Madhya Pradesh, police said, adding the accused, a labourer, belongs to the same state, Station House Officer (SHO) Preetam Singh said.A case was registered against him under Sections of rape and kidnapping of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant Sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at Mundkati police station. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/7-year-old-girl-raped-murdered-in-haryanas-palwal-village-258781
27-05-2021||Chandigarh||Black day: From Amritsar to Tikri, farmers hoist black flags, burn effigies of BJP leaders||Six months after they descended on the Delhi border seeking repeal of the three farm laws, the protesting farmers may have been forgotten by the Centre amid the Covid surge, but their movement is still alive.Farmers at several places in Punjab put up black flags atop their houses, led protest marches and burnt effigies of central government leaders on Wednesday. Protests were witnessed in Punjab's Amritsar, Patiala, Jalandhar and Mohali districts. In Zirakpur, farmers protested at the Singapura lights point. Slogans against the Centre were raised in Landran village. In Amritsar, farmers raised anti-government slogans and burnt effigies of central government leaders. In the Jalandhar district, protests were held at Sultanpur Lodhi in Kapurthala and on the Nakodar road. In Haryana too, state BKU chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni has appealed farmers to hoist black flags on their houses and vehicles to register their protest.Also read: Badal hoists black, saffron flags atop residence in support of farmersSeveral political parties including the Congress, the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party have extended their support to the farmers' call of observing the day as 'black day'.Farmers in Dandoor village of Hisar district on Wednesday raised anti-government slogans and burned the effigy of the BJP government to mark the Black Day on the completion of six months of farmers agitation against the three farms laws.In Jhajjar, farmers hoisted black flags and took out a motorbike rally at the Tikri border to mark the completion of six months of their protest at Delhi borders."Six months have passed since the farmers' protest at Delhi borders against the three farm legislations began," said Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher, slamming the Central government for not scrapping the legislations.Pandher and Gurnam Singh Chaduni said that besides hoisting black flags at houses and vehicles, effigies of the BJP-led Union government will also be burnt.As #KisanAndolan completes 6 months today, I again urge the Centre to deal compassionately with farmers & repeal the black laws. Have hoisted a #BlackFlag atop my Badal residence today & likewise @Akali_Dal_ leaders & workers have done the same observing #Black_Day_Of_Farmers. pic.twitter.com/HO72LRepXy  Farmers burnt the effigy of Chief Minister Manohar Lal khattar in Bhiwani village.In Manimajra, pro-farmer organisations burnt effigies of PM Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah to mark the 6-month long protest against the agro-market laws.Protest flags, slogans and marches at three Delhi border points Farmers agitating at three Delhi border points raised black flags, shouted anti-government slogans, burnt effigies and took out protest marches.A brief ruckus was also reported from the Ghazipur protest site where farmers burnt an effigy of the central government amid heavy police deployment.As part of their 'black day' protest, the farmers put up black flags and burnt effigies of government leaders at the three border points -- Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri -- to register their protest against the three laws as well as the Centre.The Delhi Police has urged people not to hold gatherings due to the COVID-19 situation and the ongoing lockdown and said it is keeping a tight vigil to deal with any situation at the protest sites.Senior farmer leader Avtar Singh Mehma said that black flags have been hoisted not only at the protest sites but also in villages in Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, adding that villagers have put up black flags atop their houses as well as on their vehicles."Effigies of government leaders were burnt. This day is to reiterate the fact that it has been six months since we have been protesting, but the government, which also completes seven years in office today, is not listening to us," said Mehma.All those in solidarity of their movement also donned black turbans and dupattas.At the Singhu border, protestors gathered at the Kajaria Tiles office, held meetings, and took out a march towards the stage.Farmer leader Kulwant Singh said, "The protesters took out a march carrying black flags. They burnt Prime Minister Narendra Modi's effigy while raising slogans against the three farm laws. "We are urging people to support farmers by putting the black flag at their residence and other places," he said.On Tuesday, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) had issued notices to Delhi, UP, Haryana on the alleged flouting of COVID norms by the protesting farmers.The Delhi Police too had urged people not to hold gatherings due to the COVID-19 situation and the ongoing lockdown.However, Mehma said that the government shouldn't have introduced the three laws during the pandemic in the first place."If the government wants us to go back then it should listen to us and repeal the laws, because we are not going anywhere unless our demands are met."It is not our hobby to sit in the heat and the cold at the borders. We also want to go back home and be safe," the farmer leader told PTI.Police force has been in place at all the borders points, including the protest sites of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, since Tuesday.At Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, hundreds of farmers, led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, converged into groups as they burnt an effigy of the Centre in protest.A ruckus briefly ensued between protestors and the local police, donning anti-riot gears, who had tried to stop them from burning the effigy at the UP Gate below the Delhi-Meerut Expressway.While many BKU supporters held black flags in their hands, several others had placards that condemned the government and demanded withdrawal of the contentious laws, even as COVID-19 protocols on social distancing and face masks were largely amiss at the site.Tikait, who has been leading the protest at Ghazipur since November 2020 and had become a prominent face of the protest after the January 26 violence in Delhi, was seen sporting a black-colour turban and a black flag.--with agencies It's been six months since the farmers have been protesting against the three black laws. But the Modi Govt refuses to budge. The nation will not forget.#NationalBlackDay pic.twitter.com/hQAxTKygID  "We will continue the farmer protests till the time Centre repeals the farm laws. We had planned to protest by putting tri-colour flags. However, the authorities had objections to it and hence, we decided to mark this protest by hoisting black flags", said Tikait.--with agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/black-day-from-amritsar-to-tikri-farmers-hoist-black-flags-burn-effigies-of-bjp-leaders-258566
