31-05-2021||New Delhi||Chhatrasal Stadium murder case: Police take Sushil Kumar to Haridwar||The Delhi Police’s Crime Branch on Monday took two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, arrested in connection with the murder of a wrester at the Chhatrasal Stadium here, to Haridwar where he allegedly fled following the incident, officials said.Kumar was taken to Haridwar to ascertain the sequence of events following the incident, they said.Kumar and his associate Ajay were earlier taken to Bathinda and Chandigarh to ascertain the sequence of events that unfolded after they fled the city following the wrestler’s death.Sushil Kumar and his associates allegedly assaulted wrestler Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar on the intervening night of May 4 and 5. Sagar succumbed to the injuries later.The international wrestler was arrested, along with co-accused Ajay Kumar, on May 23 from outer Delhi’s Mundka area.                     Police said a total of nine people, including Kumar, have been arrested so far in connection with the incident. Police had earlier said Kumar has been evasive and has not been cooperating with the investigators during questioning.On Thursday, a video surfaced on the social media purportedly showing Kumar and his associates allegedly hitting another man with sticks.In the video, Kumar and his associates are purportedly seen carrying sticks in their hands while the injured man can be seen lying on the ground.On Wednesday morning, police had said four associates of Kumar, who were involved in the alleged property dispute case that led to the death of the 23-year-old Sagar, were arrested.Several teams, including the Crime Branch and four teams of the Special cell, had conducted raids in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana and Punjab. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chhatrasal-stadium-murder-case-police-take-sushil-kumar-to-haridwar-261281
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 82 more deaths, 1,246 new cases in Haryana||Haryana on Monday reported 82 coronavirus-related deaths, bringing the toll to 8,303, while 1,246 fresh infections pushed the infection count to 7,56,635, according to a bulletin.The health department’s daily bulletin said 10 of the new fatalities were from Hisar, nine from Gurugram and seven from Bhiwani district.Hisar reported 100 new Covid-19 cases, Sirsa 118 while 112 fresh infections were registered in Gurugram.The active case count stands at 18,580, while the number of recoveries has reached 7,29,752 in the state.Haryana has a Covid recovery rate of 96.45 per cent.The cumulative positivity rate was 8.39 per cent, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-82-more-deaths-1-246-new-cases-in-haryana-261278
31-05-2021||Gurugram||AAP south Haryana convener dies of Covid||RS Rathee, south Haryana convener of Aam Admi Party (AAP), succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday night. A local councillor, Rathee was known to be most vocal for citizen issues in MCG house and ran many social endeavours. He was chairman of Gurugram Citizen Council.The 56-year-old was in Medanta for 25 days. His condition was improving during treatment, but two days ago he was put on a ventilator after his health suddenly deteriorated and he breathed his last at 11.45 pm last night.“Our hardworking and combative friend RS Rathee ji of Haryana is no more with us. Corona snatched them from us, May his soul rest in peace”, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal tweeted.Local social, political and other organisation have mourned on the sudden death of RS Rathee. He had lost both parents this very month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aap-south-haryana-convener-dies-of-covid-261277
31-05-2021||Pradeep Sharma ||Amid Covid-19 pandemic, over 900 Haryana health staff on verge of losing jobs||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, May 31At a time when Covid-19 pandemic is playing havoc with the lives of thousands of persons across Haryana, over 900 supporting staff the Health Department are on the verge of losing their jobs. In fact, an order of the Director General Health Services (DGHS) to Civil Surgeons on May 28 seems to have paved the way for dispensing with the services of these employees comprising non-paramedical and medical staff, including ward servants, dhobis, supervisors and liftmen.Health Department’s U-turn May 13: “The new service providers engaged under the outsourcing policy have dispensed with the services of the employee engaged previously. In no case, the services of earlier employees will be dispensed with unless on complaints.” May 28: “The May 13 order is withdrawn due to administrative reasons.”Interestingly, the Health Department took a U-turn on the issue as on May 13, the DGHS clearly instructed the Civil Surgeons to ensure that the services of the already-employed persons were not dispensed with. However, the DGHS withdrew the May 13 order on May 28 citing “administrative reasons”. “The new service providers engaged under the outsourcing policy have dispensed with the services of the employee engaged previously. In no case, the services of earlier employees will be dispensed with unless on complaints,” the May 13 order of the DGHS had categorically said. Recently, the Health Department empanelled new service providers (contractors) for the supply of these employees. Usually after the change of contractors, the already-employed staff are allowed to continue in service.Expressing anguish at state government’s U-turn which could have adverse impact on the livelihoods of over 900 outsourced employees, Subhash Lamba, president of the Sarv Karamchari Sangh (SKS), alleged that this clearly pointed out towards the politician-bureaucratic-contractor nexus. Lamba said the May 28 DGHS order was all the more surprising as the SKS, in a representation to the DGHS, had forwarned the authorities that certain contractors were relieving the existing employees against established rules and regulations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amid-covid-19-pandemic-over-900-haryana-health-staff-on-verge-of-losing-jobs-261257
31-05-2021||Vijay Mohan||Rain during May surplus in Haryana and Punjab, less in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 31While rain during the month of May has been noticeably surplus in the agrarian states of Haryana and Punjab, it has been a notch below normal in the hill state of Himachal Pradesh during this period.Rain was 138 per cent above normal in Haryana and 39 per cent above normal in Punjab, but deficient by 4 per cent in Himachal Pradesh, data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for the period from May 1 to May 31 reveals.According to IMD, Haryana received 45.1 mm ran during the month as compared to the normal 18.9 mm for this period, while Punjab received 25 mm as compared to 17.9 mm. Himachal received 63.8 mm against the normal of 66.8 mm for the said period.In Haryana, Sirsa, Fatehbad and Hisar were the districts that received the least rainfall in the state during May. In Punjab, it was Faridkot, Ferozepur and Hoshiarpur, while in Himachal Bilaspur, Lahaul and Spiti and Hamirpur were the driest districts.Even for the season beginning March 1 this year, rains in Haryana were surplus  by 39 per cent, but deficient in Punjab and Himachal by 7 per cent and 10 per cent, respectively.The region had witnessed thunderstorms and rainfall on several occasions during the month, which kept the temperature low on some days. The rains were attributed to western disturbances. Rains over the mainland came even as both, the western as well as eastern coasts, were lashed by cyclones this month.Many areas northern and central parts of the country had witnessed severe winds accompanied by lightning and heavy rain that had damaged power transmission lines and property as well as uprooted trees.The weatherman has further predicted thunderstorms with lightning and gusty winds over parts of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and some other parts of the country on June 1 and June 2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rain-during-may-surplus-in-haryana-and-punjab-less-in-himachal-261251
31-05-2021||Dubai||Haryana’s Pooja strikes gold, Mary Kom settles for silver||Defending champion Pooja Rani was the lone Indian woman boxer to strike gold at the Asian Championships, while three others, including six-time world champion MC Mary Kom, signed off with silver medals here today.The Olympics-bound Pooja (75kg), who was competing in her first bout of the tournament after getting a bye and a walkover earlier, dismantled Mavluda Movlonova of Uzbekistan with a clinical performance. She also earned $10,000 for her one-bout show, in which Movlonova was simply out of sorts, unable to keep pace with the Indian’s intensity.However, Mary Kom (51kg) and tournament debutants Lalbuatsaihi (64kg) and Anupama (+81kg) ended with second-place finishes.All three lost tightly-contested bouts and fetched themselves a prize money of $5,000 each.The Olympics-bound Mary Kom went down in a split 3-2 verdict to Nazym Kyzaibay of Kazakhstan.It was the Manipuri superstar’s seventh medal in the tournament, the first being a gold that came way back in the 2003 edition. Her tournament record now stands at five gold and two silver medals.Lalbuatsaihi lost 3-2 as well but after giving her Kazakh rival Milana Safronova a fight to remember. Lalbuatsaihi came into the Indian team as a late replacement for the seasoned Pwilao Basumatary, whose passport had expired. The Mizo boxer exhausted her rival with her counterattacks but lost momentum in the final round to end second best.Anupama was the last to take the ring against former world champion Lazzat Kungeibayeva of Kazakhstan. She managed to hold her own in a bout marred by excessive holding and clinching, but it was Kungeibayeva who connected better for a 3-2 win.Impressive startEarlier, up against an opponent 11 years younger to her, the 38-year-old Mary Kom made an impressive start and clinched the opening round comfortably by relying on her sharp counterattacks.The pace picked up in the second round and both the boxers showed aggressive intent. The Kazakh drew level at this point with her jabs landing perfectly. Mary Kom fought back in the final three minutes but that was not enough to get the judges’ nod. Kyzaibay is a two-time world champion.Amit vs Olympics champOn Monday, Amit Panghal (52kg), Shiva Thapa (64kg) and Sanjeet (91kg) will fight it out in the men’s finals. Panghal will square off against reigning Olympics and world champion Shakhobidin Zoirov of Uzbekistan. It will be a repeat of the 2019 World Championships final, which the Indian had lost. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryanas-pooja-strikes-gold-mary-kom-settles-for-silver-261155
31-05-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Boy killed for ‘honour’ in Palwal||Tribune News ServicePalwal, May 30In a suspected case of honour killing, a 16-year-old boy was allegedly pushed into a canal near Kithwari village in the district by kin of a girl with whom he had been in friendship for the past six months.The victim has been identified as Akash, a Class X student. The local police have registered a case in this regard. However, no arrest has been made so far. The incident took place on Friday.In the police complaint, Akash’s aunt Poonam claimed that both Akash and the girl, who studied in the same school, were rusticated from the school few months ago after someone complained about their relationship to the authorities.The boy, who originally hailed from Bulandshahar district in UP, had been residing with his aunt and uncle at Islamabad village here for studies. He had returned to his home district few months back after his expulsion from the school.Calling it a case of honour killing, Poonam said Akash, who had come here last week to meet her, left for his house on Friday morning. However, around noon a friend of Akash informed her that the girl’s kin were seen with him on the banks of the canal at Kithwari village.She alleged that when she reached the spot, Akash was allegedly pushed into the canal by the girl’s kin.“We have registered a case of murder and have launched a probe to identify the culprits,” said a police official, who added that the angle behind the murder was still under investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/boy-killed-for-honour-in-palwal-261128
31-05-2021||---||Haryana lockdown extended till June 7, malls to open||Chandigarh, May 30The Haryana Government has extended the lockdown for another week (till June 7), while allowing shopping malls to open with limited footfall.Addressing a press conference digitally, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the “Mahamari alert, Surakshit Haryana” had been extended with more relaxations though the Covid situation had improved.Cinemas, bars closedThe shops would now be allowed to open from 9 am to 3 pm on odd-even basis. The earlier timings were from 7 am to 12 noon.The shopping malls would now be allowed to open from 10 am to 6 pm with one customer per 25 sq feet area, he said. “In a 1,000 sq feet mall, 40 persons would be allowed at a time,” he added.“Customers would be allowed inside malls for only a limited duration. At no point in time, the total number of customers inside the mall should exceed the prescribed limit,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-lockdown-extended-till-june-7-malls-to-open-261127
31-05-2021||---||Black fungus toll 50, active cases 650: Manohar Lal Khattar, CM||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 30Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said 50 persons had died of mucormycosis (black fungus) in the state so far and there were 650 active cases.Will receive 2,000 more vialsWe have 6,000 vials to treat black fungus. In a couple of days, the government will get 2,000 more vials while we have placed an order for another 5,000. - Manohar Lal Khattar, Chief Minister“Haryana has witnessed over 750 cases of black fungus so far. As many as 58 persons have been cured, 50 have lost their lives and 650 patients are undergoing treatment in various hospitals,” Khattar said during a digital press conference here.“We have got 6,000 vials to treat black fungus. Over the next two days, we will get 2,000 vials more while we have placed an order for another 5,000,” he said answering a question on the shortage of the injections.Earlier, Health Minister Anil Vij had directed officials to increase the number of beds in all government medical colleges of the state from 20 to 75.Vij had said the state government had made a requisition of 12,000 injections of amphotericin-B, the drug used for treating black fungus, from the Centre.The Haryana Government had recently declared black fungus a notified disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/black-fungus-toll-50-active-cases-650-manohar-lal-khattar-cm-260840
31-05-2021||---||23 out of 74 patients cured in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, May 30As many as 23 patients of the total 74 suffering from black fungus in the district have already been cured, while the remaining 51 are under treatment at various private hospitals.Revealing this, a senior official of the Health Department said while 18 patients were under treatment at the government-owned ESIC Medical College and Hospital here, the rest (33) were admitted to other six leading private hospitals in the city.“Meanwhile, nine more cases are in the suspected category as the tests to detect the disease are under way,” says Dr Ram Bhagat, district nodal officer for Covid.Of the cured patients, 15 recovered at the local Asian Hospital, four at the SSB Hospital, two at the Metro Hospital and one each at Sarvodya hospital and the ESIC Hospital. The cases of black fungus, medically known as mucormycosis, have rapidly increased across the state, especially among patients who have been infected with Covid.According to sources, the severity of the situation can be understood from the fact that amphotericin B, the drug used to treat this infection, is in short supply and hardly 30 to 40 per cent of the medicine required had been made available.“We are awaiting ample stock of the drug from the department,” said an official on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/23-out-of-74-patients-cured-in-faridabad-260842
31-05-2021||---||1,452 cases, 89 deaths in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 30The state today reported 1,452 new Covid cases, taking the tally to 7.55 lakh. Besides, 89 more people succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 8,221.Ten deaths were reported from Hisar, eight each from Gurugram and Panipat, and seven each from Fatehabad and Bhiwani districts.Meanwhile, 22,274 persons were vaccinated today.In all, 7,26,081 patients have been discharged in the state. The recovery rate is pegged at 96.12 per cent, while the fatality rate is reported to be 1.09 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-452-cases-89-deaths-in-haryana-260861
31-05-2021||Karnal||Covid victim cremated sans norms in Kaithal; family booked||The Kaithal police have registered a case against family members of a Covid victim for having allegedly cremated his body without following the norms. They did not inform the Health Department about the death and cremated the body on their own.Karambir of Kaithal’s Pinjupura village was infected with Covid. He was admitted to a private hospital, from where he was referred to the PGIMS, Rohtak. On way to Rohtak to May 11, Karambir passed away.Instead of informing the department of the death, Karambir’s family cremated him. Members of the family told villagers that he died of diabetes.“A case has been registered against Karambir’s family under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC, and Sections 51 and 54 of the Disaster Management Act,” said the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-victim-cremated-sans-norms-in-kaithal-family-booked-260862
31-05-2021||---||1,157 get vaccinated in 3 hrs at Karnal drive-through centre||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, May 30The drive-through vaccination camp got a good response from residents on Sunday. In just three hours on the first day of the camp, 1,157 persons got themselves vaccinated. People in scores of vehicles lined up in queues to get their jabs.All slots got bookedI had tried a lot to get appointment for my jab, but could not get as all the slots were booked. Today, my wife and I got our jabs due to this drive-through camp. - Avinash Kumar, ResidentAim to vaccinate more people in less timeThe aim behind starting the drive-through vaccination camp is to vaccinate more and more people in less time. It reduces the chances of infection. I appeal people to come here after the registration, which will save their time.-  Nishant Kumar Yadav, DCAfter complains that people between 18 and 44 were not getting their slot booked for vaccination, the district administration started a weekend drive-through vaccination camp on a stretch between NDRI and Shrimad Bhagwat Gita Dwar. The registration was also done on the spot. As per information, 1,157 residents in 492 vehicles got their jabs. Among them, only 43 persons were of the age group of 45 and above, while the remaining 1,114 were of the age group between 18 and 44.Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, along with Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon, and other officials, inspected the camp and took feedback from the residents about the initiative.“The aim behind starting the drive-through vaccination camp is to vaccinate more and more people in less time. It reduces the chances of infection,” said the DC. “I appeal people to come here after the registration, which will save their time,” he said.“Every weekend – on Saturday and Sunday, the same camp will be organised. We will deploy more health workers for extra vaccination points, so that people do not have to wait. We will make separate locations for the registered people, so that they will get their jabs without any wait,” said the DC. He said from next week, refreshment will also be given to the residents waiting in queues.“We have received requests from various volunteers and social organisations to serve refreshment to the people in queues. The volunteers will serve the refreshment,” he added.On the other hand, the residents were also full of enthusiasm as they lined up in vehicles and waited patiently for their turn. The timing was between 9 am and 11am, but the health authorities had to extend the timing to cover all present there. “I had tried a lot to get appointment for my jab, but could not get as all the slots were booked. Today, my wife and I got our jabs due to this drive-through camp,” said Avinash Kumar, a resident of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-157-get-vaccinated-in-3-hrs-at-karnal-drive-through-centre-260873
31-05-2021||---||Storm wreaks havoc on farmers’ camp at Shahjahanpur border||Tribune News ServiceRewari, May 30Storm coupled with rain wreaked havoc on Kheri-Shahjahanpur border last evening by uprooting 90 per cent of huts and tents of farmers camping there for over five months in protest against the three farm laws.SKM appeals to public for helpSonepat: The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Sunday appealed to social welfare organisations and the public to provide all possible help to farmers at the Shahzahanpur border, where tents, stage, langar and other essential goods were damaged due to a severe storm on Saturday evening. TNSThe protesters spent a sleepless night in the open as the storm also damaged their power connections and caused injuries to three of them. The farmers protected themselves by taking shelter in nearby dhabas and other concrete structures. The bamboo used in tents/huts, cots (charpai), chairs, loudspeakers, fans, coolers, hookahs, utensils etc were later found scattered on the Delhi-Jaipur highway and in nearby fields.“We were sitting in our tent and planning for the next day when the storm started. We immediately came out and took shelter in a dhaba but one of our companions remained inside and suffered injuries as the tent fell on him. Later, he was taken to a hospital,” said Raghubir Singh, a leader of All-India Kisan Sabha.He said: “The food items were safe as these were kept in a concrete structure. Farmers spent the night taking stock of the situation and sitting on cots in the open.”Dharambir, another farmer, said five persons were inside the hut when the storm blew away the roof. “Thereafter, we saw cots and other things moving towards us with the force of the storm. It forced us to search for a safer place immediately,” he said, adding that everything had been demolished but luckily, no one suffered serious injuries.Meanwhile, BKU leader Ram Kisan Mehlawat said the farmers had started rebuilding their makeshift abode to continue the protest.“The storm caused extensive damage to our camps. No tent/hut was left with a roof. It has broken our structures, but not spirit. We have faced adversities from the first day and will overcome this one too. We appeal to all well-wishers of this movement to support us in springing back on our feet,” said Yogendra Yadav, a senior farm leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/storm-wreaks-havoc-on-farmers-camp-at-shahjahanpur-border-260881
31-05-2021||---||Boxer Sweety Boora dedicates medal to deceased farmers||Hisar, May 30Sweety Boora, the woman boxer from Hisar who won the bronze medal in the ongoing Asian Boxing Championship being held in Dubai, has dedicated her medal to the farmers who have died during the ongoing stir.In a tweet after bagging the medal, the boxer, who is an inspector in the Central Income Tax Department in Delhi, also tagged the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on and appealed to the PM to listen to the farmers and give a thought to them.“I appeal to the honourable Prime Minister to listen to the farmers and also think about them as they are sitting on a dharna even during the pandemic time,” she tweeted.मैंने अभी दुबई में 21मई से 1जून होरही एशियाईचैंपियनशिप में कांस्य पदक जीता है,मैं अपना मेडल हमारे शहीद हुए किसानोको समर्पित करतीहूँ ओर हमारे माननीयप्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi जी से अपीलकरती हूँकी वो किसानोकी अपील सुने ओर इस महामारी मेंभी इतने समयसे बैठे किसानोके बारेमें सोचे  Boora, hailing from Ghiray village of Hisar district, earned the support of many pro-farmer people on the Twitter.INLD leader Abhay Chautala commented on her tweet by saying that farmers were proud of her and added that she deserved an acknowledgement as she also belonged to a farmers’ family, her father, Mahender Singh, being an agriculturist.पूरे देश का किसान आप पर गर्व करेगा! आपने एक किसान की बेटी होने के नाते जो यह कदम उठाया है उसके लिए पूरी किसान कौम की तरफ से आपका आभार। आपके आगामी उज्ज्वल भविष्य के लिए शुभकामनाएं। https://t.co/wIOOSNNnP5  Sweety’s sister Siwi Boora said they belonged to a family of farmers and, thus, were concerned about the agitation which had been going on for the past six months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/boxer-sweety-boora-dedicates-medal-to-deceased-farmers-260883
31-05-2021||---||BJP leader Babita faces Charkhi Dadri villagers’ wrath, shown black flags||Tribune News ServiceHisar, May 30BJP leader and famed wrestler Babita Phogat faced the wrath of farmers during her visit to Birhi Kalan village of Charkhi Dadri district on Sunday.‘Trying to vitiate atmosphere’The SKM and khaps have decided to boycott the BJP-JJP leaders until the farmers’ demand are met. Leaders of the ruling coalition are trying to vitiate the atmosphere in rural areas. So, we won't let them enter villages. - Rajkaran Pandwan, Khap PradhanBabita, who was the BJP candidate from Charkhi Dadri segment in the last Assembly poll, has been vocal on the party line in her views regarding the farmers protest and other issues.Phogat, who is also the chairperson of the Haryana Women Development Corporation, was on a tour of a few villages, including Birhi Kalan, Tiwala and Barsana, in the region on Sunday. The protesting farmers at the Kitlana toll plaza, however, got the whiff of her visit and they gathered at the Birhi Kalan village bus stop. But Babita changed the route and reached Tiwala village instead, where she was followed by the protesters who forced her to reach Birhi Kalan village via Barsana village.Raju Maan, a farm leader, said a group of farmers traced Babita’s cavalcade in Birhi Kalan village, where protesters waylaid the police vehicle escorting Phogat. They showed her black flags and raised anti-government slogans.Finally, Babita returned to Charkhi Dadri, without holding any meetings.Meanwhile, Rajkaran Pandwan, a khap pradhan, said the Samyukt Kisan Morcha and the khap panchayat had announced to boycott the BJP and JJP leaders until the Centre accepts the demand of the agitated farmers to revoke the three agricultural laws. “The leaders of the ruling coalition are trying to vitiate the atmosphere in rural areas. But we will not let them enter the villages.”Notably, Babita has also faced criticism over her tweets regarding the farmers’ agitation. She also raked up the SYL issue asking Punjab to release the due share of water for Haryana when the state BJP leaders tried to raise the narrative, an attempt to counter the farmers stir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-leader-babita-faces-charkhi-dadri-villagers-wrath-shown-black-flags-260885
31-05-2021||Jhajjar||Kisan sabha activists protest Centre’s ‘stubborn’ attitude||Activists of the All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) on Sunday took out a march from the Rohad toll plaza on the Rohtak-Delhi highway to the Tikri border in protest against the alleged stubborn attitude of the Centre towards the farmers’ demands.Addressing the protesters, AIKS vice-president Inderjit Singh said the determination of farmers supported by all sections of the society had foiled the nefarious designs of the Centre and completed six months successfully making it a historic movement of the world. The farmers would defeat the Centre and Covid, he claimed.Sumit, acting secretary of the AIKS, called upon the gathering at Tikri to observe June 5 as “Kranti Diwas” by burning the copies of the three black laws. “The AIKS will take decision of further intensifying the farmers’ movement in the meeting of the state committee to be held in Hisar on 1 June,” he added.Earlier, the protesters assembled at the Rohad toll plaza before leaving in a convoy of vehicles and took out the march up to the main stage at Tikri. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kisan-sabha-activists-protest-centres-stubborn-attitude-260886
31-05-2021||---||Missing Yamunanagar boys’ bodies found from canal||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, May 30The bodies of two boys, who drowned in Western Jamuna Canal (WJC) on Friday, were found today.The deceased have been identified as Saurav (16) and Sumeet (15), both residents of Camp area of Yamunanagar.Saurav, Sumeet and Ankush alias Sonu, all friends and residents of Camp area, had left their homes on Friday afternoon telling their parents that they were going to play in the colony. However, they went to Hamida head, Yamunanagar, for a dip in WJC.According to information, Ankush stood on the bank of the canal, but Saurav and Sumeet went into the canal for a dip.Ankush shouted for help when he saw that Saurav and Sumeet had gone missing in the canal. But when no help came, he ran to their colony and informed their family members.After getting information of the incident, the local administration pressed a team of divers comprising Amar Singh, Surinder Singh and Ramkesh into service to undertake rescue operations.Diver Amar Singh said that the bodies were found from the WJC today and sent for post-mortem examination at Civil Hospital, Yamunanagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/missing-yamunanagar-boys-bodies-found-from-canal-260887
31-05-2021||Parveen Arora||In Karnal, unclaimed ashes await immersion||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, May 30The ashes of 12 Covid victims have been lying unclaimed in a room at the Baldi bypass crematorium, a Covid dedicated cremation ground, and waiting to be immersed in the Ganga or other holy rivers for the past fortnight.Fear of infectionSome families do not collect the ashes as they are afraid of getting infected, while relatives of a couple of victims took a small amount of the ashes as a token for immersion. Civic Body StaffThe ashes, tied in bags, and have been hung on a window of the room.The volunteers, who are assisting employees of the Karnal Municipal Corporation (MC) in collecting the ashes after cremation, say some families do not collect the ashes as they are afraid of getting infected with the virus, while family members of a couple of victims took a small quantity of the ashes as a token for immersion. These ashes are of victims from Delhi, UP, Bihar, and four to five districts of Haryana. Now, the volunteers will immerse the ashes in the Ganga next Sunday.In May, around 400 Covid victims had been cremated here at this cremation ground. Around 25-27 bodies had been cremated in a day when the second wave of Covid was at its peak.Volunteers say during cremation, relatives of several Covid victims had refused to even lit the pyre due to fear of being infected with the virus, but employees had cremated these with all Hindu rituals. “After the cremation, instead of taking the ashes with them to Delhi, UP and Bihar, the family members of the most of the victims had given consent to us for immersing the ashes into the Ganga,” said Brij Gupta, a social activist and husband of Karnal mayor Renu Bala Gupta.“We have decided to immerse the ashes in the Ganga on Sunday,” said Gupta.Ramesh Midha, another volunteer, said residents were helping in the cremation of the Covid victims by providing them firewood, ghee and other necessary requirements.Ish Gulati, councillor, said they had the record of all victims and their ashes would be immersed by following Hindu rituals.Vikram Singh, MC Commissioner , said the cremation of all victims was done by employees of the corporation. Most of the family members have taken the ashes of their relatives. Still, ashes of 12 victims had been kept in the room.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-karnal-unclaimed-ashes-await-immersion-260890
31-05-2021||Mukesh Tandon||No principal in 1,060 govt schools in Haryana||Tribune News ServicePanipat, May 30As many as 1,060 government schools in the state are without principal due to which the education management in these schools has been badly affected.According to the data available, there are 2,115 government senior secondary schools in the state, of which only 1,140 have a principal and 975 schools are running without any head.Besides, 85 posts of principal are vacant in BIET, DIET and Mewat cadre, which means 1,060 posts of principal (school cadre) are lying vacant against the 2,206 sanctioned in the state for the past many years.As much as 90 per cent schools in the Assandh block of Karnal district and 80 per cent of schools in the Samalkha block are without principal, while in six districts — Fatehabad, Jhajjar, Kaithal, Palwal, Panipat and Sirsa — 60 to 80 per cent of the posts are vacant.Satpal Singh Malik, patron-in-chief, Haryana School Lecturers’ Association (HSLA), said that promotion of lecturers has been pending for long and we have raised this issue before the Education Minister; Director, Haryana Education Department; MPs of Karnal and Kurukshetra many times under the banner of HSLA but to no avail.Satbir Singh Sindhu, state president, HSLA, said the management of education in schools, other official works like mid-day meal management, draw and dispensing works were affected in the absence of a regular principal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-principal-in-1-060-govt-schools-in-haryana-260909
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||76 arrested in Haryana for selling Covid drugs on black market||The Haryana Police have registered 38 cases of black marketing of medical-related facilities in which 76 persons have been arrested and sent behind bars during the ongoing Covid pandemic.Giving this information here today, a Haryana Police spokesman said amid the outbreak of the second wave of Covid, the demand for medical oxygen and life-saving drugs had gone up.Director General of Police (DGP) Manoj Yadava said the government’s collective efforts to break the infection chain and enforcement by the police had led to reduction in the black marketing of Covid drugs and oxygen cylinders.Police teams are continuously taking stern action to curb such illegal activities. A large number of injections and oxygen cylinders had also been recovered, the DGP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/76-arrested-in-haryana-for-selling-covid-drugs-on-black-market-260914
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||Manohar Lal Khattar, CM  grants ownership rights to MC leaseholders||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has decided to grant ownership rights to persons having houses and shops of municipalities on lease or on rent for the past 20 years at a price less than the collector rate.He announced this while addressing a digital press conference here on Sunday.“All those who have taken a shop or a house constructed on municipal land on rent or on lease by paying the licence fee for 20 years or more will be granted ownership rights. The policy in this regard says tenants or leaseholders should have completed 20 years as of December 31, 2020,” Khattar said.A rebate of 20 per cent on collector rate would be given to tenants and leaseholders who have an occupancy period of 20 years. Those with an occupancy period of 50 years will get a rebate of up to 50 per cent.If the occupancy period is more than 50 years, tenants or leaseholders will get a maximum relaxation of 50 per cent on the current collector rate. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/manohar-lal-khattar-cm-grants-ownership-rights-to-mc-leaseholders-260918
31-05-2021||Hisar||Hisar ASP alerts employees working from home against hackers||Hisar Assistant Superintendent of Police Upasana has alerted employees who are working from home during the lockdown.In a statement, the ASP who is the supervisor officer of the cyber police station, Hisar, said various IT companies were giving their employees the option to work from home. “Employees need to install applications like Team Viewer, AnyDesk etc in their laptop/computers. However, these tech apps can be misused by criminals”, she said.Revealing the modus operandi of the cyber criminals, Upasana said such elements collected information related to the company and employee using various social sites like Linkedln app, Facebook, etc., and then called the victim by becoming the technical support executive and the victim was prompt to install AnyDesk, Team Viewer. As soon as they get access to the victim’s device, malicious software is installed and the system is hacked by stealing sensitive information such as passwords, bank details, etc. from victim’s device, the ASP said. “In case of any type of cyber fraud, the person should immediately register a complaint on the Cyber police station Hisar or www.cybercrime.gov.in ”, she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-asp-alerts-employees-working-from-home-against-hackers-260922
31-05-2021||Nitish Sharma||Hit hard by Covid, railway porters seek help||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, May 30Wearing ‘red shirts’ and badges on arms, some young and middle-aged railway porters can be seen sitting in batches in wait to lift the luggage of railway passengers at the Ambala Cantonment railway station. Fewer trains, lesser footfall and Covid scare have left the porters struggling for livelihood.As per information, there are 170 licensed railway porters at the Cantonment railway station but hardly 80 turn up as there has been little work. The porters say that last year different organisations had come forward to provide ration but this year no one has extended a helping hand, so far.“I have been working as a railway porter for the past 11 years here. Earlier, we used to earn Rs 400-500 a day but now, we hardly earn Rs 100-200 a day. Since the number of trains and passengers have dropped drastically due to travel restrictions and the lockdown, sometimes we even return home empty handed. Several people have started selling vegetables and working as labourers. We are just hoping for the situation to improve, said Jai Prakash (40), a railway porter at the Ambala Cantonment railway station.Mahender Kumar, another porter, said “Porters were among those who lost their livelihood when the travel restrictions were imposed last year. The trains came to a halt and there were no passengers who needed us to carry their luggage. The Northern Railway Women Welfare Organisation had also helped us by providing ration kits. Things began to improve a few months back but now again with limited trains and fewer passengers, we are struggling. Most of us are without any work. Besides meeting daily needs, other expenses such as school fees of children and repayment of loans have been making things difficult.”Chetram, president of the Railway Coolie Union Ambala Cantonment, said, “There are 170 licensed porters but currently only 80 are working in two shifts. Last year, several organistions had extended a helping hand to us in the form of providing ration kits but this year no one has come forward. We can only request the railway authorities to come forward and help the porters as we are also part of The Railways. The authorities should announce some financial assistance for the porters.”Divisional Railway Manager Ambala Division GM Singh said he would request the Northern Railway Women Welfare Organisation (NRWWO) to help the families of porters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hit-hard-by-covid-railway-porters-seek-help-260932
31-05-2021||Kurukshetra/Karnal||5 held with 8.5-kg opium||The special task force (STF) has arrested five persons and seized 8.5 kg opium from them in separate cases.In the first case, the accused — Mohammad Irshad and Mohammad Ashfaq of Jharkhand — were arrested with 5 kg opium by the Ambala STF team. They were sent to 10-day police remand on Sunday.A case was registered under Section 18 of the NDPS Act at Shahabad police station.In the second case, the STF of the Haryana Police arrested three persons and seized 3.5 kg of opium from them near Cheeka in Kaithal district.The accused were identified as Ajay Ram of Jharkhand, and Harbans Singh and Ramjeet Singh of Punjab. The police also recovered a car. A case was registered against the trio under various Sections of the NDPS Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-held-with-8-5-kg-opium-260937
31-05-2021||Yamunanagar||Man injured in shooting at Yamunanagar village||A man was injured after a group of people opened fire in Sudhail village of Yamunanagar district this morning.The suspects fired several bullets. The police recovered 15 empty bullet shells from the spot. An old rivalry and conflict in business interests are said to be the reasons behind the incident.On the complaint of Rohit Lotan of Gundiana village, a case was registered against Vipin Mahant, Sonu of Mehra Bakali village of Kurukshetra district and several unidentified persons under Sections 148, 149, 323, 307, 506 and Arms Act at Farakpur police station on Sunday.The complainant said he, Shanti of Bhatia Nagar and 3-4 other persons went to the house of their friend Sachin Pandit in Sudhail village on Saturday evening. When they were about to go home at about 1 am, they saw several cars coming from Ratauli village. “Those 3-4 cars carrying 10-12 people stopped near the house of Sachin. Vipin shouted that they would today eliminate Sachin as he had become a hurdle in their business,” the complainant said.Rohit said Vipin fired at him, which crossed his chest and he fell down on the ground.As per the information, the suspects opened several rounds of fire but Sachin and his other friends had a narrow escape as they hid themselves at safer places in the vicinity.Injured Rohit was admitted to a private hospital where his condition is stated to be stable.The complainant further said he and Sachin had applied to get the licence of liquor vends in Saraswati Nagar circle of Yamunanagar.After getting information, SP Kamaldeep Goyal and DSP Pramod Kumar Sharma visited the spot. “We found 14-15 empty bullet shells from the spot. We have formed 5-6 teams to arrest the accused,” the DSP said. Both groups are facing criminal cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-injured-in-shooting-at-yamunanagar-village-260940
31-05-2021||Rohtak||Rohtak: US-based doc lends helping hand||P’kula resident honoured in OzChandigarh: Dr Vidhu Vadehra, an ayurveda doctor and an alumna of Panjab University, Chandigarh, has won the Community Services Excellence Award (Individual) at the India Australia Business and Community Awards (IABCA) for her contribution in the field of ayurveda, mental health and wellbeing, and social causes like tackling domestic violence. Former Australian cricket captain Steve Waugh presented Vadehra with the award at a ceremony in Sydney recently. Earlier, Vadehra was also honoured with the Community Citizen of the Year Award in 2020 for her work in community participation especially related to ayurveda.Bio-chemistry analyser donatedKarnal: To strengthen the health infrastructure of the city, members of JCI Elite extended support to Mahabir Dal Hospital in the city. They gave a semi-automated bio-chemistry analyser machine to the laboratory. Vikas Bansal, president of JCI Elite, said that at the time of crisis, social and religious organisations are extending support to the district administration. Kailash Chand Gupta, president, Mahabir Dal Hospital, said that it would help the hospital in ensuring speedy test reports.Officer starts gifting oxymetersGurugram: Out to spread the message of health being top priority, Manesar Municipal Commissioner IAS Munish Sharma has started a special campaign. Asking people to think beyond regular gifts on different occasions, he has started gifting oxymeters. “I was shocked when people, including some friends, would call for beds after testing positive but they did not have oxymeters at home. Similarly, in many households with 10-12 family members, only one device was there. Even after getting positive, not every member could check his saturation regularly. So I went ahead gifting my family and friends, oxymeters, sanitisers and similar stuff on birthdays etc,” said Sharma.Distributing tulsi plants to raise O2Faridabad: 52-year-old Ashok Malik, a resident of Sector 15-A here, is offering tulsi plant (holy basil) free of cost to anyone with the idea of generating or increasing the oxygen level inside houses in order to fight the Covid pandemic. “I have distributed over 150 plants that have been nurtured in a private nursery over the period of two months,” he said. Malik, who is an employee in the HSVP department here, claimed that tulsi produces more oxygen than any other plant or tree.Ration kits distributed to needyAmbala: Roti for Soul, a non-profit organisation, has extended a helping hand to needy families who have been struggling for food during the lockdown. Atul Mahajan, a member of the organisation, said we had prepared ration kits comprising 5 kg flour, 1 kg edible oil, 3 kg rice, sugar, and pulses for needy families. So far nearly 40 such kits have been distributed in Ambala Cantonment and more kits have been kept at a designated place from where needy people can collect those. Phone numbers have been shared on social media platforms and our members also deliver the kits if we get information about any needy family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-us-based-doc-lends-helping-hand-260945
31-05-2021||Kurukshetra||Webinar on dealing with pandemic||Online science quiz organisedYamunanagar:Mukand Lal Public School, Yamunanagar, conducted an online Inter-house science quiz for Classes IX and X. Judges of the day were Dr Bhupinder Kaur Reen and Rajni Pundir. Manju Arya was the scorer of the competition and anchors were Sakshi Sikka and Shivani. Shakti House (including Sanvi, Prananjay Tyagi, Riya Saluja, Abhinav Sharma) came first. Satya House (including Yaamini, Kanakpriya, Kushgra, Pooja) stood 2nd and Shradha House (including Saksham, Riman, Ishan Sharma, Parthavi Sharma) came third. Director Shashi Bathla and Principal Dr Mamta Verma congratulated the winners.Aazadi Amrit Mahotsav seriesHisar: The Speakathon Club under the mentorship of the training and placement cell of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, organised the third edition of its 'Aazadi Amrit Mahotsav' series dedicated to 75 years of Independence. The freedom fighter of the week was founder of INA "Rash Behari Bosh" whose birth anniversary falls on May 25. The students from various departments and affiliated colleges participated and paid their tribute.Webinar on fear factor of CovidHisar: The Department of alumni relations of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, organised a webinar on "Fear factor of Covid-19". Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, spoke on whether the fear factor was good or bad. He said a little fear was good for all so that people would take precautions and stay healthy. He said no infrastructure in the world was enough to deal with Covid-19. He suggested that all should take precautions and get vaccinated to keep one-self safe from the disease.e-campus placement driveYamunanagar: Seven students of Seth Jai Parkash Polytechnic, Damla, have been selected by Infosys through an e-campus placement drive recently. Among them five students are of computer engineering, one each of electrical engineering and electronics and communication engineering. Anil Budhiraja, principal of the institute, said 20 students had been selected in Hero Motor Corps, Maruti Suzuki, ISGEC and other companies. "About 100 students have been placed in the companies of repute in the past two months. In addition, the institute is also taking initiative for conducting life skills, communication skills, aptitude and soft skill classes of the students," said Budhiraja.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/webinar-on-dealing-with-pandemic-260957
31-05-2021||Amid the outbreak of Covid-19||Vector-borne diseases may spread in Faridabad||Devinder Singh Surjewala, FaridabadTricolour in shabby state in YamunanagarThe national flag of our country -Tricolour is our pride and honour. The flag, which stands near the Barwala (Panchkula) bus station, is in a shabby state. The administration should take note of it and act as early as possible. Moreover, the administration should frame SOPs (standard operating procedures) for the change of flag at regular intervals so that our Tricolour flies with dignity.Kapil Bakshi, YamunanagarStreetlights not installed even after surveyDue to the lack of streetlights on the main road of Kanhaiya City, Sector 2, Karnal, people are facing a lot of problems. Any untoward incident can happen in the darkness. The Municipal Corporation has not installed streetlights for the past four years despite repeated requests from its residents. When the matter was brought to the notice of the Deputy Commissioner last year, he assured that immediate action would be taken and after that a survey was conducted, but the streetlights have not yet been installed.Shakti Singh, KarnalKarna Lake in a shamblesKarna Lake, once the pride of Karnal, is in a shambles. The lake itself looks like a neglected village pond. It has not only dried but there is zero maintenance of the area which houses a bar, a restaurant and a motel. This could be due to the effect of the lockdown, but the lockdown appears to be an excuse for the government employees to remain idle and neglect their duty. There should be regular cleanup and timely maintenance by the authorities.Sandeep Chaudhri, KarnalWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vector-borne-diseases-may-spread-in-faridabad-260979
31-05-2021||Chandigarh||People with houses on lease, rent from municipalities can become owners in Haryana||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday announced that people who have shops or houses on lease or rent from the municipalities for over 20 years can become owners of the property by paying a price below the collector rate.He also said that for this, a scheme, which will be applicable for urban areas, will be notified on Monday.Collector or circle rate is the minimum designated price for land or property fixed for a locality, at which transactions have to be registered."We have formulated a scheme under which those who are in possession of such properties, be it houses or shops, for more than 20 years, all such will be given ownership rights," Khattar said while addressing a virtual news conference."Once the eligible people apply, they will be given relaxation in collector rate—if they are in possession of the property for more than 50 years, they will get a rebate of 50 per cent on collector rate," he said.Likewise, if it is under possession for 40 years, the rebate will be 40 per cent, 30 per cent in case of 30 years, and 20 per cent for 20 years, which is the minimum period required to avail the scheme, Khattar said.However, the upper ceiling for rebate on collector rate is 50 per cent, he said.The person should have completed 20 years of being in possession of the property as of December 31, 2020 to avail the scheme, according to a policy.The chief minister said after applying under the scheme, the applicant will have to deposit 25 per cent of the collector rate charge within 15 days and the remaining 75 per cent in the next 45 days."Once full payment is made and subject to fulfilment of all laid down conditions, the ownership of the property, which is the house/shop, will be transferred in their name," Khattar said.He said if a municipality has leased or rented any house or shop to one or more persons, then the amount will have to be paid as per the fixed floor-wise formula under the scheme.While announcing another scheme, he said in cities, there are small chunks of land belonging to civic bodies, which have been unused or their way has been blocked by an adjacent piece of plot belonging to a private person.The chief minister said that "a provision has been made where municipalities can now sell such unused land to either the adjoining plot holders or to anyone else who is willing to buy such land".This will also reduce the possibility of illegal encroachment of such property, Khattar said.The money earned by the municipalities against the sale of such land will kept in a separate account for the purpose of asset creation, he said.The chief minister said that the state government has restructured and redesignated the Command Area Development Authority (CADA) as Micro Irrigation and Command Area Development Authority (MICADA).This has been done to promote micro-irrigation and for effective implementation of the works pertaining to canals, he said.The main objective of MICADA is to ensure maximum use of available water in irrigation and an amount of Rs 3,700 crore will be spent on pavement of canals, Khattar said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/people-with-houses-on-lease-rent-from-municipalities-can-become-owners-in-haryana-260749
31-05-2021||---||Haryana extends Covid lockdown by a week till June 7, eases restrictions||Chandigarh, May 30The Haryana government on Sunday extended Covid lockdown in the state by another week till June 7, easing restrictions on shop timings which will now be allowed to stay open from 9 am to 3 pm on odd-even days.The state government termed the lockdown “Mahamari Alert/Surkshit Haryana (Epidemic Alert/Safe Haryana)”.Addressing a digital press conference, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said even though the Covid-19 situation has improved in the state, it has been decided to extend the lockdown till 5 am on June 7 with some more relaxations.He said shops, which were earlier allowed to open as per odd-even basis from 7 am to 12 pm, will now be open from 9 am to 3 pm.“We had received representations from market associations, after which we decided to change the timings. However, the shops will continue to open as per the odd-even system,” Khattar said.Malls will now be allowed to open from 10 am to 6 pm, subject to certain conditions, he said.Number of visitors allowed inside a mall will depend on the size of the structure, the chief minister added.“For example, in a 1,000 square feet mall, 40 people will be allowed at a time, and if it has an area of 2,000 square feet, the number of people allowed at a given time will be 80,” he said.Those allowed entry can stay inside for a limited duration, and entry of others will be permitted based on how many are inside the mall at a particular time, Khattar added.“Mall operators will have to come out with a mechanism for this, and they will have to take necessary permission from deputy commissioners concerned,” he said.Under the lockdown orders, a cap of 11 persons had been enforced for marriage functions and funerals.The marriages would be allowed to be conducted in either homes or courts with strictly no movement of baraat procession allowed in the state.Colleges, industrial training institutes and schools will remain closed till June 15 as already announced, the Chief Minister said.The daily “corona curfew” timing in the state will continue to be from 10 pm to 5 am, he added.To contain the second wave of the pandemic, the state government had first imposed the lockdown on May 3 for a week till May 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-extends-covid-lockdown-by-a-week-till-june-7-eases-restrictions-260697
