02-07-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Farmers in panic as locust spotted in Bathinda||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, July 2A swarm of locusts has been spotted on four different occasions in the district sending the state Agriculture Department officials into a tizzy even as they claimed the number of pests was too less to harm the crops.This has led the alarm bells ringing amongst farmers in the district adjoining bordering Haryana, who have come out in fields to safeguard their crop from the attack of the locusts.As per agriculture officials, 80 to 90 locusts have been spotted at Leleana village in Talwandi Sabo block, 30 to 40 locusts in Kuttiwal Khurd in Maur block and 35 to 40 locusts in Ramniwas village in Rampura block in the district. However, even few locusts were also spotted in cotton field on ring road near Lal Singh Basti on the outskirts of Bathinda city.The officials also claimed that there was no need to panic as the department was fully ready to tackle the locusts if the situation arose.After receiving the news of the locusts spotting, an Agricultural Department field team, along with Chief Agricultural Officer Dr Bahadur Singh, reached the affected fields and took stock of the situation. He said 40 to 50 locusts could not do any damage to the crop.The Chief Agriculture Officer said a few locusts had been found in a few villages in the district but they were all inactive and since there was no mass attack or arrival of locusts in the district, they won’t harm the crops.He said special arrangements had been made by the department to ensure that swarming locusts did not attack the crop. He added that farmers had been provided 1,442 gun spray pumps while 32 spray machines were available with the Horticulture Department and 50 boom sprays with the UPL Limited.The local government department had nine fire brigade vehicles and four aeroblasts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/farmers-in-panic-as-locust-spotted-in-bathinda-107621
02-07-2020||---||Agitating farmer leader dies, union blames Punjab government||Bathinda, July 1Reason behind death unclearSSP says the reason behind the death would be ascertained after postmortem.SAD, AAP blame Congress, say instead of restarting the plant as per its promise, state government approved auction of its landA farmer leader, who was staging a protest outside Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant (GNDTP) in Bathinda, was found dead under mysterious circumstances on Wednesday morning. He was “distressed” over the proposed auctioning of the GNDTP land.The deceased has been identified as Joginder Singh Bhola (55), a resident of Cheema in Sangrur district. He had been associated with the BKU Ekta Ugrahan for long. Joginder was carrying a placard bearing a photo of Guru Nanak Dev. The placard read, “Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant is a historic place and I am sacrificing my life to stop it from being sold.”BKU Ekta Ugrahan state secretary Shingara Singh Mann said Joginder had sacrificed his life outside the thermal plant. “It seems that he had come prepared for this...,” he said.The Punjab Government should restart the GNDTP by stopping its privatisation, he said while demanding Rs 10 lakh as compensation and a job for Joginder’s family. The deceased’s kin and BKU Ekta Ugrahan workers said they wouldn’t allow postmortem until the district administration fulfilled their demands.Later, SAD’s kisan wing president Sikander Singh Maluka and former MLA Sarup Chand Singla visited the Civil Hospital and blamed the state government for Joginder’s death. They claimed that the Congress had promised during the 2017 poll to restart the thermal plant, but rather proposed to auction its land.AAP district president Navdeep Singh Jeeda also reached the hospital and blamed the state government. SSP Nanak Singh said the reason behind the death would be ascertained after the postmortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/agitating-farmer-leader-dies-union-blames-punjab-government-107421
02-07-2020||---||Health workers protest in Bathinda, demand regular jobs||Bathinda, July 1The Contractual Multipurpose Health Workers’ Union today protested at the Bathinda Civil Hospital, against the state government’s decision to directly recruit health workers on a regular basis.The agitators alleged that instead of regularising contractual workers who have been in the service for the past decade, the government has decided for fresh appointments. The protesters submitted a memorandum to the Civil Surgeon.Ranjit Kaur, president of the union, said, “The state government has decided to go ahead with fresh appointments instead of regularising services of around 2,250 multipurpose health workers who have been rendering their services for the past decade or so. The government should first regularise contractual workers before making new appointments.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/health-workers-protest-in-bathinda-demand-regular-jobs-107425
02-07-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Shortage of staff, infra ails Bathinda urban healthcare centres||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, July 1At a time when hospitals are battling infrastructural issues, all four urban healthcare centres in the city are lying in a state of neglect.These centres are reeling under staff shortage and inadequate infrastructure since their inception in September 2012. These centres were opened at Lal Singh Basti, Dhobiana Basti, Janta Nagar and Jogi Nagar under the National Urban Health Mission to provide basic and primary healthcare facilities to those who are financially weak.The foundation stone of the centres was laid by the then Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal along with the then Health Minister Laxmi Kanta Chawla on February 22, 2009.Despite the availability of buildings, the Health Department has failed to run these centres. The situation is such that despite huge buildings, the centres are operating as dispensaries.Adoctor posted at the health centre said: “It is for the Health Department to decide. If they have invested crores of rupees to construct the spacious building of the health centre, they must ensure that adequate staff and medical equipment is provided here. The health centre caters to a population of over 40,000. These buildings can be utilised only if officials hire more staff and provide proper medical services at the centre.”Bathinda Civil Surgeon Dr Amrik Singh Sandhu said there was a shortage of staff due to which these centres were not working to their capacity. “We send our requirements to the Health Department regularly to make sure we provide the best medical facilities to the people. The rest is up to the government,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/shortage-of-staff-infra-ails-bathinda-urban-healthcare-centres-107430
02-07-2020||Bathinda||NFL launches 5 mobile soil testing labs||In order to ensure appropriate use of fertilisers, National Fertiliser Limited (NFL) today launched five mobile soil testing labs. Now, farmers can get samples tested at their doorstep free of cost.VN Datt, chairman and managing director, NFL, flagged off a mobile lab from the premises of NFL corporate office in Noida. These mobile labs are equipped with latest soil testing gear and will be used for macro and micro nutrient analysis of soil. These labs house audio-video system to educate farmers on various agricultural topics.The NFL has been serving farming community through six static soil testing labs located in different parts of country. These labs tested around 25,000 soil samples for free in 2019-20. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/nfl-launches-5-mobile-soil-testing-labs-107431
