10-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Declare results, HC tells Bathinda varsity||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 9The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University, Bathinda, to declare the results of all students. For the purpose, Justice Amol Rattan Singh has set a seven-day deadline.The direction came in a case where the Bench was told that the result was not declared as dues were not paid to the university. The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice by Mahwish Rashid and other students.Appearing before the Bench, the petitioners’ counsel cited the HC direction that recovery of money not paid by the college to the university could not be a ground for delaying the results of students. He submitted that general category students, in any case, had made all their payments. As such, there was no excuse with the college and the university to withhold their result. Referring to the case of Scheduled Caste category students, he submitted that the Punjab Government was to pay the fee for them, or at least a major part of it. “Just because the state government has not paid the fee, students should not be made to suffer,” he added.The university’s counsel, on the other hand, submitted that the students themselves had not paid money to the college. Taking a note of the statements, Justice Amol Rattan Singh directed the petitioners to file an affidavit showing fee payments by them during the previous academic year. They were also asked to specify whether they were Scheduled Caste or general category students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/declare-results-hc-tells-bathinda-varsity-110799
10-07-2020||---||Five killed as car collides with tanker in Bathinda||Bathinda, July 9Five persons were killed and another sustained serious injuries after the car they were travelling in collided with an oil tanker on the Maur-Rampura road in the district on Thursday.As per the information, the overspeeding Maruti Swift car, bearing registration number PB3N 4414, collided with the tanker near Ram Nagar village area on the National Highway-254, nearly 5 km from Maur Mandi.One in critical condition.At least six youths were travelling in the car. According to passersby, the collision was so impactful that five of the car occupants died on the spot and one sustained critical injuries. The injured was rushed to the Civil Hospital in Bathinda.The deceased have been identified as Harmandeep Singh, Harpreet Singh and Armaan Singh, all residents of Jajjal village in Talwandi Sabo, Manpreet Singh from Malkana and Dileshwar from Jogewala village. All victims were in their twenties. They were returning to their native places after shopping in Bathinda city. The police are investigating the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/five-killed-as-car-collides-with-tanker-in-bathinda-110806
