02-12-2020||North East||Mizoram Love Brigade to fight AIDS||Mizoram has taken its fight against HIV/AIDS to the next level by launching the Love Brigade, a first-of-its-kind campaign which will see taxi drivers and bikers not only to spread awareness about the so-far incurable disease but also easily make available condoms free of cost to passengers and public to help check its spread. The innovative campaign has a lot to do with the high prevalence of HIV in Mizoram despite it being a small and thinly populated (1.1 mn) state in the country. Mizoram health and family welfare minister Dr R. Lalthangliana launched the Love Brigade campaign in collaboration with the bike/taxis association and Mizoram State AIDS Control Society (MSACS) to promote “free love condoms” by distributing them free of cost to their clients in a non-stigma approach while riding with them. The brigade will also be trained in HIV/AIDS counselling and would give out the details of the free HIV test initiatives of the MSACS and share pamphlets with prevention messages to create awareness among the masses. To begin with, 500 bike taxi riders and car taxi drivers will be shortlisted and branded as the Love Brigade. The campaign has been actively supported by the AIDS Healthcare Foundation India Cares (AHF). An official statement said HIV prevalence among adult population between 15-49 years in the state was 2.04 per cent, almost 10 times higher than the national HIV prevalence at 0.22 per cent. With an Annual New HIV infection rate of 1.32 per cent, 20 times higher than the national average of 0.07 per cent — makes it imperative to find a renewed spirit in designing innovative steps to check the disease. An MSACS official told The Telegraph that the Love Brigade campaign is a continuation of its condom promotion campaign launched in 2017 but with innovative features by involving taxi bikers and drivers to reach out to those who are hesitant to buy condoms from pharmacies. Another reason to launch brigade is the difference that the condom promotion campaign was making on the ground. “Though we remain a state with high prevalence, a small dip has been noticed because of condom promotion campaign. According to the HIV estimation by National AIDS Control Organization (NACO) in 2019, the HIV new infection per 1,000 uninfected population is 1.18 per cent whereas in 2017, the estimation was 1. 32 per cent, which is around 10 per cent declining trend. It is also projected that the new HIV infection will show a declining trend as per available data,” the MSACS official said. Lalthlengliani, project director, Mizoram State AIDS Control Society MSACS, while highlighting the importance of the Worlds AIDS Day, said the Love Brigade is a unique HIV prevention approach, a first-of-its-kind in the country, which will help “find lasting solutions for stigma reduction especially for free condom protection in our society”. “Furthermore, the collaboration with Church Youth Leadership will also see a lot of innovations in improving the services for the people infected and affected with HIV in the state in the coming days. Once again it is our duty to remind ourselves that the fight against HIV is not yet won!” said Dr Lalthlengliani. The campaign was launched at a meeting organised by the MSACS in collaboration with AHF to observe the World AIDS Day 2020 at Dawrpui Multipurpose Hall Aizawl, the theme of which was AIDS: The Other Pandemic. The organisers said the theme was a reminder to the world that even in times of Covid-19, HIV/AIDS must be kept high on the global public health agenda because it still claims hundreds of thousands of lives every year. With over 8.5 million cases of Covid-19, India has the second highest number of infections in the world. “With over 8.5 million cases of Covid-19, India has the second highest number of infections in the world.... The impact of the pandemic will be felt across India for generations. This year AHF unveiled a new World AIDS Day theme, ‘AIDS: The Other Pandemic’ as a reminder that each year 690,000 people die of AIDS-related illnesses, including 69,000 in India, therefore we have an obligation to fight both pandemics — it may seem daunting, but so did the early days of AIDS. We have come a long way and be cannot afford to go backwards,” said Dr V. Sam Prasad, country program director, AHF India Cares. A series of events to check HIV/AIDS will take place between December 1 and 13 to boost the free condom promotion in Mizoram, including online competitions for the youth to develop prevention messages on HIV/AIDS and get maximum shares and likes on social media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-33
02-12-2020||North East||RN Ravi: Only one national flag, one statute||Nagaland governor R.N. Ravi in his message to the people on Monday on the eve of the 58th Statehood Day said the Centre is “absolutely clear” that there is and there shall be “only one” national flag and Constitution in India. Ravi’s unambiguous message came amid the NSCN (Isak-Muivah) repeatedly stressing that a “serious deadlock” has emerged over its demand for a separate Naga national flag and constitution. The outfit has also stated “very loud and clear” during the ongoing talks that there was “no way forward” without finalising the two issues. Ravi said, “The Indian national flag and Constitution are the pride of the people of India. The Government of India is absolutely clear that there is and there shall be only one national flag and Constitution in India. Anyone talking anything contrary is peddling preposterous lies. They are trying to confuse and mislead the people.” Ravi’s message assumes significance because he is also the Centre’s interlocutor for talks with NSCN (I-M) and a signatory to the 2015 Framework Agreement with the outfit. The outfit has been ceasefire since 1997 to find an amicable and lasting solution to the decades-old Naga political problem. The NSCN (I-M) reiterated its stand on Tuesday in its news bulletin Nagalim Voice, asserting the demand is non-negotiable. The governor’s five-page message, among others, paid tributes to the founding fathers of Nagaland, which was formed in 1963, a move which is an “abiding testimony” to the triumph of the politics of peace over the politics of bloodshed. “Friends, the essence of India is its unity in diversity. Multitudes of ethnicities, languages, cultures and cuisine enrich this beautiful country from Kerala to Kashmir and Kohima to Kutch. The territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Union of India is supreme. The Government of India has never ever talked, much less negotiated with anyone on the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country. Any misadventure to disintegrate this great nation shall not be tolerated,” Ravi said. Without naming any group, he asserted that a common understanding was reached “on all issues on the table” and with the conclusion of talks on October 31, 2019, the people of Nagaland are anxiously waiting for a new dawn. “However, there are some people who are standing as a roadblock to the aspirations of the people of Nagaland. I urge these people to see the writings on the wall, to come out of their make-believe echo-chamber and listen to the voice of the people and in a true democratic spirit respect their wishes,” Ravi said in oblique reference to NSCN (I-M). Ties between Ravi and the outfit are strained, so much so that it wanted his replacement. Ravi’s message will only aggravate the strained ties. The Centre had to rope in senior Intelligence Bureau officials to continue talks with NSCN (I-M). At a function to celebrate statehood day at the Raj Bhavan in Kohima on Tuesday, Ravi and other participants paid glowing tributes to the founding fathers of Nagaland — leaders of the Naga Peoples’ Convention (NPC) and to the martyrs who sacrificed their life for securing the honourable future for the Naga people and created Nagaland as the 16th state of the Union of India, an official statement said. While unveiling a bust of Imkongliba Ao, the then president of NPC and who was martyred soon after, at the Raj Bhavan, Ravi urged the people to renew their sense of gratitude to the founding fathers and commit themselves to build a Nagaland of their dreams where genius of the Naga people will blossom to the fullest. Ravi also praised former chief minister and Padma Bhushan awardee S.C. Jamir, the sole living NPC signatory to the 16-point agreement. The NPC members included village heads, tribal leaders and intellectuals of Nagaland. Also known as the statehood agreement, the 16-point agreement was signed in Delhi between the NPC and the Government of India on July 26, 1960, leading to the creation of a full-fledged state on December 1, 1963. However, the protagonist of the Naga insurgency movement A.Z. Phizo and his Naga National Council opposed the pact. The NSCN (I-M) too is opposed to the 16-point agreement. “The NPC came out of nowhere and signed the 16-Point Agreement where the Naga solution was hijacked and a state under the Indian Constitution was accepted giving a foothold to the Indian government to claim that from thence Nagas were a part of India,” the NSCN (I-M) said on Tuesday, flaying Ravi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-33
