04-12-2020||North East||Gadkari unveils highway projects worth Rs 4,127 cr in Nagaland||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday inaugurated a major national highway project in Nagaland and laid the foundation stone for 14 others entailing a total cost of about Rs 4,127 crore, the government said. The Road, Transport, Highways and MSMEs Minister said 55 highway projects worth Rs 11,711 crore were approved for the state in the last six years. "Union Minister for Road Transport, Highways and MSMEs Nitin Gadkari virtually inaugurated and laid foundation stones for 15 National Highways projects in Nagaland on Friday...These NH Projects has (have) a length of about 266 km involving the cost of about Rs 4,127 crore," Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said in a statement. Chief Minister of Nagaland Neiphiu Rio and Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways VK Singh were present on the occasion besides MPs, MLAs and senior officers. Gadkari said the Centre is committed to the development of the North East and Nagaland and informed that 667 km were added to the NH network in Nagaland during the last six years, which depicts the growth of nearly 76 per cent. The NH network in the state today has been extended to 1,547 km up from 880.68 km till 2014. The minister said almost all districts in Nagaland now have been connected except a few, to a robust network of National Highways. He said, “The NH network density now is 93.30 km/1,000 sq km against national average of 39.90 km/1,000 sq km. The population-wise density of NH network in the state is 77.73km/lakh population against the national average of 10.80 km /lakh population," as per the statement. Gadkari further informed that for development and improvement of National Highways, 55 projects of a total length of 1,063.41 km and total cost of Rs 11,711 crore have been approved in the last six years. These include improvement of Dimapur City, largest city of Nagaland, project at a total cost of about Rs 1,598 crore. Sixteen projects of length 690 km amounting to Rs 7,955 crore are in progress, he added. Another seven works of 105 km amounting to Rs 966.75 crore are in tendering stage, the minister said adding that 11 works of 178 km length costing Rs 2,127 crore are to be approved during 2020-21 with enhanced sanction ceiling. Five works of 524 km costing over Rs 6,000 crore are in the DPR (detailed project report) stage. The Union Minister added that under CRF (central road fund), total sanction till now from 2002 is Rs 1,334.3 crore, of which Rs 487.14 crore has been released. He announced that a sum of Rs 45 crore is being released for Nagaland soon. Gadkari requested the chief minister to urgently send the estimates for Land and Damage Compensation in respect of Kohima Bypass, the statement said. He also informed that NHIDCL (National Highways & Infrastructure Development Corp Ltd) has taken up two-laning of Kohima-Mao road in Nagaland and the civil work has already been awarded on September 30, 2020. Chief Minister Nephiu Rio requested the Union Minister to consider the development of foothill roads in the State. Gadkari informed that the same is under consideration. The CM also raised the issue of Dimapur-Kohima Road, called the lifeline of Nagaland. "Gadkari responded that work is in progress, and 70-80 per cent work on this road has been completed. NHIDCL has undertaken rigorous efforts to bring the projects on track and expedite the progress of work. Regular meetings at the highest level have been taken to expedite the progress of work on ground," the statement said. Gadkari also urged the CM to further review the NH works to resolve the issue. Speaking about 26.25 km Kohima-Mao road for which the foundation stone was laid on Friday, Gadkari informed that this stretch is also an important part of Asian Highway (AH-1) connecting to Myanmar as it will greatly improve the connectivity of Kohima city to Manipur border. It is also important for socio-economic progress of Nagaland, he said, and added that better roads will help improve the growth of industry and trade and marketing of local products from various resources like bamboo, etc. VK Singh hoped that the new NH projects will attract improved tourist traffic to the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-32
04-12-2020||North East||Jahnu Barua to make film on Ahom general Lachit Borphukan||Eminent filmmaker Jahnu Barua will direct a Hindi film on legendary Ahom general Lachit Borphukan so that the war hero gets his “overdue share of limelight on the national and the international stage”. “For well over 20 years, I have been living with this dream of doing a film on my favourite war hero Lachit. There were a number of government initiatives to this 
effect, including proposal from two former governors, but because of budgetary constraint the production of such a mega project could not be taken up,” Barua, a multiple National Award-winning filmmaker, said. “ ...after more than seven decades of Independence Assam’s war hero and the pride of India will get his overdue limelight on the national and international stage,” Barua said. The announcement comes at a time when Lachit and his exploits in the 1671 Battle of Saraighat to check the advancing Mughal army are invoked only to sway voters before every state and general elections. It is no different in the run-up to the 2021 Assembly polls in Assam. The ruling BJP and its allies use the Saraighat metaphor against illegal Bangladeshi Muslims — and by default against the AIUDF which is seen by the ruling party as backing a community which poses a serious threat to Assamese identity. The Congress and the newly floated Assam Jatiya Parishad counter by pointing out that Muslims, who constitute over 34 per cent of the state’s population, have coexisted for generations by referring to Bagh Hazarika, one of the main Ahom commanders in the Battle of Saraighat, was an Assamese Muslim fighting against the formidable Mughal army led by Raja Ram Singh, a Hindu. The 1952-born Barua is known for films such as Maine Gandhi Ko Nahin Mara, Halodhia Choraye Baodhan Khai, Firingoti and Xagoroloi Bohu Door, among others.. Barua now wants to depict the story of Lachit’s life and times across India through the film because he was a national hero, not only of Assam where the warrior is eulogised and revered for his leadership and heroism. Every year on November 24 the Assam government celebrates Lachit Diwas in remembrance of the general’s heroism. Since 1999, the National Defence Academy (NDA) confers the Lachit Borphukan gold medal to its best cadet but still most in Assam feel not many know about the Ahom general outside the state. On Wednesday, Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal unveiled a 33-feet life-size statue of Lachit at Sepon in Charaideo district and said the general’s courage and valour gave distinct identity to the Assamese people worldwide inspiring generations after generations to dedicate themselves selflessly in the service of the nation. Thanking industrialist and producer Suresh Sharma for his willingness to produce the multi-crore mega film, Barua said research on the project has already begun under the guidance of Prof. J.N. Phukan, a scholar and former head of the department of history, Gauhati University, to depict with accuracy the events leading to the Battle of Saraighat, which catapulted the Ahom general to the status of a legend. To be produced by Guwahati-based Dream House Productionz, besides top production houses of the country, the film is expected to be released by late 2022. The film will have a leading actor of the country playing the role of the Ahom general, a statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-32
