06-12-2020||North East||Power team in Northeast to review hydel plans  ||A Union power ministry delegation has taken stock of  hydel projects being implemented in Assam and Arunachal Pradesh, the three-day visit raising eyebrows as it came in wake of  last Sunday’s report in a Chinese media about a “large” hydropower project coming up on the Yarlung Zangbo (which is known as the Brahmaputra in India). There was widespread concern in both the downstream states over the reported development in China. Multiple sources associated with the power sector in the two states told The Telegraph that the visit was long overdue and they came to know about it a week ago. Led by power ministry secretary Sanjeev Nandan Sahai, the team reached Dibrugarh on Thursday from where it visited Changlang in Arunachal Pradesh to  take stock of micro and mini hydel projects. On Friday,  the delegation went to check the progress of the NHPC Limited-executed 2000MW Lower Subansiri hydro power project on the Assam-Arunachal border on Friday. After a review of the ongoing construction activities at the Subansiri project, NHPC assured to commission the project by 2022, an official statement said on Saturday. The statement is significant because work on the much delayed Subansiri project resumed in 2019 after being stalled since 2011 December over safety concerns. “Work started after National Green Tribunal gave its nod last year after we addressed all safety measures,” one of them said. Friday evening saw Sahai and his team participate in a  high-level meeting  in Itanagar with the Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu. Besides Sahai, joint secretary (hydropower) Tanmay Kumar were present in the meeting with Khandu along with CMD NHPC AK Singh, CMD PowerGrid K Sreekant and CMD NEEPCO VK Singh. On Saturday, Sahai  flew to West Kameng district to see the progress of the 600MW Kameng hydroelectric project executed by the North Eastern Eletric Power Corporaton Limited (NEEPCO) and is likely to be commissioned by January. The timing of the visit has, however, raised eyebrows. One of the sources from Arunachal Pradesh said the visit should not be linked to the Sunday’s report in the Chinese Communist Party-owned Global Times about the neighbouring country building a hydropower project on the Yarlung Zangbo. “The power secretary had been planning to undertake a visit for some time now but could not because of last-minute hitches. We are sure it is going to be a very useful visit because he has got to know the ground situation which helps in taking sound and timely decisions. We are sure it will help expedite the power development projects,” the source said. They said India has already conveyed its concerns to China and to ensure the interests of downstream states were not affected by upstream development activities. A Chinese official has also said they were undertaking only run-of-the-river projects which do not need diversion and that development of downstream projects on the  Yarlung Zangbo  “is still in the stage of preliminary planning and demonstration”. The meeting in Itanagar between Sahai and Khandu discussed about the 2000MW Lower Siang HEP, 600MW Kameng HEP and proposed dams in Siang and Dibang rivers, winning the confidence of the affected people, awarding  good rehabilitation packages, developing small hydropower projects in the state for it would have minimal environmental impact, could be completed in lesser time and involve lesser cost. To harness the potential of small dams, the meeting felt that it must be supported by robust infrastructure of transmission lines. Arunachal Pradesh is considered the power house of Indiam having the potential to generate 58000 MW but most of the proposals have got stuck because of  the “14 to 16 clearances” a power developer has to obtain from various departments and agencies. Sources said only the Kameng project is nearing completion while the NHPC’s 2880 MW Dibang project has obtained clearance. ‘ There are about 20 micro and mini hydel projects being executed by the Arunachal government but a lot still needs to be done. We hope the high level visit will expedite things ” one of the source said. Sources also said India needs to harness the power potential so any activity upstream cannot hamper us “ It will be in our interest. We can always use the first user clause to challenge any activity that affects downstream areas. Nobody can divert or shut the flow of water,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-32
06-12-2020||North East||Sedition charge against Assam charity trust||Ajmal Foundation, a registered public charitable trust in Assam, has been slapped with sedition charge for receiving funds allegedly from foreign agencies linked to terror groups, an allegation that the organisation has decided to challenge legally. Dispur police here on Friday registered an FIR filed by Right-wing leader Satya Ranjan Borah against the Hojai-based foundation based on a report of the Legal Rights Observatory (LRO), which had on Friday tweeted, “FIR filed against body run by Badruddin Ajmal for receiving funds from foreign ‘terror financiers’. The complaint, lodged by right-wing leader Satya Ranjan Borah in Guwahati on Friday based on the report LRO, a legal rights body.” LRO is said to be linked to the RSS. ACP Himangshu Das told The Telegraph that a case under Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 1204A (sedition) and 420 (cheating) read with Section 13 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) has been lodged against the foundation allegedly for receiving funds from foreign agencies linked to terror groups and misusing the money. “The FIR was filed on Friday,” Das said. The development assumes significance because All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) chief Badruddin Ajmal is a joint managing trustee of the foundation formed in 2005. The FIR comes just ahead of the two-phase Bodoland Territorial Council polls on December 7 and 10 that the AIUDF and Congress are fighting in alliance to check the BJP. The two parties are also in talks for an alliance in the 2021 Assembly polls, something that can upset the ruling BJP’s applecart. However, the foundation has decided to file counter FIRs against both Borah and the LRO. “We are discussing the case with our lawyers but we will be filing the FIRs by Sunday for defaming the foundation and misleading the public against us. The FIRs could be filed either in Guwahati or Hojai where the foundation is based,” foundation director Dr Khasrul Islam told this newspaper. According to Islam, the charitable trust has been working in the fields of modern education, skill development & employment generation, women empowerment, poverty alleviation, relief & rehabilitation, and environmental awareness & health aid programmes. The organisation runs as many as 97 educational and skill development institutions, four hospitals and six orphanages. The foundation’s activities also include running a free coaching institute and offering scholarship to the poor but meritorious students. So far, 2,720 students supported by it have become graduates in various streams, including medical, engineering, lawyers and chartered accountants. On the charges levelled against the foundation, Islam said it was ready for any probe because all its transactions and activities were transparent and legal. “The foundation was formed in 2005 and started receiving foreign funds from 2011. All these funding pass scrutiny in the countries where the donors are based and in India,” Islam said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-32
