09-12-2020||North East||Workers seized in Tripura, taken to Bangladesh||Three workers engaged in construction of the border fence in Dhalai district of Tripura were allegedly kidnapped by suspected National Liberation Front of Tripura (NLFT) militants and taken to neighbouring Bangladesh. According to police, the Border Security Force, which guards the international border, is in touch with Border Guards Bangladesh (BGB), but till Tuesday evening there was no news about the whereabouts of the abducted workers or any demand for ransom. Dhalai district borders Khagrachari district in Chittagong division of Bangladesh. The incident site under Ganganagar police station is around 70km from Ambassa, the Dhalai district headquarters, and around 140km from state capital Agartala. Additional inspector-general of police (law and order) Subrata Chakraborty told The Telegraph that the workers, two of them non-tribals and another tribal, were engaged under the National Projects Construction Corporation Limited, a government undertaking, for the fencing work. The abducted persons have been identified as Subrata Debnath, Subhash Bhowmik and Ganamohan Tripura. “They were involved in ground-levelling work when they were kidnapped on Monday. Only the three workers were present when suspected NLFT cadres abducted them and took them to the neighbouring country,” Chakraborty said. While the tribal worker is a local, the non-tribal workers used to sometime stay at the BSF border outpost, around 700 metres from the place of occurrence, police sources said. The Indo-Bangladesh border is around 856km long in the state, of which 65km in several patches still remains unfenced in Sipahijala, Dhalai and South districts. Tripura has eight districts. The Opposition CPM questioned how the kidnapping took place despite the presence of the BSF. Monday’s kidnapping was the second since November 27 after a man was abducted from Damcherra along Tripura’s border with Mizoram. A major faction of the NLFT, formed on March 12, 1989 to secure “sovereignty” for Tripura, had laid down arms before the government in August 2019. A splinter group of the Bishwamohan Debbarma faction of the NLFT, which stayed behind after last year’s surrender of 88 cadres and leaders, still operates from across the border, sources said, adding that it is the last surviving insurgent group. They also said the two abductions since November 27 suggest that the outfit might be regrouping and could pose a serious security challenge during the ensuing autonomous district council polls. BSF officials could not be contacted for their response but sources said they were verifying facts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-32
09-12-2020||North East||Assam doctor in  job fraud case||Police have registered a case against Dr Ajanta Hazarika, additional superintendent of Assam Medical College and Hospital (AMCH) in Dibrugarh, based on a complaint accusing her of promising jobs in lieu of money. The cash-for-jobs case (2150/2020) was registered at Dibrugarh police station in Upper Assam under Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 420 (cheating), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 409 (breach of trust) of the IPC on Sunday evening based on an FIR lodged by one Amal Nath. The alleged cash-for-jobs case involving Hazarika came to light when a purported audio clip of a telephonic conversation between her and one of the persons who paid her money went viral on Saturday. She is said to have allegedly collected Rs 22 lakh through her driver from three persons in lieu of jobs in the Northeast Frontier Railway but the nature of the jobs are not known. The surgeon could not be contacted but she had dismissed all allegations before a TV channel. The audio clip was released because she was talking tough when she was requested to return the money, sources said. Hazarika is the second doctor from Assam to have hit the headlines for all the wrong reasons since September when a Guwahati-based doctor Jyotirmoy Das was arrested for allegedly fixing a proxy candidate to take the JEE test on behalf of his son. He is presently in judicial custody. According to Dibrugarh superintendent of police Prateek Vijay Kumar Thube, Nath has accused Hazarika, registrar of the plastic surgery department of the AMCH, of taking Rs 6 lakh from him four years ago with the promise of providing him a job in the NF Railway. “We have started our investigation. We have recorded statements and are also examining the charges made in the telephonic conversation,” the SP said. Both Hazarika and Nath hail from Dibrugarh. AMCH principal and chief superintendent Dr Sanjib Kakoti said he has conveyed the development to the director, medical education, which will look into the incident. He also said Hazarika had applied for leave on Saturday to visit Guwahati. Though no action has been initiated against her, the hospital’s Grade III employees’ association has barred the senior doctor from entering the AMCH till her name is cleared of the alleged wrongdoing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-32
09-12-2020||North East||Bodo Front battles anti-incumbency, ally  ||The outcome of the two-phase Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) polls which began on Monday is set to have a bearing on the future of the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) as it battles anti-incumbency and a belligerent ally in the ruling BJP going all out to make its presence felt in the Bodo belt with an eye on the 2021 Assembly polls. The first phase of BTC polls on Monday saw polling in 10 constituencies under Udalguri district (75 per cent) and 11 in Baksa district (78 per cent) amid very tight security. It recorded a turnout of over 76 per cent. In the second phase on December 10, polling will be held in 12 seats in Kokrajhar district and seven in Chirang district. Polling is being held through ballots. Counting of votes will take place on December 12. The BPF has been a formidable force, having ruled the BTC for three straight terms since its formation in 2005 and also holding sway over 12 Assembly seats in the Bodo belt, helping it become a coalition partner, twice in the Tarun Gogoi-led Congress government and then in the BJP-led government in 2016. However, with ally BJP deciding to contest the 40-member council polls on its own despite being partners in the state government, the emergence of the Pramod Bodo-led United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL), a “historic” AIUDF-Congress alliance and the presence of Gana Suraksha Party (which espouses the cause of non-Bodos), the BPF’s job of retaining power has become extremely difficult if not impossible, BTC watchers said.under the Sixth Schedule. Anti-incumbency against the BPF too, reflected in the 2015 polls when it finished with 19 seats, has also increased manifold, amplified by the high decibel campaign launched by the BJP which has not let go of any opportunity to project the BPF in poor light. Senior BJP leader and cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, spearheading the ruling party’s campaign in the BTC since October, has publicly accused the BPF of rampant corruption and even mocking its leader Hagrama Mohilary. Sarma has even said that the tie up with the BPF was only till before the 2021 Assembly polls, virtually signalling the end of ties it had forged with the BPF before the 2016 state elections. In comparison, Sarma has been soft against the UPPL or its leader, keeping its doors open for any post-poll possibility, either with the BPF or the UPPL or with both. That the BPF has not pulled out of the alliance despite extreme provocation suggests there could be more than meets the eye, BTC watchers said. BPF has three ministers in the Sarbananda Sonowal government. For the BJP, which had won one seat in 2015 and is contesting 26 seats and supporting a couple of Independents this time round, the BTC has become important in context of next year’s Assembly polls. Winning the BTC polls or holding the key to the formation of the council would increase the BJP’s bargaining power for the 12 Assembly seats in the BTC. Till now, it was the BPF which been calling the shots in the BTC. Going by campaigning, the BJP seems to have won the election, said a BTC watcher, but it is still a tight one to call. “The BJP has gone all out to make a mark and so has the UPPL. But the BPF too is fighting hard and still remains the party to beat as everyone is targeting it. Since there will be division of votes, it will be too tight to call,” a BTC watcher said. When the BTC elections were announced in April but put off because of the pandemic, it appeared to be a fight between the BPF, the UPPL and the Gana Suraksha Party but the postponement saw the BJP step up its presence like never before. The BTC is presently under governor’s rule after the council’s five-year term expired on April 27. “The outcome will have as much bearing on the BPF as it will be on next year’s Assembly polls. Those controlling the BTC always enjoy an edge in the Assembly polls,” said a BPF watcher. The BJP’s manifesto revolves around the new Bodo accord signed in January, offering peace and development to the local populace. The BJP has promised to implement provisions of the accord at the earliest such as increasing the number of council seats from 40 to 60 and exclusion or inclusion of non-Bodo majority villages from the BTC so that every community is properly represented. Sarma’s harping on issuance of land pattas (documents) and the sale and buying of land within a stipulated timeframe if the BJP is voted to power has created a buzz since it is an emotive issue with non-tribals who comprise over 60 per cent of the total population of about 32 lakh in the council which comes||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-32
