10-12-2020||North East||Mizo Front sweeps council polls, BJP makes gains||The ruling Mizo National Front (MNF) in Mizoram has swept the Lai Autonomous District Council (LADC) elections by winning 20 out of the 25 seats, the first time it has won a majority on its own despite the BJP going “all out” to challenge the ruling dispensation. The results for the December 4 elections, announced on Tuesday, also saw the BJP gain at the cost of the Congress, both of which won a seat each but the saffron party finished second in 11 seats. Three seats were won by Independents. In the last council polls in 2015, the MNF had won eight seats, the Congress 16 and one Independent. Senior MNF leader R. Rohmingliana told The Telegraph that it was a vote for the overall good work being done by the state government, including during the pandemic. He, however, dismissed the BJP’s gains saying it will not grow in Mizoram, a Christian-majority state. In the LADC polls, which recorded a voter turnout of 85.09 per cent, the MNF contests all 25 seats, the BJP 17 seats and the Congress 14. “It is for the first time in 11 LADC polls we have won a majority. It is because of the good work done by our MNF government. Manghmung Chinzah will be the next LADC chief executive member. The BJP tried very hard, went all out. It gained only because of the Congress’s decline. The Congress voters who will not vote for the MNF voted for the BJP. There is nothing to worry,” Rohmingliana said. He is the member-secretary of the seven-member MNF core committee, the highest-decision making body of the party. Though the MNF is part of the BJP-headed North East Democratic Alliance, a group of non-Congress parties, it has no truck with the BJP in Mizoram. By capturing the LADC, the MNF now leads two of the three autonomous district councils in the state, the other being the Chakma council. The BJP heads the Mara council after 20 Congress councillors switched over to the BJP to hand it majority. In August, the MNF had convincingly won elections to the village councils and urban local bodies. If the MNF won a majority for the first time in the council polls, the BJP won a seat for the first time in the LADC, created under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution in 1972. Only 10 of the 22 sitting members won the polls. BJP national spokesperson Mmhonlumo Kikon, a Nagaland legislator, congratulated the MNF and chief minister Zoramthanga for the successful campaign as well as the state BJP team led by Vanlalhmuaka for the “immense effort” they put in not only registering “a first win in the history of LADC” but also increasing the vote share of the BJP in the entire council area which falls under Langtwlai district. “This indicates the relevance of the BJP in Mizoram in a big way. The party will only grow from strength to strength! The party stands committed to fulfilling its promise to the LADC,” Kikon said. Kikon and Union sports minister Kiren Rijiju had campaigned in the LADC with Rijiju asserting that the BJP would go all out to win the council polls. For the Congress, defections to the MNF and then to the BJP last year cost the party dear. Mizoram PCC spokesperson Dr Lallianchhunga told this newspaper that they didn’t have time to “rectify” the situation before the polls because of the defections, a reason for which they did not contest all the 25 seats. Another reason was imposition of a partial lockdown in Lawngtlai district between November 20 and 24 and from December 1 to 5. “Opposition parties were left handicapped, while the ruling MNF ministers and leaders were camping in the LADC area,” he said. Dr Lallianchhunga, however, feels the BJP’s campaign strategy “failed” miserably. “It hoped to garner popular support by using direct funding to the council as an electoral issue but it didn’t work,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-31
10-12-2020||North East||Tripura CM seeks public opinion on continuation||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Tuesday evening took the fight to his detractors by urging the public to gather at the Astabal ground in Agartala on December 13 and speak their mind on whether he should continue in his post. Deb made the announcement at a news meet in Agartala in response to slogans — “Biplab hatao, BJP bachao (Remove Biplab, save BJP)”, “Biplab hatao, Tripura bachao (Remove Biplab, save Tripura)” — raised by a section of BJP supporters in front of party observer Vinod Sonkar in the Tripura capital on Sunday. “If they want me to leave, I will inform the party leadership and leave. I will abide by the people’s wish. I request everyone to come and share their opinions,” Deb said. The chief minister said the sloganeering by a few people had left him pained and disturbed. Deb said he called for the public gathering on December 13 as he wanted to know whether the people at large think the same way. A group of rebel BJP legislators had recently also visited Delhi seeking a change of guard, a move the MLAs have denied. The BJP had stormed to power with its ally, the Indigenous Peoples Front of Tripura (IPFT), in 2018 by winning 44 out of 60 seats in the Assembly polls and ending 25 years of Left rule in Tripura.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-31
10-12-2020||North East||Jumbo deaths spur vaccination plan in Dehing Patkai Wildlife Sanctuary||The death of two female elephants due to anthrax in Upper Assam’s Dehing Patkai Wildlife Sanctuary has prompted the state government to launch a vaccination drive within a 5km radius from where the carcasses were found to “save” the nearby livestock as well as the wildlife from getting affected. The promptness with which the vaccination drive is being launched has a lot to do with the experience of the anthrax outbreak in Odisha’s Simlipal Tiger Reserve in 2016. Dibrugarh divisional forest officer Pradipta Baruah told The Telegraph that the vaccination drive will be launched either on Thursday or Friday. “Around 3,000 vaccine doses are being rushed from Guwahati. We recommended the vaccination drive as soon as we suspected anthrax to be the cause of deaths. We received the confirmation report from Guwahati on Tuesday,” Baruah said. Anthrax is a spore-forming bacteria, leading to fatality within six to 12 hours in animals. It also affects humans, causing high fever, skin infection and digestive problems but can be cured with timely intervention, a veterinarian said. Tinsukia-based Wildlife Trust of India official Dr Khanin Changmai told this newspaper that it took Odisha three years to control the infection in Simlipal. “I was with the WTI in Odisha from 2015 to 2019. It took us three years to find the source. We also went for strict preventive measures. Around 18 elephants died of anthrax in the tiger reserve. When I shared my Odisha experience, the Dibrugarh district administration and the forest department reacted promptly to prevent a repeat and put in place several preventive measures,” Changmai said. He was part of the team that carried out the post-mortem of the two elephants which died under the Joypur range of the Dehing Patkai Wildlife Sanctuary. “It is very important to find the source of infection and take all possible preventive measures to check the spread,” Changmai said. There are around 200 elephants in the forest and around 35 in the affected area. The elephant which died on December 3 in the Tarajan area was around 8 to 10 years old and the one that died at Namsang on December 5 was aged between 18 and 20 years. The forest department burnt the carcasses of the two elephants and then fenced an area of 20 metres at both the sites so that other animals cannot come near them and get infected. The carcasses cannot be buried because the anthrax bacteria can become “active even after 10 years” if it is not killed. Therefore, according to revised forest ministry standard operating procedure, the carcasses were burnt. “Besides fencing an area of around 20m where the carcasses were burnt, a 50m area around the two sites has been also disinfected with 10 per cent formalin to check the spread. The authorities will also launch an awareness drive in human habitations in the vicinity of the affected area to prevent its spread,” Changmai said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-32
