11-12-2020||North East||Assam unions launch fresh anti-CAA agitations, demand rollback||Eighteen Assam organisations on Friday launched fresh protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), demanding its repeal and release of jailed KMSS leader Akhil Gogoi who was taken into custody during the protests last year. Unions including the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti, All Assam Students Union (AASU), Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad, Lachit Sena, besides students, and youth organisations of ethnic communities, took out protest rallies across the state. This time too, the agitation began from Sivasagar, the same place from where it was launched last year before getting halted due to Covid-19. Mentioning that the CAA was against the identity, language and cultural heritage of the indigenous people of the state, the protestors were demanding that the act be revoked. Leaders of the organisations during their addresses said people will give a “fitting reply” to the ruling BJP government in Assam in the next Assembly elections for “betraying the people by imposing the CAA upon them despite protests, since its introduction in Parliament till its enactment”. The AASU, which had launched the six-year long anti- foreigners Assam Movement (1979-1985), has called for a 'Rono Hungkar' (clarion call for war against CAA) from Saturday on the first 'anniversary' of the anti-CAA agitation. The AASU hoisted black flag at its headquarters here and displayed such flags in seven northeast states under aegis of the North East Students Organisation demanding roll back of the CAA, AASU chief advisor Samujjal Bhattacharya told reporters. “The government has to repeal the anti-Assam law that has claimed the lives of five Assamese citizens, including innocent students. The families of the deceased people and the AASU will continue to seek justice,” a press release by the union, issued jointly by its president Dipanka Kumar Nath and general secretary Shankar Jyoti Baruah, said. Five persons had lost their lives during the anti-CAA protests in Guwahati last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-31
11-12-2020||North East||Stay on environmental clearance accorded to Oil India||Gauhati High Court has stayed the environmental clearance accorded to energy major Oil India Limited for exploration and drilling for hydrocarbons at seven locations in Dibru Saikhowa National Park spread over Dibrugarh and Tinsukia districts in Upper Assam. Acting on a public interest litigation plea filed by advocate Mrinmoy Khataniar and mountaineer Amarjyoti Deka, a bench comprising high court Chief Justice (acting) N. Kotiswar Singh and Justice Manish Choudhury on Monday stayed the environmental clearance accorded on May 11. D. Das, R.S. Chowdhury and H. Betala represented the petitioners. Khataniar told The Telegraph that the court ordered a stay on the environmental clearance for non-compliance of a September 7, 2017, Supreme Court order which required Oil India to conduct a biodiversity impact assessment study. He also said the high court after being prima facie satisfied that Oil India had failed to carry out the apex court order also stayed the exploration and drilling for seven hydrocarbon projects in the Dibru Saikhowa National Park. The park is located close to the Baghjan Oil India well which suffered a blowout in May, posing a threat to the local ecology, including the park which is known for its white-winged wood duck, tiger, feral horses and capped langur. The well, located around 530km east of Guwahati, was capped last month and subsequently abandoned on December 3. An Oil India official told this newspaper that the company stands committed to carrying out the biodiversity study before carrying out ERD (extended reach drilling) operations at seven locations. “So far we have not carried out any activity. We are in touch with the state biodiversity board which will conduct the study for us,” he said. Oil India will be using the ERD technology by which they will drill seven wells and reach the target depth underneath the park without entering the eco-sensitive zone, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-31
