14-12-2020||North East||Working to transform Guwahati as gateway to Southeast Asia, says  Sonowal||Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal said on Monday that his government was working to transform Guwahati as a gateway to Southeast Asia. Speaking at the annual general meeting of the Indian Chamber of Commerce, Sonowal said the state is eyeing the ASEAN market, besides the BBIN (Bangladesh, Bhutan, India and Nepal). "We are trying to develop Guwahati not as only a gateway to the Northeast, but also for Southeast Asia. The ASEAN block provides a large and lucrative market for Assam," he said. At the global investors' summit held in Assam in 2018, the state had received investment proposals worth Rs 79,000 crore, Sonowal said. "Of that, Rs 55,000 crore has already landed in the state," he added. The chief minister said that his government has been able to bring benefits worth Rs 2,000 crore for the MSME sector from the Centre's assistance programme, announced during the pandemic. Sonowal said that the focus area for the state is agriculture, and Israel has promised to provide the best technology for the development of the sector. The state is now sending vegetables by cargo flights to countries such as the UK, Singapore and UAE, he noted. Sonowal claimed that the state has handled the COVID- 19 well, as seen from the low mortality rates. The government is now working to boost the health infrastructure, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-31
14-12-2020||North East||BJP finds new allies to form Bodoland Territorial Council ||The BJP, along with its new allies United People’s Party Liberal and Gana Suraksha Party, will head the next Bodoland Territorial Council in Assam after governor Jagdish Mukhi accepted the three-party “post-poll coalition” claim to form the autonomous body on Sunday night. Although the Bodoland People’s Front emerged as the single largest party winning 17 of the 40 seats despite a stiff challenge from its rivals, its hopes of a fourth straight term fizzled out after the BJP rebuffed BPF chief Hagrama Mohilary’s appeal to support its bid to form the BTC since they were still allies in the state government. Debutant UPPL won 12 seats, BJP 9 and GSP 1 in the two-phase polls held on December 7 and 10. While the Congress-AIUDF alliance won only one seat, raising questions about the continuation of the alliance in the Assembly polls. A delegation of the BJP-UPPL-GSP combine formally staked claim to form the next council on Sunday evening after a series of meetings since Saturday night decided that UPPL president Pramod Boro would lead the council. Traditionally a governor invites the single largest party to form the council/state government but Mukhi, according to sources, accepted the claim because the UPPL-BJP-GSP coalition has “demonstrated more than enough through” its meetings, media interactions and a visit to the Raj Bhavan on Sunday that it enjoys the majority in a hung house. As Mukhi was out of station, the coalition leaders “submitted” support letters to the governor declaring “full support” to the formation of the council under Boro to the commissioner and secretary to the governor, S.S. Meenakshi Sundaram. A Raj Bhavan statement on Sunday night said the next council will be formed on December 15. BPF, an ally of the BJP in the state government since 2016, responded to the BJP’s rebuff by skipping a cabinet meeting on Sunday afternoon. Senior BPF leader Pramila Rani Brahma, one of three party ministers in the BJP-led government, told The Telegraph that party leaders will be meeting in Kokrajhar on Monday and decide on the party’s future course of action. The BJP’s move of ignoring BPF’s plea once again reflected its “expansionist design” by “cornering” smaller allies, political observers said. They cited the recent Bihar polls to show how it edged past its long-term ally Janata Dal United. In the 2015 BTC polls, the BPF had won 19 seats, the AIUDF 4, People’s Coordination for Democratic Rights (PCDR) 7, Independents 9 and BJP 1. The BJP gained 8 seats this time round. “The BPF had grown in strength when it was an ally of the Congress at Dispur for 15 years but the BJP has not only ended BPF’s monopoly but has also emerged as a key player in the Bodo belt, in less than 5 years. Something smaller parties like the UPPL and the AGP have to take note of. They cannot match the BJP’s aggressive and sustained campaign, something which changed the BTC poll outcome,” an observer said. Architect Sarma Assam cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma is seen as the architect of the BJP’s growth in the BTC. His high decibel campaign that focussed on corruption during the BPF regime and easing of rules for buying and selling of land in the BTC impacted the outcome. Sarma said they will honour the state-level alliance with the BPF till the 2021 polls but there can be no alliance in the council since they fought for parivartan (change) like the UPPL and the GSP. He has described the outcome as “a new dawn in BTR (Bodoland Territorial Region)”. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J.P. Nadda were among those who hailed the victory in BTC. Modi tweeted, “NDA is committed to serving the people of the Northeast. I congratulate our ally UPPL and @BJP4Assam for securing a majority in the Assam BTC election, and wish them the very best in fulfilling people’s aspirations. I thank the people for placing their faith in the NDA.” The BJP will now control all the Sixth Schedule councils in Assam since coming to power in 2016. It is heading the Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council since 2017 and the North Cachar Hills Autonomous Council since 2019. The BJP’s showing in the BTC is set to boost its prospects in the Assembly polls. Being part of the BTC, it will have more than a say in the sharing of the 14 Assembly seats in the Bodo belt, including 12 in the BTC. The BPF had been winning the BTC Assembly seats since 2011. These seats will help it offset any setback it may suffer in Upper Assam in the 2021 polls. Congress-AIUDF The BJP’s high decibel campaign not only split the Bodo votes between the BPF and the UPPL but also saw it eat into the non-Bodo and minority votes of the GSP and the AIUDF which drew a blank despite winning four seats in 2015. The Congress-AIUDF alliance, which had contested 20 seats but managed to win only one, has already become a cause for concern in the Congress circles. “The Congress won only one seat of the 13 it contested. People have rejected the alliance. We should have at least got four-five seats, at least in the minority areas,” one of them said.  In 2015, the Congress had failed to open its account. A large section within the Congress feels there should not be any open alliance with the AIUDF because it may cost the party dear in Upper Assam. “As it is we won about 7 seats out of 40-plus contested in 2016. It cannot get worse than this if we contest alone instead of losing all these seats too by tying up with the AIUDF,” one of them said. The ruling BJP calls the AIUDF a party of migrants and attacked its chief Badruddin Ajmal obliquely during the campaign by accusing the Ajmal Trust of receiving funds from foreign agencies linked to terror. “We don’t know what the BJP will come up with during the Assembly campaign. We need to build a narrative on the anti-CAA movement, economic hardships and development issues instead of defending our alliance with the AIUDF,” a senior PCC leader said. PCC insiders said the issue of the alliance will be discussed during AICC general secretary in-charge of Assam, Jitendra Singh’s, visit after next week’s Tiwa Autonomous Council elections where the Congress is pitted directly against the BJP in most seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-31
14-12-2020||North East||Arunachal govt offices burnt over voting rights||At least three government offices were burnt down on Friday at Vijaynagar in Changlang district of Arunachal Pradesh by a mob allegedly led by the All Yobin Students Union in the run-up to the panchayat polls in one of the remotest administrative circles in India. The protesters, comprising about 400 youths and public from nearby Gandhigram, burnt down the extra assistant commissioner’s office, post office and the special bureau (SB) office and also ransacked the Vijayanagar police station around 8.30am. The protesters were armed with daos (machetes), lathis (sticks) and bows and arrows and shouting “hamare mange puri karo (fulfil our demands)”. The protesters were demanding cancellation of voting rights to non-indigenous people, mostly ex-Assam Rifles settlers, and their removal from the area as soon as possible, a police statement said. The situation is tense but under control. Four FIRs were registered against specific individuals based on local information and videographic evidence. Till Sunday, 24 people have been arrested in this connection. Four firearms have also been seized. A video message doing the rounds on social media purportedly shows Ngwazaso Yobin, the president of All Yobin Students’ Union, claiming responsibility for Friday’s violence and blaming the government for not meeting their demands of cancelling the settlers’ voting rights. He also says that they are ready to give up their lives to save their land and the settlers should move out as “their 30-year lease is over”. The video also shows Yobin and others raise slogans such as “hatao hatao, settlers hatao (remove the settlers)” and “go back, go back, settlers go back”. Yobin is also heard warning the government that “they should not underestimate us” and “don’t underestimate the tribal populace”. Changlang deputy commissioner Devansh Yadav told The Telegraph that nobody was killed or hurt. “Since connectivity in the area is poor, we have flown down reinforcements by choppers from Miao town, around 150km away. We have requisitioned two choppers which will continue to send reinforcements, including additional CRPF platoons. Two magistrates on special duty have been stationed at Vijayanagar to deal with any situation,” he said. Vijaynagar, located along the Indo-Myanmar border, takes around six to eight days to reach from Miao. Panchayat and municipal polls are scheduled for December 22 but given the protest against settlers the state election commission had kept in abeyance the polls under Vijaynagar. “It is suspected the mob carried out the attack because the deferment impacted everyone. Strict action will be taken against those who vandalised government property and took the law in their own hands. Those who instigate local youths will be dealt with as per provisions of the law,” Yadav said. The population of Vijaynagar, around 250km from the Changlang district headquarters and around 150km from Miao circle, is about 6,000, half of whom are non-Arunachali tribes. Around 200 families of Assam Rifles personnel had initially settled in the area in the early sixties. The All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union (AAPSU) had earlier this month also demanded a ban on non-tribal and non-indigenous people from participating in the panchayat and municipal polls as it was “unacceptable” to the organisation and “intruded” into the rights of the ethnic people of the state. AAPSU general secretary Tobom Dai said the organisation had held a meeting with the government led by Pema Khandu and had also submitted a memorandum on the issue. Already 6,266 candidates have been declared elected unopposed ahead of the panchayat and municipal elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-31
