17-12-2020||North East||BJP in Assam eyes Assembly polls after BTC ||The ruling BJP in Assam almost turned the swearing-in ceremony of the new Bodoland Territorial Council members in Kokrajhar on Tuesday into a campaign for the 2021 Assembly polls. The ruling party, which emerged as the kingmaker in the recent BTC polls by ending Bodoland People’s Front’s 17-year reign, still seemed to be in poll mode, which was evident from the speeches of cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal. Apart from urging the people to support the newly appointed BTC chief Pramod Boro, the two leaders slipped in what the state government intended to do in the next few months for the welfare of the people living in the council area. Assam goes to polls in April-May and the BTC has 12 Assembly seats. There are about 10 seats where Bodo voters play a significant role. The 12 seats in the BTC have been held by the BPF and will be crucial in a tight election, sources said. The announcement by Sarma that the state government has decided to set up 40 new colleges and 40 new stadiums in the BTC’s 40 constituencies, one model college each in Udalguri, Tamulpur and Chirang, a new medical college in Tamulpur, a campus of the Bodoland University in Udalguri and the commissioning of the Kokrajhar Medical College by 2022, left none in doubt that the BJP-led government was trying to extend its reach in the council. Sarma also said that the government will release Rs 750 crore of the Rs 1,500 crore promised by the Centre in the new Bodo accord signed in January for the development of the BTC under Boro. “We have also decided to properly rehabilitate all NDFB cadres. We have earmarked a rehabilitation package of Rs 60 crore,” Sarma said. He said most of the decisions were taken before the swearing-in ceremony. Sonowal, who spoke after Sarma, endorsed his cabinet colleague’s announcement, adding that Adivasi rebels who have joined the mainstream by abjuring violence will also be respectfully rehabilitated. Sonowal in his address also thanked the BJP workers and leaders of the four districts that make up the BTC for their efforts in the good showing by the party and asked them to continue in a similar vein and be the bridge between the people and the new council. He urged for peaceful existence of all communities. Both leaders said the new council will work for all sections of the population and the rights of all will be protected. During the campaign, the BJP had promised equal rights to all communities. Buying and selling of land by non-Bodo and non-tribal communities under the BTC headed by Hagrama Mohilary was a huge issue which the BJP had highlighted in all its rallies. Ashok Basumatary from Udalguri, where the BJP has done well, said the party was clearly trying to deepen its connect before the Assembly polls. “After the BTC polls and its encouraging showing, the BJP is now clearly eyeing the Assembly polls. Hence, the slew of development projects,” he said. The arrival of BJP’s Assam minder Baijayant Panda here on Wednesday also made it evident that the party has started preparation for the Assembly polls. Panda took part in several events, exhorting party workers to work 24x7 to achieve the BJP’s 100-seat target in Assam which has 126 seats. Sources said Union home minister Amit Shah will be also visiting Assam on December 26, barring last-minute changes, to take stock of the BJP’s preparations for the Assembly polls, besides attending government functions. The seat-sharing with ally AGP will figure in the discussions. The BJP is laying a lot of emphasis on winning Bengal and retaining Assam in next year’s polls, they said. Five newly elected BTC members were sworn in on Tuesday. They are Boro as chief executive member, Gobinda Chandra Basumatary, a former militant leader, as the deputy CEM, and the BJP’s Gautam Das and Diganta Baruah and the GSP’s Ghanashyam Das as executive members. The oath of office was administered by chief secretary Jishnu Baruah. Boro promised a responsive, fair and transparent administration and to work as a team to serve all sections of people in the BTC and to transform it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-30
17-12-2020||North East||Jamiat Ulama to contest Assam's decision to convert madrasas||The Assam State Jamiat Ulama has decided to legally challenge Dispur’s decision to convert all government-run madrasas into regular schools from the 2021-22 academic session. The state Jamiat decision was taken at a four-hour meeting held at the Garigaon madrasa here on Tuesday following Monday’s announcement by education minister Himanta Biswa Sarma that the word “madrasa” will be removed from government-run madrasas along with theological courses from April 1, 2021. In effect, there will be no high madrasa exam from 2022. High madrasas are equivalent to high schools (Classes IX and X) and are under the Board of Secondary Education, Assam. The state government will table a bill to this effect during the winter session of the Assembly from December 28. Hafiz Bashir Ahmed Qasimi, general secretary of the state Jamiat, told The Telegraph that they will challenge the government’s decision if it brings in an ordinance or a new act. “At the same time we will also request the government to modernise madrasa education instead of shutting them down,” Qasimi said. The Assam unit of the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind is an influential organisation of scholars playing a key role in the social and political life of the Muslims as well as the country. On the contention of the minister that the government wants education to be secular, Qasimi said the Quran is not only about religion. “It is high standard literature. The madrasa syllabus can be modernised,” he said. As part of the government decision, the State Madrassa Education Board, Assam, which looks after pre-senior madrasas, senior madrasas, Arabic colleges and title madrasas, will be also dissolved after declaration of results of the examinations conducted in 2021-22. The state government has, however, made it clear that its decision will have no impact on private madrasas which can carry on with their activities. A Jamiat delegation on Wednesday met chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and submitted a memorandum seeking a probe into allegations made against the Ajmal Trust about receiving funds from foreign agencies linked to terror groups. “...If the Ajmal Foundation is indulging in any irregularities we invite you to install an inquiry to find the real truth... Such baseless allegations and fabricated allegations should not be allowed to spread, polluting the welfare activities being carried out by the Ajmal Foundation...,” the memorandum said. It urged Sonowal, also the home minister, to stop “such propaganda and reactionary activities” that are creating a bitter atmosphere in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-30
