21-12-2020||North East||Stand up for what is right: Bhushan||Lawyer Prashant Bhushan on Sunday appealed to the public to stand up for what is right and against injustice to “reclaim our Republic” which is “experiencing” a crisis like never before under the BJP-led government. Addressing a citizens’ convention organised by Axom Nagarik Samaj in Guwahati online, Bhushan said there was an “assault” on the economy, on dissent, on truth, on civility, on the judiciary, on Parliament, on the media and on government institutions, among others, under the ruling dispensation. “We are seeing a full-blooded communal and fascist attack on every institution and every value we hold dear in a democracy and in our Constitution. We are experiencing a crisis of a kind which we have never seen before in the country since Independence. So the task is to somehow reclaim our Republic,” he said. He added: “And for that, all of us who value the Constitution, value civilised discourse, value dissent, value fundamental rights, must stand up together to face this assault. We must not be fearful of being labelled or targeted or being sent to jail... Together we need to stand up for what is right and against injustice. It is not merely a crisis or an issue regarding the implementation of the Assam Accord or the NRC. It is a much deeper crisis of democracy and of civilisation that we are facing.” The convention comes two days after the Samaj released an appeal signed by over 300 intellectuals, artistes, public figures and writers highlighting the “divisive agenda” of the BJP-led government before next year’s state elections instead of fulfilling the “tall promises” made by it in its vision document before the 2016 Assembly polls. Bhushan, who was in August held guilty by the Supreme Court for contempt of court for two tweets against the judiciary, said the BJP government has “betrayed” the people of Assam in implementing the 1985 Assam Accord by “converting” the NRC exercise into a religious and communal exercise by “specifically” excluding Muslims from the register and “somehow” including Hindus, who may not be citizens, through the “backdoor” by using the Citizenship Amendment Act. “It is part of the BJP’s design to divide the people of this country on religious lines, divide them into Hindus and Muslims, polarise the people and spread hate against the Muslims in order to win elections. We are seeing this across the board, not only in the manner in which the CAA was brought or the NRC is being implemented. It is also being seen in the cow slaughter laws being brought across the country or the manner in which ‘love jihad’ laws are being brought in state after state. The whole objective is to victimise and terrorise the Muslims and make them into second class citizens...,” he said. The convention touched upon the need to protect the state’s culture and identity, solution to flood and erosion problem, implementation of Clause 6 of the 1985 Assam Accord, scrapping of the “divisive” CAA, rights over the state’s natural resources, listing and auditing the state’s assets, checking corruption and securing its secular fabric because the Samaj strongly feels that the “divisive narrative and instigating propaganda” of the BJP-led government should be “countered” by stressing on the “humanistic cultural & social identity of the people of Assam”. Intellectuals Hiren Gohain, Abdul Manan, Dr Toufiq Rahman Borbora, former Archbishop Thomas Menamparampil, author Arupa Patangia Kalita, senior advocate H.R.A. Choudhury, senior journalists Haidar Hussain and Prasanta Rajguru, among others, attended the convention. The convention adopted two resolutions — taking to the people an alternative political discourse that is secular and inclusive to defeat the divisive political forces by uniting all regional and national anti-BJP forces and extending all support to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three farm laws as well as seeking their repeal, Samaj general secretary Paresh Malakar told The Telegraph. Reacting to Bhushan’s criticism, BJP state unit chief spokesperson Rupam Goswami said they are professional people without any ideology. “Their observation has no value. But people across the country have faith in the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji, a reason for the party’s growth,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-30
21-12-2020||North East||Former vice-chancellor of Ashoka University's call to reclaim Constitution ||Former vice-chancellor of Ashoka University Pratap Bhanu Mehta on Saturday said that the Constitution at present seems “so powerless — like words on paper”. Delivering the 17th Dr Amitabh Chowdhury Annual Memorial Lecture on “India’s Second Republic: The Collapse of Liberal Constitutionalism”, Mehta said: “... If we meet 10 years from now or 15 years from now and we say what kind of a Constitution India has, we will not be saying that India has a liberal democracy; we will be saying that India is an authoritarian ethnocracy.” Dwelling on topics from the judiciary to the political system to “love jihad” which have been in the limelight recently, Mehta said in his televised address that “constitutional developments around us signal a near collapse of the Constitution”. He urged citizens “to renew that constitutional faith almost as a second freedom struggle and this will mean public articulation, the creation of new solidarities, occasionally even public protests”. Mehta referred to the 10 markers of growing authoritarianism in India, including “dissent is treason”, “control of the information order”, “ruling dispensations everywhere”, “empowering vigilantes to either take the law into their own hands or to, in some senses, perform the function of law” and “making citizens more transparent to the State but making the State more opaque to the individuals”. Quoting American civil rights activist Frederick Douglass, Mehta said: “Power concedes nothing without a demand. It never did and it never will.” “And at this moment when our Constitution seems so powerless — it seems like words on paper — we will have to demand more of ourselves and more of each other.” Referring to the beauty of the Constitution, he said it gave India a new identity. “Unlike the preambles to many constitutions that will begin with a reference to God, that will begin with reference to a particular historical identity, burdening you with the weight of the past, our Constitution was meant to set us free. This is not because God is not important or may not be important for people... but the Constitution’s beauty was to say — new India is free to imagine God, history and identity in whichever way it chooses... the references in the Preamble are all to the dignity of the individual.” According to Mehta, the identity of the nation is being defined in Hindu terms while former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru remembered and defined India as a palimpsest on which every civilization has written its history. “India is a Hindu country, Muslim country, Christian and Parsi country, Sikh country; India is an Asian power; the Indian Constitution represents the best of European enlightenment... This idea of India as a palimpsest no longer commands political credibility... This is no longer a source of pride for us, this is a source of embarrassment, this is a source of fear, this is a source of conflict,” he said. Referring to the recent ordinance on “love jihad” promulgated by the Uttar Pradesh government, Mehta said: “We have a new law in the state of Uttar Pradesh — without embarrassment we called it the ‘love jihad’ law. This law is a double travesty on our Constitution. It denies in some significant sense the freedom of religion. It says to every ordinary citizen that even an act of love has to be authorised and stamped by a State through its communal prism. I hope the Supreme Court strikes it down....” Referring to the role of the judiciary, Mehta said: “There are still judges, there are still high courts passing extraordinarily brave orders, extraordinary constitutionally correct orders… yet it has to be said even at the risk of sounding somewhat graceless, that if you look at the overall framework that the Supreme Court has provided over the last few years — it’s becoming increasingly clear that the application of constitutional law, that’s what I am talking about in particular, has become dependent on the arbitrary whims of the individual judges so much so that constitutional terms no longer have any meaning... In practice it means very weak protection of civil liberties, an unusual degree of deference to State power especially in constitutional matters… of late the Court has also become excessively concerned with its own leash majesty, like a sacred monarch it cannot be seriously criticised or mocked.” The lecture was televised this year in view of the pandemic. The lecture is organised every year in memory of Chowdhury, who was a leading cardiothoracic and vascular surgeon, under the aegis of the Dr Amitabh Chowdhury Memorial Trust, Guwahati. Past lectures were delivered, among others, by Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer, James Michael Lyngdoh, Prof. Yash Pal, Ramachandra Guha, Wajahat Habibullah, Gopalkrishna Gandhi, Prof. Andre Beteille and Prof. Rudrangshu Mukherjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-30
