23-12-2020||North East||Assam app to increase farm productivity||An Assam-based start-up has developed a multilingual smartphone application for farmers to smartly manage their farms and remotely monitor distress activities. AgSpert, the agri-tech startup co-founded by IIT Guwahati students and alumni of NIT Silchar and Dibrugarh University, Assam, have developed the application called AgSpeak. It has an Assamese language option as well, a first among all the agri-tech apps available in the market. The app aims to optimise in-farm productivity through artificial intelligence (AI), helping farmers in making decisions and managing farm activities by the click of a single button on their smartphone or computer. The app along with the IoT hardware has been tested for the past three months with 500 farmers and two tea estates in Assam. Some of the “major” breakthroughs by the algorithm were “precise prediction” of blight in potato and tea mosquito bug and water stress in winter crops, a statement from IIT Guwahati said. These are the major woes for farmers and small tea growers of Assam leading to huge crop loss if not controlled in time. “The Internet of Things (IoT) refers to a system of interrelated, Internet-connected objects that are able to collect and transfer data over a wireless network without human intervention. This is the technology that AgSpert start-up uses for the app for farmers,” the statement said. AgSpeak was launched by IIT Guwahati director Prof. T.G. Sitharam here on Sunday. The app was co-founded by Siddhartha Bora (an NIT Silchar alumnus), chief executive officer, Manik Mittal, chief operating officer, Akash Sharma, software development engineer, Nitin Chauhan, cloud systems architect (all four students of IIT Guwahati), Dhritiman Talukdar (an NIT Silchar alumnus), software development engineer and Kookil Pran Goswami (Dibrugarh University alumnus), hardware developer. Highlighting the need of technological advancement in the agriculture sector, Mittal said technological development in the sector has been very slow, with farmers relying on traditional methods, which are getting outdated day by day due to several factors, including population growth and climate change. “We at AgSpert believe that technological intervention using artificial intelligence and drones will ensure food security, by increasing the productivity more than two-fold,” he said. Driven by hyper-local crop data coming from satellite and smart IoT devices, AgSpeak considers up to 20 local crop parameters which are key indicators of their health like temperature, rainfall, sunlight hours, soil health status, among others, to alert farmers about probable crop threats in advance and suggest best practices to tackle the incoming threat, hence optimising the resources used and maximising productivity. Nearly 250 farmers have already been provided hands-on training in utilising the full potential of the app. However, the user-friendliness and multilingual features of the app make it extremely easy for farmers to use and they seldom require training. The mobile app is completely free for general small farmers. There are in-app purchases like soil testing and agri-doctor consultation. Besides this, the IoT devices can be rented on monthly/yearly basis by commercial farms to further enhance precision farm management. “It has been tested with many farmers and its practical utility established. Major commercial users of the product include commercial plantation farms (tea, lemon orchards, grape vineyards),” the statement said. Sitharam said, “To end this global starvation, we need to double agricultural productivity in the next 15 years. Unless we use technology appropriately in the agricultural sector, this would be impossible.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-29
23-12-2020||North East||Gorkhas to seek 'permanent solution' from Centre||A Gorkha delegation from Vijaynagar in Arunachal Pradesh has moved the Centre seeking a “permanent solution” to the problems faced by ex-Assam Rifles personnel and their descendants in the area, highlighting the threat to their life and property following the arson carried out by a mob on December 11. Though there was no loss of life in the arson, at least three government offices were burnt down on Friday under Vijaynagar administrative circle in Changlang district by a mob allegedly led by the All Yobin Students’ Union (AYSU). Around 39 persons have been arrested in six cases registered in connection with the arson. The protesters were demanding cancellation of voting rights to non-indigenous people, mostly ex-Assam Rifles settlers, and their removal from the area as soon as possible. The AYSU brass in a video released after the arson had purportedly claimed they are ready to give up their lives to save their land and the settlers should move out as “their 30-year lease is over”. The state government had deferred the December 22 polls in Vijaynagar even before the arson. The population of Vijaynagar, around 250km from the Changlang district headquarters and around 157km from Miao circle, is about 6,000, half of whom are non-Arunachali tribes. The ex-Asaam Rifles settlers include mostly Gorkhas and few families from Assam, Bihar, Mizoram, Uttarakanhd. Today, the population of Gorkhas will be about 2500. In a 11-page memorandum submitted to Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday, the delegation from Vijaynagar has said the settlement of ex-Assam Rifles personnel at Vijaynagar bordering Myanmar was carried out jointly by the Centre and the erstwhile North East Frontier Agency (NEFA) in a phased manner for clearing forest patches and building makeshift huts. “Therefore, 200 families of Assam Rifles personnel were airlifted with basic necessities and settled in 4 different subsequent batches — 1st Batch (25 families) during 1967-68; 2nd Batch (25 families) 1968-69; 3rd Batch (52 families) 1969-70 and 4th Batch (100 families) during 1970-71 and were re-grouped into nine villages,” the memorandum, recounting the reasons for the settlement of the AR personnel and their arrival in the area. It also quoted from a book and official documents on the issue. “It was none other than our fathers/forefathers (7th Assam Rifles) who explored the un-administered and un-demarcated area i.e. Vijaynagar. Nari Rostomji, then the Adviser to Governor of Assam in his book Enchanted Frontier (1971) wrote it in the following words, “Much of the credit of opening Vijaynagar must go to our gallant Inspector General of Assam Rifles (IGAR), Ajit Guraya, who with his tough band of Gorkhali Jawans, trekked for two weeks through thick, pestilential jungle to reach the broad and lovely valley that bears today the name of his son Vijay,” the memorandum said. JS Rawat, a Vijaynagar resident and part of the four-member delegation that met defence minister Singh, told The Telegraph, they have conveyed their problems with necessary background and documents. The delegation was accompanied by Darjeeling MP Raju Bista who even spoke to Arunachal East MP Tapir Gao. “The arson was the latest threat we faced. We have been facing similar threats from before. We did not settle on our own in Vijaynagar and we don’t want any confrontation with any organisation or indigenous tribes. “We want peaceful coexistence and this can be achieved only when the Centre and the state government permanently settle our land and other problems. Our forefathers came to Vijaynagar in the country’s interests and it is now the country’s responsibility to look after our interests. “There was no question of lease when we were settled, this was incorporated by the state government 20 years after we were settled in Vijaynagar,” Rawat said. The defence minister has “assured” all possible security measures for their safety in Vijaynagar and also to take up the matter with the state government to find a permanent solution, Rawat said, adding they have been living in “sub-human” conditions for ages now but we are staying put to safeguard the nation’s interest, which was the “only” objective of our settlement. “Security has been beefed up after the arson but what will happen after security is withdrawn. That is why we want a permanent solution,” Rawat said, adding they were also planning to move the Supreme Court which is “aware” of their problems. “In 1982, we moved the apex court in 1982 seeking resolution of our problems.” The All Yobin Students’ Union has claimed the crackdown launched by security forces has triggered panic in the area, leading to harassment of the public. Seeking withdrawal of security forces, the Union also alleged that the administration has suspended internet service forcing people to walk five-six days to Miao to send “one” message. Vijaynagar, one of the remotest administrative circle in the country, received 2G mobile service through BSNL only in August. The Yobin community, the AYSU said, will continue its fight to protect its land at all cost. Yobins, also known as Lisus, are also found in Myanmar and China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-29
