24-12-2020||North East||Meghalaya centre to regulate visitors at Umling||Meghalaya inaugurated its first facilitation centre for those visiting the state at Umling on Monday, a development that comes amid the growing demand by pressure groups to regulate the entry and exit of visitors to check influx. The Umling centre will regulate the flow of tourists and other travellers to Shillong, one of the most sought-after tourist destinations in the region. The inauguration of the 24X7 centre in Ri Bhoi district bordering Assam’s Kamrup (M) district by deputy chief minister Prestone Tynsong came on a day the state reopened its doors to tourists after nine months because of the Covid-19 pandemic. A tourist/visitor will now have to mandatorily register himself by providing his personal details with his photograph and his place of stay in Meghalaya through a state tourism app. He will then get an e-invite, which has to be shown at the facilitation centre along with the Covid-19 negative certificate before resuming his journey. Tynsong said two such centres would also come up at Bajengdoba in Garo Hills and Ratacherra in East Jaintia Hills. The state has plans to set up 12 such centres across all entry points. Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma, who has tested positive for the coronavirus, tweeted: “ Meghalaya reopens for #Tourism today & our tourists have already checked in at the Centre.” The centre is being run by the tourism and health department. “Registration is mandatory now. One can register online or manually at the facilitation centre but it is advisable to do it online and also carry the Covid-free test report for smooth entry. The centre will help us keep track of tourists and visitors in these corona-hit times. We have enough people to man the centre to ensure a smooth passage. So far, everything has been smooth,” M.B. Tongper, ADC in-charge of Umling Entry Point, told The Telegraph on Wednesday. Built at a cost of Rs 2.70 crore, the centre has a registration counter, infiltration cell, Covid-19 testing centre and a cafeteria among others. Sources said the Umling facilitation centre or other such proposed centres would eventually become entry-exit check points under the inner-line permit (ILP) and the Meghalaya Residents’ Safety and Security Act (MRSSA) when they are approved. The demand to regulate the entry of outsiders/tourists through the ILP and the implementation of the MRSSA gathered momentum after the Centre pushed the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which made it easy for non-Muslims from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan to acquire Indian citizenship. In the Northeast, Tripura (856km), Meghalaya (443km), Assam (262km) and Mizoram (180km) share border with Bangladesh. Sources said the facilitation centres would later turn into ILP or MRSAA entry points. Robertjune Kharjahrin, chairman of the Confederation of Meghalaya Social Organisation (CoMSO), which is among the organisations seeking the introduction of the ILP and the MRSSA, welcomed the move. “We welcome it because something is better than nothing. This will instil some confidence in the indigenous people of the state. But we hope the governor will give his assent to the amendments to the MRSSA soon. The amendments will further strengthen the Act,” Kharjahrin said. The MRSSA seeks to address the issue of infiltration to the state by keeping tab on those visiting the state among others. Kharjahrin also hoped the Centre, too, will honour the concerns of the people of Meghalaya by introducing the ILP, a colonial era system restricting movement of outsiders to tribal areas. Meghalaya governor Satya Pal Malik on Tuesday met Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi and discussed the issues related to both the ILP and the MRSSA as the pressure groups are seeking concrete results on the twin issues. The Meghalaya Assembly had on December 19, 2019, adopted a resolution seeking ILP, a travel document, which is currently required  to enter Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Manipur and Nagaland. Khasi Students’ Union (KSU) president Lambokstar Marngar  said the ILP was a must to “protect” the identity of the state’s indigenous people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-29
24-12-2020||North East||Unity call to local parties for Bodoland Territorial Council||Call for regional parties to jointly form the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) gathered momentum in the run-up to Thursday’s floor test as mandated by Gauhati High Court. Justice Suman Shyam had on Tuesday ordered a “composite floor test” before December 26 to decide the new BTC chief executive member. Justice Shyam said the process of election of a CEM is a democratic process. “Therefore, it cannot be denied that the newly appointed CEM would be under a constitutional obligation to prove his majority in the floor of the house,” he said. The court also said the voting rights of the six nominated members “shall remain suspended till such time, the “composite floor test” is held and that the newly appointed CEM Pramod Boro shall “not” take any major policy decision till the holding of the floor test as directed by this court. The floor test has been scheduled from 10am on Thursday. Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) chief Hagrama Mohilary was the first to issue an appeal for unity among regional parties after the court order. He said it was not important who becomes the CEM but a regional party should lead the BTC. He added that all regional parties — BPF, United People's Party Liberal, Asom Gana Parishad, Gana Suraksha Party — should come together to run the BTC, an appeal which was seen as a last-ditch effort to “keep out” the BJP which had helped forge a three-party post-poll alliance to end BPF’s uninterrupted 17-year rule of the BTC since 2003. On Wednesday, former Lok Sabha MP Sansuma Khunggur Bwiswmuthiary issued a similar appeal  for unity among Bodo parties to form the BTC by leaving out the national parties. The Bodo Sahitya Sabha followed suit, appealing to the UPPL and the BPF to come together in the overall interests of the Bodo community. However, UPPL chief Pramod Boro, who has the numbers going into the floor test, has rebuffed Mohilary’s request, accusing the BPF chief of double-speak. Boro said Mohilary is appealing for unity among regional parties and is himself in touch with the ruling BJP, making it clear he was with the three-party alliance. The BJP had gone all out to unseat the BPF by making corruption a key poll plank  even though both are in alliance in the state government. It went with the UPPL and GSP even after BPF publicly sought its help to form the council. Since anti-defection law does not apply to the BTC,   both the three-party post-poll alliance and the BPF are keeping a close tab on their flocks since the results were declared on December 12. Already the lone Congress member and a BPF member have joined the alliance. Elected members of the alliance were first kept in a Guwahati and then shifted to Shillong. They returned on Wednesday. The BPF too kept some of its members in Phuentsholing, a border town in south Bhutan, about 138 km from Kokrajhar. The recently-concluded BTC polls had thrown up a hung house with the BPF emerging as the single largest party with 17 of the 40 seats, UPPL 12, BJP 9 and Gana Suraksha Pary (GSP) and Congress one each. However, the UPPL-BJP-GSP forged a post-poll alliance and on staked claim to form the council on December 13 which was accepted by the governor Jagdish Mukhi on the same day, announcing the oath-taking on December 15. The BPF as the single largest party too had staked claim on December 14 but after the swearing in of the new BTC chief Boro on December 15,  Mohilary along with other members moved the court  on December 18 against Boro and 16 others. Mohilary had been the chief  of the autonomous council covering four districts – Kokrajhar, Baksa, Udalguri and Chirang -- since its establishment in 2003 before Governor’s rule was imposed in April. Senior counsel Devajit Saikia, who represented the Governor and the BTC, told the Telegraph that the high court has not interfered with the appointment of the CEM, deputy CEM or the three EMs but has directed them to face the floor test on or before December 26. The petitioners had contended that the appointment of the new CEM (December 14 notification), executive members and nominated members (December 16 notification) were “ex-facie illegal, having been issued in violation of statutory provisions and therefore, are liable to be set aside by this Court”. They had prayed for an  interim order suspending the voting rights of the nominated members “until such time, CEM is appointed as per law”. Senior counsel Nilay Dutta assisted by A Bhuyan represented the petitioners. The case will come up for hearing on January 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-29
