27-12-2020||North East||Amit Shah launches campaign for Assam polls ||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday kicked off the ruling BJP’s campaign for the 2021 Assembly polls in Assam by launching a slew of projects and targeting the Congress and the new regional parties without naming them, but steering clear of the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act that is being widely opposed in the state. Participating in a massive government function at Amingaon in north Guwahati under Kamrup district, Shah launched several mega schemes, including laying the foundation stone for the development of the Batadrava Than in Nagaon district, the birthplace of saint-reformer Srimanta Sankakrdeva, into a spiritual tourism destination such as the Golden Temple in Punjab. He also distributed financial assistance of Rs 2.5 lakh each to 8,000 naamghars (community prayer hall) besides laying the foundation stone of a second medical college in Guwahati at a cost of Rs 755 crore and nine law colleges across the state. The projects to develop Batadrava Than at a cost of Rs 188 crore and naamghars at Rs 200 crore are aimed at reaching out to a group that has considerable influence on a large section of population, especially in rural areas. The projects to boost health and legal education sectors are an attempt to woo the youth. Shah said the development of naamghars would strengthten the cultural heritage and preserve the legacy of Srimanta Sankardeva. Shah lamented the fact that the previous Congress government in the state did not take any step to free the land of Batadrava Than encroached upon by illegal immigrants, which the incumbent government did. Silence on CAA Though Shah touched upon almost all issues ranging from flood and insurgency to health and education, he did not even once uttered the word CAA, which has triggered another round of protests led by student groups and anti-BJP parties in the state. Those opposed to the CAA feel it would pose a threat to Assam’s identity, culture and language. In his speech, Shah stressed the importance of protecting and preserving the language, literature, culture and heritage of Assam while dwelling on the development of Batadrava Than and naamghars as they were an integral part of the state’s culture. The CAA was passed by Parliament in December 2019 but rules for its implementation have not yet been framed. The AASU, at the forefront of the anti-CAA protests along with the KMSS and the AJYCP, was quick to question Shah’s silence on the contentious law, which is set to emerge as a key poll plank in 2021 state elections. The “imposition” of the law is cited as one of the reasons behind the formation of two new regional parties — Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) and Raijor Dal. “The people of Assam have seen through Shah and the BJP government’s promises and commitments. They are talking of protecting Assam’s culture but have imposed the CAA and have taken no step to implement Clause 6 of the 1985 Assam Accord. The MHA-constituted committee submitted its report early this year. Nothing has happened. They are silent the on CAA because they know why the new regional parties were formed ” AASU president  Dipanka nath told The Telegraph. Clause 6 promises constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards to protect, preserve and promote the culture, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people. The CAA makes it easier for non-Muslims from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan to acquire Indian citizenship. Attacking the Congress for not taking steps for the development of Assam and the Northeast, Shah listed the things the current government has done for the region such as releasing Rs 8,000 crore oil royalty to Assam, conferring Bharat Ratna to Dr Bhupen Hazarika and taking initiatives to usher in peace. He also lauded the state government for improving the education sector, offering scholarships and reaching out to the tea garden workers besides its appreciable efforts to combat Covid-19. Referring to the Congress and alluding to the groups indulging in agitations without naming either the AJP, Raijor Dal or the AASU, Shah urged the masses to strongly reject any effort to destabilise the state. He hoped the masses would always choose the BJP to lead the state towards peace, progress and development while ignoring the rumours and misinformation spread by the agitators. “The election season is coming. Some people will try to mislead the people by indulging agitations. Only youths have been martyred during agitation. But I want to ask what has agitation has given Assam? Has agitation led to development or creation of jobs? Some have floated a political party with the objective of splitting BJP votes... I want to ask Congress what it has done for the state? Can they do anything? Can they check influx? Can they develop Assam?” Shah said. Grand welcome Shah reached Guwahati just before midnight on Friday. He was accorded a grand welcome at the airport. Around 10,000 diyas were lit on both sides of the road from the airport to the National Highway and around 3,000 artistes from different ethnic groups showcased traditional dances. The streets were also lit up at several places on the way to Amingaon where he spent the night. AICC general secretary Bhupen Kumar Borah said the grand welcome accorded to Shah on “a cold Friday night” is a direct challenge to the people of Assam by the ruling BJP, which has “imposed” the CAA, among others. “People should realise this and give a fitting response in 2021,” Borah said. Assam PCC media department chief Bobbeeta Sharma questioned why were artistes were made to perform in the cold. “It is total disregard for the artiste community. They are silent on the CAA,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-28
27-12-2020||North East||Congress leaders seek new Assam chief ||Six senior Congress leaders from poll-bound Assam have written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi to change state PCC president Ripun Bora and appoint “anyone” whom the high command deems fit to lead the state unit in next year’s Assembly elections. Party insiders told The Telegraph on Friday that the letter, written on August 19 when Harish Rawat was the Assam minder, seeking a change of guard was signed by three sitting MPs — Pradyut Bordoloi, Ranee Narah, Abdul Khaleque, Congress legislature party leader Debabrata Saikia and two AICC secretaries — Bhupen Kumar Borah and Rana Goswami. 
Rawat was replaced by general secretary Jitendra Singh in September. APCC insiders, privy to the letter, said they were “compelled” to reveal about the letter after “waiting” for over four months so that the high command could take appropriate and corrective steps before it was too late. As on day, the state unit was drifting, faction-ridden and faced the risk of suffering another humiliating defeat at the hustings. The Congress had won 26 of the 126 Assembly seats in 2016 after three straight terms at Dispur at the hand of the BJP-led alliance. The letter by the six leaders is significant development because Bordoloi, Saikia and Borah are seen as possible contenders for the top post but have “collectively” conveyed to the high command that Bora needs to be changed because, among others, he “lacks” intra-party acceptability, the party’s lacklustre performance under him, the push to stitch an alliance with the AIUDF without detailed discussion and the CBI challenging his acquittal in the 2000 tea tribe leader Daniel Topno murder case, all “hindering” to the “emergence” of the Congress as a serious contender in 2021. The Gauhati High Court will hear the Topno case next month. Bora, who was acquitted by the lower court in 2014 for lack of sufficient evidence, says the case is a political conspiracy against him. Bora was appointed PCC president in 2016. Though three of the signatories to the letter this correspondent contacted declined to comment, the Congress insiders said there has been no change in the situation within the state unit since August when the letter was sent to the party president. Instead the state unit has been in the news for the “wrong” reasons of late, they said, citing the dismal performance in back-to-back autonomous council polls (BTC and Tiwa), a PCC general secretary Bithika Baruah going public about Bora’s alleged misconduct, a  “promising” leader in Kamal Kumar Medhi quitting the party citing “lack of strategy and seriousness” to take on the BJP in the 2021 polls. Then there was AIUDF chief Badruddin Ajmal in a TV interview advising party leaders to unitedly fight the Congress, a sitting MLA Sherman Ali Ahmad indirectly criticising Bora over handling the Ajanta Neog issue. Neog, a senior MLA, was on Friday expelled from the party for anti-party activities. She is reportedly set to join the BJP. “Moreover, new parties such as the AJP (Assam Jatiya Parishad) and Raijor Dal are more in the news, trying to emerge as an alternative to BJP, a position which should have been ours in the run-up to the polls. But what are we doing: we are collecting signatures in support of Bora with just over 100 days left for the polls. We also need to find out why people are leaving,” one of the insiders said. “There is even “no” clarity on pre-poll alliances or the issues we will be flagging. It is not enough to claim there is anti-government sentiment unless we can come up with a positive, concrete, doable and an inspiring narrative,” a party insider added, hoping the Congress high command would take some prompt corrective steps to take on a well-entrenched and well-oiled BJP poll juggernaut. Reacting to the development, Assam PCC media department chief Bobbeeta Sharma said the party gave its best in the council polls and will work even harder in 2021. On people leaving the party or speaking out of turn, she said such developments are taking place everywhere, whether it is in Assam or Bengal. “There are opportunists in every party. Sometimes people also leave to avoid harassment. I have not heard what the MLA (Ahmed) has said but then we are all mature enough, we should to know where to draw the line. “One cannot blame the president for these developments. We need to respect the chair,” Sharma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-29
