02-09-2021||Anirudh Gupta||BSF foils smuggling bid in Ferozepur; Pakistani national held, heroin seized||Ferozepur, September 2A Pakistani smuggler was arrested while two others managed to flee near BOP Satpal in Ferozepur sector on Thursday morning.The Pakistani smuggler was nabbed by the BSF after he got injured in the firing opened by the jawans to thwart cross-border smuggling attempt.According to information, the BSF jawans belonging to 136 Battalion deputed near BOP Satpal observed suspicious movement involving three Pakistani intruders who were trying to sneak into the Indian territory at around 2.30 am.The BSF troops challenged them; however, the intruders continued to move towards the Indian side. The BSF jawans started firing at them following which one of the intruders got injured while two managed to escape.Sources said that at around 6 am, two Pakistani nationals who had fled earlier, came back for their injured partner following which the BSF jawans fired at them.Later, during the search, the injured Pakistani national, Irshad, was found around 40 metres away from the IB. He had suffered a bullet injury on his thigh and was admitted to the civil hospital here.During the search, two packets of heroin weighing 2.125 kg were recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-foils-smuggling-bid-in-ferozepur-pakistani-national-held-heroin-seized-305536
02-09-2021||---||Cowshed operator’s suicide: CIA Staff in-charge booked, but no action against Kartarpur MLA so far||Jalandhar, September 1The cowshed operator suicide case took a new turn today after the Lambra police registered an FIR against Inspector Pushp Bali, in-charge, CIA Staff, here. Before consuming poison, the deceased Dharamveer Dhamma had reportedly blamed him and Kartarpur Congress MLA Chaudhary Surinder Singh, among three others for forcing him to take such an extreme step.While the police had been denying the involvement of the cop and the Congress MLA, the development took place after the family members of the deceased refused to cremate his body unless any action was taken against them. So, the police preferred to book the CIA in charge to give a leeway to their political boss and the MLA. The local BJP leaders also protested against the inaction by the police today and demanded action against Chaudhary. Victim's statement on Facebook and his dying declarationThe deceased attempted suicide by consuming some poisonous substance two days ago and the doctors declared him dead on Tuesday morning. Hours after his death, the rural police booked three persons — Sanjeev Kala, Gautak Mohan and Shri Ram —for abetment to suicide. Pushp Bali was booked today. But Kartarpur Congress MLA Surinder Chaudhary, whom Dhamma claimed to be the key accused in his video, has so far been exempted from the case.Operator of the Govind Dham Gaushala, Dhamma live streamed his suicide on Facebook in which he alleged that after getting fed up with them, he was going to commit suicide. He was seen consuming poison. He had accused the MLA and the cop of making his life miserable by repeatedly threatening him and asking him to close the gaushala.“My father had clearly accused the MLA for forcing him to commit suicide. Without informing me and without my consent, my statement was shown to have been recorded by the police even as I was not in a position to speak. They were trying to save the real culprit which is unfair to us. Now that the CIA in charge has been booked, the police have given an escape to the MLA. We want both of them to be arrested,” said Abhishek Bakshi, elder son of Dharamveer.Abhishek’s younger brother Mandeep Bakshi told that his whole family was disturbed due to his father’s death. “What’s more annoying is inaction against the culprits. The district administration should swing into action to arrest all the accused, mentioned by my father”, added Mandeep.Meanwhile, Rural Police SSP Naveen Singla said the police were carefully monitoring the case. “Yesterday the FIR was registered based on the statements of Abhishek. Dharamveer was unfit to make any statement. Whereas considering the Supreme Court guidelines, the Facebook live video of the deceased would also be checked before taking any action. After Abhishek gave supplementary statements today, the police immediately booked Pushp Bali. Besides, roles of all the individuals, including the MLA, will be verified,” added Singla.Notably, a complaint was also registered against Abhishek Bakshi at CIA department against extortion. The case was being handled by Bali.Demanding action against the MLA and Bali, advocate Ashok Sareen, vice-president, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, Punjab, wrote a letter to DGP Dinkar Gupta, Chief Justice Punjab and Haryana High Court, CM Amarinder Singh and the State Human Rights Commission.Despite repeated attempts, Chaudhary Surinder Singh did not take phone calls. He, however, has earlier denied any involvement in the matter and terms it to be politically targeted against him.‘Police inaction to blame’Abhishek’s younger brother Mandeep Bakshi told that his whole family was disturbed due to his father's death. “What's more annoying is inaction against the culprits. The district administration should swing into action to arrest all accused, mentioned by my father,” added Mandeep. Meanwhile, Rural Police SSP Naveen Singla said the police were carefully monitoring the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cowshed-operators-suicide-cia-staff-in-charge-booked-but-no-action-against-kartarpur-mla-so-far-305412
02-09-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Firms support farm stir, move machinery from Adani Dry Port at Kila Raipur||Mandi Ahmedgarh, Sept 1The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) movement against the alleged nexus between the Union Government and certain corporate houses over the issue of implementation of the three controversial farm laws received a shot in the arm as some companies operating container services started withdrawing their heavy machinery from the Adani Dry Port at Kila Raipur near here.The development took place when protestors categorically declined the advice of the administration to lift the dharna from the dry port.The contractors and companies providing services at the dry port till now have declared that they would support the Kisan Morcha and would not deal with the company in the future.“That I will have no relation with Adani Company after receiving my two heavy Hystertl Star machines and I will not deal with the company in future too,” reads the concluding paragraph of an affidavit signed by the proprietor of M/s Punjab Container Services, a service provider said.Office-bearers and activists of various outfits organising dharna at the main gate of the Adani Dry Port said the corporate sector in general and Adanis and Ambanis in particular had started facing social boycott in the country. Harnek Singh Dhalliwal, convener of the action programme, claimed that companies and contractors providing services at the dry port had started supporting the farmers’ struggle. “Some of them have requested us to allow themto remove their machinery and material, which we will allow, provided they give in writing to boycott the port,” said Dhalliwal, maintaining that some heavy machinery was allowed to move out after taking undertakings.He further said that the organising committee comprising office-bearers of various kisan unions had categorically declined the administration’s appeal to lift the dharna or shift the venue on pretext of a case filed by Adanis in Punjab and Haryana High Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/firms-support-farm-stir-move-machinery-from-adani-dry-port-at-kila-raipur-305404
02-09-2021||Lovleen Bains||Farmers' protest mars Sukhbir Badal’s rally in Sahnewal||Sahnewal, September 1Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Badal’s visit here today was marred by a protest and sloganeering. As his cavalcade reached Sahnewal, members of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), chiefly the Rajewal and Kadian groups, gave vent to their anger against the three farm laws.Also read:Farm protesters gherao Bikram Singh Majithia in Sri Hargobindpur14 booked for damaging cars at Sukhbir Badal's Machhiwara Sahib rallyBlock president of Kadian group Rajvir Singh and general secretary Mandeep Singh accused Badals of initiating and leading the final passing of the three contentious laws, which they said were sure to plunder and bring the farming community on the roads. They also condemned his 100-day rally, which they said was primarily to secure his party’s position in the coming elections and not for the welfare or concern for the farming community.Had his tour been for the cause of the farmers, he would have stood in their support, they said. The protesters also accused the SAD for being a mute spectator in the Bargari incident, despite the fact that it had the power to reign in truth and justice at that time.The police had a tough time handling the protesters and bringing the situation under control. Meanwhile, addressing a huge gathering at a local palace, Sukhbir asked people to vote in favour of development and farsightedness. Reiterating the 13-point agenda of the SAD- BSP alliance, he said each and every section of the society shall get its due within a stipulated period of time.Addressing his rally, named ‘Gal Punjab Di’, he said “Ours is the party which knows how to fulfil promises made in the election manifesto, be it the completion of flyovers, electricity projects, 24-hour power supply to industry and farming community, increase in old-age pension, special package to riot victims, employment to youths, sports quota for excelling players or free higher education, especially for girls. This we promised and delivered during our tenure but as opposed to this, theCongress has failed to fulfil its promises,” said the SAD president.“Congress stands as a divided party today. When a party has failed to keep its own house in order, when will it find time to look towards the general public? The party leaders are seeking majority votes within the party itself. It does not have the capacity to reach out to the common man and solve his problems. Rather, the Congress is patronising gangsters and thus leading to lawlessness,” he expressed.Terming the Congress and AAP party leaders as liars, he said no party could flourish on the foundation of falsehood and deceit. “The SAD is known for its performance, which it shall, once again, prove if voted to power,” Sukhbir asserted. “SAD was the only party that stood up against the Centre by voting against the three black laws in Parliament, even as both the Congress and AAP backed out. The war is on but only those warriors who have stayed committed throughout, shall come out victorious at the end of the day,” he expressed.Earlier, Sahnewal MLA Sharanjit Singh Dhillon and senior Youth Akali leader Simranjit Singh Dhillon welcomed the SAD president and assured that they would leave no stone unturned to strengthen the party and make it victorious in the coming elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-mars-sukhbir-badals-rally-in-sahnewal-305395
02-09-2021||---||Teachers ‘overworked’ due to National Achievement Survey||Amritsar, September 1Over the last few days, members of the Joint Teachers’ Front have been holding multiple protests against the Education Department and Education Secretary, per say, calling out the latter for his dictatorial attitude towards teachers and disrupting classroom learning through the National Achievement Survey (NAS) preparations.On Wednesday, teachers of government schools, on the call of Joint Teachers’ Front, burnt the effigy of Education Secretary in front of the office of the District Education Officer (DEO).The Education Department in the district has been running training workshops with a teams of mentors to prepare students for NAS, which will be conducted in November.Recently, the Education Department had also constituted various committees at district, block, cluster and school level to ensure smooth preparation for NAS. Meanwhile, teachers are raising concerns over the hype being given to NAS over classroom learning. “For the last few days, the only word being uttered by the authorities is NAS. The National Achievement Survey, which estimates the level of education in states, through evaluating learning outcome of students, is being used as a tool to sideline classroom learning. Education Secretary is weaving a net of false statistics through an unconstitutional framework, taking into account the essence of real school education and the curriculum. However, the education of the children for one-and-a-half years has already lagged far behind due to the lockdown and schools remaining shut. To prepare for this survey, teachers are being harassed and overburdened, while students, too, are feeling the pressure,” said Vikram Dev Singh, state president, Democratic Teachers’ Front.Several teachers, who were part of different teachers’ unions, have openly spoken against the lapses in online education throughout the pandemic. “There were huge shortcomings in accessing all students through online classes. Despite the state government distributing smartphones to students of Class XII, many students from junior classes and middle classes failed to have access to uninterrupted education. We are not against NAS, but it should not be made the only parameter to judge the performance of a student,” said Ashwini Awasthi, a teacher and district convenor, Joint Teachers’ Front.The protesters said teachers were being pressured to perform academic and non-academic duties as well. “Online education cannot be a compulsory alternative to real school education. Online papers of children are being sent despite the opening of schools and pressure is being exerted to ensure 100 per cent participation in projects to advance in the race of statistics,” said Ashwini.Meanwhile, DEO Satinderbir Singh said the NAS is conducted every three years and doesn’t require a separate syllabus.“It is an MCQ-based test that requires knowledge of regular classroom learning. Teachers have been constituted under committees for training students, by preparing mock test papers and sharing these with students. We have been trying to change the methodology of classroom teaching to enhance learning outcome. Whether it’s the issue of being overworked or pay upgrade, the matter is between the state government and teachers.”Slam Edu Dept policies Tarn Taran: Government schoolteachers under the banner of Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha organised a protest in Tarn Taran on Wednesday against the policies of the Education Department. The protesting teachers burnt an effigy of the department and sought the removal of the Education Secretary. The protesters said the teachers would hold parallel functions on Teacher’s Day (September 5) to expose the department. The leaders said the officials were forcing teachers to present report based on lies. They also condemned the anti-teacher recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission report. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/teachers-overworked-due-to-national-achievement-survey-305213
02-09-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Renegotiate power tariff: Harish Rawat to Capt Amarinder Singh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 1Congress general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat, after a three-hour-long meeting with CM Capt Amarinder Singh here today, said he had asked the latter to renegotiate the power rates with private companies. At the same time, citing legal limitations, he said all power purchase agreements (PPAs) could not be cancelled.This is contrary to the stand taken by Punjab Pradesh Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and dissidents, who want all PPAs scrapped. Sidhu is learnt to be in Delhi to meet the party top brass.“The people of Punjab can expect some relief. I have asked the CM to renegotiate power tariff with private companies. Providing 300 units of free power too is on the agenda,” Rawat said. Toeing the CM’s line, he said any decision on the central farm laws must be taken keeping in mind the constitutional constraints.“The Punjab Government has been pro-active on the farmers’ issue. But the Punjab Governor did not forward the amendments to the farm laws passed in the Punjab Assembly. Ihave asked the Chief Minister to take the best possible legal steps to be seen standing firmly with the farmers,” he said.Sidhu and dissidents have been demanding rejection of the farm laws on the floor of the Punjab Assembly. On drugs, without naming anybody, Rawat observed: “One particular person has gone scot-free. I have asked Captain to take up the case in the High Court”.Prior to his meeting with the CM, Rawat said he had strongly taken up the concerns of ministers and MLAs with the Chief Minister . “They have raised important issues. We should not test the patience of the people,” he remarked. Rawat also met Partap Singh Bajwa, MP, ministers Rana Gumeet Sodhi, Balbir Sidhu and OP Soni, MLAs Barindermeet Pahra, Raja Warring and Dr Raj Kumar Chabbewal and a delegation led by Anish Sidana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/renegotiate-power-tariff-harish-rawat-to-capt-amarinder-singh-305138
02-09-2021||Sonepat||R-Day violence: Delhi Police resume issuing notices||Pulled up by a court last month, the Delhi Police have resumed serving notices on farmers, asking them to join the probe into the Republic Day violence. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) called it an act of spreading fear among the farmers.The notices have been issued under Section 160 of the CrPC.The legal panel of the SKM has asked the farmers not to appear before the Delhi Police. A Delhi court had pulled up the police while hearing the anticipatory bail plea of gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana. “The Delhi Police, which filed 44 FIRs against farmers, began serving notices in January-end. Of these FIRs, 24 carry the names of farmers or farm leaders,” said Prem Singh Bhangu, convener, SKM’s legal panel. Some farmers had been asked to join the investigation on September 3, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/r-day-violence-delhi-police-resume-issuing-notices-305148
02-09-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini had collapsed in lock-up||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 1Former Punjab Police DGP Sumedh Singh Saini had collapsed in Vigilance Bureau custody probably due to exhaustion on the intervening night of August 18-19, a leaked CCTV video has revealed. The clip shows the entire drama of the controversial arrest, which the Punjab and Haryana High Court declared illegal later.Also read: Assets case: Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini seeks 15 days to join probeThe recordings by various CCTV cameras installed at the Vigilance office show Saini along with his lawyer coming out of a car that stopped outside the office around 8:01 pm on August 18. CCTV footage leakedSaini had come to join the investigation in an alleged case of corruption against him and a suspended XEN of the PWD. Saini was wearing a mask and a hat. He and his lawyer spoke to the guards, who in turn called up senior officials. At 8:22 pm, some senior officials reached the venue. They grabbed Saini by his arms and took him inside the building. The next video clip is of the ground floor lock-up. Around 1:38 am, Saini was seen standing against the wall when he suddenly collapsed. He had till that time chosen to stay awake as his lawyers were trying to get him released. The door of the lock-up was open and five Vigilance officials outside were keeping an eye on him. They later came to his help.The case remained politically sensitive as the CM shifted the Home Secretary on the demand of a minister, who also sought removal of the Vigilance chief and Advocate General.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-punjab-dgp-sumedh-singh-saini-had-collapsed-in-lock-up-305150
02-09-2021||Abohar||Car hits tree, woman dies||Rs16.3 cr to purchase booksChandigarh: On the directions of School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla, the department released Rs16.33-crore grant for the purchase of books during academic session 2021-22. The aim is to raise the standard of school libraries. There are currently 12,830 primary, 2,655 upper primary, 1,697 secondary and 1,963 senior secondary schools in the state. TNSPatwaris to resume workChandigarh: Additional Chief Secretary-cum-Revenue Financial Commissioner Ravneet Kaur said the issues of patwaris and kanungos had been resolved and they would resume work in additional patwar circles with immediate effect. She said after several meetings their genuine demands had been met. TNS7-day remand for terror suspectTarn Taran: Saroop Singh (36), a resident of Jauhal Dhai Wala village falling under Goindwal Sahib police station, who was arrested by the local city police, was produced in the court on Tuesday and sent to seven-day police remand. The police had recovered two hand grenades from his possession. OC8 smugglers nabbed in MogaMoga: The police have arrested eight smugglers who were involved in the illegal business of selling heroin, narcotic pills and liquor. Police officials said criminal cases under the NDPS Act had been registered against them at the respective police stations and further investigations were in progress. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/car-hits-tree-woman-dies-305302
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Farm union criticises Sukhbir Singh Badal’s statement||Members of the Kirti Kisan Union condemned SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal’s statement issued on Tuesday, wherein he said anti-social elements in the guise of farmers had entered the ongoing farmers’ protest. KKU president Nirbhay Singh Dhudike and vice-president Rajinder Singh Deepsinghwala alleged rather corporates in the guise of Akalis were heading the ‘Panthic’ party. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-union-criticises-sukhbir-singh-badals-statement-305301
02-09-2021||Mansa||SKM leader Ruldu Singh Mansa gets Punjab Police security cover||Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Ruldu Singh Mansa has got security cover from the Mansa police. Mansa’s camp (protest site at Tikri) was attacked last month by some unidentified persons and he has also been getting threats on social media platforms recently. “I have decided to take the cover after the decision was unanimously taken in the Punjab Kisan Union meeting,” Mansa said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/skm-leader-ruldu-singh-mansa-gets-punjab-police-security-cover-305300
02-09-2021||Fazilka||13 arrested for illegal mining in Fazilka district||As many as 13 persons were arrested and four booked for illegal sand mining in Fazilka district in August as the practice is going on unabated in the border area, particularly along the Sutlej, which passes through several villages in the district.Information gathered by The Tribune revealed 13 sand-laden tractor trailers were impounded by the police during this period. The scheme of selling sand through the online system introduced on September 12 last year has virtually fizzled out. “Hardly anyone has applied for online sale in the district,” said Junior Engineer (Mining) Rajiv Behl. The department officials at Fazilka have no separate record of those who applied for online purchase of sand in the district. According to Behl, presently no legal quarry is in operation in Fazilka district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/13-arrested-for-illegal-mining-in-fazilka-district-305299
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||‘Innovation Mission Punjab’ launched||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday launched ‘Innovation Mission Punjab’ (IMPunjab), a public-private partnership to bring in the global investors and experts to catalyse startups making Punjab one of the top three states in innovation.The Chief Minister said the mission was a unique public-private partnership, championed by the private sector with strong government backing. As partners Department of Agriculture, Industries and Commerce, Mandi Board and Startup Punjab are providing over Rs 30 crore in cash and kind, including operating expenses for the first three years, 10-year rent-free lease for 12,000 sq ft at Kalkat Bhavan and support to startups and incubators in the state.The Chief Minister said the mission would mobilise a global pool of ambassadors and partners for investment, mentorship and market access. He added that the mission would also leverage the strength of the Punjabi diaspora, allowing them to partake in this renewed growth story of Punjab. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/innovation-mission-punjab-launched-305298
02-09-2021||Abohar||Cotton fetches better price in Abohar mandi||The purchase of cotton started at the new grain market here within hours of arrival on Wednesday. District Beopar Mandal president Naresh Pal Bansal, owner of Bansal Industries, purchased more than 1,500 quintals of ‘narma’ cotton from different farmers through arhtiya firms at the rate of Rs 6,721.The price was higher than the last year as narma cotton was sold in December at the rate of Rs 5,650. Farmer Gurpreet Singh said areas under cotton were likely to give more produce this time if the rain did not affect plants in the coming days. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cotton-fetches-better-price-in-abohar-mandi-305297
02-09-2021||Ropar||Pests damage maize on 4,500 acres in Ropar||A survey conducted by the Ropar Agriculture Department revealed fall armyworm pest had damaged maize crop on over 4,500 acres from 50 to 100 per cent in Nurpur Bedi. The damage in the district is set to increase as a survey inthe Anandpur Sahib and Nangal areas has also started.Total 21,000 hectares in the district are under maize crop. According to Ropar chief agriculture officer Avtar Singh, due to the attack, more than 75 per cent of the crop had been damaged in 2,053 acres in the Nurpur Bedi block. The damage in 2,508 acres had been noticed between 50 per cent and 75 per cent, he added.Similarly, the damage was between 25 per cent and 50 per cent in 858 acres while loss up to 25 per cent of the crop had been noticed in 452 acres. DC Sonali Giri said she had written to the state government to get a special girdawari conducted to assess the crop loss due to the attack. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pests-damage-maize-on-4-500-acres-in-ropar-305296
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Kin of Ropar fake encounter victims get Rs 4L relief||A special CBI court in Mohali today released compensation of Rs 2 lakh each to the kin of Gurmail Singh and Kuldeep Singh, both victims of the 1993 Ropar fake encounter.It was stated that on February 1, 1993, a police team was attacked by some unidentified persons while recovering arms near Bhaddal village. The duo, alleged terrorists, was killed in the cross-fire between the attackers and the police. Later, the accused cops cremated the duo.The court had on February 27, 2019, awarded life imprisonment to former SHO Harjinder Pal Singh.Two other accused, the then DSP Avtar Singh and ASI Bachan Dass, were also held guilty, but not jailed.The court had imposed a fine of Rs 5 lakh on the SHO. Avtar Singh and Bachan Dass were fined Rs 20,000 each. They were ordered to pay the compensation to the widows of the deceased.The CBI had registered a case in May 1997 on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kin-of-ropar-fake-encounter-victims-get-rs-4l-relief-305295
02-09-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Airlines overbook flights, deny boarding pass to students||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 1Hundreds of Punjab students going to Canada via Mexico are being denied boarding passes by airlines, which are reportedly engaged in the practice of overbooking flights.The students, who are being harassed and forced to stay longer and spend more on their stay in hotels, taxis and food, have been using social media platforms to share their videos and messages. They have also been tweeting to the Indian embassy and the officials concerned seeking help for getting boarding passes.Pankaj Dhawan of Ferozepur said, “My daughter had left from here on August 27. She was to go to Canada via Paris-Mexico route. There was an 18-hour halt at Mexico after which she was to take a connecting flight to Canada. But she did not get a boarding pass and was told to wait till September 18. She had to spend Rs 15,000 daily for taxis, hotel stay and food. On the fourth day today, after the intervention of the Indian embassy which she had contacted via Twitter, she finally got a boarding pass.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/airlines-overbook-flights-deny-boarding-pass-to-students-305294
02-09-2021||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court extends directions on justice mechanism||Chandigarh, September 1Amid apprehensions of a Covid third wave, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has further extended till September 15 its directions on streamlining the justice delivery mechanism during the pandemic. It includes instructions to the police to desist from arresting the accused, unless necessary for maintenance of law and order situation in a cognisable offence prescribing sentence up to seven-year imprisonment. In all, the Bench extended the operation of nearly 10 commandments initially issued on April 28.Pandemic normsThe directions include instructions to the police to desist from arresting the accused during the pandemic, unless necessary for maintenance of law and order situation in a cognisable offence prescribing sentence up to seven-year imprisonment.The direction came after amicus curiae Anupam Gupta placed before the Bench certain material highlighting the prevailing situation in India and other countries due to the pandemic. The Bench observed it was germane to the issues being examined “and also if the interim arrangements/orders made by this court need to be continued”.The Bench had previously extended the operation of interim orders, directions and protection granted by it or any other tribunal, judicial or quasi-judicial forums subordinate to it. It also included orders requiring compliance by the parties to such proceedings.The Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli added interim orders or directions by the High Court or any subordinate court, meant to operate till further orders, would remain in force till modified, altered or vacated by a specific order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-extends-directions-on-justice-mechanism-305293
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Judge recuses himself from hearing Punjab drugs case||The Punjab drugs case could not make any headway today after a judge recused himself from hearing the matter. The case will now be placed before the Chief Justice for further orders.“Be listed before some other Bench of which one of us (Ajay Tewari, J.) is not a member after soliciting orders from Hon’ble the Chief Justice,” the High Court asserted.The Bench had earlier made clear its intent to examine the inquiry reports submitted by during the past couple of year before proceeding further in the matter. The Special Division Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Ajay Tewari had also directed High Court Registrar (Judicial) to produce the reports in the chambers before August-end.The directions came during the hearing of an application filed by advocate Navkiran Singh for advancing the date of hearing in the case. Taking up the matter through videoconferencing, the Special Bench observed that it had been recently constituted, while the various inquiry reports were submitted two to three years back and were required to be perused.Appearing on the behalf of Lawyers for Human Rights International, counsel Navkiran Singh had earlier prayed that the Bench “may open” a report lying in a sealed cover in the case. He had contended the matter related to drug mafia operating in the state of Punjab and was having international tentacles. It was required to be dealt with on an urgent basis as it affected the lives of the Punjabi youth. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/judge-recuses-himself-from-hearing-punjab-drugs-case-305292
02-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Examine police-accused nexus in excise case: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 1The Punjab and Haryana High Court has recommended examination of the police-accused nexus for coming out with remedial measures after rapping the investigating agency for its inefficiency in an excise case. The admonition and direction to senior police functionaries came in a case where an accused woman applied for anticipatory bail 10 months after a police raid.The Bench took note of the fact that the accused was known to an Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI). Justice Avneesh Jhingan of the High Court also questioned the capability and professionalism with which the raids were carried out. “It would be appropriate to note that petitioner was known to one ASI and the period between the raid and making an application for anticipatory bail spans to 10 months. This itself is an indicator towards the efficiency with which these cases are being pursued by the investigating agency. If deemed appropriate, the higher officials may have a look in such cases for taking some remedial measures,” Justice Jhingan asserted.The petitioner, Jyoti, had moved the High Court seeking anticipatory bail in an FIR registered on October 23, 2020, under the provisions of the Punjab Excise Act at the Ghuman police station in Batala police district of Gurdaspur.Justice Jhingan, during the course of hearing, was told that the police received a tip-off on October 23, last year, regarding petitioner-Jyoti preparing liquor. Acting on the information, a raid was conducted. The petitioner was seen stirring a plastic drum at the corner of a house. On seeing the police, she ran away. She was earlier known to ASI Ravinder Singh, who recognised her and 30 kg of “lahan” (raw material used to prepare liquor) was recovered.Opposing the prayer for anticipatory bail, the state counsel submitted the petitioner was a habitual defaulter and involved in two more FIRs under the Punjab Excise Act. Her counsel, on the other hand, described it as a case of false implication. His stand before the court was that the petitioner was not at the spot and “lahan” was planted. “A usual story is put forth in this case that having a secret information raid is conducted and accused was able to flee. It raises a serious question on the ability and professionalism with which the raids are conducted,” Justice Jhingan said.Considering the facts and circumstances in totality, Justice Jhingan granted anticipatory bail to the petitioner, subject to her joining the probe within a week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/examine-police-accused-nexus-in-excise-case-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-305290
02-09-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Dry fruit import resumes from Afghanistan, but traders wary||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 1After a temporary suspension in the wake of the Taliban takeover, the import of Afghan dry fruit has resumed from the dry port at the Integrated Checkpost on the Attari-Wagah border. However, importers are panicky and want the situation to normalise.Anil Mehra, president of the Federation of Dry Fruit and Karyana Merchants, said banks of Afghanistan had resumed functioning after lying closed for over 10 days post the change in the government. He said a spike in the sale of dry fruit could be seen with the setting in of the winter and festivals, both of which were round the corner. “The number of wagons being imported daily goes up to 10 in October from three in September. Our counterparts in Kabul and Kandahar say harvested crops were waiting to be transported. However, Indian importers are extremely panicky and are desisting from placing enough orders, waiting for the situation to normalise.”However, BK Bajaj, president of the Indo-Foreign Chamber of Commerce, brushed aside any fear of long-term repercussions with the discontinuation of supplies from the Afghan market, saying its present share in the Indian dry fruit industry was just 10 per cent. The USA was the biggest supplier of dry fruit in India followed by Australia, Iran, Turkey and other countries.He said the recent spike in the prices of dry fruit in the northern parts of the country was due to temporary closure of supply from Afghanistan and its increased demand due to Raksha Bandhan. The 10 per cent hike in the prices of dry fruit came down after the festival, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dry-fruit-import-resumes-from-afghanistan-but-traders-wary-305288
02-09-2021||---||Covid-19: ‘Unrecorded’ deaths in Punjab now part of Health Department data||Chandigarh, September 1In what seems to be an attempt to underplay the death count, some districts kept on passing the Covid deaths as “discharged patients” during the second wave.This came to fore now as these “unrecorded deaths” are being added to the health department’s records. The department added 56 fresh deaths to its records in a single day on Tuesday.In the entire month of August, a total of 137 deaths were added to the Covid bulletin. But out of these, just 44 took place in August and the rest 93 took place in months of April and May.In district-wise break-up, Mansa health authorities seemed to be the worst record keeper as they failed to record 64 deaths. Out of these, 37 were passed on as “discharged patients”. It is followed by Fatehgarh Sahib with 11 unrecorded deaths, SBS Nagar (7), Patiala (6), Ferozepur (4), Pathankot (2) and Kapurthala and Tarn Taran with one each.The same practice was witnessed during the month of July, when “unrecorded deaths” made around 30 per cent of the total deaths of the July.Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state’s nodal officer for Covid, said most of these deaths that had gone unrecorded were from private hospitals and facilities located outside the state.As per records, a total of 16,431 persons have died due to Covid since the outbreak. However, the government found that in the Civil Registration System during the pandemic year, there were 52,656 excess deaths in Punjab as compared to previous years. A significant number of these were related to Covid. Thus, excess deaths in Punjab could be 2.8 times the reported Covid deaths. However, the state says that this ratio is lower as compared to other states from where data has been reported in the state media bulletins.Now, only second dose on Sundays||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-unrecorded-deaths-in-punjab-now-part-of-health-department-data-305286
02-09-2021||New Delhi||Balwinder Singh Sandhu case: Charges framed against 8 KLF terrorists||A special Mohali court framed charges against eight terrorists of the Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) in the case of killing of Balwinder Singh Sandhu, a Shaurya Chakra awardee, said the NIA today.In an official statement, the NIA said the charges had been framed against Sukhraj Singh, alias Sukha; Ravinder Singh; Akashdeep Arora, alias Dhaliwal; Jagroop Singh; Sukhdeep Singh, alias Bura; Gurjit Singh, alias Bhaa; Inderjit Singh, alias Inder; and Sukhmeet Pal Singh, alias Sukh; “for various offences, including those under Sections 120B, 201, 212 and 302 of the IPC, the UAPA and the Arms Act.”Balwinder murder: plot hatched in PakThe probe revealed that the accused were part of the conspiracy hatched by Pakistan-based leadership of the proscribed terrorist outfit KLF for assassinating Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Sandhu. — NIAThe case relates to killing of Sandhu on October 16, 2020, at his residence-cum-school at Bhikhiwind, Tarn Taran district, by two unidentified persons. A case was registered by Punjab Police on the same day, which was later taken over by the NIA on January 26, 2021.“KLF chief Lakhvir Singh Rode and his Canada-based deputy Sunny Toronto had tasked Sukhmeet Pal Singh, a gangster-turned-terrorist to arrange shooters and execute the plan. Sukhmeet had instructed Sukhdeep Singh and Gurjit Singh to undertake the killing. Inderjit Singh was involved in the reconnaissance of the target,” the NIA said.After the investigation, NIA had filed a chargesheet against the eight accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/balwinder-singh-sandhu-case-charges-framed-against-8-klf-terrorists-305284
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||All-party panel on Jallianwala Bagh memorial row sought||Strongly condemning the Narendra Modi-led central government for erasing the legacy of the war of independence — Jallianwala Bagh — in the name of renovation, senior AAP leader and MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan termed it as tampering with the history of Punjab.Also read:Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampLooks nice: Punjab CM contradicts Rahul GAndhi on Jallianwala remakeThe party also demanded from Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to form an all-party committee of the MLAs on the Jallianwala Bagh controversy to complete the inquiry within a month and submit the report to the Assembly.Sandhwan was addressing a press conference at party headquarters here on Wednesday in the presence of party spokespersons Neel Garg and Malvinder Singh Kang. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/all-party-panel-on-jallianwala-bagh-memorial-row-sought-305282
02-09-2021||---||Newly appointed Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit pays tribute to Jallianwala martyrs||Amritsar, September 1The newly appointed Governor of Punjab, Banwarilal Purohit, after assuming office, reached Amritsar today, where he paid obeisance at the Golden Temple. He was presented with a ‘siropa’, a model of Harmandir Sahib and some religious books. His remarks in the ‘Yatri Kitab’ read that he was happy to visit the holiest Sikh shrine for the first time and that he loved listening to the kirtan.Later, the Governor also paid homage to the martyrs at Jallianwala Bagh and paid obeisance at the Durgiana Mandir. He was accompanied by Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, Commissioner of Police Vikramjit Duggal and SGPC member Bhagwant Singh Sialka.Also read:Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampLooks nice: Punjab CM contradicts Rahul Gandhi on Jallianwala remake||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/newly-appointed-punjab-governor-banwarilal-purohit-pays-tribute-to-jallianwala-martyrs-305281
02-09-2021||---||Assets case: Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini seeks 15 days to join probe||Mohali, September 1Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini did not join the investigation in response to a Vigilance Bureau notice in a disproportionate assets case related to his Sector 20 house today. The Vigilance Bureau had set the deadline of September 1 for Saini to join the investigation.Also read: Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini had collapsed in lock-up“Saini sent an email to the Vigilance Bureau office in the morning through his lawyer stating he could not join the probe today. He has sought a time of at least 15 days to join the investigation,” said a Vigilance official.Summons were sent to him in this regard and a notice was also pasted outside his house. On August 18, Saini was arrested in a case for having committed offence of forgery in order to stall the process of attachment of a house in Sector 20D, Chandigarh, by the court of special judge, Mohali. Saini has been claiming to be a tenant in the house after his retirement. However, the Punjab and Haryana High Court ruled his arrest was in violation of earlier orders.The Vigilance later decided to file a recall petition in the High Court against the August 19 release orders of Saini in a land fraud case, and also against the court’s interim bail order of August 12 in the disproportionate assets case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/assets-case-former-punjab-dgp-sumedh-singh-saini-seeks-15-days-to-join-probe-305279
02-09-2021||Faridkot||Share info on sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib: SIT to Faridkot villagers||A Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the police today visited Burj Jawahar Singh Wala, the epicentre of the sacrilege cases from where a ‘bir’ of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen on June 1, 2015.The team, led by SPS Parmar, Inspector General and head of the SIT, asked villagers to come forward to share any kind of information regarding the sacrilege incidents with the SIT.The IG said any person who wanted to share the information while maintaining secrecy about his identity, could contact him personally.The IG said the SIT had already arrested six accused in three sacrilege incidents and three others had been declared as proclaimed offenders in the cases.Parmar said though the questioning and formal arrest of Gurmeet Ram Rahim, the head of Sacha Sauda Dera, Sirsa, had not been made yet, but he had been already nominated as an accused in the incidents. He had not been given a clean chit in the cases, he said.The IG claimed while the challan had already been presented by the SIT in two of the three sacrilege incidents in the court, the challan in the third case would be filed in coming days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/share-info-on-sacrilege-of-guru-granth-sahib-sit-to-faridkot-villagers-305278
02-09-2021||---||New procurement rules not feasible, says Punjab minister||Fatehgarh Sahib, September 1Stating that it is not possible to implement the revised specifications for paddy procurement in the current scenario, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has written a letter to the Prime Minister.Addressing mediapersons today after presiding over a meeting of grievance redressal committee held after one year here, Minister of Food and Civil Supplies Bharat Bhushan Ashu said the state government was committed to safeguarding the interests of the rice industry in the state. “Earlier, the issue was taken up at the secretary level and then at the minister level, but now the CM has intervened keeping in view the sensitivity of the situation,” he said.On the rice millers urging the government to refund their security worth Rs 10 lakh each, he said the government was bringing in a new custom milling policy. “A draft has been prepared and will be put before the Cabinet at the next meeting and all decisions will be taken as per policy,” he said.Earlier during the day, he directed district officials to redress grievances of the public and complete development projects in stipulated time. MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra highlighted various issues and the minister directed officials concerned to redress those immediately. Deputy Commissioner Surbhi Malik and SSP Sandeep Goel assured the minister that all issues raised would be sorted out immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-procurement-rules-not-feasible-says-punjab-minister-305277
02-09-2021||---||Farm protesters gherao Bikram Singh Majithia in Sri Hargobindpur||Sri Hargobindpur, September 1SAD senior leader Bikram Singh Majithia was shown black flags by nearly 350 farmers in Sri Hargobindpur on Wednesday. He was in the town to facilitate the joining of some Congressmen in the SAD fold.Also read:Farmers' protest mars Sukhbir Badal’s rally in Sahnewal14 booked for damaging cars at Sukhbir Badal's Machhiwara Sahib rallySSP Ashwani Kapur said the police had prior information that the SAD leader would face protests. “Accordingly, we made elaborate security arrangements,” he added. Commuters had a harrowing time as heightened security resulted in long traffic snarls.Farmer leader Anokh Singh Ghorewa said they would continue to protest political leaders. “Their hoardings and posters will continue to be removed,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-protesters-gherao-bikram-singh-majithia-in-sri-hargobindpur-305276
02-09-2021||gurdaspur||In Gurdaspur, AAP faces farmers’ ire; hoardings, posters removed||AAP leaders engaged in installing election hoardings and posters are faced with angry farm activists, who are removing the party’s billboards to “express displeasure against political parties for not backing them in their struggle against the farm laws.”If the party is facing the wrath of farmers in villages, a similar story is being played out in urban areas. Here, AAP leaders have to square off against their political opponents, who are allegedly using official machinery to bring down hoardings.In Gurdaspur, Baghel Singh Bahian, who has peppered the city with his party’s posters, found himself at the receiving end when a Municipal Committee (MC) tractor-trailer removed scores of hoardings.MC employees relented after being confronted by Baghel’s men. Incidentally, the local MC is controlled by the Congress. MC Executive Officer Ashok Kumar said the AAP leader had violated guidelines of the MC’s advertising policy. However, Baghel contended that he had deposited the necessary fees and requisite documents with the civic body.In Sri-Hargobindpur, AAP halqa in charge Amarpal Singh Kishenkot said farmers had been targeting his hoardings. “I belong to the farming community and support its cause. Our posters and banners should not be taken down,” he said. Sources said in Malwa this was an everyday occurrence but in Majha and Doaba it is a comparatively new phenomenon. — TNSNo billboards until farm laws repealedThe parties claim they support us but it’s a mere pretence. Hoardings will not be allowed to be put up until the contentious agricultural laws are repealed. — Satbir Singh Sultani, Kirti Kissan Morcha general secretary||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-gurdaspur-aap-faces-farmers-ire-hoardings-posters-removed-305275
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Harish Rawat briefs Punjab CM on dissidents’ demands||After interaction with dissident ministers and MLAs, Congress Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat today conveyed their resentment to CM Capt Amarinder Singh and sought better coordination to address their concerns.Rawat’s meeting with the CM came a day after he called on state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu who is learnt to have conveyed his “displeasure” on unfulfilled promises. Rawat had arrived in Chandigarh on Tuesday. Rawat said he hoped all party leaders would work unitedly. On how resentment among leaders would be addressed, Rawat said, “I have apprised the CM of the resentment.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harish-rawat-briefs-punjab-cm-on-dissidents-demands-305274
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Harish Rawat sorry for ‘Panj Pyare’ remark||A day after comparing the working presidents of the PCC with ‘Panj Pyare’, Congress Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat has apologised.Rawat said he had no intention to hurt sentiments of the Sikhs and it was wrong on his part to compare the working presidents with ‘Panj Pyare’. Rawat said he held the ‘Panj Pyare’ in high esteem and had worked for the betterment of the places related to Sikhism in Uttarakhand.He said during his tenure as Chief Minister of Uttarakhand, he was instrumental in providing a road link between Nanakmatta Sahib and Ritha Sahib gurdwaras, besides providing a smooth and safe journey for those visiting Hemkunt Sahib.In the Sikh tradition, ‘Panj Pyare’ is the term used for five beloved of the Guru. In 1699, Guru Gobind Singh, the last of the 10 Gurus, initiated five men into the order of ‘Khalsa’ (pure).‘Panj Pyare’ is the name given to five baptised Sikhs who perform a baptism ceremony to initiate Sikhs into the order of the Khalsa. On his Facebook page on Wednesday, Rawat acknowledged his “mistake” for his remark.“Sometimes by expressing respect, you use such words which are objectionable. I too have made a mistake of using the words ‘Panj Pyare’ for my honourable president and four working presidents,” wrote Rawat. “I have committed a mistake. I apologise for hurting the sentiments of people,” he said, adding he would clean a gurdwara in his state with a broom as atonement.The SAD had taken exception to Rawat’s remarks and had sought an apology for the same. SAD’s Daljit Singh Cheema had slammed Rawat and had demanded he should be booked him for hurting sentiments. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harish-rawat-sorry-for-panj-pyare-remark-305273
02-09-2021||---||Setback for Sikander Singh Maluka, SAD fields Jagmeet Singh Brar from Maur seat||Chandigarh, September 1Cold-shouldering the sulking senior leader Sikander Singh Maluka, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today announced Jagmeet Brar as the party’s candidate from Maur segment and named candidates on five other seats. The party has announced 22 candidates to date.Maluka, who is also the party’s kisan wing head, had demanded the Maur seat for himself, even though his candidature was announced for the Rampura Phul seat. Maluka wanted his son Gurpreet Singh to be fielded from there.SAD general secretary Daljeet Singh Cheema released the names on social media. He said SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal has finalised the names. Maluka had skipped the core committee meeting of the party held here last evening.Brar, a Congress former leader, was once known as ‘Awaz-e-Punjab’ owing to his oratory skills and firm stand on vital issues. He defeated Sukhbir Badal in 1999 Lok Sabha elections. He remained in jail for seven months for participating in a movement against the Akali government in 1979.In 2015, he left the Congress over differences with the central leadership. He joined the Mamata Banerjee-led All India Trinamool Congress but later fell out with her. He formed an alliance with AAP in 2017 Assembly polls, but none of his candidates could win. In April 2019, he joined the SAD.Among other candidates announced today, party’s youth wing chief Parambans Singh Romana has been fielded from Faridkot, Suba Singh from Jaitu, Mantar Singh Brar from Kotkapura, Kanwarjit Singh Rosy Barkandi from Muktsar and Jeet Mohinder Singh Sidhu from Talwandi Sabo.Cold-shoulderedSAD farmer wing head and former minister Sikander Singh Maluka had demanded the Maur seat for himself and the Rampura Phul seat, from where his candidature was announced by the party, for his son Gurpreet Singh.Joined party in 2019In 2015, Jagmeet Singh Brar left the Congress over differences with the party’s central leadership. He joined the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC but later fell out with her. He formed an alliance with AAP in 2017 Assembly polls. In April 2019, he joined the SAD.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/setback-for-sikander-singh-maluka-sad-fields-jagmeet-singh-brar-from-maur-seat-305272
02-09-2021||Patiala||Depleting coal stock adds to power woes of Punjab||Punjab, along with many other states, is staring at another power crisis as various thermal plants, both private and state-owned, are left with coal stock of less than eight days and have reached “critical” or “supercritical” stage.The stock has been affected following heavy rains and subsequent flooding of coal mines. The shortage means that the power rates across the national power exchange have also gone up. Punjab is left with the coal stock of less than 15 days against average 30 days. “With paddy season almost at its fag end and relaxing heat wave conditions, there may not be coal crisis in Punjab as of now,” said VK Gupta, spokesman for All India Power Engineers Federation. “However, if coal stocks are not replenished in the next week or so, there could be some problem in power generation,” he said.Coal shortage is due to high demand as Covid restrictions have been relaxed and nonpayment of dues and rains. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/depleting-coal-stock-adds-to-power-woes-of-punjab-305271
02-09-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||PPAs unlikely to be scrapped as dependency on private plants high in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 1When Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh said all power purchase agreements (PPAs) made with independent power producers (IPPs) and other power generating companies cannot be scrapped, he was not off the mark. After all, no government can afford to jeopardise the energy security of the state it governs.Together, the three IPPs, caught in the midst of a political storm over the alleged lopsided PPAs signed with the previous Akali-BJP government, are supplying 2,948 MW of power to Punjab in this time of “high power demand” during the paddy cultivation season. As of today, the state is buying another 2,248 MW on the power exchange, at a high cost of Rs 5.08 paisa per unit. In comparison, the state’s own thermal power generation is just 1,045 MW and its own hydropower generation is 804 MW, besides renewable energy generation of 554 MW.Agreements lopsided: Engineers’ bodyThe PSEB Engineers’ Association, however, remains steadfast in its stand that the PPAs are lopsided and should be scrappedThey also maintain that this would not jeopardise the state’s energy security“If the PPA with the TSPL is scrapped, we can buy 80% of power it generates from the power exchange. Power on the exchange may be expensive now, but coal shortage is a temporary situation, as is the high price of power available on exchange,” says association president JS DhimanIn clear terms, it means that of the 12,199 MW of power supplied yesterday (and 11,368 MW today), the state’s own generation without the IPPs’ production is just 20 per cent of the total demand-supply at 2,403 MW. With the power demand in the state rising phenomenally and a coal shortage being reported, the rate at which power is available at the exchange has gone up substantially. The state power utility is already finding it difficult to buy power at the exchange. “If the PPAs with the private power plants are scrapped, in situations such as now when coal shortage leads to high power tariff on the exchange, will a cash-strapped state like Punjab be able to buy most of the power it needs?” asked a senior government official.No wonder the government is now “seeking a legal opinion” on cancellation of three PPAs with GVK for the Goindwal Sahib Plant, with Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL) for its Mansa plant and with the Damodar Valley Corporation for its plant at Rudrapur in West Bengal. Notice is being sent to the Nabha Power Limited (NPL), asking it to revise and reduce the power tariff rates and ensure it works to its optimum capacity during the peak demand, after all these notices have been legally vetted, a top official in the state government told The Tribune.Sources said even if the government wanted to scrap these PPAs, these had been framed as per the then policy of the Centre and getting these terminated may not stand either government or legal scrutiny. “While the GVK is already keen on winding up the power plant here, the TSPL may be let off after a fine is imposed on the fixed charges paid to it, as it had failed to operate to its optimum capacity during the peak demand months of June-August,” said the official. Even as the controversy over the PPAs with IPPs continues to rock the Congress boat and the party leadership remains divided over the issue, the state is struggling to stay afloat in the present coal shortage-induced power crisis. None of the thermal plants — both state-owned and private — are maintaining the buffer stock of coal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ppas-unlikely-to-be-scrapped-as-dependency-on-private-plants-high-in-punjab-305270
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Harish Rawat meets Amarinder, asks to reduce power tariffs||AICC general secretary Harish Rawat on Wednesday asked Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to provide relief to people by reducing power tariffs, one of the major demands of state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu.He also told reporters that power purchase rates with private power companies should be renegotiated and the benefit of reduced prices should be passed on to consumers.Rawat, who is the incharge of party Punjab affairs at the AICC, had arrived in Chandigarh on Tuesday amid the ongoing tussle in the camps of Amarinder Singh and Sidhu.Rawat on Wednesday met the CM at his residence in Mohali’s Siswan. The meeting lasted for about three hours.Read also:After the meeting, Rawat said he told the CM that the state government should provide some relief to power consumers.“At present, we are in the government and should provide some relief to power consumers,” he said.Rawat also took an update from Amarinder Singh on the progress on an 18-point programme given by the party high command.The former Uttarakhand CM came to Chandigarh to meet party leaders and listen to their issues, days after four ministers and several party legislators raised a banner of revolt against the CM over unfulfilled promises.The Sidhu camp has been pressing Amarinder to take action on the 18-point programme given by the Congress high command.This programme included action in desecration and subsequent police firing incidents, arrest of the “big fish” behind drug rackets and scrapping of power purchase agreements signed with private companies. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harish-rawat-meets-amarinder-asks-to-reduce-power-tariffs-305112
