03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: 2 more deaths, 32 new cases in Punjab||Two more Covid-related fatalities were recorded on Friday in Punjab that took the death toll to 16,437, while 32 new cases pushed the infection tally to 6,00,745, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases in the state stands at 351, it said.Of the new cases, six were reported from Hoshiarpur followed by four each in Pathankot and Mohali, the bulletin said.Thirty people recovered from the infection, taking the overall recoveries to 5,83,957, according to the bulletin. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-2-more-deaths-32-new-cases-in-punjab-306027
03-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Can’t claim age relaxation as a matter of right just because CM tweeted: Punjab and Haryana HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 3Candidates cannot claim as a matter of right relaxation in upper age limit merely because the Chief Minister tweeted in this regard, a Division Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court has held.The ruling by the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh came in a case where the appellant-candidates were seeking upper age relaxation to apply for police sub inspectors’ posts, among other things, on the basis of Punjab CM’s Tweet.“The appellants cannot seek relaxation in upper age limit as a matter of right just on the ground that Chief Minister, Punjab, had tweeted on July 12, 2020, that in the coming days maximum age for recruitment to the posts of sub-inspectors would be increased from 28 years to 32 years. The maximum age limit could be increased above 28 years only by amending the Rules as per the procedure prescribed under Law,” the Bench ruled.Referring to a written reply by the State of Punjab and other respondents, the Bench observed that the age limit prescribed in advertisement dated July 6 was based on Rule 12.6 of the Punjab Police Rules, prescribing 28 as the upper age limit. Admittedly, the petitioners-appellants had not invoked the High Court’s writ jurisdiction to challenge the said Rules.The Bench also added Delhi High Court judgment in Najma’s case, referred to by the appellants, was of no assistance as the facts and circumstances were totally different and distinguishable. The Chief Minister concerned in that case had made certain promises in a press conference that the government would pay rent on a tenant’s behalf if he was unable to do so due to povertyThe Delhi High Court observed it clearly amounted to an enforceable promise, the implementation of which ought to be considered by the government. But relaxation sought in the present case could not be given without amending the Rules. Such amendment could be made collectively by the Council of Ministers and not solely by the Chief Minister. As such, the Court could not issue direction or Mandamus just on the basis of the Chief Minister’s Tweet.Dismissing the appeal after referring to the other contentions raised by the appellants, the Bench added: “We are not inclined to issue any such direction to the authority concerned to exercise its discretion to relax the upper age limit for the posts of sub-inspectors, the reasons being this Court cannot act as a rule making authority or legislate to increase the upper age prescribed under the rules.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cant-claim-age-relaxation-as-a-matter-of-right-just-because-cm-tweeted-punjab-and-haryana-hc-306025
03-09-2021||Sandeep Dikshit||Attack on Sikhs in Sydney: Haryana youth Vishal Jood pleads guilty||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 2A court in Australia sentenced “Tiranga Warrior” Vishal Jood, a youth from Haryana living on an expired visa, to a prison term for attacking Sikhs in a series of assaults in Sydney.Also read: Haryana CM writes to Lekhi, asks for her intervention for Karnal youth Vishal Jood’s releaseJood, in jail since April, was on Thursday sentenced by Magistrate K Thompson in a Parramatta Court, said Vivek Asri of NRI affairs, Australia, who has been tracking the case.The sentence carries six months of parole. As Jood has already spent four months and 17 days in jail, he could become eligible for parole on October 15. However, his expired visa clouds the prospects of his early release as it is likely that he will be sent to a detention centre awaiting deportation.In a plea bargaining process, Jood pleaded guilty to three main charges. These included “assault, occasioning actual bodily harm in company of others and armed with intention to commit indictable offence”. The other charges were dropped by the prosecution.Jood’s lawyer Asri told the court that Jood comes from a place where Hindus and Sikhs co-exist “in peace” and argued that his action was spontaneous and out of fear.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/attack-on-sikhs-in-sydney-haryana-youth-vishal-jood-pleads-guilty-305909
03-09-2021||Renovation of the historic Jallianwala Bagh has residents and the Centre in the cross hairs. Tribune correspondent PK Jaiswar and lensman Sunil Kumar give a glimpse of the renovated memorial where reportedly 1||Jallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?||Historians allege that the original character of a memorial built in memory of the martyrs of the ghastly massacre has been massively tampered with.Earlier, too, renovation of the Jallianwala Bagh had sparked protests. A decade ago, an open air theatre was developed and light and sound show was started, which featured a voiceover of Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan.Also read: Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampLooks nice: Punjab CM contradicts Rahul Gandhi on Jallianwala remakePeople from different walks of life had gathered to protest against the arrest of Dr Saifudin Kitchlew and Dr Satyapal, who were agitating against the Rowlatt Act, at the Jallianwala Bagh on the day of Baisakhi on April 13, 1919.Dozens of troops led by Brigadier General Reginald Edward Harry Dyer mercilessly had gunned down the protesters by blocking the only entry and exit point of the Jallianwala Bagh.Following renovation of one-and-a-half years, the Jallianwala Bagh was virtually thrown open on August 28 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is also a Chairman of the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial Trust. Four new galleries have come up, besides a salvation ground.Also read: Martyrs’ memorabilia to be kept at Jallianwala BaghNow, separate entry and exit points have been developed at the Jallianwala Bagh. Earlier, there was only one entry and exit point.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jallianwala-bagh-history-massacred-or-restored-305925
03-09-2021||Tribune Reporters||Sahnewal: Head teacher ‘insulted’ by Dy DEO, suffers panic attack||Sahnewal/Ludhiana, Sept 2The “insulting and abusive language” used by a Deputy DEO and his clerk allegedly led to deterioration in the health of the head teacher of Government Primary School, Sahnewal. While the teacher is stated to be in a serious condition, her kin are seeking immediate termination of service or transfer of the Deputy District Education Officer (DEO) and the clerk.Sukhpreet Kaur, sister-in-law of head teacher Swapandeep Kaur, said the latter was an award-winning teacher. Yesterday, DEO Rajwinder Kaur came to the school while a vaccination drive was on and blamed the head teacher for not supporting the medical staff. She demanded more rooms for them to function. Swapandeep, in turn, complained of not being informed about the camp earlier. She stated that the school had a strength of 650 students and it was very difficult to stuff them all in four rooms. The school has just five rooms while two are under construction. “As the DEO went away, Deputy DEO Kuldeep Singh Saini and one of his clerks, Harwinder Singh Romy, began to threaten the head teacher and used abusive language against her,” Sukhpreet said.Swapandeep found their words very insulting and suffered a panic attack and fell unconscious.She was taken to a private hospital at Doraha where she was in a critical state till the filing of the report. “No one has the right to use such abusive language for anyone. She is in a critical condition. If anything goes wrong, these two would be responsible. We seek immediate termination or transfer of the Deputy DEO and the clerk,” Sukhpreet added.As per the orders of the DEO and Deputy DEO to vacate rooms for the vaccination staff, the children at the primary school were made to sit in the scorching heat.One of the teachers at the school said, “The students spent the whole day out in the hot weather to accommodate the vaccination staff, who had dropped in without any written intimation. One of the children even received injuries in the stampede a day before, as the sudden rush of those interested in getting vaccinated proved too much to handle”.Another teacher, on the condition of anonymity, said the Deputy DEO had threatened to transfer the head teacher and she got terrified. “We had no written orders for this vaccination camp. On top of it, we have the huge responsibility of 600-plus students. Instead of listening to our problems, the Deputy DEO started behaving rudely with the head teacher and she suffered an attack,” the teacher said.Meanwhile, the principal of another government school has complained about Saini’s rudeness. She said around 15 days ago, during a zoom meeting, she was targeted by him but things got sorted out with the intervention of the DEO.On the other hand, Deputy DEO Saini said “These are mere allegations to settle scores with me. I did not say anything to the teacher and she suffered the attack after an hour or so. If I had said anything, she could have suffered attack then itself. I never spoke rudely with her and these are tactics to tarnish my image”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sahnewal-head-teacher-insulted-by-dy-deo-suffers-panic-attack-305831
03-09-2021||---||16 Punjab BJP leaders violate Chandigarh DM’s order, get notices||Chandigarh, September 2A local court has issued notices to 16 prominent leaders of the Punjab BJP for allegedly violating the order of the District Magistrate, Chandigarh, issued under Section 144 of the CrPC.The court issued the notices after the police presented a challan against the leaders before the court. The leaders who were issued notices are Vijay Sampla, Arun Narang, Master Mohal Lal, Madan Mohan Mittal, Manoranjan Kalia, Dr Baldev Chawla, Ashwani Sharma, Tikshon Sood, Surjit Kumar Jain, Tarun Chug, KD Bhandari, Arunesh Shakar, Dr Saurabh Sharma, Malvinder Singh Kang, Jiwan Gupta and Arvind Mittal.The case of the accused persons was sent to the court by the officer in-charge of the Sector 17 police station, Chandigarh, to face trial in connection with the offence punishable under Section 188 of the IPC.The police have registered the case against all accused under Section 188 of the IPC on a complaint of constable Karmbir Singh, who alleged that all accused were found raising slogans against the Punjab Government on August 8, 2020, near the MC office, Chandigarh. They were going towards the residence of the Punjab Chief Minister, thereby violating the order of the District Magistrate issued under Section 144 of the CrPC on July 9, 2020.In the order, the District Magistrate has prohibited the gathering of five or more persons and raising slogans. Hence, offence punishable under Section 188 of the IPC was made out against the accused. The police also alleged that the leaders were also apprised of the order of the Deputy Commissioner. Despite that, they violated the order. An FIR was registered against the accused. After the completion of investigation, a challan was presented. The court has fixed November 11 as the next date of hearing in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/16-punjab-bjp-leaders-violate-chandigarh-dms-order-get-notices-305808
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||AAP targets Congress over power purchase agreements||AAP MLA Aman Arora today said the Congress was running away from cancelling the power purchase agreements (PPAs) with private companies. He said Congress leader Navjot Sidhu was now misleading the public by pretending to get those revoked.Arora alleged the PPAs were like a ‘gold mine’ for some leaders. “If the Congress had been serious, it would have accepted the private member’s Bill brought by AAP and debated it in the House. But instead of convening the session a day earlier, it called the session on Friday when a private member’s Bill can’t be tabled,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-targets-congress-over-power-purchase-agreements-305611
03-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Pak intruder shot at in Ferozepur||Ferozepur, September 2The BSF troops of 136 Battalion arrested a Pakistan smuggler, while two others managed to escape, near BOP Satpal in Ferozepur sector on Thursday morning. Two packets of heroin weighing 2.125 kg were recovered from the accused.As per information, the BSF jawans observed some suspicious movement involving three Pakistani intruders who were trying to sneak inside the Indian territory at 2.30 am today. The smuggler was nabbed by the BSF after he got injured in the firing opened by the jawans to thwart cross-border smuggling attempt, while others managed to escape.Sources said at 6 am, two Pakistani nationals who had fled earlier, came back for their injured partner following which the BSF jawans fired at them. Later, during a search, the injured Pakistani national, Irshad, was found around 40 metres away from the IB. He had suffered a bullet injury in the thigh and was admitted to the civil hospital here.No official statement had been issued by the BSF till filing of this report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pak-intruder-shot-at-in-ferozepur-305612
03-09-2021||---||Afghanistan Sikhs, Hindus seek evacuation||Amritsar, September 2Around 180 Afghan-origin Sikhs and Hindus are looking to the Union Government for their safe evacuation from the trouble-torn country.Vikramjit Singh Sahney, international president of the World Punjabi Organisation, who had earlier arranged chartered flights for their safe passage to New Delhi, said the evacuation plan was being chalked out in collaboration with the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and Indian Air Force (IAF).In touch with MEAWe are in touch with the MEA and the remaining Sikhs and Hindus stuckin Afghanistan. The evacuation plan may be executed in the next 10 days or so. An IAF plane is being arranged. —VS Sahney, World punjabi organisation“We are in touch with the MEA and the remaining Afghan Sikhs and Hindus in Afghanistan. The evacuation plan can be a possibility in the next 10 days or so. An IAF plane is being arranged,” he said. Sahney also offered to engage a private flight if the IAF plane could not be arranged due to some reason.After a dialogue between Indian Ambassador to Qatar Deepak Mittal and chief of Taliban’ s political office in Doha Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanikzai, the Taliban representatives in Kabul have assured Afghanistan Sikhs that they would be allowed to visit India on pilgrimage as soon as the Kabul International Airport gets operational.An Afghan Sikh who teaches in Kabul said that they had expressed desire to visit Gurdwara Sri Guru Arjan Dev in New Mahavir Nagar, New Delhi in a ‘jatha’ to attend the occasion of 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur and the Taliban leaders had assured them of a safe passage to India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/afghanistan-sikhs-hindus-seek-evacuation-305613
03-09-2021||Amritsar||Drugs found hidden near border fence||The BSF has seized around 1 kg of heroin from the India-Pakistan border falling in the Amritsar sector.A BSF official said that yesterday, BSF troops thwarted the attempt to smuggle three packets of the contraband, suspected to be heroin, in the area under the 144th Bn BSF. The contraband was concealed near the border fencing in an Indian field near the zero line. “Anti-national elements are trying hard to smuggle drugs by adopting various modus operandi, but the attempts are being foiled by vigilant BSF men,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drugs-found-hidden-near-border-fence-305614
03-09-2021||---||4-kg heroin seized from peddler’s cab||Amritsar, September 2Following the interrogation of drug peddler Ranjit Singh, alias Sonu, a cabbie, the Amritsar rural police have confiscated 4-kg heroin from his vehicle.A senior police official said the contraband was concealed in the cavities of the widows of the same vehicle from where the police had seized 16.87-kg heroin earlier.The police arrested notorious drug peddler Sukhdev Singh, alias Kalu Jathaul, in the case. Kalu had several cases of drug peddling against him, police sources said. With his arrest, the police have nabbed around seven persons in the case till now.The police had earlier arrested Ranjit Singh Rana, Malkeet Singh, Jaffar and Sikander Singh. It had also arrested Harminder Singh from Zira for allegedly creating special cavities in the two taxies of Ranjit Sonu.The sources revealed following their interrogation, the police had zeroed in on several residents allegedly involved in cross-border drug smuggling in Rajatal and Dauke border villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-kg-heroin-seized-from-peddlers-cab-305615
03-09-2021||Ravneet Singh||Patiala civic body fails to recover tax from PSPCL||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 2Already low on tax collection and funds, the Patiala Municipal Corporation has failed to recover municipal tax on consumption, use or sale of electricity from PSPCL for the past three years.The revelation has come in the office’s response to an RTI application. The tax collection, which started in 2017, stopped after August 2018. The MC also does not have details of the current pending amount.Pending since September 2018As per the documents with The Tribune, the MC wrote to the PSPCL several times over the matter, but to no avail. As per the MC response, it collected Rs 1.44 crore as municipal tax in five instalments from December 2017 to August 2018. It also does not have the exact details of pending municipal tax as the same is supposed to be calculated and submitted by the PSPCL on the basis of sale of electricity to consumers, it said.The low collection of tax amount, meanwhile, repeatedly reflects in its yearly budget. A senior MC official, on the condition of anonymity, said the MC had failed in collecting enough funds through its heads last year.As per the MC’s recent budget document passed in March as well, it was expecting submission of Rs 11.60 crore municipal tax from the PSPCL but failed to do so.MC Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said the corporation had collected around Rs 2 crore from the power department. “We are holding meetings with the officials of the PSPCL over the matter. We have managed to collect some amount, while the rest will be collected after deliberations.”PSPCL superintending engineer SM Chopra said: “A number of meetings have been held at the level of XENs and by the Finance Department of the PSPCL with the Municipal Corporation. There were a few disputes in relation to pending amounts and surcharge levied due to pending payments. Regular meetings are now being held and our accountants are consolidating the amounts in order to resolve the matter.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-civic-body-fails-to-recover-tax-from-pspcl-305617
03-09-2021||Balwant Garg||After ‘goof-up’, Punjab State Talent Search Exam result revised||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, September 2A month after the National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) result controversy, many students have been alleging a goof-up in the paper evaluation of the Punjab State Talent Search Exam (PSTSE), conducted by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT). The test was conducted in January and the revised result of it was released on Tuesday.The SCERT had revised and amended the PSTSE result after a lot of hue and cry by students, like the NTSE result was revised last month. Earlier, when the NTSE and PSTSE results were declared in the last week of July, many students had claimed their final score did not match with the score they had calculated from their copy of the OMR (optical marking response) sheets.Though the SCERT has revised the result after it received several complaints from the students, the council denied giving the benefit of revised result to all students as many of them could not fill the OMR sheet correctly due to lack of knowledge.The authorities in the SCERT said due to negligence on the part of many field invigilators and the school teaching staff, several students lacked adequate knowledge to fill the OMR sheets. The invigilators in many examination halls failed to explain the students how to mark their responses on the sheets and thus their responses could not be evaluated in scanners.While the NTSE is conducted for Class X students, the PSTSE is for Class VIII students to get a scholarship. A total of 500 students are given scholarship on the basis of their PSTSE score.‘Staff negligence’The SCERT authorities said due to negligence on the part of many field invigilators and the school teaching staff, several students lacked adequate knowledge to fill the OMR sheets. Thus, their responses could not be evaluated in scanners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-goof-up-punjab-state-talent-search-exam-result-revised-305618
03-09-2021||Ferozepur||Thief takes away ATM containing Rs 4.84 lakh||An unidentified person decamped with an ATM installed outside the Punjab and Sind Bank last night, which is situated just a stone’s throw away from the City police station. As per information, the machine contained cash amounting to Rs 4.84 lakh.As per the CCTV footage, the unidentified robber came in a car and took out the gas cutter and other equipment to uninstall the machine. Later, he took away the machine after bundling it inside his car. The entire incident was captured in a CCTV camera installed inside the ATM. However, the accused could not be identified as his face was covered.Senior officials, including DSP (Headquarters) Satwinder Singh, reached the spot. When contacted, DSP Satwinder said the police were checking the CCTV footage and the accused would be nabbed soon . A case has been registered at the City police station. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/thief-takes-away-atm-containing-rs-4-84-lakh-305619
03-09-2021||Bathinda||Ex-councillor protests LPG price hike||Protesting against the state and central governments over rising inflation and increased prices of cooking gas, former MC councillor and SAD worker Vijay Kumar, along with city residents, dangled a gas cylinder around his neck and cooked food on a traditional ‘chullah’ at Parasram Nagar in Bathinda today.The protesters raised slogans against the government and demanded prices of essential commodities to be reduced. “The LPG cylinder costs Rs 925 now. We request the government to reduce the prices so that the common man is not burdened financially,” he said.He added: “Today, we cooked food on a ‘chullah’ to symbolise that if the prices of cooking gas keep increasing at this rate, the common man would not be left with any other option.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-councillor-protests-lpg-price-hike-305620
03-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Woman held for duping jobless youth||Abohar, September 2A woman has been arrested by the Sriganganagar police for duping some youths of lakhs of rupees by promising jobs in the CID wing of the Rajasthan Police.Bindu (30) of Chak 59-GB (Lalgarh) village was booked on a complaint of Nirvail Singh Kamboj of Chak 48-GB village three months ago. Nirvail had accused that his son and some other youths were duped of Rs 2 lakh on the pretext of getting jobs in CID. Bindu, who had been absconding since then, has been remanded in police custody for two days.Besides Nirvail’s son, four other youths were also allegedly duped on the same pretext. Their statements are yet to be recorded. A few days ago, some of her victims approached the Padampur police station, but no case has been registered yet. Bindu was also booked for extortion at the Suratgarh city police station. However, she got bail in the case. Bindu reportedly worked as a computer operator at a highway toll barrier in the Kolayat area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/woman-held-for-duping-jobless-youth-305621
03-09-2021||Archit Watts||All three Muktsar STPs lying defunct||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, September 2All three sewage treatment plants (STPs) in Muktsar town are lying defunct for the past about four years due to technical reasons and paucity of funds.The Water Supply and Sanitation Department had last month transferred these three STPs of 8.7 MLD (million litres per day), 5.7 MLD and 3.5 MLD capacity, respectively, to the Water Supply and Sewerage Board. However, it requires nearly Rs 10 crore to repair and run these plants for the next five years.Funds soughtWe took over the three STPs last month and have sought funds worth Rs10 crore to carry out the repairs and run these for the next five years. —Rakesh Mohan Makkar, Water supply & Sewerage board site engineerRecently, a high-powered monitoring team of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) too had visited the town and asked the administration to investigate the reasons why these STPs were lying defunct. Water Supply and Sewerage Board site engineer Rakesh Mohan Makkar said, “We took over the three STPs last month and have sought funds worth Rs 10 crore to carry out the repairs and run these for the next five years.”At present, untreated sewage is direct being dumped into the drains, which further fall into the Sutlej. Residents of neighbouring Fazilka district have often complained about this. Earlier, the Water Supply and Sanitation Department had sent a proposal to the state government to carry out the repair works under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transmission, which, however, could not happen to date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/all-three-muktsar-stps-lying-defunct-305622
03-09-2021||Patiala||Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Patiala, 5th best pvt institute||Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, gets Rs1.98-cr grantBathinda: The Central University of Punjab, Bathinda (CUPB), received the second instalment of grant-in-aid of Rs 1.98 crore from the Ministry of Food Processing Industries for setting up a quality control/food testing laboratory on the campus under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojana. TNSDate for scholarships extendedChandigarh: The Education Department has extended the date for application under various scholarship schemes to September 16. Disclosing this on Thursday, a spokesperson of the department said the districts would approve the online applications and send online data to the state by October 4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/thapar-institute-of-engineering-and-technology-patiala-5th-best-pvt-institute-305623
03-09-2021||Our Correspondent||I-T case: Court junks Capt Amarinder’s plea against ED inspection||Ludhiana, September 2The Court of Additional Sessions Judge Raj Kumar Garg today dismissed the revision petitions moved by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and his son Raninder Singh challenging the order of the trial court, which allowed the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to inspect the pending income tax case files and the documents attached with these.The ED intended to inspect the files in relation to an investigation pending with it under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). The department’s complaints with the allegations of tax evasion and concealment of facts were pending against the CM and his son before the court of CJM Sumit Makkar.Last year, the ED had got an order in its favour from the court of Duty Magistrate Jasbeer Singh to inspect the files. Before the ED could inspect them, the Chief Minister and his son challenged the order and got stay in their favour.In its petitions, it was asserted the ED was having no jurisdiction to investigate the matter, which is the subject matter of the complaint pending before the trial court moved by the department against them.Moreover, the Enforcement Directorate was not even a party in the case. So, it had no right to inspect the files. The Duty Magistrate failed to appreciate the fact that the law did not provide inspection by a stranger in a pending case, claimed the petition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/i-t-case-court-junks-capt-amarinders-plea-against-ed-inspection-305633
03-09-2021||Bathinda||Gun goes off at Cong meeting in Talwandi Sabo, two injured||Two persons were injured after the gun of a private guard of a Congress leader went off during a public meeting of halqa in charge Khushbaz Singh Jattana in Talwandi Sabo on Thursday.Jattana had organised a public meeting on Guru Kashi College Road in Talwandi Sabo. When he started his speech, a gun shot was reported near the stage.The shot got fired as the gun of a guard posted with a political leader of Talwandi Sabo fell on the floor. Darbara Singh and Pooran Singh were injured in the incident. Both were taken to a hospital from where Pooran Singh was referred to Bathinda. Their condition is said to be stable and out of danger. A probe is under way. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gun-goes-off-at-cong-meeting-in-talwandi-sabo-two-injured-305607
03-09-2021||Ropar||Ropar IIT makes  plant-based air purifier||Budding scientists of the Indian Institute of Technology in Ropar and Kanpur and Delhi University Management Studies faculty have developed a living-plant based air purifier “Ubreathe Life” that amplifies air purification process in indoor spaces, including hospitals, schools and offices.Also read: Air pollution in India could cut life expectancy by 9 years: StudyRopar IIT’s startup company — Urban Air Laboratory — which developed the product, claims it to be the world’s first, state-of-the-art ‘Smart Bio-Filter’ that can make breathing fresh. It has been incubated at Ropar IIT, which is a designated Agriculture and Water Technology Development Hub, by the Department of Science and Technology.Editorial: Need urgent pollution policy: High density of air pollutants leads to low life expectancyThe technology works through air-purifying leafy plants, including peace lily, snake plant and spider plants. Room air interacts with the leaves and goes into the soil-root zone where maximum pollutants are purified. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-iit-makes-plant-based-air-purifier-305608
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu’s Delhi visit ‘personal’||Day after PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu was reported to be in New Delhi to meet the party top brass, sources close to him today said it was a personal, not political, visit. He returned to Patiala early this morning.Also read: All isn’t well with Punjab Congress, trying to end crisis: Harish RawatPunjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh rubbishes reports of Cabinet reshuffleSidhu’s Delhi visit fuelled speculation that he had gone to meet party chief Sonia Gandhi, but returned after failing to get time. He was in the national capital even as Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat was in Chandigarh to listen to the grievances of the state leaders. Sidhu did not react to the reports of him seeking time from the party high command.Party working president Kuljit Nagra and PCC general secretary (organisation) Pargat Singh said they were not aware of the visit. Rawat said: “If Sidhu has some work in Delhi, what’s the fuss about it? I met him two days ago. I talked to him today. He didn’t raise any issue.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhus-delhi-visit-personal-305609
03-09-2021||---||All isn’t well with Punjab Congress, trying to end crisis: Harish Rawat||Chandigarh, September 2Hours before winding up his two-day Chandigarh visit aimed at ending infighting in the state party unit, Punjab affairs in charge and AICC general secretary Harish Rawat said: “I will not say all is well, but we are heading towards it.”Also read:Navjot Sidhu’s Delhi visit ‘personal’Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh rubbishes reports of Cabinet reshuffleAfter briefing the high command, Rawat is expected to make another visit to Chandigarh.Summing up his observation on the state of affairs in the Punjab Congress, Rawat, before flying back in the state helicopter to Dehradun in the afternoon, said: “When there is a complicated pregnancy, an expert midwife is always required. That is what I am doing.”Veiled attack on warring factionsIn a veiled reference to CM Capt Amarinder Singh, PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and dissident ministers, he said the biggest losers in the ongoing tussle between the warring factions would be the leaders currently in powerful positions.“Both must understand that they have to come in one frame for their benefit. For one it is a challenge at the present and for the other the political future is at stake,” Rawat said.On the infighting in the state unit, he said the party believed in democratic setup and there were ways to solve the differences. He clarified that at the yesterday’s meeting with Capt Amarinder, the discussion centred on the implementation of the 18-point agenda handed down by the high command.The main focus of the discussion was the implementation of the five-point agenda handed over by the PCC chief to the CM during a recent meeting between the two. “Work is being done on the concerns raised by party leaders and some positive pro-people developments,” he said.“The state party chief is doing his part. During my recent meeting with him, he told me about the progress made on the recast of the PCC. I talked to him today also, but he did not complain about anything,” Rawat stressed.Rawat today met ministers Gurpreet Kangar and Aruna Chaudhary, MLAs Kuljeet Nagra, Amrinder Raja Warring, Kaka Randeep Nabha, Sarkar Kaur, Dr Raj Kumar Verka, and Punjab Youth Congress president Barinder Dhillon — who sought an early solution to the crisis. However, dissident ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Bajwa, Sukhbinder Sarkaria and Charanjit Channi kept away. They are learnt to be miffed at Rawat over not airing their concerns with the party high command.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/all-isnt-well-with-punjab-congress-trying-to-end-crisis-harish-rawat-305610
03-09-2021||---||Farmers lathicharged at Sukhbir Badal's rally in Moga||Moga, September 2The Moga police used water cannons and resorted to lathicharge on farmers who were protesting outside the new grain market in the city where SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal arrived to address a public meeting on Thursday.Also readSKM, BKU flay Moga incidentJagmeet Singh Brar faces farmers' protest on day 1 of campaign in MaurIn Hoshiarpur, Union Minister of State Som Parkash’s visit opposedHit by farmers' stir, Walmart to shut Bathinda storeProtesters broke the police barricades with tractors and some of them also reached near the venue of the SAD rally, forcing the police to use force to turn them away. At least five farmers and some policemen were injured and 15 cars, including police vehicles, were damaged in the incident.Won’t be deterred: ZiraThe police action will not deter us. We will continue our protests with more determination as the Akali leadership had supported the BJP to introduce the farm laws. — Baldev Singh Zira, Krantikari Kisan Union ActivistCongress fomenting troubleThe Congress government is trying to create a law and order situation in the state to get the Assembly elections postponed. —Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD PresidentFarmers were already angry over the alleged raids conducted on the houses and offices of some local farm activists on the intervening night of September 1 and September 2. The administration wanted to avert Thursday’s protest against the SAD chief in Moga.Farmers claimed they were protesting peacefully against Sukhbir without disrupting traffic on the overbridge on the national highway when cops used force to disperse them. Protesters allegedly threw stones at cops and defended themselves with the sticks they were holding to carry flags.Krantikari Kisan Union senior activist Baldev Singh Zira said the police action would not deter them from holding protests against the SAD. “We will continue our protests with more determination as the Akali leadership had supported the BJP being part of the NDA government to introduce the three farm laws,” he said.“We warned them several times. Some protesters pelted cops with stones after which the force was used to disperse them. They had also blocked the national highway near the spot which was later cleared,” said SSP Dhruman H Nimbale, adding DSP Gurdeep Singh and few other cops were injured in the incident.He said: “At least 35 protesters have been detained and the situation is now under control. We have also registered a criminal case under Sections 307, 332, 333, 353, 186, 148, 149, 120B of the IPC, Section 8-B of the National Highway Act, 1956, Sections 3, 4 of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act at the City-I police station against unknown persons.”Earlier, Sukhbir announced Barjinder Singh Makhan Brar as the party candidate from Moga. Brar's father veteran SAD leader Tota Singh was also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-lathicharged-at-sukhbir-badals-rally-in-moga-305599
03-09-2021||---||Jagmeet Singh Brar faces farmers' protest on day 1 of campaign in Maur||Bathinda, September 2Politicians of all parties are facing stiff opposition from farmers over the three new farm laws, SAD-BSP candidate from Maur Jagmeet Singh Brar faced protest from farmers on the first day of campaigning when he visited a SAD worker at Maur Mandi.Also read: Farmers lathicharged at Sukhbir Badal's rally in MogaAs per information, BKU Mansa workers carrying black flags in their hands, started raising slogans against the SAD and they reached outside the SAD worker’s shop. When Brar came to know about it, he came out and tried to pacify them. He told them SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal had motivated party workers to participate in farmers’ protest in big numbers.Brar also announced that they would do everything to get the laws repealed.However, farmers’ leaders said they would continue their protest against the politicians.Sekhon courts fresh controversySAD leader Janmeja Singh Sekhon on Thursday courted a fresh controversy after a video went viral, showing him wiping his face with a ‘siropa’ given to him by the BSP during an event at Maur. BSP leader Joginder Singh downplayed the incident, saying he might have done it mistakenlyOn the first day of his campaign, Brar paid obeisance at Maiser Khana temple and started his campaign, but absence of many circle presidents and senior local SAD leaders, who are considered close to Sikander Singh Maluka camp, raised concern for the SAD candidate.In a major development, Brar today visited the house of Maluka, who was demanding the ticket for himself from Maur. Brar claimed Maluka and his family have assured him of full support.Brar said, “Around 10 SAD leaders did not attended his event, but later I visited Maluka at his house and he has called all his supporters and told them to fully support me.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jagmeet-singh-brar-faces-farmers-protest-on-day-1-of-campaign-in-maur-305600
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||SKM, BKU flay lathicharge on farmers at Sukhbir Badal's rally in Moga||Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader and national president of All India Kisan Federation Prem Singh Bhangu has strongly condemned the lathicharge and use of water cannons on peacefully protesting farmers at Moga. “The act of police is unconstitutional and undemocratic which the Supreme Court has already affirmed in recent cases,” he said.The farmers assembled to ask questions to SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal during his Moga visit but were not allowed by the police. He said farmers were well within their right to ask Sukhbir that why his party supported the farm laws when they were enacted. He demanded strict action against the cops responsible for the lathicharge. Condemning the police action, BKU (Ekta) leader Sukhdev Singh Kokri said none of the political parties was serious in solving the farming sector issues. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/skm-bku-flay-lathicharge-on-farmers-at-sukhbir-badals-rally-in-moga-305601
03-09-2021||Our Correspondent||In Hoshiarpur, Union Minister of State Som Parkash’s visit opposed||Hoshiarpur, September 2Farmers today held a protest against Union Minister of State Som Parkash who was here at a PWD rest house to meet BJP leaders.As soon as farmers came to know about his visit, they gathered on the Mall Road and tried to march towards the rest house. Barricades installed by the police 200 meters before the rest house prevented protesters from marching ahead.The police had laid a three-layer formation to stop protesters with the second layer consisting of women police personnel. Protesters held a sit-in on the road, raising slogans against the central government and the minister. After about half an hour, as the protesters came to know that Som Parkash had left the rest house for Phagwara, they lifted their dharna.Farmer unions have made it clear they will continue to protest against the BJP leaders and their events unless the central government relents and withdraws the three contentious agricultural laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-hoshiarpur-union-minister-of-state-som-parkashs-visit-opposed-305602
03-09-2021||Aman Sood||Capt Amarinder’s hometown Patiala sees over 1K protests in past six months||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 2Non-stop protests by government teachers, farmers, doctors, patwaris, contractual employees and several others have adversely impacted life in Patiala. A number of unions have been protesting and demanding a meeting with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh or threatening to march towards his official residence in Patiala, troubling common residents.While the Chief Minister has not visited his hometown even six times in past six months, hundreds of agitations have troubled residents of his constituency umpteen number of times.According to the data collected by The Tribune, as many as 1,153 dharna or agitations were held in Patiala from March 1 to August 31. Of these, 57 were state-level dharnas, for which the district administration had to call additional force from other districts and even reserve battalions. Several cops and agitators have been injured many times; some have jumped into canal or climbed mobile towers.Ensuring locals are not troubledWe always appeal to agitators to ensure their dharnas do not harass people. Also, we make sure there’s adequate security during agitations and residents face minimum trouble. —Sandeep Garg, SSP PatialaIn other instances, protesting teachers, farmer union members and others have been injured and hospitalised following a lathicharge.Agitators from across the state have made Patiala as their favourite sit-in point. On an average, the district police and locals have been troubled by around 200 agitations per month, hitting normal life. “We are living opposite to the CM’s official residence and there is hardly a day when one can reach our house without trouble,” said an elderly resident.Meanwhile, various unions stressed they had been left with no choice but to hold such agitations to make sure their demands are met.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinders-hometown-patiala-sees-over-1k-protests-in-past-six-months-305603
03-09-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Hit by farmers' stir, Walmart to shut Bathinda store||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 2Punjab, it seems, is paying the economic cost for the long-drawn protests by farmers outside the stores and businesses of multinational companies. After the Adani Group decided to shut down its dry port at Kila Raipur last month, Walmart and its Indian arm Flipkart have now decided to close their outlet in Bathinda.Also read: Firms support farm stir, move machinery from Adani Dry Port at Kila RaipurIt is learnt the company has decided to shut its 50,000 sq feet wholesale outlet in Bathinda after the store remained closed for months because of the farmers’ agitation and a permanent dharna outside its premises. With losses mounting to millions of dollars after the store was forced shut in October last year, the company has decided to close it and go the “online way”.A company official told The Tribune that Flipkart Wholesale, the digital B2B marketplace of Flipkart Group, had demonstrated exponential growth in e-commerce adoption among members, especially kiryana stores in Bathinda, over the past few months. “To drive greater value and efficiency, the company will be focusing on e-commerce to continue servicing kiryanas and other members more efficiently. Towards this effort, Flipkart Wholesale will be closing its cash and carry store in Bathinda,” he said.Also read: Police hold meeting with farmers laying siege to Adani logistics park at Kila Raipur in Ludhiana“Staying invested in the state, the company will be opening a new warehouse at a suitable location. Kiryana and other members from Bathinda making online orders will be serviced seamlessly from this new centre, and in-store purchases can be done in the neighbouring store in Ludhiana. More than 100 employees will be provided new opportunities at Flipkart Wholesale at the new fulfillment centre and across the larger Flipkart Group ecosystem across supply chain and logistics,” he added.Notably, the store presently has over 200 employees on its roll, but many of them could lose their jobs. The closing down of the store would also have a ripple effect on other businesses that were directly or indirectly supplying goods to the Walmart store.Reliance, which earned the wrath of the protesting farmers, too, is incurring huge losses as its retail outlets. In all, 27 company-owned and company-operated fuel retail outlets and its telecom businesses have been hit because of the protests. The protesters are not allowing the conglomerate to even install telecom towers for upgrading and strengthening the infrastructure. As businesses remain shut, those who have rented out their premises to these companies have not been getting their rentals.“As of now, we are supporting the workers, but this cannot continue in perpetuity. We hope the state government intervenes and resolves this issue at the earliest,” said an employee of Reliance.Also read: Offered ‘low rates’ by Adani, apple growers in Himachal turn to APMCsUgrahan warns firm against layoffsBKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan has warned the company against laying off employees. “If you lay off employees, we will not allow a single store of your company to operate in Punjab,” the BKU president said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hit-by-farmers-stir-walmart-to-shut-bathinda-store-305604
03-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court refuses to interfere with order on Rs 6L costs in land case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 2More than a year after the Punjab and Haryana High Court rapped the state of Punjab for “making all-out efforts to ensure that citizens were robbed of their rights to life, liberty and property” before imposing Rs 6 lakh as exceptional costs, the Bench has refused to interfere with the order. Heavy cost imposed by the court was no ground to seek review of its earlier findings, the Bench ruled.The case pertains to the carving out of a metalled road through a chunk of land without acquiring it in accordance with the law or paying compensation. The plaintiff-landowners filed a suit, which was decreed by Civil Judge (Senior Division), Jalalabad (West). The findings were upheld by the first appellate court, the Fazilka District Judge.‘Law violated’Taking up the matter in February last year, Justice Fateh Deep Singh asserted it was fairly conceded there was nothing to suggest the appellant-state had right over approximately 8-10 marlas.Justice Fateh Deep Singh added: “This is not the first time this court has come across such a peculiar situation where the state, which is supposed to be the repository of the law and order and coming to the aid of its citizens protecting their rights to life, liberty and property, has made all out efforts to ensure that they are robbed of the same.”Before parting with the order, Justice Fateh Deep Singh added imposition of Rs 6 lakh special cost was necessary to ensure the state and its offices were discouraged from going into “such unwanted litigation” and wasting the exchequer.The Bench added the state would initially pay the amount in equal shares to all the plaintiff-landowners. Thereafter, 50 per cent of the cost would be recovered from the officials responsible from the defendant department. The remaining would be recovered from the law officers who had expressed opinion and prodded the state to come up with the appeal.Dismissing the review petition, Justice Fateh Deep Singh said the state, rather than challenging the court findings before a superior court, had filed the review application after almost a year. But the counsel could not convince the court how there was miscarriage of justice, discovery of new facts or bona fide and legally condonable reasons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-refuses-to-interfere-with-order-on-rs-6l-costs-in-land-case-305605
03-09-2021||---||Martyrs’ memorabilia to be kept at Jallianwala Bagh||New Delhi, September 2Memorabilia associated with martyrs of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre collected from members of their families as well as audio tapes of how the family members remember the massacre will be added among the exhibits kept at the renovated Jallianwala Bagh Memorial.Also read: Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historiansJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?A top Ministry of Culture official said two new galleries had been at the memorial for showcasing artefacts related to the massacre. The galleries are dedicated to the 1919 massacre, protests against the massacre in India and abroad, original footage related to the incident and history of Punjab.The official said 31 family members of victims of the massacre were present at the ground during the inauguration of the renovated memorial on August 28. All were quite happy with the restoration work, the official said, adding minute attention had been paid to the historicity of the massacre while carrying out the renovation work.Also read: ‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampLooks nice: Punjab CM contradicts Rahul Gandhi on Jallianwala remakeThe official said the “Sound and Light Show” introduced in the memorial is quite moving.Asked whether they were contemplating removal of the murals at the entrance, since it was attracting a lot of criticism, the official said, “this is not a life and death question”.Panel to visit memorial tomorrowJalandhar: Following the renovation of Jallianwala Bagh memorial, Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Committee members would visit the site on September 4. In 2008, the committee was at the forefront of the agitation against the changes at the site. The members have threatened an agitation if the alterations are found to be objectionable. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/martyrs-memorabilia-to-be-kept-at-jallianwala-bagh-305606
03-09-2021||---||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh  rubbishes reports of Cabinet reshuffle||Chandigarh, September 2A day ahead of the one-day special session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha to mark the 400th “Parkash Purb” of Guru Teg Bahadur, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh today dismissed reports about any Cabinet reshuffle in the offing.“There is no question of dropping or retaining any ministers. Any changes in the Cabinet will happen only at an appropriate time after due consultation,” the Chief Minister said.The move is also being seen as a message to dissident ministers — Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Charanjit Singh Channi — and three party legislators considered to be close to Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu, who have called for Captain Amarinder's removal as the Chief Minister.Whip issued to Congress MLAs“The Chief Minister’s clarification on the Cabinet reshuffle aims to address concerns of the dissident ministers who feared that they would be targeted for speaking against him,” said a senior party leader.AICC general secretary and party’s Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat also said, “The Cabinet rejig was not part of the agenda at the meeting on Wednesday with the Chief Minister.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-rubbishes-reports-of-cabinet-reshuffle-305616
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab eases vax norms for urgent foreign travel||The Punjab Government will allow people travelling abroad for urgent work to take the second dose of Covishield without waiting for the mandatory 84 days.The relaxation has also been extended to foreign nationals needing to return to home countries. The people will have to produce a copy of travel documents such as visas, confirmed tickets and other documents justifying urgent travel. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-eases-vax-norms-for-urgent-foreign-travel-305656
03-09-2021||New Delhi||Haryana youth Vishal Jood pleads guilty for assault on Sikhs in Australia||A court in Australia sentenced ‘Tiranga Warrior’ Vishal Jood, a youth from Haryana living on an expired visa, to a prison term for attacking Sikhs in a series of violent assaults in Sydney.Jood’s release has been sought by Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar, BJP leader Kapil Mishra, Olympian Yogeshwar Dutt and Delhi BJP spokesperson Tejinder Bagga.There is also a social media campaign claiming that Jood was actually a ‘Tiranga Warrior’ who was trying to protect the Indian flag from being dishonoured by ‘Khalistanis’.Jood, in jail since April, was on Thursday sentenced by Magistrate K Thompson in a Parramatta Court, said Vivek Asri of NRI Affairs, Australia, who has been tracking the case.The sentence carries six months of parole. As Jood has already spent 4 months and 17 days in jail, he could become eligible for parole on 15 October. However, his expired visa clouds the prospects of his early release as it is likely that he will be sent to a detention centre awaiting deportation.In a plea bargaining process, Jood pleaded guilty to three main charges. These included assault’, ‘occasioning actual bodily harm in company of others’ and ‘armed with intention to commit indictable offence’. The other charges were dropped by the prosecution.Jood’s lawyer, Asri, told the court that the Haryana youth comes from a place where Hindus and Sikhs co-exist ‘in peace’ and argued that his action was spontaneous and out of fear. There was no evidence that it was motivated because of the victim’s Sikh faith, he pleaded.The magistrate noted that it was “one of the burdens of living in the society to not to succumb to provocation”.He said that the urge to pick up an object and strike someone, especially when they are down on the ground, must be resisted. Such behaviour cannot be condoned, Magistrate Thompson added, reported NRI Affairs.Jood was arrested on 16 April and charged with three counts of affray, three counts of armed with intent to commit indictable offence, two counts of destroying or damaging property, and assault occasioning actual bodily harm in the company of others.He had last appeared before the court on August 12 when the court had set new hearing dates in January 2022.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/haryana-youth-vishal-jood-pleads-guilty-for-assault-on-sikhs-in-australia-305562
03-09-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Farmers clash with police in Moga as cops lathicharge them to prevent their protest against Sukhbir Badal||Tribune News ServiceMoga, September 2The Moga police on Thursday used water cannons and cane-charged the farmers who were protesting on the national highway outside the new grain market where SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal was to address a public meeting.Five farmers and some policemen were injured as the farmers clashed with the police after they used the force to disperse them. The turbans of both the farmers and some cops were tossed in the scuffle.A group of protesting farmers reached near the venue of the SAD rally where the police used force to turn them away. At least 10 cars and other vehicles were damaged in the incident.          The farmers were already unhappy over the attitude of the Moga police as the cops had raided the houses of local farm activists on Wednesday night to detain them so that Thursday's protest against the SAD chief could be averted.On Thursday, when the farmers started gathering on the highway, the police asked them to go away. The farmers said they were peacefully protesting against Sukhbir Badal, but the cops started using water cannons. The cops resorted to cane-charge while the farmers threw stones on the cops.Farmer leader Baldev Singh Zira alleged that the police action would not deter them from holding protests against the SAD leaders. “We will continue our protests with determination as the Akali leadership had supported the BJP to introduce the three controversial farm laws,” he alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-clash-with-police-in-moga-as-cops-lathicharge-them-to-prevent-their-protest-against-sukhbir-badal-305546
