04-09-2021||---||Talks won’t absolve you of your responsibility, you’re the root cause of farm laws problem: Punjab CM to Sukhbir||Chandigarh, September 4Ridiculing the Akali decision to set up a panel to hold talks with the state’s angry farmers, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday said no overtures could absolve the Badals of their responsibility in thrusting the draconian and undemocratic Farm Laws on the farming community.Considering that the Badals themselves were at the root of the problem, and the co-conspirators of the Centre’s anti-farmer agenda, the Akalis neither deserve nor can expect any understanding or forgiveness from the farmers, said the Chief Minister.The Akalis’ apathy towards the farmers was evident from the fact that even now, instead of understanding and relating with the pain of the farmers, Sukhbir was refusing to simply recognise the protesters as farmers and was insulting them by alleging that they owed allegiance to other political parties, including the Congress, said Amarinder.“If you (Sukhbir) cannot even recognise a farmer when you see one how can you ever hope to gain their trust and confidence,” asked the Chief Minister, adding that only a true son of Punjab’s soil can empathise with its people and their pain.Amarinder termed Sukhbir Badal’s announcement of suspension of the Shiromani Akali Dal’s election outreach programme and formation of the panel to engage with the farmers as a desperate measure to woo Punjab’s voters ahead of the 2022 Assembly polls. “But the farmers, and the people of Punjab are not fools, and your attempts to befool them with lies will backfire on you,” he warned the SAD president. He added that the state had completely and unequivocally rejected the Akalis, who had first looted them for 10 years in coalition with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and then cruelly worked hand in glove with them to impose the Farm Laws on the farmers.The Chief Minister pointed out that SAD was an integral part of the ruling NDA at the Centre all through the Farm Laws legislation process, with Harsimrat Badal a member of the Union Cabinet which approved the Ordinance that spelt the death knell for the farmers. Their dramatic split from the NDA subsequently was nothing but an attempt at eyewash, he said, adding that the SAD and BJP were clearly still working in collusion against the interests of Punjab.All that the Badals are interested in is getting back into the saddle by hook or by crook, said Amarinder, adding that having failed in getting restoring the faith of the farmers with their crocodile tears, the Akalis were now pretending to engage with them. “Why did they not talk to the farmers before allowing their partners in the NDA to bring in the black laws,” he asked, pointing out that even after the Ordinances were introduced, the Badals had refused adamantly to pay heed to the farmers’ concerns and had, instead, vigorously defended the laws for several months.Terming Sukhbir’s statement on ‘removing all misunderstandings’ by talking to farmer organisations’ as ludicrous, the Chief Minister said there were no misunderstandings among the farmers about SAD’s role in the entire Farm Laws affair, which was a clear and brazen conspiracy on the part of the BJP to appease their capitalist crony friends at the cost of the farming community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/talks-wont-absolve-you-of-your-responsibility-youre-the-root-cause-of-farm-laws-problem-punjab-cm-to-sukhbir-306713
04-09-2021||---||BSF fires at a ‘drone’ in Tarn Taran area||Amritsar, September 4The Border Security Force fired at a drone after hearing a buzzing sound in the area of Rajoke border out post in the wee hours of Saturday.The area was cordoned off and a search operation was launched in the area in the morning that continued for hours, though it yielded nothing.In a press release, BSF authorities said, “As per a coordinated drill, sister agencies were informed and a special search operation was carried out. Nothing suspicious was recovered from the area.”The movement of drones has become a major challenge for the security agencies. Some elements in Pakistan along with ISI have been using drones to smuggle arms and ammunition besides contraband. The BSF and Punjab police were already on a high alert following the seizure of hand grenades and two tiffin bombs in the recent past.A BSF spokesperson said the force had been on high alert all the times. It has been difficult to see the drones in the night and therefore jawans fired in the direction from where humming sounds of drones are coming.It was Rajoke village two years ago where the Punjab police for the first time had busted a terror module that was using drones for supplying weapons and ammunition to their operatives. The police had arrested several persons in the module and recovered five AK-47 rifles, 16 magazines, four China-made pistols and huge quantity of ammunition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-fires-at-a-drone-in-tarn-taran-area-306690
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sikander Singh Maluka will contest from Rampura Phul: SAD chief||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday said party leader Sikander Singh Maluka will contest the coming Punjab assembly elections from Rampura Phul, days after Maluka said he would leave the constituency for his son to contest.Maluka agreed to fight from Rampura Phul after Badal met him over lunch on Saturday.Badal said he requested Maluka to fight from Rampura Phul.Maluka said that he would go by the party’s decision, Badal added.The Shiromani Akali Dal president also appointed Maluka’s son Gurpreet Singh Maluka as the party’s general secretary.“SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal reiterated that Sikandar S Maluka will himself contest from Rampura Phul assembly constituency. He also appointed his son Gurpreet Singh Maluka as Gen Secretary of the party,” senior SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema said in a tweet.Former minister Sikander Singh Maluka on August 29 had refused to contest from Rampura Phul after he was named as candidate.He had then said that his son should be fielded from the constituency.The senior Maluka was keen to contest from Maur. However, the party later fielded Jagmeet Singh Brar from Maur.The Assembly elections in Punjab are due in early 2022. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikander-singh-maluka-will-contest-from-rampura-phul-sad-chief-306681
04-09-2021||Karam Prakash||Following Covid restrictions, this Paralympic archery medal-winning son of Haryana farmer practised in his fields||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 4The 30-year-old Harvinder Singh, who created history by winning a bronze medal in archery at the Tokyo Paralympics, had trained for the mega event in his farm fields.After the Covid pandemic disrupted the routine sports activity, Harvinder, the son of a farmer, turned his field into a practice field. The ace archer, who took up archery in 2012 after watching the event at the London Olympics, said he practised for nearly six months in his fields before heading to Tokyo.Talking to The Tribune over phone, Harvinder said, “Like other sportspersons, my training was also affected due to the lockdown in March last year. After a few days, I asked my father to prepare a training ground in the field. After harvesting the wheat in April last year, I started training in the fields.”Heartiest congratulations to @ArcherHarvinder for scripting history by bagging India's first-ever medal in para archery. Your bronze win in Tokyo's Paralympics will inspire many more to take up the sport. Country is proud of you Beta! 🇮🇳 pic.twitter.com/8hZsakuLPk  Harvinder said he joined the national camp at Sonepat in October 2020. However, the training was again affected due to the second Covid wave. Harvinder came back home at Ajitnagar in Kaithal district of Haryana and again started training in his fields.The bronze medallist said he had trained for over a month at the national camp before heading to Tokyo Paralympics.Talking about his initial days, he said he was first trained by coach Jiwanjot Singh at Punjabi University, Patiala. “After watching archery at the London Olympics on TV, I decided to pursue the game. I went to the archery ground in the university where Jiwanjot sir, who is also my mentor, started my training.”Harvinder said the initial few years in his sporting career were tough as he could not excel in his event. “I had left archery in 2015. After a month, my coach Jiwanjot again motivated me and changed my event from compound to recurve. This changed my life. In a year, I won a medal at the national level and haven’t looked back since.”His coach Jiwanjot said Harvinder balanced academics and sports well. "He is currently pursuing a PhD from Punjabi University. Along with government support, Punjabi University supported the medallist, including with his costly equipment."Singh said he was also trained by Gaurav Sharma, who is currently the archery coach at Punjabi University.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/following-covid-restrictions-this-paralympic-archery-medal-winning-son-of-haryana-farmer-practised-in-his-fields-306661
04-09-2021||In Gurdaspur||MP Partap Singh Bajwa: The ‘Return of the Native’||No welcome for MajithiaSenior SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia had a tough time dealing with farmers on his recent visit to Sri Hargobindpur. He was shown black flags as he made his way to the residence of former MC chief Bawa Harjit Singh Bhalla. The Akali leader blamed the local Congress leadership for having instigated the farmers to come on to the streets. “I know all this is the handiwork of some disgruntled Congressmen. The farmers are not to be blamed. I have tangible evidence that the sitting Congress MLA Balwinder Singh Laddi had planned and executed the protests. I repeat, the farmers are not involved in any way whatsoever,” he said. On their part, the Batala police had made elaborate arrangements to ensure no untoward incident took place. SSP Ashwani Kapur was a relieved man once Majithia and his cavalcade left the city.Kejriwal’s visit lifts spirits of AAP workersAAP national convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal surely lifted the spirits of AAP workers when he paid a visit to SAD ex-minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan’s house. Sri Hargobindpur halqa in-charge Amarpal Singh Kishenkot, who bagged an impressive 25,000 votes in the 2017 Assembly polls while contesting on an AAP ticket, said no leader can generate the kind of euphoria Kejriwal does. All Punjab AAP MLAs were present on the occasion. Actually, they had reached Amritsar to welcome Kejriwal at the airport and remained with him till he left for Delhi. MP Bhagwant Mann too was there at Sekhwan village and regaled his colleagues with some witty anecdotes. For the record, Sekhwan’s son, Jagrup Singh Sekhwan is all set to contest the polls on the party ticket from Qadian.— Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mp-partap-singh-bajwa-the-return-of-the-native-306050
04-09-2021||Harshraj Singh||Outfits demand naming of International Airport, Halwara, after martyr Kartar Singh Sarabha||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 3Residents and members of different organisations staged a massive protest against the state as well as Central governments at the DC office here on Friday. They were demanding that the International Airport, Halwara, should be named as Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha International Airport.The protesters said the governments and the authorities concerned have been ignoring their demands for over one year.People from different villages and the members of the Inquilaab Zindabad Jathebandi, Panthic Akali Lehar, Sikh Youth Power of Punjab and Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha Lok Bhalai Manch, Punjab, participated in the protest march started from the statue of the martyr at Bhai Bala Chowk to DC office. They also burnt an effigy with pictures of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in it while expressing their anger.The martyr’s ancestral village is Sarabha that is located a short distance from the airport. The protesters said despite their repeated demands, the governments failed to fulfil them.The protesters said a memorandum had been submitted to the district administration and letters written to the government authorities multiple times but no steps were taken to name the airport as “Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha International Airport” to date.Sukhwinder Singh from Halwara said, “We had launched a signature campaign last year. Around 4,500 persons had signed to demand that the airport should be named as Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha International Airport. We had then also submitted a memorandum to the Ludhiana DC on July 1, 2020, but to no avail. Recently, a board has been installed regarding International Airport, Halwara, but the martyr’s name was missing. We then wrote emails to the government authorities but our voice was ignored. Thus, we were forced to mark the protest today. We also submitted a fresh memorandum to the administration today regarding our demand.”Sandeep Kaur, social worker from Lohat Baddi, near Raikot, said, “Our first demand is that the airport should be named as Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha International Airport. The martyr’s ancestral village Sarabha is located about 5 km from the airport. Our second demand is that the unemployed youth of the nearby villages should be provided jobs at the airport.”The protesters said they will soon write emails to all 117 MLAs and 13 MPs of Punjab to support their demand and take necessary steps for naming the airport as “Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha International Airport’.In June 2020, while responding to a query related to renaming of the upcoming international airport at Halwara as “Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha International Airport”, Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla, had then stated that the Punjab government is also considering this demand and would request Capt Amarinder Singh to take up this issue with the Union Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/outfits-demand-naming-of-international-airport-halwara-after-martyr-kartar-singh-sarabha-306513
04-09-2021||Harshraj Singh||Centre seeks report from Punjab on proposed industrial park near Mattewara Forest, Sutlej||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 3Following complaints made to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) against the location of a proposed modern industrial park that is to be set up near the Mattewara Forest and the Sutlej, the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, GoI, and Central Pollution Control Board have sought reports from the state authorities concerned in this regard.After receiving a complaint filed by complainant Balwinder Singh Purain, Suneet Bhardwaj, Assistant Inspector General of Forests (Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change), has written to the Additional Chief Secretary (Forest), Punjab, in this regard and the state government has been requested to take immediate necessary action as per law and submit a detailed report to the ministry immediately.The complainant had written to the PMO and requested to take necessary action on his complaint regarding “threat to Mattewara Forest Reserve” due to the upcoming industrial park.In another grievance filed by a city resident, Kuldeep Singh Khaira, to the PMO, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has asked the Member Secretary of the PPCB to look into the matter for appropriate action and provide action-taken report to the complainant under intimation to the office concerned within 15 days. Khaira had raised the issue of “potential threat to the environment/ecology of the eco-sensitive Mattewara area and floodplains of the Sutlej due to the upcoming industrial/textile park on 955 acres”.Notably, members of a public action committee (PAC) to save the Sutlej and Mattewara Forest have been opposing the site for the proposed modern industrial park to be set up by the state government. The members wanted that no industry should be set up near the forest and river.The PAC is also going to organise a photography competition and a tree plantation drive near Mattewara on the coming Sunday to encourage citizens to visit the forest and see the beauty of nature near the city, said Ranjodh Singh, a member of the PAC, during a meeting held here today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-seeks-report-from-punjab-on-proposed-industrial-park-near-mattewara-forest-sutlej-306518
04-09-2021||---||20-kg heroin seizure: Gangster Preet Phagwara’s brother held||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, September 3The Kapurthala police arrested another accused in the 20-kg heroin seizure case. Nabbed from the Bhulla Rai Chowk, Phagwara, from a white-coloured Verna (numbered PB02BP2850), the accused has been identified as Gagandeep, son of Narinder Kumar, a resident of Daddar Mohalla, Phagwara.The police said Gagandeep is the brother of gangster Preet Phagwara. Kapurthala SSP Kapurthala HPS Khakh said the accused Gagandeep was nominated in the case following the disclosure of previously arrested Peter Masih who revealed during the police interrogation that he was sent to collect the consignment of heroin by Gagandeep.The SSP said police teams were moved to apprehend him following secret information regarding Gagandeep and arrested him from Bulla Rai Chowk, Phagwara, while he was travelling in his Verna. The SSP added that Gagandeep was the real brother of notorious gangster Rajnish Kumar, alias Preet Phagwara, presently lodged in jail.Peter was also lodged in jail and established contact with Preet Phagwara in the jail. During the preliminary interrogation, Gagandeep revealed that his brother Preet introduced him to Peter Masih and both have started the illegal business of smuggling heroin, following the directions of Preet, and were communicating with each other on the social media platforms.The accused has been arrested in the same case (FIR no 80 dated 31.08.2021) and Section 29 of the NDPS Act has been added in the case already registered at Dhilwan police station, Kapurthala.The SSP said the police would unearth all links involved in this drug syndicate. He added that the police would soon obtain the production warrant from the court from the court and bring Preet Phagwara out of jail for questioning in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/20-kg-heroin-seizure-gangster-preet-phagwaras-brother-held-306551
04-09-2021||---||Punjab badminton bodies at war with each other over Mohali championship||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 3Citing legal grounds, as many as 12 out of 19 affiliated District Badminton Associations (DBAs) of Punjab have written to the Punjab Badminton Association (PBA) demanding that the State Badminton Championship 2021-22 slated to be held in Mohali from September 15 to 19 be put off.In their letters shot off to Rajinder Kalsi, who has been honorary general secretary of the Punjab Badminton Association and is a Jalandhar-based businessman, the members of the 12 DBAs have questioned his authority to conduct the state event, especially in the light of three civil writ petitions pertaining to the PBA pending in the Punjab and Haryana High Court.They have said that Kalsi cannot hold the post as he was holding it against the constitution of the PBA. “He is 70-plus. His tenure ended on June 2019 and he had himself resigned from the post. He has held the post for 36 years whereas the maximum tenure is of eight years. He no longer represents any affiliated district association, which is mandatory. So, legally he can neither call an event nor ask for payment of affiliation fee,” said the office-bearers of 12 DBAs, including those of Hoshiarpur, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Pathankot, Ferozepur, Muktsar, Sangrur, Faridkot and Fazilka.In a notice put up on the portal of PBA on August 19, two days after the High Court issued a notice to Badminton Association of India for the formation of ad hoc committee of PBA till the cases are settled in the court, Kalsi had asked all DBAs to send the entries for the state championship and affiliation fee by September 5. The associations have said the last date for the entry had been smartly chosen as the next date of hearing in the HC is September 6. Ritin Khanna, member of the interim committee of DBA in Jalandhar, said Kalsi was just trying to create a rift between the associations and the players, who were getting panicky.In the entire mess, the players across the state are caught up as the last date of sending entries is just two days away and they are apprehending that their future could be at stake owing to the ongoing tussle between the DBAs and Kalsi running the PBA. Kalsi, on the other hand, maintains: “I am still the general secretary of the Punjab Badminton Association as the Badminton Association of India is routing all its communication through me. I have already started receiving the entries and will go ahead with the event. Whosoever wants to participate in the championship is welcome to send their entries. Those who will not send the entries owing to whatever false allegations that they are levelling against me will be the losers.”Kalsi also alleged that some of the letters from DBAs including those from Ludhiana received by him for cancellation of the event had fake signatures.Countering this, Anupam Kumaria, honorary general secretary of the DBA, Ludhiana, confirmed having sent the letter to Kalsi under his own signatures. Kumaria too is of the opinion that Kalsi should gracefully quit the post as he could no longer legally hold the position and let another interim committee handle the PBA working and events till the time the matter remains in the court.Parents of players a worried lotThe parents of the budding players from across Punjab, who have recently won at the district levels, are a worried lot as they apprehend that the chance of their children to perform at the state level could be lost due to the conflict between the district associations and the state. The parents from Jalandhar on Friday met the local association authorities and even approached Kalsi, who resides locally, to get the matter resolved so that their children do not suffer in the ongoing tussle.Will take decision on holding event today: Mohali DBACaught in the ongoing tussle, Ashok Kaushal, president of the host District Badminton Association, Mohali, said: “We will take a decision regarding the event on Saturday. A meeting has been called in and I will discuss all the issues with my association members. There still is some time left. We do not want the players to suffer at any cost.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-badminton-bodies-at-war-with-each-other-over-mohali-championship-306545
04-09-2021||---||PGI urges citizens to donate for poor patients||Chandigarh, September 3Prof AK Gupta, Dean (Research)-cum-Medical Superintendent and Head, Department of Hospital Administration, PGI, has urged citizens to donate generously to Poor Patient Assistance Cell (PPAC) to provide financial assistance and guidance to poor and needy patients.In 2019-20, 2,858 beneficiaries were provided medical assistance with Rs1,49,08,944, in 2020-21, 3,248 patients were helped with Rs1,39,41,066 and in 2021, 1,124 patients have been helped with Rs45,76,145 from the Poor Patient Welfare Fund under the PPAC.Professor Gupta stated: “Since the beneficiary pool of the patients requiring assistance has been increasing with each passing year at the PGI, we request to more citizens to come forward and donate generously either through the online mode or by cheque/demand draft to the Poor Patient Welfare Fund of the PGI.”Speaking on the occasion, Prof Vipin Koushal, Additional Medical Superintendent, said: “Assistance in the form of medicines and surgical consumables is provided to patients who are holder of Below Poverty Line (BPL) and Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) cards issued by various state governments or on the recommendation of a treating doctor after assessment. The amount required for treatment is sanctioned after following the due process.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pgi-urges-citizens-to-donate-for-poor-patients-306497
04-09-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Allotment of sports seats gets delayed in Punjab, coaches fume||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 3The Punjab Sports Department has once again delayed the allotment of sports wing seats to affiliated colleges. The suspension comes at a time when the admission process has already started.While the officials blame the Covid pandemic for the delay, the colleges are finding it difficult to induct sportspersons of the state.A senior official of the Punjab Sports DepartmentCovid pandemic to blame for delayThe delay has occurred due to the Covid pandemic. We are in the process of allotting the sports wing seats. Usually, the last date to admit students in colleges is July 31. However, the date has been extended due to a delay in the examinations. The colleges should not panic.The sports wing seats are usually allocated in the month of May-June.Under the sports wing scheme, a day scholar gets a specific amount as diet money. The amount is doubled for a residential athlete.“The delay has occurred due to the Covid pandemic. We are in the process of allotting the sports wing seats. Usually, the last date to admit students in colleges is July 31. However, the date has been extended due to a delay in the examinations. The colleges should not panic,” said a senior official of the Punjab Sports Department seeking anonymity.The coaches, meanwhile, said they had to put admissions under the sports quota on hold as they had no information on sports wing seats.“The admission process has started. The officials should have at least given us some clarity on number of seats per college and diet money,” said a Ludhiana based coach.“Many promising players are moving to other universities to secure their seats and pursue their career amid no clarity from the Punjab Sports Department,” said the coach.The process to induct players under the reserved seats usually runs for three months from April to June. The colleges get confirmation on the number of seats allotted and hike in diet money, if any, and accordingly, hostel seats are reserved and players get categorised as day scholars and hostellers.The process helps colleges to induct players before Panjab University inter-college championships.As per the Panjab University sports calendar, subject to the approval from the Associations of Indian Universities, the championships would be conducted from October this year.“The players are already out of action for one year and we are left with only a month to prepare for the inter-college competitions. In such a scenario, the department should allot seats so that colleges begin the induction process,” said another coach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/allotment-of-sports-seats-gets-delayed-in-punjab-coaches-fume-306491
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Congress to blame for lathicharge on farmers in Moga: Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij||Anil Vij today took a jibe at the Congress and alleged that the Congress was responsible for the thrashing of farmers in Moga. He was interacting with mediapersons here today.He said that even Congress MP Rahul Gandhi had tweeted regarding the incident in Karnal. “At present, there is a Congress government in Punjab and even after such a fierce lathicharge, no one said anything.”Responding to a question, he said that people were badly beaten up under the Congress government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-to-blame-for-lathicharge-on-farmers-in-moga-haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-306462
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar govt: Haryana ahead of Punjab in farm sector||The Khattar government has claimed that Haryana has marched ahead of Punjab in agriculture on the back of “pro-farmer” policies.“Punjab has a wider spread than Haryana in terms of total area and cultivable land. However, bold decisions taken by the Haryana Government in the past seven years to increase the Minimum Support Price (MSP) of 21 fruits and vegetables and 11 crops and then to procure them has paid off. Punjab stands nowhere close to Haryana with regard to agriculture,” the state government said in a statement.“The state government launched a scheme to promote crop diversification and the Fasal Bima Yojana. This boosted the agriculture sector,” the government said.It further said, “Haryana’s rate is 6.3 per cent and Punjab’s rate is only 2.1 per cent. For sugarcane farmers, the state government has set up 11 sugar mills. The number of sugar mills in Punjab is 15, but only nine are in working condition.”Earlier, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had tweeted about agriculture initiatives in his state to counter Khattar on August 31. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/khattar-govt-haryana-ahead-of-punjab-in-farm-sector-306461
04-09-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||BJP main target in Punjab, but will question others too: BKU leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 3BKU Ekta Ugrahan president Joginder Singh Ugrahan today said they will “strongly protest BJP leaders’ events in the state”, but asked people in villages to boycott “rallies of all other political parties as well”.Boycott other parties’ eventsWe will continue to question other parties and urge people in villages to boycott their events. We’ll tell parties not to hold events till farm protest is on. — Joginder Singh Ugrahan, BKU Ekta Ugrahan ChiefIn a video on the social media, Ugrahan said: “Many rumours are doing the rounds on the social media, but I want to clarify that our main target is the BJP, because it is the ruling party at the Centre and is not taking back the three ‘black’ farm laws.”He said: “Although other political parties are no different from the BJP, we will still not put them in the same bracket. But we will continue to ask questions of other parties, urge people in villages to boycott their events or rallies and tell parties not to hold events till the protest against the farm laws is on.”Reacting to the canecharge on farmers at Moga, Ugrahan said: “We condemn this incident as the farmers had gone to ask questions of SAD leaders.”He claimed it was seen that when farmers in large numbers confronted SAD leaders, Congress workers mixed with their cadre to create mischief and vice versa, leading to tension as such elements went unnoticed. “The Moga incident is apparently Congress’ ploy to portray in public the image of farmers getting beaten up at an SAD rally. But the Congress shouldn’t forget their police carried out the lathicharge in the state,” he said.Ugrahan asked the state government to cancel cases registered against farmer leaders and others at Moga or face protests in support of farmers.SAD general secretary Mohit Gupta, however, claimed: “Baffled by the response SAD rallies have been getting, the Congress and AAP are sending goons to farmers’ protest to defame the party. The SAD has snapped ties with the BJP over the farm laws and stands by the farmers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-main-target-in-punjab-but-will-question-others-too-bku-leader-joginder-singh-ugrahan-306093
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Day on, SAD stops yatra; invites farmers for talks||Facing protests by farmers across the state, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today announced stopping its ‘Gal Punjab Di’ yatra and rescheduling it from September 11 onwards. It also invited farmers for talks to clarify the party’s stand on the contentious central agricultural laws.‘Ready to answer all questions’We have been backing the farmers’ movement to the hilt. We are ready to answer each and every question posed by any of the SKM leaders. — Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD ChiefAddressing a press conference after presiding over a core-committee meeting of the party, Sukhbir said the committee decided to reschedule the 100-day statewide yatra to avoid any law and order problem. He said a three-member committee, comprising Balwinder Singh Bhunder, Prem Singh Chandumajra and Manjinder Singh Sirsa, would talk to the farmer organisations to reiterate the party’s unflinching support to their movement and eliminate misunderstandings.He said the programme was rescheduled to facilitate an open opportunity for a dialogue with the representatives of farmer organisations. The ‘Gal Punjab Di’ campaign will resume on September 11 from Amloh. He also cautioned the people of Punjab against a “deep-rooted conspiracy by anti-Punjab, anti farmer and anti-Sikh forces to vitiate the atmosphere of peace and communal harmony”. He alleged these forces were acting at the behest of the central agencies and had the active support of the Congress and AAP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-on-sad-stops-yatra-invites-farmers-for-talks-306094
04-09-2021||Moga||Moga: Farm unions seek withdrawal of cases||Various farm and labour unions, including the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, have condemned the lathicharge and use of water cannons on peacefully protesting farmers in Moga on Thursday.Also read:Farmers lathicharged at Sukhbir Badal's rally in MogaFarmer leader Ruldu Singh Mansa gives up security cover to protest Moga lathichargeThey asked the state government to withdraw criminal case registered against the farmers within a week or the unions would stage an indefinite protest against the district administration outside the mini-secretariat here from September 8.All protesters ‘freed’The police have released all protesters detained during the Thursday incident. “We have released all farmers unconditionally,” said a senior police officer. However, he maintained investigations were in progress.“The brutal act was against the very principle of right to protest peacefully,” claimed Sukhdev Singh Kokri, general secretary, BKU (Ekta).Prem Singh Bhangu, national president, All India Kisan Federation, said: “The police act is unconstitutional and undemocratic, which the Supreme Court has already affirmed in recent cases.”Nirbhai Singh Dhudike, president, Kirti Kisan Union, who convened an emergency meeting of farm unions here today said the farmers had assembled at the Akali rally to question SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on his party’s support to the farm laws while these were being enacted by the NDA government.“It was the democratic right of farmers to ask questions of elected representatives on issues concerning them. The police should not have stopped them from meeting Badal to ask queries,” he maintained. Karamjit Singh, president, Punjab Students Union, demanded strict action against the policemen who resorted to canecharge and use of water cannons.“Many farmers were injured in the incident. Therefore, a criminal case must be registered against the cops responsible for the act,” he claimed.Meanwhile, gangster-turned activist Lakha Sidhana along with supporters staged a protest against the police over the violence. He claimed the farmers were protesting peacefully and demanded withdrawal of criminal cases against farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-farm-unions-seek-withdrawal-of-cases-306095
04-09-2021||---||Bikram Majithia reaches out to Sikander Singh Maluka||Chandigarh, September 3Senior SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia held a meeting with sulking party leader Sikander Singh Maluka late Thursday at Rampura Phul to placate him.Also read:Setback for Sikander Singh Maluka, SAD fields Jagmeet Singh Brar from Maur seatField ex-minister Sikander Singh Maluka from Maur seat: Akali activistsSikander Singh Maluka skips SAD panel meeting amid ticket rowThe former minister, who is reportedly upset over ticket distribution, however stayed away from the party’s emergency core-committee meeting held here on Friday to discuss farmers’ protests against Akalis. Maluka is the head of the kisan wing of the party. He was the first to speak against the farm laws when the SAD leadership was supporting the laws. Maluka has skipped two consecutive core-committee meetings.Posting his photos with Maluka and his son Gurpreet on social media, Majithia wrote he had a “positive heart-to-heart talk” with the ex-minister.Though the party has fielded Maluka from Rampura Phul segment, he demanded the seat for his son and Maur for himself. He later insisted on the party adopting a “one family, one ticket” resolution, with exception to the Badal family, if his son was denied a ticket.However, overlooking his demand, the SAD announced former Congress leader Jagmeet Brar from Maur. Maluka had declined to accept the decision. Brar met Maluka on Thursday and sought his support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bikram-majithia-reaches-out-to-sikander-singh-maluka-306096
04-09-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Special session: Trust vote request turned down; CM says must imbibe Punjabiat||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 3In a first, a session of the 15th Vidhan Sabha began and ended without much hullabaloo. This despite political unease within the state over the farm laws as well as within the ruling Congress.On the sidelinesAhead of today’s session, there were murmurs of a proposed confidence vote to be sought by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to outsmart rebels within his party led by PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, after a whip was issued to all MLAs yesterday.On the floor of the House, a confident Chief Minister spoke about the teachings and life of Guru Teg Bahadur and the importance of pluralism in society. The one-day special session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha had been convened to mark the 400th Prakash Purb of the ninth Sikh Guru.The SAD made a last-minute request before Speaker Rana KP Singh asking him to direct the CM to prove majority in the House in the wake of rebellion against him, but it was ignored/turned down by the Speaker before he adjourned the House sine die.The rebels, including ministers and PCC chief Sidhu, occupied the treasury benches at the rear or extreme right of CM’s seat. The proceedings began with the House paying tribute to 24 eminent persons/ freedom fighters/ martyrs, including sportspersons Milkha Singh, Nirmal Milkha Singh and Yashpal Sharma, who had died in the months preceding the session.On the request of Congress MLA Randeep Singh Nabha and Deputy Leader of Opposition Sarvjit Kaur Manuke, farmers who had died in the ongoing agitation against the central farm laws were included in the list.This was followed by the special address to commemorate the Prakash Purb by former Chief Justice of India Justice JS Khehar, Governor Banwarilal Purohit, CM Capt Amarinder Singh and Leader of Opposition Harpal Cheema.In his maiden address, Purohit described Guru’s martyrdom as the turning point in the spiritual, religious and political history of India. “His messages continue to guide the humanity and remain universally relevant at all times. The Gurus inspired us in an era that was perhaps the most challenging phase of our history,” he said. Speaker Rana KP Singh said Guru’s sacrifice would inspire the mankind to imbibe the message of love, harmony and tolerance.Justice Khehar emphasised the importance of “ardas” in the Sikh way of life. “By reflecting on the Guru, we can achieve all nine spiritual and worldly sources of wealth,” he said, adding the Guru chose martyrdom to ensure protection of religious rights of all as being central to the Sikh identity. The Dalai Lama and Vice President of India, who were also invited for today’s special session, couldn’t attend and their messages were read out by the Speaker.“The Sikh faith is distinguished by the tradition of martyrdom to uphold principles and righteousness given to us by our Gurus. The life and message of Guru Teg Bahadur constitute the essence of what we have come to regard as Punjabiat,” said the CM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/special-session-trust-vote-request-turned-down-cm-says-must-imbibe-punjabiat-306097
04-09-2021||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu begins exercise to finalise Punjab unit team||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 3After targeting the Capt Amarinder Singh-led government over the implementation of the 18-point agenda handed over by the party high command, PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has now set his focus on setting up the state party unit. He has held back-to-back meetings with his four working presidents over the past two days.On Friday, after the one-day special session of the Vidhan Sabha, Sidhu chaired a meeting with his four working presidents — Kuljit Nagra, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Pawan Goel, and Sukhwinder Danny — besides the PCC general secretary (organisation) to set the ball rolling for finalising the name of office-bearers.This comes after Sidhu was told by the Congress high command to concentrate on setting up the state party unit and desist from issuing statements that were detrimental to the party’s interest.Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat has said Sidhu has sought 15 days to complete the list of office-bearers before sending it for approval to the high command.Sources said the PCC president and working presidents were taking feedback from party MPs, MLAs, senior party leaders before finalising the names. The Assembly segments in Malwa, Majha and Doaba regions have been divided among the four working presidents. Appointing the general secretaries and district presidents, besides setting up various committees are the high priority areas for the new team.“We are looking for dedicated party workers who might have been sidelined,” said one of the working chiefs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-begins-exercise-to-finalise-punjab-unit-team-306098
04-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Send minor girls leaving home to child care institutions: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 3The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that minor girls leaving their parental homes were, more often than not, sent to Nari Niketan/special home/observation home meant for juveniles in conflict with law and not to child care institutions.Directions issued to district courtsThe High Court directed district/subordinate courts to ensure minor girls were not sent to Nari Niketan/special home/observation home meant for juveniles in conflict with law, but to proper child care institutions with adequate budgetary and infrastructural facilities.The assertion came as the High Court issued a slew of directions to the district/subordinate courts, legal services authority and the governments/administration of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh on their protection. The commandments included directions to the district/subordinate courts to send minor girls in need of care and protection to proper child care institutions instead of homes for juveniles in conflict with law.The directions came after Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi observed the earlier commandments issued by another Bench some six years back had apparently not been fully executed and “much more” was required to be done for the “minor girls who leave their parental homes with paramour on account of love affair, alone or in company of some friend, due to maltreatment by their parents or pressure on them to marry a person of their parents’ choice”. Justice Tyagi added the child care institution, too, lacked requisite budgetary and infrastructural facilities.To begin with, Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh were directed to identify/notify child care institutions in each district, or a group of districts, before providing requisite financial assistance. Directions were also issued for closely monitoring/supervising their working to ensure minor girls were not subjected to “miseries or exploitation”.In his August 31 order released today, Justice Tyagi also directed the states and the UT to ensure the minor girls were as far as possible prompted and allowed to continue their education from institutions they were studying in. Adoption of steps for providing additional vocational training in sewing, computer applications, cooking and fashion designing etc. was also directed to enable them to earn livelihood on attaining of majority.The State Legal Services Authorities of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh were also directed to prepare a scheme/widen the scope of existing scheme for providing necessary assistance, including legal aid for redressal of their grievances, along with requisite financial help.The District Legal Services Authority secretaries were also asked to visit and depute legal aid counsels to periodically visit the child care institutions for assessment of their living conditions, suggesting improvement and assisting them in redressal of their grievances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/send-minor-girls-leaving-home-to-child-care-institutions-hc-306099
04-09-2021||Sameer Singh||Two chimneys of Bathinda thermal plant demolished||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 3The local administration on Friday demolished two towering chimneys of Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant (GNDTP) here. With this, final hopes of resuming operations have also been dashed to the ground, said members of the GNDTP Employees’ Federation.Give Heritage statusWe are planning to get heritage site status for four cooling towers that have become a symbol of the city over the years. — Gursewak Singh Sandhu, President, GNDTP Employees’ FederationNotably, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal had made a pre-poll promise that the Bathinda thermal plant would be made functional again. But, with the demolition work underway, it seems that the promise won’t be kept. Citing feasibility, economic and environmental concerns, the state government had taken the decision to shut the thermal plant. As per the state government’s plan, an industrial park would be established on the land of the thermal plant.Lashing out at the government, a representative of the GNDTP Employees’ Federation said had the government made “genuine efforts”, the work could have been resumed at the thermal plant.Established in 1969 on Guru Nanak Dev’s 500th birth anniversary, the GNDTP was inaugurated by then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi amid much fanfare. Built with Russian technology, the thermal plant had four units that generated 440 MWs of electricity. Meanwhile, crores of rupees were spent on renovation of the thermal plant on different occasions in the past two decades.Talking to The Tribune, Gursewak Singh Sandhu, president of GNDTP Employees' Federation, said, “Today is the dark day in the history of state as two chimneys of the thermal plant have been dismantled by the government. The government's claim that power generation was expensive here does not have any substantive basis. An RTI reply had revealed that the per unit power generation cost here was Rs 4.76 instead of Rs 11 per unit claimed by the government.”To stop further demolition, we are planning to get heritage site status for four cooling towers that have become a symbol of the city over the years. By making some modifications, these can be utilised for promotion of tourism," said Sandhu. .||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-chimneys-of-bathinda-thermal-plant-demolished-306100
04-09-2021||Parvesh Sharma||3 months on, oxygen plant yet to start in Sangrur||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, September 3Amid claims of improvement in health facilities, the authorities in Sangrur district have failed to start an oxygen plant which was sent by the central government under the PM Cares in the first week of June. The authorities say technical glitches have delayed its start but local BJP leaders blame lack of sincerity among officials.CM must take noteOfficials are offering baseless excuses of technical glitches, which could have been rectified within a month. The Punjab CM must look into the matter urgently. — Randeep Deol, Sangrur BJP President“It’s really surprising that Sangrur authorities have not started the oxygen plant. Officials are offering baseless excuses of technical glitches, which could have been rectified within a month. The Punjab CM must look into the matter urgently because if the third wave of Covid comes, the plant will be of big help,” said Randeep Deol, Sangrur BJP president.The Health Department authorities have got installed the plant at the local Civil Hospital in a newly constructed room, located on the backside of the canteen. Today,when The Tribune correspondent visited the plant, it was locked.“We have lost hope as claims of bringing improvement in the health system are only on paper. It seems the authorities will wake up from their slumber only after the start of the third wave ,” said Gurjant Singh, a resident of the area.Sangrur district had the highest Covid case fatality rate of 5.3 per cent. As per the report of the Health Department, till the end of June, 859 residents had lost their lives to the virus.Sangrur Civil Surgeon Dr Anjna Gupta said they had been working hard to improve health facilities in the district and had also sent a list of the required equipment.“Technical glitches in a wire and other equipment have delayed the start of the oxygen plant. We have started its trial run. Hopefully, it will start working fully in the coming days,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-months-on-oxygen-plant-yet-to-start-in-sangrur-306101
04-09-2021||Balwant Garg||Hit hard by Covid, Punjab Govt's ‘Saadi Rasoi’ lying closed for over year||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, September 3The ‘Saadi Rasoi’ (our kitchen) of the state government has been lying closed for about 20 months here. Under the project, the needy are served four chapattis, seasonal vegetable and pickle at a subsidised rate of Rs 10 at the Red Cross buildings.No funds to pay staff salariesWe continued to run the kitchen till we had funds. Once we faced difficulty in paying salary to the staff, we were forced to shut the kitchen temporarily. — Red Cross Society OfficialRun by District Red Cross Societies, these were a part of the Congress’ poll manifesto in 2017, promised to provide subsidised food to the poor and were started at many places with much fanfare in May 2017, but since the Covid outbreak, these are lying closed.Like all, Covid has hit the financial balance sheet of the Faridkot Red Cross Society too, due to which they have been unable to run ‘Saadi Rasoi’ in Kotkapura and Faridkot towns, which had been serving a meal to about 400 persons daily since May 2017. Providing cooked food at highly subsidised rate of Rs 10 per plate was causing a financial loss of about Rs 1.5 lakh per month to the District Red Cross Society here. “Rent from a marriage palace was the major source of our income which had declined during the pandemic times and thus the funds depleted,” said Subash Chander, secretary, District Red Cross Society. In absence of adequate donation and sufficient funds, the Red Cross Society was forced to shut the ‘Saadi Rasoi’. During Covid crisis, when a number of organisations had put up community kitchens to provide food to the needy, who were hit hard by the lockdown, this benevolent act of the Red Cross came to a stall. There was no financial aid from any government quarter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hit-hard-by-covid-punjab-govts-saadi-rasoi-lying-closed-for-over-year-306103
04-09-2021||Mansa||Farmer leader Ruldu Singh Mansa gives up security cover to protest Moga lathicharge||A day after Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Ruldu Singh Mansa was provided security cover by the Mansa police following threats issued to him on social media, he has now refused to take it in protest against the Moga lathicharge.Also read: Farmers lathicharged at Sukhbir Badal's rally in MogaMoga: Farm unions seek withdrawal of casesMansa had agreed to take security from the police on September 1, but after the Moga incident, he has refused to take the cover.“I have informed senior police officials about my decision. There can’t be an apt example of pretense that on the one hand you want to provide security to a union leader and on the other hand you are beating farmers ruthlessly. Such double standards would not be tolerated at all,” he said. — TNSWhy Navjot Sidhu mum on moga incident: AAPState AAP kisan wing president Kultar Singh Sandhwan on Friday said PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu was speaking in favour of farmers in various events, but was silent on the lathicharge and FIRs lodged against them. Flaying the Moga incident, the AAP has demanded immediate cancellation of the FIRs lodged against over 200 farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-leader-ruldu-singh-mansa-gives-up-security-cover-to-protest-moga-lathicharge-306104
04-09-2021||---||C Voter survey predicts hung House in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 3A survey by C Voter-ABP ahead of next year’s five state elections has predicted a hung Assembly in Punjab with the Congress government likely to lose, Aam Aadmi Party having the edge, the BJP headed for a rout and Shiromani Akali Dal expected to finish third.The C Voter projections say AAP could win 51- 57 seats in the 117-member Punjab Assembly followed by the Congress with 38 -46 seats and the SAD 16-24 seats. The vote share projections in Punjab are 35.1 per cent for AAP, 28.8 per cent for the Congress and 21.8 per cent for the SAD.The survey comes amid the feud between Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Punjab Pradesh Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and attempts by the leadership to unite the warring factions.The Congress had swept the poll in 2017, winning 77 seats.The SAD had won 15 seats, AAP 20, BJP three and others two. In 2022, the farmers' agitation is likely to impact the election results.The C Voter survey predicted a BJP victory in the remaining four states that go to the polls in 2022 — UP, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa. In UP, it said the BJP could lose about 60 seats, but still retain power.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/c-voter-survey-predicts-hung-house-in-punjab-306105
04-09-2021||Doraha||Varsity, college teachers in Punjab go on mass leave; want UGC scales||Over 2,000 university and college teachers, under the banner of the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations (PFCUTO), went on mass casual leave today to protest the “unwarranted delay in the implementation of UGC grades” in Punjab and Chandigarh.Teachers marched to Chandigarh and proceeded towards the CM’s residence, where they were stopped by the Chandigarh Police.SS Brar, OSD to the Chief Minister, reached the spot and heard the teachers. A memorandum was handed over to Brar, who assured that the matter would be handled positively so that the issues could be solved at the earliest.Meanwhile, the teachers have decided to hold continuous protests from Teacher’s Day, ie September 5 onwards. A fast would be started at Panjab University on that day. In order to ensure minimum loss of study, the teachers would protest just for two hours daily on the campus itself.HS Kingra, president of PFUCTO, said Punjab was the only state which was yet to implement UGC pay scales notified in November 2017 and UGC regulations notified in 2018. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/varsity-college-teachers-in-punjab-go-on-mass-leave-want-ugc-scales-306106
04-09-2021||Bathinda||Waive debt, electricity bills: Punjab farm labourers||Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union members along with other labourer unions carried out a protest march in Bathinda demanding debt-waiver, permanent employment to labour class and a proposal in the Vidhan Sabha for revoking recent “anti-labour” class amendments to labour laws.The protesters gathered near the Rose Garden area and after representatives from different unions of labourers addressed the gathering. They carried out a protest march in different parts of the city and raised slogans against state and central governments.Members of the Dehati Mazdoor Sabha, Mazdoor Mukti Morcha, Khet Mazdoor Sabha and Punjab Khet Mazdoor Sabha participated in the protest.Parkash Singh Nandgarh, a union leader, said, “We demand that all debts and outstanding electricity bills of farm labourers must be waived. The public distribution system must be streamlined and labourers and common man must be provided with essential commodities at subsidised rates.”Pritpal Singh Rampura, another leader said, “Despite being assured in meeting with Cabinet Minister Brahm Mohindra recently, debts and electricity bills of labourers have not been waived till now. We will gherao Moti Mahal residence of Capt Amarinder Singh in Patiala on September 13.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/waive-debt-electricity-bills-punjab-farm-labourers-306107
04-09-2021||Sangrur||Sangrur: No clue to two missing minors, farm unions threaten indefinite stir||Members of the BKU Ugrahan and Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union today protested in front of the Lehra police station, demanding the arrest of those behind alleged disappearance of two minor girls from Bhai Ki Pashore village.“Both minor girls went missing from the village on August 30. Though the police have registered a case on our complaint, they are not conducting raids to arrest the suspects,” said Dharminder Pashore, BKU Ugrahan Lehra block president.The protesters said if the police failed to arrest the suspects and recover the missing girls over the next two days, they would start an indefinite protest in front of the police station.“We have met the SHO and submitted evidence. But the police are not taking the case seriously. We will start an indefinite protest in front of the Lehra police station if they fail to arrest the suspects and recover the girls in the next two days,” said Pashore.Lehra DSP Baljinder Singh said they had registered a case and were conducting raids to arrest the suspects. “Our teams are raiding suspected hideouts and are trying to arrest the suspects at the earliest,” said the DSP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-no-clue-to-two-missing-minors-farm-unions-threaten-indefinite-stir-306109
04-09-2021||---||Cannot claim age relaxation on Punjab CM’s tweet, reasserts court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 3Candidates cannot claim as a matter of right relaxation in upper age limit merely because the Chief Minister tweeted in this regard, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has held.The ruling by a Division Bench of Justices Rajan Gupta and Karamjit Singh came in a case where the appellant-candidates were seeking upper age relaxation to apply for police sub-inspectors’ post, among other things, on the basis of Punjab CM’s tweet.“The appellants cannot seek relaxation in upper age limit as a matter of right just on the ground that the Chief Minister, Punjab, had tweeted on July 12, 2020, that in the coming days maximum age for recruitment to the posts of sub-inspector will be increased from 28 to 32. The maximum age limit can be increased above 28 years only by amending the rules as per the procedure prescribed under the law,” it ruled.Referring to a reply by the state of Punjab and other respondents, the Bench observed the age limit prescribed in an advertisement dated July 6 was based on Rule 12.6 of the Punjab Police Rules, prescribing 28 as the upper age limit. Admittedly, the petitioners-appellants had not invoked the High Court’s writ jurisdiction to challenge the said rules.The Bench also added the Delhi HC judgment in Najma’s case, referred to by the appellants, was of no assistance as the facts and circumstances were totally different. The CM concerned in that case had made certain promises in a press conference that the government would pay rent on a tenant’s behalf if he was unable to do so due to poverty.The Delhi HC observed it amounted to an enforceable promise, the implementation of which ought to be considered by the government. But relaxation sought in the present case could not be given without amending the rules. Such an amendment could be made collectively by the Council of Ministers and not solely by the Chief Minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cannot-claim-age-relaxation-on-punjab-cms-tweet-reasserts-court-306110
04-09-2021||New Delhi||Honey Singh, wife counselled by court||As Punjabi singer Yo Yo Honey Singh faces a case of domestic violence filed by his wife Shalini Talwar, a Delhi court on Friday counselled the couple in an attempt to sort out their differences.Metropolitan magistrate Tania Singh called the estranged couple to her chamber and counselled them for around 90 minutes.The court allowed Shalini to visit her matrimonial home on Sunday with two lawyers and a protection officer to collect her belongings. The visit will be video-graphed. It also asked the couple not to indulge in any unhealthy conversation during the visit.The judge posted the matter for further hearing on September 28.Talwar was represented by advocate Sandeep Kapur while advocate Rebecca John appeared for Singh.The court will also take up Talwar’s plea for interim compensation and residence. It asked her to submit her bank account statement and income affidavit in the next 10 days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/honey-singh-wife-counselled-by-court-306111
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court dismisses cops’ plea in ’97 kidnap case||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has dismissed a bunch of petitions filed by Punjab police officials seeking the setting aside of order passed in October 2016 by the Patiala CBI Special Judge, vide which their applications for dropping CBI proceedings in a kidnapping case was dismissed. Their plea was that the CBI was not having territorial jurisdiction to register the case and conduct the trial.Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan observed the CBI registered the case on February 28, 1997, for kidnap and common intention under Sections 364 and 34 of the IPC in J&K regarding the abduction and killing of Sukhwinder Singh in Amritsar. Similarly, other connected cases, were also registered regarding abduction and killing of innocent persons.The petitioner’s counsel argued the CBI had registered the “RC” in J&K as special investigating unit-XVI at Jammu was assigned the investigation of all cases. But the unit had no jurisdiction either to register an FIR or conduct an investigation. Justice Sangwan asserted the court found that the trial court had rightly decided the issue of jurisdiction, which vested with SIU-XVI Branch, Jammu, to conduct the investigation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-dismisses-cops-plea-in-97-kidnap-case-306112
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Simarjeet Bains case: State at liberty to appoint ‘more competent’ IO: Punjab and Haryana HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today made it clear the state was at liberty to appoint a “more competent investigating officer” if the probe in the rape case against MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains was not proceeding further in the right earnest.The assertion by the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh came after the “victim’s” counsel CM Munjal pointed out that probe had made little headway. Alleging police inaction in the rape case, the “victim” had earlier moved the HC. She was seeking directions to be made a party in the case on “monitoring the progress of matters pending against the MP/MLAs”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/simarjeet-bains-case-state-at-liberty-to-appoint-more-competent-io-punjab-and-haryana-hc-306114
04-09-2021||Karam Prakash||Doctors seldom show up at Patiala rural centres||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 3Despite Covid, many doctors of the Health Department, who are posted at health centres in villages, have reportedly been missing from the ground. On Friday, The Tribune visited many health centres in the Shutrana block of the district. Without any check, many doctors in the countryside were found missing from the centres during duty hours.Must be caught upThe post at the first health centre is lying vacant. The doctor at the other centre must be busy in some work as the medical officer there has been appointed as the nodal officer for court cases. — Dr Darshan Kumar, SMO, ShutranaAt one such centre, officials said the doctor rarely came for duty. He hadn’t showed up today. When asked about his duty roster, they said they had no idea about it. Similarly, there was no doctor at one more health centre in another village. The health officials at that centre said the post of medical officer was lying vacant. However, the department had appointed a doctor on deputation for three days a week, but he rarely showed up.Dr Darshan Kumar, Senior Medical Officer, Shutrana block, said, “The post at the first health centre is lying vacant. The doctor at the other centre must be busy in some work because the medical officer there has been appointed as the nodal officer for court cases of the department.”He said they had shortage of staff and had to depute doctors from the centres for the supervision of vaccination and Covid sampling.Sources in the department said doctors themselves opted for the rural postings to get a quota (30 per cent marks in NEET PG) in the postgraduation (MD/MS) selection process. However, some of them did not perform duties and such a practice was rampant across the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doctors-seldom-show-up-at-patiala-rural-centres-306115
04-09-2021||---||Punjab schools open, but parents prefer online classes||Bathinda, September 3After remaining closed for a long time due to Covid-19 pandemic, schools in the state have now started opening for all classes.However, large numbers of parents are still hesitant to send their kids to schools and many have not given consent for physical classes in view of a possible third wave. Taking no chances, private schools have asked parents to submit their consent in writing. Moreover, parents have to ensure that their children will wear masks, carry sanitiser and maintain social distance, but many parents still want their kids to continue studying online.Their prime concern is that children have generally less resistance power and immunity and can face health problems if infected. However, it is learnt that more number of students are going to school in rural areas as compared to the urban areas.The principal of a Bathinda school said: “We have received consent from around half of the parents for physical classes. We will start the school with 50 per cent strength. The online classes will also run parallel.”Monika Garg, mother of Class VII boy, said: “Sending my child to school is a major risk as there are reports of a possible third wave. I have not given my consent for physical classes yet. I will wait for a few more months.”Dr Vitul K Gupta, a health activist, said: “I strongly feel that schools must open with effective Covid-preventive measures. The closure of schools for long is adversely affecting students’ mental and physical health. If we can’t ensure strict compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour and mental healthcare, schools should remain closed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-schools-open-but-parents-prefer-online-classes-306116
04-09-2021||Amritsar||Don’t politicise facelift of Jallianwala Bagh: Bitta||Differing from Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, All-India Anti-Terrorist Front chairman Maninderjit Singh Bitta today appreciated the newly renovated Jallianwala Bagh memorial in Amritsar.Also read: Jallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Showing gratitude towards the Centre’s endeavour to facelift the historical site, the former Indian Youth Congress president opined that instead of criticising it for political gains, the renovation work should be appreciated. “The Centre has done a wonderful job by renovating it and enhancing the public utility services which were in a shambles before. Those who have been criticising it are doing politics, overlooking the contribution of martyrs who brought a turning point in the freedom struggle. I believe that the renovation has been done keeping in view the convenience for next 20 years,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-politicise-facelift-of-jallianwala-bagh-bitta-306117
04-09-2021||---||17 phones seized from Faridkot jail inmates||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, September 3As many as 17 mobile phones and accessories were seized from undertrials and inmates at the Faridkot Modern Jail on Friday, putting the jail authorities under the scanner.The police have nominated 17 inmates under provisions of the Punjab Prisons Act after it received complaints from the jail authorities.As many as 10 mobile phones were recently recovered from the jail. While the police had nominated two prisoners in the case of recovery of two mobile phones, eight other phones were termed as ‘abandoned’ on the jail premises here. Over the past one year, when no visitor has been allowed to contain the spread of Covid-19, over 200 mobile phones have been recovered inside the jail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/17-phones-seized-from-faridkot-jail-inmates-306118
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Late Congress minister’s daughter, workers join Akali Dal||AAP leader Anu Randhawa, daughter of late Congress minister Jasjit Singh Randhawa, along with her supporters today joined the SAD.Anu contested the 2017 Assembly elections from Ghanur on AAP ticket.Welcoming her into the party, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said her joining would strengthen the party not only in Ghanaur but also the entire district.Speaking on the occasion, Randhawa said she was upset with the anti-Punjab policies of the AAP, forcing her to take the decision .Senior leader Prem Singh Chandumajra said the very fact Congress men in Patiala district were switching sides spoke volumes about the state of the party. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/late-congress-ministers-daughter-workers-join-akali-dal-306119
04-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Fake currency seized, 3 held||Abohar, september 3The police have arrested two persons in Hanumangarh and one in Sriganganagar and seized fake currency worth Rs 84,200. Apart from these, two suspicious persons have also been arrested. From both the places, the police have recovered high quality colour printers, scanners, super quality white paper and other material being used in preparing fake notes.Fake notes were being prepared at these locations for the past two months. Hanumangarh Superintendent of Police Preeti Jain said Kuldeep Singh of Amarpura Jalukhat and Shiv Prakash of Shahpini Sangria were arrested and the police seized fake notes worth Rs 84,200 from their possession||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fake-currency-seized-3-held-306121
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Harish Rawat atones for ‘Panj Pyare’ remark||Sticking to his resolve of repenting for referring to PCC working chiefs as ‘Panj Pyare’, state Congress affairs in charge Harish Rawat today cleaned shoes of devotees and swept the floor at Nanakmatta Gurdwara, near Khatima, in Udham Singh Nagar, Uttarakhand.Meanwhile, the Youth Akali Dal today lodged a complaint with the Fatehgarh Sahib police against Rawat over his ‘Panj Pyare’ remark. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harish-rawat-atones-for-panj-pyare-remark-306122
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||Pandemic, land acquisition delay 29 NH projects in Punjab||As many as 29 national highway (NH) projects in Punjab are delayed due to various reasons such as the Covid pandemic, delay in land acquisition, utility shifting and forest clearances. The delay varies from project to project and ranges from 10 days to 90 months, according to information provided by Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari in the Lok Sabha recently while responding to a question related toNH projects in Punjab.At present, 33 national highway projects in Punjab are under construction. The total length of national highways under execution is 580.49 km and the total project cost is around Rs 5,573.60 crore. Also, of the total 33 projects, eight projects have been awarded to executors. However, the construction is yet to start. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pandemic-land-acquisition-delay-29-nh-projects-in-punjab-306123
04-09-2021||Chandigarh||CS: Open IPD at Bathinda AIIMS by month-end||In order to provide best possible healthcare facilities and further ramp up the health infrastructure to effectively deal with any exigency in future, the Chief Secretary, Vini Mahajan, directed the authorities concerned to open the IPD (in patient department) services at the upcoming All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Bathinda by September-end, besides making functional the under-establishment PGI satellite centre in Sangrur by October.Chairing a high-level meeting here, the Chief Secretary was apprised that the construction work of PGI satellite centre in Ferozepur was awarded last month and would be completed within 39 months. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cs-open-ipd-at-bathinda-aiims-by-month-end-306124
04-09-2021||Ropar||Ropar DC declares NFL plant area ‘no drone zone’||Three Abohar men arrested in separate rape casesAbohar: Three persons were held in connection with rape cases in different segments. Dharam Singh of Bazidpur Bhoma village was held after a widowed woman alleged he barged into her house and tried to rape. Akashdeep Singh Butter of Sajjanwala village was held under the POCSO Act. Inderbir Singh (24) of Sureshia village was arrested for rape attempt. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-dc-declares-nfl-plant-area-no-drone-zone-306125
04-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court to partially resume physical hearing of cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 3Amidst apprehensions of a Covid third wave, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today decided to partially resume physical hearing of cases. Two Division Benches and 10 Single Benches will be designated for hearing of cases through the physical mode from September 6.The High Court made it clear that four Single Benches would take up writ petitions and civil matter, while six would take up criminal matters. The weekly roster of the Benches to be nominated for physical hearing would be published separately.Earlier also, the High Court had resumed physical hearing in a phased manner, but had to suspend it amidst surge in Covid cases during the second wave. The decision to go ahead with limited physical hearing was taken following recommendation made by the High Court’s special committee, the government advisories and on the basis of opinion of medical and administrative experts.The Chief Justice also made it clear that for the time being, the existing system of mentioning, filing, listing of cases and hearing of cases through videoconferencing would continue. The hearing of the cases through physical mode would be in addition to the same. The entry/exit of the advocates/clerk would be permitted from gate number 1, 2 and 5 only on showing the e-pass issued by the High Court. The e-pass could be downloaded from the e-pass portal available on the High Court website after filling in the required particulars. It would be mandatorily mentioned whether the applicant was vaccinated. e-pass would be issued only to the advocate whose name was published in the cause-list of the Benches nominated for physical hearing. Only one advocate and his clerk would be permitted for one party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-to-partially-resume-physical-hearing-of-cases-306319
04-09-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Prepaid taxi service at Chandigarh international airport to check fleecing||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 3Concerned over passengers being fleeced by cab drivers at the Chandigarh international airport here, the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) has announced the starting of a prepaid taxi service for the convenience of passengers.The fares range from Rs450 to Rs1,200 depending on the distance and the seating capacity of the taxi.Ajay Bhardwaj, Chief Executive Officer, Chandigarh International Airport Limited (CHIAL), said as per the letter received from the Secretary, RTA, up to a distance of 10 km, the fare of a non-AC taxi (five-seater) would be Rs450 and for an AC car Rs700. For a seven-seater non-AC and AC car, the fare would be Rs800 and Rs900, respectively, for a distance not more than 10 km. Similarly, the fare for a distance from 11 to 20 km would be Rs600 and Rs700 for a five-seater non-AC and AC taxi, respectively, while for a seven-seater non-AC and AC vehicle, it would be Rs800 and Rs900, respectively. For a distance of 21 to 25 km, the fare would be Rs700 and Rs800 for a five-seater non-AC and AC car, and Rs1,000 and Rs1,100 for a seven-seater non-AC and AC vehicle, respectively. For a distance of 26 to 30 km, the fare would be Rs800, Rs900 for a five-seater non-AC and AC car, respectively, while for a seven-seater non-AC and AC vehicle, it would be Rs1,100 and Rs1,200, respectively.Bhardwaj said CHIAL had also decided to slash the penalty for parking over 10 minutes near the no-parking zone at the arrival and departure lounges. He said up to 10 minutes, there would be no charge for parking, but the penalty would be Rs170 for a car and Rs200 for an SUV parked for 11 to 20 minutes. Earlier, the penalty of Rs340 and Rs400 was imposed in case of cars and SUVs, respectively, parked beyond 10 minutes.He said a penalty of Rs500 would be charged if a vehicle was found parked beyond 21 minutes, as per the Motor Vehicles Amendment Act, 2019, Punjab. Vehicles found in the no-parking zone without the driver would be towed away, he said.Bhardwaj said there was no change in the parking feeA fee of Rs30 is charged for cars and SUVs parked up to 30 minutes. Thereafter, Rs 85 and Rs100 are charged from car and SUV drivers, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/prepaid-taxi-service-at-chandigarh-international-airport-to-check-fleecing-306321
04-09-2021||---||Punjab holds session on Prakash Purb; trust vote plea rejected||Chandigarh, September 3A special one-day session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha, convened today to commemorate the 400th Prakash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur, ended without the usual protests by the Opposition.The session came to a close without much hullabaloo despite the political unease in the state. The SAD made a last-minute request to direct the CM to prove majority in the House, but it was ignored by the Speaker.Even the murmurs about the show of strength between the two factions of the ruling Congress — led by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu — remained just that.In their address on the life and teachings of the Ninth Guru, Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Speaker Rana KP Singh, Leader of Opposition Harpal Cheema and former Chief Justice of India Justice JS Khehar highlighted the importance of plurality in society and the need for serving humanity to maintain peace and harmony.On the occasion, the Speaker read out the messages sent by Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama. The House was later adjourned sine die.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-holds-session-on-prakash-purb-trust-vote-plea-rejected-306195
04-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana HC to partially resume physical hearing of cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 3Amidst apprehensions of Covid third wave, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday decided to partially resume physical hearing of cases.Two Division Benches and 10 Single Benches will be designated for hearing of cases through the physical mode from September 6.The High Court made it clear that four Single Benches would take up writ petitions and civil matter, while six would take up criminal matters. The weekly roster of the Benches to be nominated for physical hearing would be published separately.The High Court had earlier also resumed physical hearing in a phased manner, but had to suspend it amidst surge in Covid cases during the second wave.The decision to go ahead with limited physical hearing was taken following recommendation made by the High Court’s special committee, the government advisories and on the basis of opinion of medical and administrative experts.The Chief Justice also made it clear that for the time being the existing system of mentioning, filing, listing of cases and hearing of cases through videoconferencing would continue. The hearing of the cases through physical mode would be in addition to the same.The entry/exit of the advocates/clerk would be permitted from gate number 1, 2 and 5 only on showing the e-pass issued by the High Court.The e-pass could be downloaded from e-pass portal available on the High Court website after filling up the required particulars. It would be mandatorily mentioned whether the applicant was vaccinated.E-pass would be issued only to the advocate whose name was published in the cause-list of the Benches nominated for physical hearing. Only one advocate and his clerk would be permitted for one party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-hc-to-partially-resume-physical-hearing-of-cases-306030
04-09-2021||Tokyo||Punjabi University economics scholar Harvinder wins India’s first ever Paralympics medal in archery||In a sport where precision matters the most, it was Harvinder Singh’s research in economics that gave him the competitive edge, said the para-athlete after winning India’s first ever Paralympics medal in archery on Friday.Instead of bowing to the pressure of three shoot-offs in five matches, the 31-year-old’s analytical mind saw each tie-break an opportunity to beat the odds with his single shot as he won a bronze with a perfect 10 against Korean Kim Min Su.“Economics is all about calculations and I applied that in my game and my thinking process. It really helped me in winning the medal,” Singh, who is pursuing Ph.D. at Punjabi University Patiala, said after his 6-5 (10-8) win in the shoot-off.Last year’s nationwide lockdown meant that Singh had to stay put in his village but as it continued he converted his family’s farmland into an archery range.“We had already reaped crops and the farmland was free so my father arranged a proper, plain land where I set up targets and trained twice a day. That way I also stayed safe and practice also went on smoothly,” he said.Singh was stretched to the full in the first two rounds but he remained calm and composed to defeat Stefano Travisani of Italy and former world number one Bato Tsydendorzhiev of Russia in the shoot-offs.“In a shoot-off, you have to put all your practice and training together and deliver in that one single arrow. You have to give all your energies and deliver in about 10-15 seconds,” he said.Drawing parallel with examination, the economics scholar said: “It’s very much similar to an examination, where in two-three hours you have to put in the year round effort.”          Asked how he manages study with the gruelling practice sessions, Singh said: “An idle mind is devil’s workshop, so I keep studying in my free time, it keeps me away from the negative thoughts.”  Singh rued his semifinal loss to world number 10 Kevin Mather of the USA 6-4 in an intense five-setter. The duo were locked four-all before the American sealed the win in the fifth set.“It rained before the match and afterwards there was wind from different directions and I failed to gauge it properly. You may call it pressure, but I’m happy that at least I won a bronze. I will practice harder and do better next time,” he said.On his mental preparation, he said he was off the social media since arriving in Tokyo.“People always keep remembering you of winning a medal once you are on phone. I always knew if I stay focus and keep working in the direction, result will come. So I was off social medal and my phone was off, today I will switch it on,” he signed off. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-university-economics-scholar-harvinder-wins-indias-first-ever-paralympics-medal-in-archery-306026
04-09-2021||---||‘Panj Pyare’ remark: Harish Rawat cleans shoes, sweeps gurdwara floor in Uttarakhand||Chandigarh, September 3Punjab Congress affairs in-charge Harish Rawat cleaned shoes of devotees, swept the floor of Nanakmatta Gurdwara near Khatima in Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand to ‘atone’ for his ‘Panj Pyare’ remark.On September 1, Rawat had announced to sweep the floor of a gurdwara for referring to Punjab party functionaries as ‘Panj Pyare’.Rawat, AICC general secretary, had already apologised for hurting the sentiments of the people.Rawat, who had arrived in Chandigarh amid the rift in the party's state unit, had used the word 'Panj Pyare' for the Punjab Congress chief and four working presidents after a meeting at the Punjab Congress Bhawan.On his Facebook page, later, Rawat acknowledged his “mistake” for his 'Panj Pyare' remark.“Sometimes by expressing respect, you use such words which are objectionable. I too have made a mistake of using the word 'Panj Pyare' for my honourable president and four working presidents,” he wrote. With PTI inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/panj-pyare-remark-harish-rawat-cleans-shoes-sweeps-gurdwara-floor-in-uttarakhand-306017
04-09-2021||New Delhi||Judge counsels singer Honey Singh, wife inside her chamber in domestic violence case||Punjabi singer Yo Yo Honey Singh on Friday moved an application seeking that the domestic violence case filed against him by his wife be heard in camera, which was granted by a Delhi court.Metropolitan Magistrate Tania Singh called Honey Singh and his wife Shalini Talwar to her chamber and counselled them for long.In the last hearing, the court had pulled up the singer after he failed to appear before it and gave him final warning. “No one is above the law,” the judge had said.Talwar has filed the domestic violence case against her singer-actor husband and sought Rs 20 crore as compensation from him under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act.Hirdesh Singh, known professionally as Yo Yo Honey Singh, and Talwar tied the knot on January 23, 2011.In her plea, Talwar has charted out how she was allegedly physically assaulted by Singh over the last 10 years of their marriage. She also alleged that Honey Singh cheated on her.The 38-year-old woman claimed that Singh and his family broke her mentally and emotionally to the extent that she almost started identifying herself as a "farm animal".Advocate Sandeep Kapur appeared for Talwar while advocate Rebecca John represented Singh. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/judge-counsels-singer-honey-singh-wife-inside-her-chamber-in-domestic-violence-case-305973
04-09-2021||Satya Prakash||Supreme Court refuses interim bail on health grounds to Sajjan Kumar in 1984 anti-Sikh riots case||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 3The Supreme Court on Friday refused to grant interim bail to former Delhi Congress leader Sajjan Kumar, who is serving life sentence in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case, saying his medical condition is stable."He (Kumar) is accused of heinous crimes...You want him to be treated like some super VIP patient," a Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul told his counsel. His medical condition was stable and was improving, it noted.However, it clarified that if medical authorities considered it necessary to shift him to Medanta for further treatment, they might do so.Kumar (75) has sought interim bail citing his poor health condition and the top court had on August 24 asked the CBI to verify the medical condition.Kumar - who had sought interim bail on the grounds of his poor health condition - has been in jail since December 31, 2018 when he surrendered after being convicted and awarded life imprisonment by the Delhi High Court in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case.He has challenged the Delhi High Court's verdict of December 17, 2018 that awarded him life imprisonment for the "remainder of his natural life".The case relates to the killing of five Sikhs in Delhi Cantonment's Raj Nagar Part-I area of southwest Delhi on November 1-2 in 1984, and burning down of a gurdwara in Raj Nagar Part-II.Senior advocate Vikas Singh had submitted on behalf of the convict that he should be taken to a private hospital for treatment as his condition had not been determined at a government hospital here.“We want somebody from the state to verify it. We want the state to verify what the medical condition is,” the Bench had said, posting the matter for September 6. Later, the hearing was advanced to September 3.The Supreme Court on September 4 last year had dismissed Kumar’s interim bail plea, saying "This is not a small case...We cannot grant you bail.”It had also declined his plea for hospitalisation, saying his medical reports suggested he didn’t need to be sent to a hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/supreme-court-refuses-interim-bail-on-health-grounds-to-sajjan-kumar-in-1984-anti-sikh-riots-case-305966
04-09-2021||---||Punjab holds special session of Vidhan Sabha to mark 400th Parkash Purab celebrations of Guru Teg Bahadur||Chandigarh, September 3The Special Session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha begans on Friday with the obituary references.The camp opposing Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, led by PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, were seen occupying the back benches.Even the four rebel ministers - Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Sukh Sarkaria and Charanjit Singh Channi - sat at a distance from the Chief Minister, though in all previous sessions their seats were near the CM’s seat.As the obituary references ended, Rana Gurmit Sodhi sought the permission of the House to include eminent sportspersons Nirmal Milkha Singh and Yashpal Sharma to be included in the list of those whose death was mourned by the House.Deputy Leader of Opposition Sarvjit Kaur Manuke and Sharanjit Singh Dhillon demanded that the farmers and farm labourers who had died in the ongoing farmers struggle also be included in the list.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, while addressing the House during the special session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha to mark the 400th Parkash Purab celebrations of Guru Teg Bahadur, said we need to have more religious freedom in the country.“There are places where intolerance is the order of the day. Whenever there is a crisis anywhere in the world, Sikhs come forward to help others. Our gurus were willing to lay down their lives for humanity,” he said.He said that the welfare of the entire humanity - Sarbat da bhala - should remain most important guiding principle today. “As representatives of people, we should not forget that in spite of diverse political thoughts, serving humanity should be the prime objective,” he said.Governor Banwari Lal Purohit, who made a maiden visit to the Punjab Vidhan Sabha, upon his appointment as governor, said the teachings and sacrifices of all Sikh gurus were a lesson for humanity.On this occasion, Justice JS Khehar, former Chief Justice of India, also gave a speech on the contribution and philosophy of Guru Teg Bahadur.The Dalai Lama and the Vice President, who could not attend the session, sent their greetings, which were read out before the House by Speaker Rana KP Singh.Later, the Akali Dal demanded that Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh should prove his majority in the House.SAD leader Bikram Majithia said since there is a division in the Congress, the Chief Minister should face a no-confidence motion.However, the request was not entertained by the Speaker and the House was adjourned sine die.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-holds-special-session-of-vidhan-sabha-to-mark-400th-parkash-purab-celebrations-of-guru-teg-bahadur-305956
