06-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||High Court puts former Punjab police chief Sumedh Saini on notice||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 6The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday put Punjab’s former police chief Sumedh Singh Saini on notice on an application filed by the State of Punjab for revoking the concession of interim anticipatory bail granted to him on account of “blatant and intentional violation of the directions issued by the High Court”.The Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that the petition initially came up for hearing on August 11 and the orders were reserved the same day. Pronouncing it the next day, High Court granted interim anticipatory bail to the petitioner. The matter will now come up for hearing on October 7.Appearing for the State, special public prosecutor S. S. Narula contended Saini had to appear before the investigating officer within seven days. Instead of joining the investigation, he preferred another application before the High Court. It came up for hearing on August 17. Realising that the court was not inclined to entertain the application, it was dismissed as withdrawn.Narula added the Bench, during the course of hearing, asked a categorical question to the counsel for the petitioner whether he had joined the investigation pursuant to the order passed by the Court. The petitioner chose to intentionally exhaust the seven-day period during which he was to join the investigation. It was only late in the evening of the seventh day after Punjab vigilance bureau office in Sector 48 Mohali had closed that the petitioner arrived at 8 pm on August 18. “The malicious object of the petitioner was only to create evidence of his having gone to join investigation although there was no intention of his to join the investigation in letter and spirit. Appearing before Justice Avneesh Jhingan, Narula added the petitioner had fulfilled the formality of coming to the police station and was throwing tantrums. Taking up the matter, Justice Jhingan asserted an application had been moved by the petitioner, too, pleading that he had joined the investigation. Reliance was placed on the order of a coordinate Bench to submit there was misuse of process of law. “Notice in the applications for the date already fixed in the main petition,” Justice Jhingan concluded. Saini was represented by senior advocate APS Deol with H. S. Deol.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-puts-former-punjab-police-chief-sumedh-saini-on-notice-307569
06-09-2021||New Delhi||16% increase in paddy procurement compared to previous season: Centre||In the ongoing Kharif Marketing Season, 889.62 LMT paddy was purchased till September 5 as compared to 764.39 LMT in the corresponding period, last season, benefitting about 130.47 lakh farmers with the MSP of Rs 1,67,960.77 crore, according to the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food, and Public Distribution.The purchase includes 718.09 LMT Kharif and 171.53 LMT Rabi crop.“The ongoing KMS procurement has benefitted about 130.47 lakh farmers with MSP value of Rs. 1,67,960.77 crore. Paddy procurement has reached an all-time high level, surpassing the previous high of 773.45 LMT in KMS 2019-20,” according to an official statement.Meanwhile, the Rabi Marketing Season 2021-22 concluded in wheat procuring States with the purchase of 433.44 LMT of Wheat up to August 18.“An all-time high, the purchase exceeded the previous high of 389.93 LMT in RMS 2020-21,” officials said“About 49.20 Lakh farmers have already been benefitted from the ongoing RMS procurement operations with MSP value of Rs 85603.57 crore,” they added“For the cropping year 2020-21 which includes Kharif 2020-21, Rabi 2021, and Summer 2021 seasons, the government through its nodal agencies procured 11,99,713.15 MT of pulses and oilseeds having MSP value of Rs.6,742.51 crore up to September 5, benefitting 7,02,368 farmers in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Haryana, Odisha, and Rajasthan,” they saidFresh crop arrivals of ongoing KMS are expected to arrive soon.Based on the proposal received from Karnataka, approval was accorded for procurement of 40,000 MT pulses under Price Support Scheme (PSS) during KMS 2021-22.For other states/UTs, approval will also be accorded on receipt of proposals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/16-increase-in-paddy-procurement-compared-to-previous-season-centre-307568
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Demand for declaring Batala a district already received last month and is under consideration: Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday said the demand for declaring Batala as a district was already under consideration and a final decision would be taken after due consideration of various issues involved.He had received a similar representation from another Congress leader last month and was looking into the matter, said the chief minister, in response to the demand raised by his Cabinet colleagues Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa.Further, there have been some reports in the media over the past few days indicating that citizens of Batala have also publicly raised the demand for a new district to be carved out of their region, he pointed out.The chief minister expressed surprise that neither Tript nor Sukhjinder had seen the reports in the public domain nor deemed it fit to discuss the issue with him before shooting off a joint letter in this manner.“Had they come to me and spoken about it, I would have told them that I am already looking into the matter, and would have even consulted them in this regard,” quipped Capt Amarinder, taking a dig at the two ministers.Capt Amarinder Singh said that MP Pratap Bajwa had already demanded a district status for Batala, in his letter dated 11th August 2021 and had cited Batala’s historic importance and its connection with Sri Guru Nanak Dev ji, who had married Mata Sulakhni here in 1487.The chief minister said he was cognisant of Batala’s significance to Punjab’s history and culture, as well as the public sentiment. He would discuss the issue with various stakeholders before taking a decision, he added.His government, said Capt Amarinder, had identified as many as 103 places in 79 villages and 24 towns, blessed with Guru Sahib’s visit (Charan Chhoh) during his lifetime.Funds had been allocated and efforts were being made to ensure development of each of them in different ways, he said, adding that a lot of thinking and consultation had gone into the process.The chief minister further said that steps were continuously being taken to explore ways to ensure the infrastructural development and progress of all the historic towns and places in the state, especially those which are in any way linked to any of the Gurus. He would do everything in his power to ensure that Batala also gets its due, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/demand-for-declaring-batala-a-district-already-received-last-month-and-is-under-consideration-punjab-cm-307563
06-09-2021||---||Amarinder slams LoP Harpal Cheema on law and order assertions||Chandigarh, September 6Taking the Leader of the Opposition (LoP) to task over his misleading and politically motivated statement on the state’s law and order situation, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday slammed the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for mutilating facts in a desperate bid to win the 2022 electoral battle, which they can already see slipping away from their hands.Responding to Harpal Singh Cheema’s unfounded and baseless allegations of increasing cases of crime in the state, the Chief Minister expressed shock over the highly irresponsible behaviour of the LoP in spreading false information based on some unsubstantiated media report. “Instead of picking up unverified data from here and there, Cheema could have approached the DGP to get the facts, which are completely removed from what he has put in his press release,” said Captain Amarinder.Cheema has once again proved that the AAP ideology is based on lies and fabrications, with all the leaders of Arvind Kejriwal’s party having become masters of deceit, quipped the Chief Minister, adding that contrary to Cheema’s claims, only 38 cases of `kidnapping for ransom’ have been reported in the state since his government took over in March 2017. Even those meagre 38 cases (0.5%) relating to ‘kidnapping for ransom’ registered since March 2017 were solved, with the victim’s release successfully secured and culprits arrested in each of them, said the Chief Minister, adding that even convictions have been obtained in many instances by fast tracking of criminal trials in serious cases.This, he said, was a far cry from the 7,138 incidents cited by Cheema, who evidently cannot differentiate between kidnapping for ransom and other cases of abduction/kidnapping. “But then, given your total lack of experience of governance or administration or policing, this does not come as a surprise,” remarked the Chief Minister, taking a dig at Cheema’s evident ignorance.As the Home Minister of the state, Capt Amarinder said he would not mind giving a few quick tips to the LoP to save him similar embarrassment over his total ignorance in the future. The fact is that there is a whole set of criminal cases that deal with kidnapping, as registered under sections 363, 364, 364 A, 365 and 366 of the IPC. These relate to Kidnapping (363), Abduction (364), Kidnapping for ransom (364 A) etc, kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage, etc.(366), Procuration of minor girl (366 A), the Chief Minister went on to explain.Of the remaining 7138, 87% pertained to elopement and over 10% to clashes between two parties, which usually involve registration of kidnapping offences as people either go missing on their own or elope of their own free will because they are in consensual relationships as major or minor girls, said the Chief Minister. In many such cases, at the time of the filing of the FIRs, the family is initially not even aware of the cause of their disappearance and therefore files a report of kidnapping or abduction, which Cheema neither knows nor has bothered to find out, he quipped.Amarinder further went on to rebut Cheema’s claims on the kidnapping for ransom cases in various districts, pointing out that as against the LoP’s claim of 1032 such cases, only 3 were actually reported in Ludhiana, with all cases solved. Similarly, in Amritsar Commissionerate and district, only 2 cases were of ‘kidnapping for ransom’ were reported, while in Jalandhar district, there was actually not a single case of `kidnapping for ransom’, as against the 619 claimed by the LoP, he added.Closer home, in Mohali district, out of the 576 FIRs registered under various kidnapping/abduction sections, only 2 involved kidnapping for ransom. Both these cases were traced and challans put in court. The balance pertained to elopement of minor girls, disclosed the Chief Minister. As for Patiala district, only 2 of the 470 kidnapping cases registered were related to ransom, he added.The law and order situation in Punjab is currently among the best in the country, said Amarinder, trashing Cheema’s claims to the contrary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amarinder-slams-lop-harpal-cheema-on-law-and-order-assertions-307553
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Racket involved in inflicting fake injuries for stringent legal action busted||Four persons have been booked for inflicting fake injuries on the supposed victims to mislead the police and attract harsher penal provisions against the accused in Punjab's Sangrur district, police said Monday.A civil hospital employee and a doctor's private assistant have already been arrested for their involvement in the racket, said Sangrur Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Swapan Sharma.All those booked were part of a group, which inflicted fake medico injuries to be shown as major ones caused during fights in villages, the SSP said, adding their role in other such cases was being investigated.Efforts are on to nab the other two involved in this illegal activity, the officer said in an official statement.“The action is the result of a concerted approach to tackle and contain cases of petty crimes by studying reasons liable for these happenings,” the SSP said, explaining the rationale behind focusing his attention on such cases over the past five years.While scrutinising one such case involving Jagsir Singh Jagga, son of a Sarpanch in Kanaur Jattan village, it came to light that civil hospital lab assistant Rajinder allegedly guided Jagga to get an additional injury inflicted upon his finger from Akashdeep of Kanoi village, who works as a private assistant to a doctor.Jagga got a case registered against five of his village, who were originally booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Later, Section 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons) was added.Jagga had got an injury on his finger during the fight.Akashdeep deliberately inflicted another cut. Jagga then misguided police by saying that the injury was inflicted by the accused during an attack.The SSP said 44 such cases have been found wherein complainant got cuts on his hand during a quarrel, and thereby attracted Section 326 of the IPC. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/racket-involved-in-inflicting-fake-injuries-for-stringent-legal-action-busted-307552
06-09-2021||Ravi S Singh||Mayawati wants early announcement of names of BSP candidates for Assembly elections in UP and Uttarakhand||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 6Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) chief Mayawati is in favour of early announcement of the lists of party's candidates for the forthcoming Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.For Punjab elections the party prefers to dovetail its strategy with Badals-led Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), its ally.Assembly polls in UP, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa will be held in February-March next year.Mayawati has made an exception for Punjab while entering into an electoral alliance with SAD.Sources in BSP say Mayawati had mooted the idea of early announcement of nominees in UP and Uttarakhand in a recent meeting with its party leaders held in Lucknow. She wanted the the announcement by the end of this year. During the meeting, she said the announcement of names of candidates by December 25 would be ideal, but should not be delayed beyond December 31.She asked the party leaders to identify panels of names of potentially winning candidates keeping the deadline in sight.Mayawati is of the view that early announcement of the names of candidates for elections in UP and Uttarakhand would give them ample time to focus and plan their election campaign.  The BSP has high stakes in UP where it will be pitted against the ruling BJP-led NDA, the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Congress.      With regard to Punjab, the Mayawati is said to be inclined to go by the electoral strategy drawn up by its senior ally, the SAD, along with the state BSP.However, inputs of the state BSP on the ground realities will be factored in by Mayawati.BSP attaches importance to Punjab as its founder Kanshi Ram hailed from the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mayawati-wants-early-announcement-of-names-of-bsp-candidates-for-assembly-elections-in-up-and-uttarakhand-307489
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Contractual employees of Punjab Roadways, PRTC launch indefinite strike||Around 8,000 contractual employees of the state-owned Punjab Roadways and PRTC on Monday went on an indefinite strike, demanding regularisation of their jobs.Private buses, however, continued to ply in the state.More than 2,000 buses of the state-owned Punjab Roadways and Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) stayed off roads, said Punjab Roadways, Punbus/PRTC Contract Workers' Union president Resham Singh Gill.He said only 200 to 300 buses operated by regular employees would ply.The indefinite strike call caused inconvenience to many passengers who usually travel on state-owned buses.Protesting employees held demonstrations at many places and raised slogans against the state government for not acceding to their long-pending demands.They also threatened to lay siege to the residence of Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh at Siswan in Mohali on Tuesday if their demands were not accepted.Gill said that in July and August, they were assured that their demand of regularisation would be met.Despite two cabinet meetings having been held since then, the issues continued to remain unresolved, he added.The “apathetic” attitude of the state government towards their demands forced them to go on strike, Gill said.Besides regularisation of jobs, the protesters are also demanding an increase in the fleet size from around 2,500 buses at present to at least 10,000. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/contractual-employees-of-punjab-roadways-prtc-launch-indefinite-strike-307474
06-09-2021||---||Gurdas Maan controversy: Dera Murad Shah devotees block Jalandhar-Nakodar highway||Jalandhar, September 5After members of the Satkar Committee, a Sikh organisation, blocked Jalandhar-Delhi Highway over the controversy related to Gurdas Maan, devotees of Dera Baba Murad Shah in Nakodar staged a dharna near Jagraon Bridge on Jalandhar-Nakodar Highway on Sunday.Also read:They demand that a case of inciting religious sentiments should be registered against Paramjit Singh Akali, who spoke abusively against Sai Laddi Shah of the dera. The police in large numbers reached the spot to pacify the dera supporters, who kept the road blocked for nearly two hours. While the agitators complained against Akali at the Nakodar police station earlier, no action was taken so far.Dera devotee Rohit Sahni told that the police had registered a case against Punjabi singer Gurdas Maan on August 26. “Even as Mann had apologised to Sikh organisations for his remarks. Despite that the police registered the case. After the incident, Paramjit Singh Akali spoke derogatory statements about Sai Laddi Shah due to which the sentiments of dera supporters have been hurt. That’s why we have staged a dharna today,” added Shani.Last week, on August 20, his video had gone viral wherein he was heard saying that the chief of a dera and Nakodar Sai Laddi Shah was from the descendants of Guru Amar Dass, third Sikh master. While, he had posted a video on the social media platform after offering apology over his remarks, the Sikh bodies not only demanded an FIR against him but also his arrest.The Nakodar police had registered a case against Maan under Section 295-A of the IPC for hurting religious sentiments of the Sikh community.Related: Gurdas Maan criticised for supporting ‘one nation, one language’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurdas-maan-controversy-dera-murad-shah-devotees-block-jalandhar-nakodar-highway-307381
06-09-2021||Patiala||Lathicharge on farmers during SAD event a conspiracy, claims Prem Singh Chandumajra||Claiming the lathicharge on farmers during a recent SAD event to be a part of a conspiracy, senior Akali Dal leader Prem Singh Chandumajra said his party would oppose any move by the Centre to put Punjab under the President’s rule.Addressing a press conference here today, Chandumajra said: “The recent lathicharge on farmer union members at an SAD event was part of a deep-rooted conspiracy of the Congress party in conjunction with the Centre to disturb the hard won peace in Punjab and impose the President’s rule in the state.”“The disruptive conspiracy had a twin objective – to postpone the Assembly elections in Punjab and defame the peaceful farmer movement,” he said.The SAD leader said senior farmer leaders were also wary of the conspiracy and that was why they had issued clear cut directions to take on the BJP leaders only and not disturb the programmes of any other political party in Punjab.“The Samyukt Kisan Morcha has made it clear that protests against any other party except the BJP will only serve to help the Centre and will harm the cause of the farmers,” he said.“It is condemnable that miscreants are being allowed to approach the vehicles of SAD leaders to create lawlessness. We have already expressed our desire to address all issues of farmer leaders and are willing to answer their queries,” said Chandumajra. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lathicharge-on-farmers-during-sad-event-a-conspiracy-claims-prem-singh-chandumajra-307311
06-09-2021||Abohar||College suspends director||Mechanic robbed of Rs50KAbohar: The police have arrested Amrit Lal, a history-sheeter of the Purani Abadi area, and his two accomplices Jaspreet Singh and Balkar Chand, who were travelling in a car after robbing a workshop mechanic of Rs50,000 in Sriganganagar. On the complaint of Mohinder Kumar of Mirjewala village, a case was registered under Section 392 of IPC. OCMeat ban on Jain festivalsAbohar: The Punjab State Commission for Minorities has asked the Principal Secretary, Local Government, to ensure ban on the sale of meat and eggs on Samvatsri Diwas on September 11 and Anant Chaturdashi on September 19. “Keeping in view their religious sentiments, the sale of non-vegetarian food must be banned,” the panel said. TNSPact to boost investmentChandigarh: An MoU has been signed between the state and the American Chamber of Commerce in India for investment promotion and ease of doing business for US member companies. The pact was inked during the 29th annual general meeting of AMCHAM India. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/college-suspends-director-307195
06-09-2021||---||Review ban on articles of faith in exam: Akal Takht to Haryana||Amritsar, September 5Giani Harpreet Singh, acting Jathedar of Akal Takht, has asked the Haryana Government to reconsider its decision to ban Sikhs from wearing articles of faith in the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) examination.The HPSC conducts the exams for government jobs in Haryana. The candidates have been informed through letters that they should not come wearing Sikh symbols to take the exam. The Jathedar said for Amritdhari Sikhs, the articles of faith held more significance. He said the Constitution provided religious freedom to people of the country and the move was an attack on it.He questioned whether these orders were issued under a conspiracy of the Haryana Government against the Sikhs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/review-ban-on-articles-of-faith-in-exam-akal-takht-to-haryana-307188
06-09-2021||---||Depressed over low IELTS score, youth hangs self in Bathinda village||Bathinda, September 5A 20-year-old youngster, reportedly under depression after he scored low marks in IELTS exam, died by suicide at his house in Naruana village of the district.The family members of 20-year-old Akashdeep Singh found his body hanging from the ceiling fan when they went to his room this morning.The deceased is the nephew of gangster Kulbir Naruana, who was killed some time ago.Akashdeep aspired to settle down abroad but failed to secure the expected IELTS marks in his first attempt. He tried again but couldn’t get the desired result, which pushed him into depression, said sources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/depressed-over-low-ielts-score-youth-hangs-self-in-bathinda-village-307189
06-09-2021||Amritsar||Punjab Diary: ‘Suspense’ over September 7 poster||Smartphone scare for politiciansSangrur: The mobile has become a source of panic for many politicians in the area these days as after seeing a farmer or labourer talking on the phone, they get anxious and think the caller is sharing information with other residents about his arrival in the village. Many times, even when residents are talking on the call about their personal issues, politicians start requesting them not to create a trouble. Many politicians have asked their supporters to keep a watch on whether someone is keeping a vigil at them at the entry points of villages. Apart from calling, if anyone starts shooting a video of politicians, the latter request them to stop the videography. These days if anyone wants the leaders to leave the venue, he simply has to act of talking on the phone.Race against time for bridge projectGurdaspur: Remember how actor Sunny Deol’s rant in Damini “tareekh pe tareekh, tareekh pe tareekh” echoed through the theatre walls into the streets? Into his third year now as an MP, he must be realising how true is ‘Cheops Law’, which states nothing ever gets built on schedule or within budget. He recently got sanctioned from the Union Government the Makkoran Pattan bridge, which will connect a cluster of 12 villages, located on the other side of Ravi, with mainland Gurdaspur. In 2018, the estimated cost of the bridge had been pegged at Rs 70 crore. Now, Deol has got the venture cleared for Rs 100 crore. However, officials in the know admit by the time the project will be completed, it will have cost the exchequer Rs 120 crore. Residents have already started guessing the ‘tareekh’ when the project will be commissioned.Unkept promise ‘haunts’ FMBathinda: Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s speech pertaining to restarting the Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant (GNDTP) during the 2017 poll is going viral on social media these days. SAD MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal also posted the video of Manpreet’s speech along with the video of dismantling of two chimneys of the GNDTP. Harsimrat said, “FM Manpreet Badal had promised to restart it while seeking votes in 2017. He is responsible for selling and demolishing this iconic plant.”‘Dirty’ moneyFerozepur: An audio clip of a Congress MLA’s husband and a sand contractor discussing the money generated from the mining business has gone viral. The MLA’s husband is purportedly heard negotiating his share, while ruing the cut was not enough, given the risk involved in illegal mining. While the MLA’s husband later claimed it was a bid by the Opposition to implicate him, the audio has once again brought to the fore the alleged politician-sand mafia nexus thriving in the state, notwithstanding CM’s claims of taking stringent measures. While 200 FIRs have been registered in the district over the past few months, leaders owing allegiance to the ruling party continue to make “bounty”.Contributed by Parvesh Sharma, Ravi Dhaliwal, Sukhmeet Bhasin, GS Paul & ANIRUDH GUPTA||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-diary-suspense-over-september-7-poster-307197
06-09-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib's Jagtar Singh Manela lone Punjab teacher feted by President with national award||Jagtar Singh Manela, 40, the lone teacher from the state to receive this year’s National Teachers Award, was honoured virtually by President Ram Nath Kovind on Teacher’s Day today. A documentary on the school and his achievements were highlighted, as the President congratulated the award winners.Manela had converted his old government school building into a smart school. The building was declared unsafe in 2011 and its surrounding had been reduced to a dump. Using cost-effective methods, Manela spent Rs 75 lakhs to convert it into a state-of-the-art facility, using donations from NRIs, NGOs, individuals and nearby villages. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fatehgarh-sahibs-jagtar-singh-manela-lone-punjab-teacher-feted-by-president-with-national-award-307190
06-09-2021||Bathinda||Poor rainwater drainage irks Bathinda residents||Members of the Association For Democratic Rights (AFDR) staged a protest against lack of civic amenities in the city on Sunday. They raised the issue of poor rainwater drainage as many areas remained waterlogged for long after a heavy spell of rain recently. The protesters gathered at Joggers’ Park and raised slogans against the Municipal Corporation for lack of basic amenities.Sudeep Singh, a union leader, said, “There is no drainage infrastructure in the city. For proper drainage of rainwater as per its natural flow towards the Bir Talab area, it must be stored by digging deep ditches there. Natural water ponds must be freed from encroachers and then dug deeper to enhance their water-storage capacity. The faulty sewerage of the city needs an overhaul on an immediate basis. The MC must end its agreements with private players and carry out this work on its own.” AFDR district unit press secretary Dr Ajitpal Singh said, “The capacity of potable water tanks must be increased.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poor-rainwater-drainage-irks-bathinda-residents-307191
06-09-2021||Ropar||Rs 40 cr for repair of Banga highway||The state government has sanctioned Rs 40 crore to upgrade Banga-Garhshankar-Sri Anandpur Sahib road, said local MP Manish Tiwari today. He said the road connected two holy cities — Amritsar and Sri Anandpur Sahib — and was also one of the main routes for Mata Naina Devi Mandir in Himachal Pradesh.The work on the repair of the road had been delayed for years due to one or the other reasons, he said.The state initally did not release sufficient funds for its repairs since the Centre declared it a national highway “in principle” on January 14, 2016. Later, it was revealed that the road had not been declared a national highway, Tiwari claimed. Last year, the state government released Rs 9 crore for the project and the 17-km portion of the road from Kahanpur Khui to Anandpur Sahib, falling in Ropar district, was repaired. Now with the release of Rs 40 crore, the remaining portion of the road would be strengthened, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-40-cr-for-repair-of-banga-highway-307192
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Kidnapping rampant, Punjab CM to blame: AAP||The AAP today targeted the Congress government over “deteriorating” law and order situation in the state with increased cases of kidnapping and extortion.Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema said there was an atmosphere of fear among people and not only businessmen and celebrities, public was now feeling unsafe.Citing official figures, he said 7,138 persons were kidnapped during the Congress rule. “These cases are in government records. Those who didn’t get a chance to reach police stations to save their lives from kidnappers are not counted,” said Cheema. Meanwhile, the AAP commended the SKM for organising the ‘mahapanchayat’ against the farm laws at Muzaffarnagar, UP, saying the message was loud and clear for the Centre. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kidnapping-rampant-punjab-cm-to-blame-aap-307193
06-09-2021||Sangrur||BKU activists protest BJP meet in Sangrur||Farmers under the banner of BKU (Ugrahan) on Sunday blocked the road leading to the residence of Sangrur BJP chief Randeep Deol after getting information about a meeting of the party’s OBC cell. But the leader conducted claimed the meeting somewhere else.“Since the BJP is mainly responsible for bringing the central farmer laws, we have decided to gherao all BJP leaders during their meetings,” said Gobinder Singh, Sangrur block president, BKU (Ugrahan).Farmers raised slogans against the BJP and announced to further intensify their agitation in coming days. “Our unions are keeping a watch over the activities of BJP leaders. We will not allow any meeting till they repeal the laws,” said Jaswinder Singh, another protester.BJP leader Deol denied holding any meeting at his residence. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bku-activists-protest-bjp-meet-in-sangrur-307194
06-09-2021||Abohar||Covid-19: Pre-registration must for jab now in Punjab||Having faced uncontrollable crowds that result in violation of prescribed norms at vaccination centres, the Health Department has told people to get prior registration done.After registration, people should reach the hospital for the vaccine only when they receive a message on their mobile phone. This is necessary to avert unnecessary rush at centres. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-pre-registration-must-for-jab-now-in-punjab-307198
06-09-2021||Vishav Bharti||Declared after 6 years, literary awards for Punjabi writers yet to be conferred||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 5Punjabi writers’ wait for the Shiromani Literary Awards seems to be never-ending as the Finance Department has failed to sanction money for the awards despite an announcement made 10 months ago.First, the successive governments failed to announce the awards since 2014. Now, when the Congress government announced the cumulative awards of six years in December, it failed to hold the award ceremony even as nine months have passed.Waiting for the awards, five writers/artists, including London-based writer S Balwant, Mohali-based writer Taran Gujral, Dhadi singer Dalbara Singh Ubha, folk singer Sardul Sikander and writer Harbans Singh Chawla, passed away in the last nine months.There are several ageing writers who are losing hope that the government will hold the function in near future. Om Parkash Gasso, 89, who was given Punjabi Sahit Ratan for 2015, is the oldest among the writers whose names figured on the awards’ list last year. He says besides financially helping writers, these awards inspire the collective creative process of society. “It looks nice if some decorum and deadline is followed. Often charm is lost the way the government conducts the award ceremonies. I am chosen for the award which pertains to 2015 but 2021 is nearing end. What is the fun of such ceremonies?” says Gasso.Minister for higher education and languages Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa accepted that the delay was painful as several writers had not been able to see the ceremony. “But the department’s responsibility was to select the deserving authors and announce awards. We are waiting for the sanction of funds from the Finance Department. We hope that the approval comes soon and the award ceremony is held,” he said.The Punjab Languages Department gives Sahitya Ratan and Shiromani Awards in 18 different categories of literature and art. The awards were instituted just after Independence. Shiromani Sahitkar awards comprise Rs 5 lakh cash and Shiromani Sahit Ratan awards comprise Rs 10 lakh.Five awardees no moreTaran Gujaral: Shiromani Punjabi Sahitkar, 2016S Balwant: Shiromani Punjabi Sahitkar (outside Punjab), 2020Harbans Singh Chawla: Shiromani Punjabi Bal Sahit Writer, 2016Dalbara Singh Ubha: Shiromani Dhadhi/Kawishar for 2020Sardul Sikandar: Shiromani Punjabi singer/musician for 2017||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/declared-after-6-years-literary-awards-for-punjabi-writers-yet-to-be-conferred-307199
06-09-2021||GS Paul||Automated barriers at Jallianwala Bagh: Martyrs’ kin against entry fee||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 5Will there be a paid entrance to the Jallianwala Bagh? The authorities have denied it. Yet, automated entry barriers have been installed, which point towards the possibility of charging an entrance fee. Also, a room-like structure, supposedly a ticket counter, is already erected at the main entrance of the Bagh.An official, on the condition of anonymity, said originally, a proposal was mooted to have a paid entrance to the Jallianwala Bagh on the lines of other monuments like the Taj Mahal in Agra and Jantar Mantar or Qutab Minar in Delhi.“During a meeting held earlier, it was observed that to prevent ‘non-serious’ elements who sit in the Bagh all day or locals who could use the place as a picnic spot, a nominal entrance fee could be charged. That’s how the e-ticketing concept was included in the plan,” he said.Former MP Tarlochan Singh, who is one of the members of the PM-led Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, denied it. “The access to the historical site will be totally free,” he said. On maintenance, he said it was a project undertaken by the Union Ministry of Culture.Desh Bhagat Yaadgar Committee chief Ajmer Singh and general secretary Gurmeet Singh, who visited the Bagh, lodged their protest on the installation of ‘ticket counters’ and the e-ticketing equipment at the entrance.Sunil Kapoor, whose great-grandfather Lala Vasu Mal Kapoor was shot dead during the massacre, said, “What’s painful than the authorities seeking money in the name of martyrs. We oppose the move.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/automated-barriers-at-jallianwala-bagh-martyrs-kin-against-entry-fee-307200
06-09-2021||Sameer Singh||Bathinda: Grant relief to HIV+ blood transfusion victims: National Human Rights Commission||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 5The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has directed the Punjab Chief Secretary to pay a compensation of Rs 4 lakh each to two victims who were transfused HIV-positive blood at the Bathinda Civil Hospital last year and also submit a compliance report along with the proof of payment before October 26.In a letter, the NHRC said the Senior Medical Officer (SMO) at the hospital had filed a reply to its previous letter (regarding issuance of compensation to the victims), but there was still no clarity as to whether the relief had been paid to the victims or not.A seven-year-old thalassemic girl and another woman were transfused HIV-positive blood at the blood bank unit of the Civil Hospital. Later, owing to gross negligence on the part of the staff, four more patients were given this blood on different occasions, thereby, putting their lives in danger.After taking note of reports carried in various newspapers, a Jalandhar-based human rights activist, Kulwant Nagra, had written to the NHRC to intervene in the matter and provide justice to the victims and their families.Earlier, the NHRC had directed the Chief Secretary to pay compensation to the victims and file a compliance report before August 27. But the NHRC noted that the directions were not being adhered to, prompting it to send another letter now.In a fresh letter to the Chief Secretary and the SMO, NHRC Deputy Director Debindra Kundra said the compensation should be given to the victims at the earliest, failing which the commission would exercise its powers to ensure compliance of the directive.The letter said the SMO, in his reply, had mentioned that in compliance of the order dated July 20, the state government had already ordered the process of releasing the payment as directed by the commission and it would be remitted as soon as the requisite formalities were completed.Bathinda Civil Hospital SMO Dr Maninder Singh said: “We have written to the higher authorities of the health department to release the compensation to the victims. We are now waiting for their response.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-grant-relief-to-hiv-blood-transfusion-victims-national-human-rights-commission-307201
06-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court raps Jalandhar court in goods release case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 5The Punjab and Haryana High Court has dubbed as “insensitive” the approach adopted by a Jalandhar court while dealing with a plea for releasing merchandise ferried in a truck from which contraband was allegedly recovered.High CourtInsensitive approachThe judge of the Jalandhar Special Court noticed the State’s stand clearly spelt out in its report, but still missed it completely. Suffice to say that the manner/ approach with which the claim/ interest of the petitioner was dealt with was insensitive.The assertion came after Justice Arun Palli’s Bench made it clear that the Jalandhar court imposed onerous conditions even though the goods were never seized by the police.The matter was brought to Justice Palli’s notice after CJ Darcl Logistics Limited sought the revision and modification of the order dated March 26 passed by the Jalandhar Special Court, vide which 840 bags of “ABS Resins” were ordered to be released, subject to certain “onerous” conditions.The Bench was told that the petitioner company was engaged in the business of transporting goods. Its services were hired by M/s Ineos Styrolution India Limited for transporting the bags. But the vehicle carrying the goods was seized by the police in connection with an FIR registered on March 5 under the provisions of the NDPS Act at the Jalandhar Division-2 police station following the recovery of contraband from it. The truck driver, too, was arrested.The petitioner then sought the release of the merchandise as it had nothing to do with the alleged offence and even the police did not require it for investigation. The goods were ordered to be released by the special court.Justice Palli observed the investigating agency’s report before the trial court categorically stated that the goods should be released in the owner’s favour as these were not made case property. The State reiterated the stand before the court.Justice Palli observed it clearly emerged that the goods were never seized by the police, were never made case property, and had no relevance/concern with the trial of the case. The imposition of such onerous conditions in the given circumstances was apparently erroneous and unjustified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-raps-jalandhar-court-in-goods-release-case-307202
06-09-2021||---||Illegal mining rampant, Ropar villagers to turn vigilantes||Ropar, September 5Agitated over the rampant illegal mining in their area, residents of nearly a dozen Ropar villages on Sunday decided to form vigilante groups to check the mafia in the Nurpur Bedi area.Sukhwinder Singh Kalsi, XEN, Mining DepartmentDifficult to monitor entire districtIt’s difficult to keep a regular watch across the district due to staff crunch. But, we still take action whenever a complaint regarding illegal mining is received.Holding a meeting at Gurdwara Singh Sabha of Bhaini village, they said the mafia had dug up the riverbed up to an alarming level, which would endanger the villages situated on its bank. The residents alleged that the authorities had failed to check the mining mafia, which not only had robbed the district of natural resources, but had also posed danger to the villages.Jagtar Singh, VillagerGroundwater level depletingOver 20-ft-deep craters can be seen all over the Sutlej and Swan beds. Many villages near the riverbed are facing a sharp decline in the groundwater level, rendering our tubewells useless. Gurnaib Singh Jetewal, a villager, said illegal mining was rampant in the area for the past more than a decade. As the authorities have failed to curb it, the mining mafia had now expanded its operation till their fields, he alleged. Another villager Jagtar Singh said more than 20-ft-deep craters could be seen all over the Sutlej and Swan beds. With mining going on up to such depth, many villages near the riverbed had been facing a sharp decline in the groundwater level, rendering their tubewells useless, he said.The residents said they would form vigilante groups in all affected villages, who would keep an eye on the mining mafia. They would also submit a memorandum to the Ropar DC and if no action was taken, they would move court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/illegal-mining-rampant-ropar-villagers-to-turn-vigilantes-307178
06-09-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Punjab Powercom staff oppose land transfer to Local Bodies Department||Tribune News ServiceDinanagar (Gurdaspur), September 5Several employees’ unions of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) are up in arms against their management’s proposed decision to transfer around 1.5 acres of prime land to the Local Bodies Department to facilitate the setting up of a public park.The unions have pegged the value of the land, located on the main road near the bus stand, at Rs 100 crore. However, Gurdaspur DC Mohammad Ishfaq says its value, going by the latest collector rate, is just Rs 1.76 crore.“I fail to understand as to how the unions have arrived at such a figure. Moreover, the land is shamlat (common village land) and hence cannot be sold. It can only be transferred. Pegging valuations of entities which are not for sale is a futile exercise,” he said.In a representation sent recently to the PSPCL management, the unions — PSEB Karamchari Dal, Council of Engineers, Technical Services Union (TSU), PSEB Employees Federation (AITUC) and TSU (Bhangal) — have warned it against going ahead with the transfer.The PSPCL complaint centre No 5 is located on a part of this land, which otherwise is lying vacant. The district administration says it wants to establish a public park at the site.On July 23, the DC had written to the PSPCL Chairman-cum-MD, seeking shifting of the 1.5 acres to the Local Bodies Department.As the transfer was to be made from one government entity to another, it was mandatory to finalise the deal at the prevailing collector rate, which is Rs 1.78 crore.“The unions must understand that the PSPCL is in no way the owner. It is just that it is in possession of the land. The land, apart from the area being utilised by the complaint centre, is lying vacant. We want a public park to come up because the entire city of Dinanagar has no such facility. Revenue records prove that it is a shamlat land. Moreover, the Local Bodies Department has already given its consent for the transfer. The deal is now in the final stages,” said an administration officer.The unions are now scheduled to meet on Tuesday to chalk out their next course of action.Conflict on price||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-powercom-staff-oppose-land-transfer-to-local-bodies-department-307171
06-09-2021||Patiala||Minister Vijay Inder Singla honours 80, says govt school enrolment up in Punjab||School Education and Public Works Minister Vijay Inder Singla today conferred state awards on 80 teachers and education officials for augmenting infrastructure and bringing in qualitative improvement in education at a state-level function at Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology here to mark Teacher’s Day.The minister said Punjab had emerged as a leading state in the field of education, getting the top rank in the Performance Grading Index released by the Centre a few months ago.“The innovative initiatives taken by Punjab by sprucing up infrastructure, bringing qualitative improvement in education, starting pre-primary education, besides ensuring transparency in recruitment and transfers are being emulated by other states,” said the minister.“People have reciprocated positively by enrolling their children in government schools. Around 7 lakh students have left private schools and got enrolled in government schools,” he said. While Singla conferred state awards on 23 teachers from Patiala, Sangrur, Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar and Fatehgarh Sahib districts, others were honoured virtually at district headquarters.Of these, 36 upper primary teachers and 22 primary teachers were given state awards; six upper primary and five primary teachers received young teacher awards and 11 education officers were given administrative state awards.Singla lauded the teachers for their role during the Covid-19 pandemic. “Government teachers have shown unparalleled dedication by performing unique services in the field of education,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minister-vijay-inder-singla-honours-80-says-govt-school-enrolment-up-in-punjab-307175
06-09-2021||Ravneet Singh||Families of 70 deceased Punjab govt school staffers await benefits||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 5Families of over 70 government school computer teachers, who died on duty or otherwise, have been left to fend for themselves as the state government has failed to implement rules of their recruitment.Arundeep Singh, Union Press SecretaryImplement civil services rulesWe have held several meetings with officials and staged protests, but in vain. We want the government to implement the CSR as mentioned in our recruitment letters or merge us with the Education Department. The teachers’ services were regularised under the Punjab Information and Communication Technology Education Society after five years of contract work in 2011. But the following year, various facilities, including holidays, medical reimbursements and compensation to the family in case of death of a teacher were withheld, they said today.As such, nearly 7,000 such teachers have been staging protests, demanding implementation of the civil services rules (CSR) as incorporated in their joining letters. The teachers who congregated in Patiala on Teacher’s Day today, said a computer teacher, Sarbjit Singh of Kapurthala, died in an accident on way to school regarding a computer-related work and another teacher from Bathinda died after being infected while hewas deputed on Covid-19 duty, but their families were not compensated.Jaswinder Kaur of Patran in Patiala, who is MA, BEd and TET-pass, said her husband Baljit Singh was a computer teacher since 2006 and the sole breadwinner of their family of five. “He died due to Covid-19 in May this year. My father-in-law died a week after. The government did not compensate us. Since then, I and my 11 and 2.5-year-olds are forced to live in difficulty. I have no job and want the government to grant me a job to be able to take care of my family,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/families-of-70-deceased-punjab-govt-school-staffers-await-benefits-307168
06-09-2021||Sangrur||In Sangrur, jobless youth detained||Jobless youth today succeeded in forcibly entering a local PWD rest house from where Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla is running his office.They held a sit-in inside the rest house. On getting the information, the police rushed to the spot. They tried to convince the protesters to leave the rest house. After protesters refused to relent, the police detained them.“We have been protesting across the state for long. But the government is not taking us seriously. We won’t end our protest till our demands are accepted,” said Jaswinder Singh, a protester. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-sangrur-jobless-youth-detained-307196
06-09-2021||---||Teachers take to streets, block traffic in Patiala||Patiala/Fatehgarh Sahib, September 5On a day the nation celebrated teachers’ contribution to society, members of the Computer Teachers’ Union, Punjab; Selected 2364 ETT Teachers’ Union, Punjab; and NSQF Vocational Teachers’ Union staged protests in Patiala in support of their demands. The protest led to snarl-ups across the city as commuters were stranded at various roundabouts.Also, the Punjab Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha and Sanyukt Adhyapak Front organised a rally in front of Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib.In Patiala, over 1,000 computer teachers drawn from across the state, including Bathinda, Kapurthala, Amritsar, Mansa and other districts, blocked the highway and entry to the city bus stand. Also, the National Skills Qualifications Framework (NSQF) teachers held a march toward the CM’s residence and blocked roads, while the ETT teachers were drenched in rain during their protest march.Computer teachers said their services were regularised in 2011 but had been demanding implementation of the CSR as incorporated in their recruitment letters since 2012, but to no avail.Around 100 NSQF teachers, who have been protesting outside Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib for the past 89 days seeking regularisation of jobs, held a march toward the CM’s residence wearing vehicle tyres around their necks. The protesters were stopped by the police at Sewa Singh Thikriwala Chowk, where the road was then blocked. Claiming that a meeting had been scheduled with the Education Minister on September 6, a union member said: “If the state government fails to accept our demands, we will hold a rally on September 11.”In Fatehgarh Sahib, hundreds of teachers from across the state participated in the rally. Protesting teachers took out a march and laid siege to the Deputy Commissioner’s residence. Till the filling of the report, the teachers’ sit-in continued.Union head attempts self-immolationNSQF vocational teachers' union president Rai Sahib Singh Sidhu allegedly attempted to set himself on fire during a protest in Patiala on Sunday. Though Sidhu's immolation bid was foiled by the police, the melee led to a scuffle between the protesters and the cops. Later, teachers were allocated time for a meeting with the Education Minister||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/teachers-take-to-streets-block-traffic-in-patiala-307170
06-09-2021||New Delhi||Agitating farmers get support from unexpected quarters; BJP’s Varun Gandhi urges government to ‘re-engage’ with them||On a day the agitating farmers gathered in large numbers for a ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ in Muzaffarnagar in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh for their show of strength against the ruling BJP, they also found support from some unexpected quarters.Describing those protesting against the three central farm laws as “our own flesh and blood”, BJP’s Pilibhit MP Varun Gandhi urged the government to “re-engage” with them in a “respectful manner”, “understand their pain and point of view” and reach a “common ground”.Also read: Thousands of farmers gather at UP’s Muzaffarnagar for mahapanchayat“Lakhs of farmers have gathered in protest today, in Muzaffarnagar. They are our own flesh and blood. We need to start re-engaging with them in a respectful manner: understand their pain, their point of view and work with them in reaching common ground,” he tweeted along with a video showing the large gathering.   As a show of strength against the Narendra Modi government in the Centre and the Adityanath government in UP, thousands of farmers attended the ‘mahapanchayat’ organised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) ahead of the crucial assembly polls, including in UP and Uttarakhand, the two adjoining states currently ruled by the BJP.The Centre had held several rounds of talks with the protesting unions, insisting that they have given the farmers new and better opportunities to increase their incomes. Farmers, on the other hand, have been demanding unconditional withdrawal of the laws. Lakhs of farmers have gathered in protest today, in Muzaffarnagar. They are our own flesh and blood. We need to start re-engaging with them in a respectful manner: understand their pain, their point of view and work with them in reaching common ground. pic.twitter.com/ZIgg1CGZLn||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/agitating-farmers-get-support-from-unexpected-quarters-bjps-varun-gandhi-urges-government-to-re-engage-with-them-307083
06-09-2021||Ropar||IIT-Ropar 2nd best in country||Sarit K Das, Director, IIT-Ropar, said, “The force behind the success of IIT-Ropar is its state-of-the-art infrastructure, world-class research and highly qualified faculty.” TNSRelated:IIT Ropar develops plant-based air purifier machineWhy IIT-Ropar finds itself right on top||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/iit-ropar-2nd-best-in-country-306746
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||SC Collegium recommends 4 names for elevation as Punjab and Haryana HC judges||More than a year after the names of five advocates were forwarded by the Punjab and Haryana High collegium for elevation as Judges, the Supreme Court Collegium has recommended four names. Once appointed, the number of high court judges will go up to 49 against the sanctioned strength of 85, provided the process is completed before the retirement of sitting Judges.Collegium recommends 82 more names for appointment as HC judgesAvailable information suggests the names of advocates Vikas Suri, Vinod Sharma Bhardwaj, Pankaj Jain, and Jasjit Singh Bedi were cleared by the Supreme Court collegium in its meeting held on September 1. The names were finalised and forwarded by the high court collegium in August last year. These were further forwarded by the Centre to the Supreme Court as late as April this year.The process of appointing judges is lengthy and time-consuming. Once cleared by the states and the governors, the file containing the names with intelligence bureau reports is placed before the Supreme Court when it meets. The names cleared for elevation are then sent to union law ministry before their warrants of appointment are signed by the President. The process can take several months, if not taken up on a priority basis. Already seven judges have retired this year and another Judge is scheduled to retire in December. Another five Judges are retiring next year.The problem of plenty continues to be a matter of concern for the high court. National Judicial Data Grid — the monitoring tool to identify, manage, and reduce pendency of cases — indicates the pendency of 4,51,237 cases in the high court. Out of the total pendency cases in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, 1,68,028 are criminal matters, predominantly involving life and liberty.Otherwise, 77,282 or 17.13 per cent of the total pending cases are up to a year old; 1,14,694 or 25.42 per cent are pending between one and three years; 86130 or 19.09 per cent are pending between 10 and 20 years, and 9905 or 2.2 per cases are awaiting adjudication for last 20 to 30 years.To make the matters worse, the high court is expected to witness an unmanageable flood of litigation once it reopens for normal “physical” operations.  Available information suggests a substantial number of cases, filed but yet to be numbered, are lying in the high court registry to be taken up upon the resumption of physical hearing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sc-collegium-recommends-4-names-for-elevation-as-punjab-and-haryana-hc-judges-306701
