07-09-2021||New Delhi||Nitish, Badal, Deve Gowda, Chautala among several leaders to share stage on Sept 25 in Jind||Pitching for a third front, INLD’s Om Prakash Chautala will bring together SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, Bihar Chief Minister and JD(U) leader Nitish Kumar, former prime minister HD Deve Gowda and SAD supremo Parkash Singh Badal on one stage on September 25, the birth anniversary of former deputy prime minister Devi Lal.NCP leader Sharad Pawar, TMC president and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah and RLD leader Jayant Chowdhury have also been invited for a “huge” political rally on the occasion in Haryana’s Jind and their confirmation is awaited, INLD leader Abhay Chautala told PTI.He said Mulayam Singh Yadav, Nitish Kumar, JD(S) leader Deve Gowda and Badal have confirmed that they will attend the ‘Samman Samaroh’ to mark the birth anniversary of Devi Lal.“Many like-minded leaders from non-BJP and non-Congress parties will come together on one stage and will raise issues that are close to the people, especially farmers’ issues,” Abhay Chautala said.He said the people are looking for an alternative to the BJP and the Congress. By bringing all these leaders “our aim is to form the third front for the overall welfare of the country and the people,” Chautala said.INLD spokesperson Rakesh Sihag said Om Prakash Chautala has “personally met” Deve Gowda and Mulayam Singh Yadav and invited them for the rally.“It will be a huge rally and people from various states will attend it,” he said.Om Prakash Chautala, 86, after his release from Delhi’s Tihar Jail on July 2, had announced that he will contact opposition leaders across the country to forge a “Third Front” at the national level.The former chief minister of Haryana had been serving a 10-year sentence in a recruitment scam.The INLD patriarch had said that before September 25, which is the birth anniversary of his father Chaudhary Devi Lal, he will try to meet opposition leaders and urge them to come on one platform.JD(U) leaders Nitish Kumar and KC Tyagi had met Chautala at his residence in Gurugram last month and had termed it a courtesy call.The parties invited by INLD include those that are either in alliance with the Congress or the BJP. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nitish-badal-deve-gowda-chautala-among-several-leaders-to-share-stage-on-sept-25-in-jind-307971
07-09-2021||Ludhiana||AAP leader Sanjay Singh appears before Ludhiana court||AAP leader and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh on Tuesday appeared before a court here in a defamation case filed by Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia.He appeared before the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate Harsimran Singh here.The court on Monday had issued an arrest warrant against the Aam Aadmi Party leader after he failed to appear before it.Talking to reporters outside the court on Tuesday, Singh said he could not appear before the court on Monday because of his grandfather’s ‘tehrvin’ (thirteenth day of mourning after a person’s death).After hearing him, the court granted Singh bail, he said.Majithia had filed a defamation case against Singh in 2016 for his alleged defamatory statement at a rally in 2015. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-leader-sanjay-singh-appears-before-ludhiana-court-307953
07-09-2021||Bathinda||Gangster demands Rs 20 lakh from businessman in Bathinda||A Kotkapura-based gangster, Goldy Brar, has allegedly demanded an extortion of Rs 20 lakh in the name of Lawrence Bishnoi group from a city-based businessman, Rajinder Kumar Mangla, the owner of Mangalam Flex.He also threatened to kill him if he did not give him the money.Later on not being paid the extortion, Goldy Brar with the help of his two accomplices, shot at Rajinder Mangla with a bid to kill him.As per information, two unidentified people came on a motorcycle and tried to set the main gate of the house of Rajinder Kumar on fire by sprinkling petrol and later they fired three shots at him on Sunday night.Rajinder Kumar saved his life by lying on the ground.After this, two unidentified people who opened fire escaped from the spot on a motorcycle, after which the matter was informed to the police.It is being said that gangster Goldy Brar was demanding extortion in the name of the gangster Lawrence Bishnoi group.After getting the information, the team of Thermal police station and CIA 1 reached the spot and started investigation.On the statements of Rajinder Kumar, an FIR has been registered against gangster Goldy Brar and two unidentified youths and a Congress leaderChinki, resident of Calcutta street on Amrik Singh Road, Bathinda, under various sections.The entire incident was captured in the CCTV cameras installed inside and outside the house.Rajinder Mangla said that for the last fewdays, he was being called by the gangster.At the same time, he was also being threatened with death if he did not pay the money.When he refused to pay the money, he was attacked on Sunday night.Rajinder Kumar alleged that Congress leader Chinki, a resident of Calcutta Wali Gali located on Amrik Singh Road, was giving his complete information to gangster Goldy Brar.Earlier also the name of Lawrence Bishnoi group has come up for demanding extortion from inside the jail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gangster-demands-rs-20-lakh-from-businessman-in-bathinda-307899
07-09-2021||Tribune Web Desk||'Punjab is in my blood': Diljit Dosanjh to fan asking why he's not seen in his birthplace anymore||Chandigarh, September 7'Punjab is in my blood', actor-singer Diljit Dosanjh said after a fan asked him why he was not seen in his place of birth anymore.Replying to Diljit's tweet about his latest album 'MoonChild Era', the fan wrote, "Hun Punjab nahi nazr anda jithe janam hoya bhai jaan (Brother, now we don't see you in your birthplace Punjab anymore."To which Diljit replied, "Punjab is in my blood, brother. Lakhs of people step out of Punjab for work."Punjab Blood Ch aa Veere.. Lakhan Lok Kam Lai Punjab Ton Bahar Jande Ne..Eda Matlab eh nhi ke Punjab Sadey Andron Nikal Geya.. Punjab Di Mitti da Baneya Sareer Punjab Kivey Shadh Dau 😊🙏🏽 https://t.co/aQE8EWAHad  "Punjab Blood Ch aa Veere.. Lakhan Lok Kam Lai Punjab Ton Bahar Jande Ne..Eda Matlab eh nhi ke Punjab Sadey Andron Nikal Geya. Punjab Di Mitti da Baneya Sareer Punjab Kivey Shadh Dau (Punjab is in my blood, brother. Lakhs of people step out of Punjab for work, which doesn't mean that Punjab is not inside us anymore. This body is made of Punjab's soil, how can I leave it behind?)"The singer recently launched his album 'Moon Child Era'. The songs from 'Moon Child Era' are - 'Lover', 'Black & White', 'Luna', 'Vibe', 'Champagne', 'Cali', 'Hoops', 'Void' and 'Da Crew'.The Punjabi star has turned producer with his upcoming 'Honsla Rakh', which features him alongside actors Sonam Bajwa and former 'Bigg Boss' contestant Shehnaaz Gill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-is-in-my-blood-diljit-dosanjh-to-fan-asking-why-hes-not-seen-in-his-birthplace-anymore-307897
07-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||4 years after additional district and sessions judge was suspended, HC yet to pass final order||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 7More than four years have passed since the services of Additional District and Sessions Judge Hemant Gopal were placed under suspension, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has not passed a final order in the matter despite his indictment.Staying the operation of judgment dated April 20, 2013, convicting former MLA Mangat Rai in a cheating case, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan asserted: “Though no final order has been passed by the High Court qua Hemant Gopal, Additional District and Sessions Judge, who is continuing under suspension for the last about four years, prima facie, his indictment as per the inquiry report is apparent on record.”Rai, through counsel Vishal Garg Narwana, had moved the High Court, seeking a stay on conviction on the grounds that Gopal, on a complaint against him, was “found guilty of the article of charges that he had demanded illegal gratification while passing the impugned judgment of conviction and had acquitted one of the co-accused”.Mangat, along with other accused rice millers, had faced trial for alleged violation of the “agreement billing” executed with the Bathinda FCI District Manager. The trial Court, in all, convicted 22 accused.Justice Sangwan’s Bench was told that the appellant was not convicted under the Prevention of Corruption Act in the present case, but only under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC and was sentenced to seven years rigorous imprisonment and slapped a fine of Rs 20,000.Narwana added the applicant/appellant was elected MLA in 2007. In case the judgment of conviction and order of sentence was not stayed, it would affect his political career as he was denied the party ticket in 2017 but wanted to contest the Punjab Assembly election in February 2022.After hearing counsel for the parties and going through the facts, Justice Sangwan observed that it was clear that the Additional Sessions Judge/Special Judge, CBI, Patiala, on a complaint given by the applicant-appellant faced departmental inquiry. As per the report, he was found guilty of the charge. A law officer in the department of Legal and Legislative Affairs Sushil Kumar, who acted as a mediator, also stood dismissed from service.Allowing the application, Justice Sangwan added that the impugned judgment of conviction and order of sentence would remain stayed during the pendency of the appeal and would not affect the civil rights of the applicant/appellant, who intended to contest the Punjab Assembly in February 2022.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-years-after-additional-district-and-sessions-judge-was-suspended-hc-yet-to-pass-final-order-307891
07-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Farmers set to launch ‘Vote ki chot’ campaign||Garhshankar, September 6In the Kisan Mahapanchayat at Muzaffarnagar, lakhs of farmers reached and told the Central Government that the farmers are ready to continue the struggle against farm laws in a peaceful manner till the end. Farmers will launch ‘Vote ki chot’ campaign against the BJP in states, including Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab.Chaudhary Yudhveer Singh, national general secretary, Indian Farmers Union, and Harpal Singh Harpura, Punjab president of All India Jat Mahasabha, said to stop farmers, PM Modi and the UP Government used many ‘lousy’ tricks apart from stopping the rails, still lakhs of farmers from all over the country reached the Kisan Mahapanchayat at Muzaffarnagar and proved that no power can stop them and the intensity of the movement will increase.They said farmers in West Bengal have already conveyed their power to the Centre through their votes. Now, if the Modi government does not repeal the farm laws and does not give legal guarantee of MSP, then farmers will start a campaign against BJP in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and other states under the strategy of ‘Vote Ki Chot’ campaign.They said along with getting the agricultural laws repealed, the campaign will also be against the Modi Government’s ‘anti-people’ decisions causing unrest among government employees. “It will also be against the rising unemployment and inflation. Apart from this, we will also oppose the retrenchment of employees from government departments,” they said.They said that every section of society has come forward to support the proposed Bharat Bandh on September 27 against agri laws. Praduman Singh and Hoshiarpur district president Amarpal Singh Kaka also supported the statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-set-to-launch-vote-ki-chot-campaign-307843
07-09-2021||---||When in Rome…fly directly to Amritsar||Amritsar, September 6Great news for international flyers — Air India is set to start a direct Amritsar-Rome flight from Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport from September 8.Earlier, the airport had established direct air connectivity with Heathrow, London and Birmingham.Sameep Singh Gumtala, Global Convener of FlyAmritsar Initiative This will hugely benefit the Punjabi diaspora in Italy. It’s a big relief for thousands of people, stranded in India due to Italy’s decision to ban direct flights in late April this year.As per the schedule, the flight AI123 will take off from Amritsar every Wednesday at 3.55 pm and reach Rome the same day. The return flight will depart from Rome the next day on Thursday and reach Amritsar on Friday morning at 5.35am. Air India will operate its Boeing 787 Dreamliner on this route.Hailing the move, Sameep Singh Gumtala, Global Convener of the FlyAmritsar Initiative working for better air connectivity for the holy city, said this once-a-week flight would hugely benefit the Punjabi diaspora in Italy.Gumtala said the resumption of the flight comes after the decision by the Italy Government to relax restrictions on passengers arriving from India.“This is a big relief for thousands of people, who got stranded in India due to the decision by Italy to ban direct flights in late April this year,” he said.The air passengers had to pay hefty fare to reach their destination through connecting flights via other countries and complete quarantine requirements during the transit. This direct flight will now reduce the cost and also their travel time to just 7 to 8 hours.The operation of these flights to three destinations in Europe provides a big boost for direct international connectivity from the airport, said Yogesh Kamra, convener (India) of the FlyAmritsar Initiative and secretary of Amritsar Vikas Manch, an NGO.Kamra said Amritsar was currently India’s only airport that is directly connected with two airports in the UK. With the resumption of Rome flight, it will be the only airport in India after Delhi directly connecting with three destinations in Europe by the Indian national carrier — Air India, he claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/when-in-rome%E2%80%A6fly-directly-to-amritsar-307724
07-09-2021||Manav Mander||Punjab rural dispensaries without medicines for 18 months||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 6Rural dispensaries in the state have not received medicines for the past one and a half years. Amid the pandemic, rural medical officers (RMOs) were on Covid duties but now that Covid cases have subsided in the state, RMOs have started returning to their places of posting. Now, the major problem faced by them is there is no supply of essential medicines.The trust that was built over the years between the rural population and doctors has been completely gone during the pandemic. Firstly, the residents accused the RMOs of leaving them alone amid Covid (RMOs were assigned Covid duties) and now, as per them, they have returned but they are not giving them medicines.‘How can we treat patients sans medicines’As the Covid situation has improved, we are returning to rural dispensaries but it has not solved any purpose as we are without medicines. How can we treat patients in the absence of medicines? —Dr JP Narula, state president, Rural Medical Services AssociationRural dispensaries are considered the first line of treatment for rural population.Dr JP Narula, state president of the Rural Medical Services Association, said rural dispensaries had not received medicines since the past one-and-a-half year. The main reason being given was that RMOs are on Covid duty and not at dispensaries.“As the Covid situation has improved, we are returning to the dispensaries but that has not solved any purpose as there are no medicines. How can we treat patients in the absence of medicines,” he said.Dr Narula said villagers had lost trust in them. “When Covid was on its peak, residents of villages asked us to meet them as they were reluctant to go to hospitals. Now, when they come to us, we are unable to give them medicines. The bridge that was built over the years seem to be crumbling,” he said.Another RMO working at Maachiwara said the department seems to have abandoned the dispensaries as it had 18 months since they received the medicines.“How can we give consultation without providing medicines to patients. People in rural areas completely depend on doctors,” he said.Bhajan Singh from Lopon village said the villagers were waiting for doctors to return.“Now when the dispensaries have started opening, doctors are unable to give us medicines. What was the use of opening them. It is better to send the doctors back to the city on duty,” he said.Minister for Rural Development and Panchayats Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said rural dispensaries were being shifted to the Health Department and the problem would be resolved soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-rural-dispensaries-without-medicines-for-18-months-307659
07-09-2021||Sameer Singh||In Punjab Chief Minister's ancestral village Mehraj, an old man loses 2 sons to drug menace||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 6In Mehraj, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s ancestral village in Rampura block in Bathinda district, 52-year-old Jasbir Kaur’s eyes well up as she narrates the tragic tale of her two sons Gobind Singh (28) and Chinda Singh (23), who died of an overdose of “chitta” (heroin) a week ago.Will call special meeting soon: DCEven though the police are taking steps to curb the drug menace, I will call a special meeting soon to review the situation. — B Srinivasan, Bathinda DC“We had no idea they were taking drugs. They returned from the brick kiln where they were working as labourers and went off to sleep after taking dinner. In the morning, to our utter grief, we found them both dead.”The heartbroken father Bhinder Singh said: “I have lost my sons at the prime of their youth. I do not want any compensation. I just want that no other parent should bear such loss due to drugs. The government should take concrete steps to curb this menace.” The two deaths are not isolated cases in Mehraj village. Three months ago, 22-year-old kabaddi player, who lived near Bhinder’s family, died of overdose. More recently, another youth from the village was found lying unconscious with a needle injected in his arm. Another youth from Rampura was found dead due to overdose just two days ago.A senior nagar panchayat member, requesting anonymity, said nearly 30 to 40 per cent of the village youth were addicts, mostly hooked to heroin. “The police inaction can be attributed to political patronage enjoyed by peddlers and their handlers,” he alleged.Villagers rued that Capt Amarinder Singh had done nothing to keep his pre-poll promise of ending the menace. “The menace has only grown manifold at his ancestral village in the past four and a half years,” said a Mehraj resident.Members of the Naujwan Ekta Mehraj, a social service group, said: “The population of our village is around 42,000 and it has 200 to 225 active peddlers. You can find used syringes and related material in secluded areas near the cremation ground, public toilets, grain market, etc.”A senior member of the group said, “We had been been actively working against the menace but some of our members started getting threats from peddlers and associates of gangsters. They boasted about their links with police officials and influential political leaders, and threatened us with dire consequences.”“Since heroin is an expensive drug and not many can afford it, incidents of chain-snatching and stealing have gone up in the village,” said another member.SSP, Bathinda, Ajay Maluja did not respond to the numerous attempts made to contact him.Deputy Commissioner, Bathinda, B Srinivasan said: “Even though the police administration is taking the required steps to curb the drug menace, I will call a special meeting soon to review the situation and take a decision accordingly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-punjab-chief-ministers-ancestral-village-mehraj-an-old-man-loses-2-sons-to-drug-menace-307749
07-09-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||2 playful Bengal Tiger cubs a huge draw at the Chhatbir zoo||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, September 6Two Bengal Tiger cubs born on May 8 this year were displayed at the Chhatbir zoo for the first time yesterday. The playful cubs got a good response from visitors and were a huge draw among children. After the reopening of zoo with the Covid protocol, the facility saw 4,600 visitors, the maximum in a single day, yesterday. The highest footfall in a single day, however, was recorded on January 2017 when 13,235 visited the zoo.Chhatbir zoo Director Naresh Mahajan said, “The cubs were displayed for the first time and were a huge attraction. It was also for the first time that the cubs were exposed to visitors, and they were playful. After some time, they were withdrawn for relaxation and then reintroduced.”Diya, a white tigress, had delivered two Bengal Tiger cubs at the Chhatbir zoo on May 8. Diya is an eight-year-old white tigress, while the sire is a Bengal Tiger, Aman, aged nine. Diya had delivered three cubs in 2019. The zoo authorities did not officially disclose the names of the cubs.A zoo official said the duo was now on a normal diet and ate whatever the mother ate. They were having a healthy and good growth, they said.The official said the newly inaugurated Dinosaur Park and Otter House were also drawing a good number of visitors.Dinosaur Park exhibits lifelike interactive robotic models of the now extinct animal. It has been developed as an interactive and entertaining zoo education activity which will provide scientific awareness about the animal.The zoo authorities have created a naturalistic exhibit with see-through glass so that the visitors can enjoy the playful underwater movements of otters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-playful-bengal-tiger-cubs-a-huge-draw-at-the-chhatbir-zoo-307679
07-09-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Our fight is against Centre, says Sukhbir Badal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 6Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said “we want people of Punjab, particularly farmers, to understand that our fight is with the Centre and not among ourselves”.Talking to The Tribune, the SAD president said: “Standing together will make us stronger. Don’t forget we have been the biggest voice of the farmers in the country since pre-Independence days. Public display of differences suited the intentions of the Centre to keep the issue diluted. In the process, the voice against agriculture laws is diluted.”He was speaking on why the party had to suspend its 100-day ‘Gal Punjab Di’ programme on September 3, a day after protesting farmers faced water cannons and lathicharge in Moga, where the SAD president addressed a public meeting.Differences hurting stirPublic display of differences suited the intentions of the Centre to keep the issue diluted. In the process, the voice against farm laws is diluted. —Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD Chief“Farmers need to understand the Centre’s deep-rooted conspiracy against the Punjabis. We need to sit together and fight together,” said Sukhbir.The SAD president’s outreach programme had been facing farmers’ opposition at a number of places since it kicked off on August 18.On the second day, farmers associated with the BKU (Dakaunda) cornered him at Guru Har Sahai in Ferozepur. When his programme faced protests at Sahnewal in Ludhiana district on August 31, Badal named Congress and Aam Aadmi Party leaders accusing them of sponsoring the protests.The party is resuming the programme from September 11 from Amloh. A three-member committee, comprising Balwinder Singh Bhunder, Prem Singh Chandumajra and Manjinder Singh Sirsa, is talking to protesting farmers to compile a report on their demands.Commenting on the C-Voter survey report, in the context of the forthcoming Assembly elections, which puts the SAD at the third position, Sukhbir said: “The survey is only an extended arm of the AAP. Last time they had given AAP 95 seats. The party had to settle for just 20. This time they are being given 57 so you can imagine the final result. AAP will be nowhere in the reckoning and the results will show what the people want.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/our-fight-is-against-centre-says-sukhbir-badal-307576
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Akalis invite 32 farm organisations for talks||The SAD has invited all 32 farmer organisations, including the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) headed by Joginder Singh Ugrahan, to hold talks with the party to remove all misgivings regarding the ‘Gal Punjab Di’ campaign. The SAD recently put the campaign on hold due to protests by farmers.In a letter written to the farmer organisations, former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra said the SAD had always stood up for the cause of farmers and supported every decision of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM). “We wish to engage with farmer organisations and address all their concerns as well as work unitedly to ensure the repeal of the three black laws. This is also why we have postponed our campaign for a week.” He said on the part of the SAD senior leaders, including Balwinder Bhundur and Manjinder Singh Sirsa, would engage with the Kisan organisations at the time and place of their choosing.The SAD leader also detailed how the SAD had exercised its democratic right to reach out to the people through ‘Gal Punjab Di’ campaign and take feedback on steps needed to rebuild the state. “I am sure the Kisan organisations will understand this sentiment and realise that we are working for the welfare of farmers and people of the state at large. We are hopeful the farm leaders will react positively to the process of dialogue and the entire issue will be resolved to everyone’s satisfaction,” Chandumajra added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akalis-invite-32-farm-organisations-for-talks-307577
07-09-2021||---||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh raps 2 ministers over letter on Batala||Chandigarh, September 6Days after two rebel ministers — Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa — wrote to Capt Amarinder Singh seeking district status for Batala, the Chief Minister in a subtle rebuke to his Cabinet colleagues said instead of shooting off letter in this manner, they should have discussed the issue with him.Also read: Make Batala district: Rebel ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Singh BajwaReplying to the two ministers, once trusted loyalists-turned-critics, the CM said Rajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa had already raised the issue through a letter on August 11. Of late, the MP has joined hands with Captain Amarinder to counter the influence of the Majha ministers, who had been at the forefront of the rebel against CM.Already under considerationHad they come to me and spoken about it, I would have told them that I am already looking into the matter, and would have even consulted them in this regard. —Capt Amarinder Singh, CM“Had they come to me and spoken about it, I would have told them that I am already looking into the matter, and would have even consulted them in this regard,” said Captain Amarinder, taking a dig at the two ministers.In political circles, CM’s reply is being seen as a clear message to the two rebel ministers who had sought an early appointment from him to discuss the vital issue.The demand for declaring Batala as a district was already under consideration and a final decision would be taken after due consideration of various issues involved, the CM said.“There have been some reports in the media over the past few days indicating that citizens of Batala have also publicly raised the demand for a new district to be carved out of their region,” said the CM while expressing surprise that neither Tript nor Sukhjinder had seen the reports in the public domain nor deemed it fit to discuss the issue with him before shooting off a joint letter in this manner.The CM said he was cognisant of Batala’s significance to Punjab’s history and culture, as well as the public sentiment. He would discuss the issue with various stakeholders before taking a decision, he added. He would do everything in his power to ensure that Batala got its due, he added.Sidhu meets working chiefs; Capt leadersChandigarh: Continuing with his efforts to set up the new Pradesh Congress Committee body, state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu held another round of discussions with his four working presidents on Monday. Sidhu also met the PCC general secretary (organisation) to set the ball rolling for finalising the name of office-bearers. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh met party leaders, including MPs Ravneet Bittu and Gurjit Aujla, and ministers at his residence. TNSGovt on House hunt for PCC chiefThe government is looking for an accommodation here for PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, it is learnt. Sources said efforts were on to allot a house out of CM’s pool at ministers’ complex in Sector 39. Sidhu is entitled to an MLA flat, but could be allotted a ministerial house owing to security concerns.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-raps-2-ministers-over-letter-on-batala-307578
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sunil Jakhar bats for unity in Punjab Congress||Lying low after the elevation of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief, former state party president Sunil Jakhar on Monday said political wrangling within the party was hampering the vital process of taking government’s achievements amongst people ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections.Expressing concern over party cadre’s inability to fully leverage a major government decision such as doubling of social security pension, Jakhar while toeing the line of the party high command said the state leadership should put up a united face ahead of the Assembly polls.Jakhar’s statement comes days after Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat said: “I will not say all is well, but we are heading towards it”, while giving a piece of advice to Capt Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu to work together. The former PCC chief, who was speaking a function in Abohar, said the increase in pensions from Rs 750 to Rs 1500 was a major decision by the state government to alleviate the sufferings of the poor.However, he was concerned about party not being able to fully propagate the recent significant decision. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunil-jakhar-bats-for-unity-in-punjab-congress-307579
07-09-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Outdoor ad space booked, Oppn, Congress rebels cry foul||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 6With the Assembly elections slated next year, prime outdoor media sites in the state have become a bone of contention not only for the Opposition parties, including the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), but also rivals within the Congress.In the past few months, a number of prime outdoor media sites had been hired by the state’s Public Relations Department to highlight the achievements of the Capt Amarinder Singh government.Not only have the Local Government-approved sites been booked for highlighting the achievements of the Congress government, some unapproved media sites outside the civic body limits too have been sporting government advertisements.Returning favourFor four and a half years, outdoor ad mafia enjoyed govt patronage. Now it is time for them to pay back to the govt. —Harpal Singh Cheema, LopOn the other hand, advertisements put up on unapproved sites by supporters of Opposition parties and some Congress leaders from the rival camp are regularly being removed by the enforcement staff in respective civic bodies.Soon after Navjot Singh Sidhu became the PCC president, hoardings in his support had come up across the state. At many places, hoardings put up at unapproved sites were removed, said officials in the Local Government Department.Officials clarified in the wake of the 400th Prakash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur and to list achievements of the state government, respective district public relations offices had tied up with offices of the civic bodies for hiring at least 20 outdoor media sites.“Initially the permission was sought till July, but it has now been extended till October,” said sources in the department. Most of the sites are in shape of ‘unipoles’ along highways and at key locations.Taking a swipe at the government, AAP senior leader Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, said: “For four and a half years, the outdoor media advertising mafia enjoyed the patronage of the state government. Now it is time for them to pay back to the government.”Left high & dryAds put up at unapproved sites by supporters of Opposition parties and rebel Congress leaders are being removed by enforcement staff, leaving them high and dry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/outdoor-ad-space-booked-oppn-congress-rebels-cry-foul-307580
07-09-2021||---||2020 rioting case: Notice served on 10 AAP leaders including Bhagwant Mann, Harpal Cheema, Aman Arora||Chandigarh, September 6A local court has issued notices to 10 senior Aam Aadmi Party leaders, including Bhagwant Mann, Harpal Singh Cheema and Aman Arora, in a year-old case of rioting registered by the Chandigarh Police.The 10 party leaders besides workers were booked for allegedly pelting the police with stones during a demonstration opposite the MLA hostel here on January 10 last year. The case was registered under Sections 353 (assault a public servant), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 147 (punishment for rioting) and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the IPC.The court issued notices after the police submitted the challan (chargesheet) against them. The other leaders served notices included Baldev Singh, Baljinder Kaur, Meet Hayer, Manjit Singh Bilaspur, Narinder Shergill, Jai Krishan Singh Rouri and Saravjit Kaur Manuke. They have been asked to file reply on December 1.The case was registered at the Sector 3 police station on the complaint of a woman constable. In her complaint, constable Manpreet Kaur claimed a large number of AAP workers had assembled in the ground of the MLA hostel and the 10 leaders led them towards the official residence of the Punjab Chief Minister. SP City Vineet Kumar and other senior police officers were present at a barricading outside the hostels. The AAP leaders were asked to stop as gatherings of over five persons were not barred in the city.She alleged the party workers led by the leaders started pushing policemen and tried to break through the barricading, prompting the police to use water cannons. They then allegedly pelted the police with stones, causing injuries to several cops, including her. The injured were taken to the General Hospital where their medical examination was conducted. — TNSArrest warrant against SanjayLudhiana: The Court of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Harsimranjit Singh on Monday ordered issuance of arrest warrant against AAP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh as he failed to appear in a defamation case filed by SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2020-rioting-case-notice-served-on-10-aap-leaders-including-bhagwant-mann-harpal-cheema-aman-arora-307581
07-09-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Amloh Congress MLA Kaka Randeep Singh faces dissent||Certain Congress leaders belonging to the Amloh constituency today accused party MLA Kaka Randeep Singh of working in an arbitrary manner and indulging in corruption.District Congress Committee vice-president Shingara Singh Salana, Naraingarh Zila Parishad member Joginder Singh and PCC secretary Sandeep Bal today opened a banner of revolt against the Amloh MLA.Kaka hits backDevelopment of the Amloh constituency speaks for itself. Disgruntled Congress leaders have never worked for the party. — Kaka Randeep Singh, Amloh MLAAddressing mediapersons, they alleged Kaka Randeep Singh had been working in an arbitrary manner and indulging in corrupt practices, and doing nothing to bring any new project for the constituency.They said they had brought the matter to the notice of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu, besides briefing the party high command about the irregularities in the Municipal Council, Mandi Gobindgarh, and other development works.The Congress leaders also accused the Amloh MLA of working against the interest of party workers during the Municipal Council and panchyat elections. They warned if the party high command allotted him the ticket, they would oppose him in the Assembly elections. Kaka Randeep Singh, however, refuted all their allegations and said the development of the Amloh constituency spoke itself. He said these disgruntled Congress men have never worked for Congress and people know about them very well. He said everyone had the right to seek a party ticket. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amloh-congress-mla-kaka-randeep-singh-faces-dissent-307582
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||38 ransom cases since 2017, all solved, says Punjab CM||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today slammed the AAP for releasing “false” crime data in a bid to win the 2022 electoral battle.Responding to Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema’s allegations of increasing cases of crime in the state, he said on the contrary, only 38 cases of kidnapping for ransom had been reported in the state since his government took over in 2017 and all were solved.The CM rebutted Cheema’s claims on kidnapping for ransom cases in various districts, pointing out as against the LoP’s claim of 1,032 such cases, only three were reported in Ludhiana, with all cases solved. Reacting to the CM’s statement, Cheema said: “Our statement is absolutely correct and based on the state government’s own data. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/38-ransom-cases-since-2017-all-solved-says-punjab-cm-307583
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||AAP objects to 20 pc levy on electricity bills in Punjab||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has objected to 20 per cent tax being levied on electricity bills by the Punjab Government.AAP senior leader and Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema said while Chandigarh, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Delhi were levying 1 to 5 per cent tax on electricity bills; the total electricity tax levied by Punjab is 20 per cent, of which 13 per cent is electricity duty, 5 per cent infrastructure tax and 2 per cent municipal tax.“Besides, 2 paisa per unit cow cess (tax) is also imposed. As a result, electricity tax collection has crossed 20 per cent,” he claimed. Reiterating the demand for annulment of power purchase agreements with private firms, he said the Congress government was dragging its feet on the issue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-objects-to-20-pc-levy-on-electricity-bills-in-punjab-307584
07-09-2021||---||PRTC staff protest: 70% buses off road, travellers hit||Patiala, September 6Bus travellers in the state were at the receiving end following the protest of contractual employees of PEPSU Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), here today.Around 70 percent of the buses remained off road owing to the indefinite strike by the employees that started on Monday.Passengers had to wait for hours at the bus stands due to limited number of buses for various routes. Consequently, buses were overloaded, and many passengers were seen sitting on the roofs of the buses. One of the passengers at the Patiala bus stand said, “The government should have made some arrangements for the passengers’ ease. Being a working day, many office going people had to face a lot of inconvenience.”AAP: Employees’ demands justMeanwhile, the protesting contractual employees, demanded regularisation along with an increase in the number of buses by 10,000 in the state. They said they had given several ultimatums to the government, however, the government did not pay any heed to their demands. They said they had started an indefinite strike and the government was solely responsible for the harassment of passengers.Managing director Bhupinderpal Singh said only 30 per cent of the buses plied. He said, “Efforts are on to convince the protesting employees to join their duties. I hope around 50 per cent of the 1,000 PRTC buses would run across the state soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/prtc-staff-protest-70-buses-off-road-travellers-hit-307585
07-09-2021||---||High Court puts Punjab ex-DGP Sumedh Saini on notice||Chandigarh, September 6The Punjab and Haryana High Court today put former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini on notice on an application filed by the State of Punjab for revoking the concession of interim anticipatory bail granted to him on account of “blatant and intentional violation of the directions issued by the High Court”.The Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that the petition initially came up for hearing on August 11 and the orders were reserved the same day. Pronouncing it the next day, the High Court granted interim anticipatory bail to the petitioner. The matter would now come up for hearing on October 7.Why no contempt action: Mohali courtAppearing for the State, special public prosecutor SS Narula contended that Saini had to appear before the investigating officer within seven days. Instead of joining the investigation, he preferred another application before the High Court. It came up for hearing on August 17. Realising that the court was not inclined to entertain the application, it was dismissed as withdrawn.Narula added that the Bench, during the course of hearing, categorically asked the counsel if the petitioner had joined the investigation pursuant to the order passed by the court. The petitioner chose to intentionally exhaust the seven-day period during which he was to join the investigation. It was only late in the evening on the seventh day after the Punjab Vigilance Bureau office in Sector 48, Mohali, had closed that the petitioner arrived at 8 pm on August 18.“The malicious object of the petitioner was only to create evidence of his having gone to join investigation, although he had no intention to join the investigation in letter and spirit,” Narula said.Appearing before Justice Avneesh Jhingan, he added that the petitioner had fulfilled the formality of coming to the police station and was throwing tantrums.Taking up the matter, Justice Jhingan asserted an application had been moved by the petitioner, too, pleading that he had joined the investigation. Reliance was placed on the order of a coordinate Bench to submit there was misuse of process of law. “Notice in the applications for the date already fixed in the main petition,” Justice Jhingan concluded. Saini was represented by senior advocate APS Deol with HS Deol.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-puts-punjab-ex-dgp-sumedh-saini-on-notice-307586
07-09-2021||Ferozepur||Ferozepur: Pakistan national held, handed over to police||The sleuths of the 136 Battalion, BSF, today nabbed a Pakistan national, identified as Mohammad Tariq (24), a resident of Khawan village, of Toba Tek Singh district in Pakistan. As per the information, the accused was trying to enter the Indian territory, near the Hussainiwala barrier, following which, he was nabbed by the BSF officials.Sources said nothing suspicious was recovered from his possession, and subsequently, after the preliminary interrogation, the BSF sleuths handed him over to the police. The accused was booked under Section 3 of the Indian Passport Act-1920 and Section 14 of the Foreigners Act-1946 at the Sadar police station. Though no official confirmation was made by the BSF, sources revealed six Pakistani intruders were nabbed this year by the BSF. On May 3, a Pakistan-national was killed by the BSF sleuths belonging to the 103 Battalion. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ferozepur-pakistan-national-held-handed-over-to-police-307587
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Staff allowances doubled in Punjab||Ahead of the Assembly elections, the government today agreed to increase various allowances given to the employees, over and above the recommendations given by the Sixth Pay Commission.The government today issued directions doubling several allowances given to employees. These include telephone allowance, chowkidar allowance, conveyance allowance, secretariat pay (to those working in the Secretariat) and special pay given to personal staff of officers. The decision to double these allowances was taken by the committee of ministers formed by the government to resolve all employee-related issues, arising since the new pay scales were recommended by the panel. The employees had been demanding the increase in these allowances ever since the commission report was submitted.The commission initially has recommended that the conveyance allowance be stopped and treated the secretariat allowance as a separate allowance, rather than being a part of the basic salary. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/staff-allowances-doubled-in-punjab-307588
07-09-2021||GS Paul||Jallianwala Bagh: Kin of 1919 martyrs hold candle march, want original character restored||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 6The renovation of Jallianwala Bagh has not gone down well with the kin of 1919 martyrs.Terming it an attempt to wipe out their ancestors’ history and tarnish the ambience of the Bagh where the freedom struggle was scripted, they took out a candle march from Heritage Street to the Jallianwala Bagh to pay tribute to the martyrs and sensitise the authorities and demand rectification.Also read:The Jallianwala Bagh makeoverJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampLooks nice: Punjab CM contradicts Rahul Gandhi on Jallianwala remakeDemanding the restoration of original landscape and architecture of the site, they had approached the Union Ministry of Culture too.They demanded removal of the murals on the walls of the original narrow street from where General Reginald Dyer passed through with his troops ending up opening fire at a gathering of unarmed men, women and children.Set up temple on Jallianwala Bagh premisesWe have written to the Union Ministry of Culture and raised objections against the flaws. Besides, we have asked the authorities to set up a temple inside the Bagh where holy scriptures of all faiths be placed and prayers be performed for the departed. —Sunil Kapoor, President, Jallianwala bagh freedom fighters foundationThe pedestal on which Dyer stood and ordered firing has also been erased. It should be rebuilt at the same place, they demanded.They also pointed out that the (Amar Jyoti) flame, which was earlier at the entrance of the memorial, has also been shifted at the back. They demanded it to be restored at its original spot to evoke patriotic feeling.Another objection raised was on the new structure built on the martyrs’ well (Shaheedi Khu) from where 120 bodies were later recovered. They wanted its design to be on the basis of original pattern, as was being described in history books.Talking to The Tribune, Sunil Kapoor, president, Jallianwala Bagh Freedom Fighters Foundation, who lost his great-grandfather Lala Wasu Mal in the bloodbath, said: “We have written to the Union Ministry of Culture and raised objections against the flaws. Besides, we have asked the authorities to set up a temple inside the Bagh where holy scriptures of all faiths — Guru Granth Sahib, Geeta, Quran Sharif and Bible — be placed and prayers be performed for the departed. A ‘wall of martyrs’ should be erected inside the Bagh with their credentials so that visitors know about them.”He said that the family members should be given “tamar patras” to recognise their ancestors’ sacrifices and be included in the Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jallianwala-bagh-kin-of-1919-martyrs-hold-candle-march-want-original-character-restored-307589
07-09-2021||Ropar||100 Ropar teachers honoured for Covid role||The Ropar district administration and the Punjab Education Department in collaboration with the Sanjhi Sikhiya organisation held an award ceremony to felicitate 100 teachers of the district who went an extra mile to ensure that students are not deprived of education during the pandemic. ‘Sanjhi Sikhiya’ is a collective movement of young professionals that aims to transform the public education system in the state by enabling dialogues and forming communities.In the two-hour virtual award ceremony, Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri, District Education Officer Jarnail Singh, Deputy DEO Charanjit Singh Sodhi and retired Principal Sucha Singh Sidhu addressed the teachers.The DC appreciated their efforts and commitment to ensuring quality education during the pandemic. She motivated the teachers to keep up with their innovative practices of meaningfully engaging children and keep working as a team to achieve more. Sucha Singh shared the need to facilitate socio-emotional learning among students.Renu Kaushal, a teacher from the district, shared her experience of evoking a sense of trust among parents towards government schools. Parvinder Singh, another teacher shared how he managed to convince parents of a child with learning difficulties to ensure that he continued on the learning path.During the function, the speakers disclosed that 11 young leaders from the Sanjhi Sikhiya flagship programme and Punjab Youth Leaders Programme will be working in the district for the next two years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/100-ropar-teachers-honoured-for-covid-role-307590
07-09-2021||Sangrur||4 ‘fabricate’ injuries to frame innocents in false cases, held||Medical practitioner heldAbohar: A private medical practitioner was held in Sriganganagar a day after a 20-year-old girl lodged an FIR that he outraged her modesty when she visited his clinic in Kalian village for treatment of backache and stomach pain. The police said Bhupinder Singh (40) has been remanded in judicial custody. OCFarm worker ends lifeAbohar: A farm worker in Diwankhera village on Monday reportedly hung himself in a rented room, where he was living alone. Police said the body of Luxman (25) was shifted to the civil hospital for an autopsy, and the reason for the suicide was yet to be ascertained. OCIIT-Ropar, NIT sign MoURopar: An MoU was signed between IIT, Ropar, and the NIT, Uttarakhand, to establish a satellite centre for research through technology and innovation, in the domain of sustainable agriculture and water. TNSBSNL lost 14.3L subscribersMuktsar: The BSNL has lost about 14.3 lakh landline telephone users in Punjab telecom circle in nine years. Of these, 1,99,325 phones were disconnected in 2015-16, as per information under the RTI Act. The BSNL, however, claimed that due to change in technology, customers preferred mobile connections. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-fabricate-injuries-to-frame-innocents-in-false-cases-held-307593
07-09-2021||Karam Prakash||No vaccination certificate, RT-PCR checks at Punjab entry points, commuters have free run||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 6Though it is mandatory for those entering the state to show an RT-PCR negative report or a vaccination certificate, there is reportedly no check on the ground.The Tribune visited three interstate border entry points, including the biggest at the Shambhu barrier of Haryana, and found no officials checked the required documents to control the movement.However, the health department claimed that they had screened state-owned buses coming from other states and were conducting rapid antigen tests of travellers who did not have a negative test report or vaccination certificate. Officials said majority of the staff was busy in the vaccination drive and they were not getting enough support from other departments.In the wake of a dip in Covid-19 cases, health experts said the departments had been complacent and not taking the government's order seriously.Harpalpur Senior Medical Officer Dr Rishi said: “Our teams visit Shambhu barrier once a day to conduct tests of travellers because the teams are busy with vaccination and testing of government schoolchildren. Besides, we need more support from the administration to screen travellers.”Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said: “I have already directed my officers to hold regular screening at all three checking points. I will re-check with my officers in this regard.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-vaccination-certificate-rt-pcr-checks-at-punjab-entry-points-commuters-have-free-run-307605
07-09-2021||SS Chahal||Empower, incentivise farmers to curb farm fires||IN the process of producing more foodgrains, there has been corresponding and linear increase in biomass production in the country. Much of this biomass turns up as agricultural crop residue (CR) and is left to go waste, though agricultural organic residue is not waste but wealth. Some surveys estimate a higher quantity, but according to the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, on an average, more than 500 MT (million tonnes) of CR is generated every year — from rice (122 MT), wheat (100 MT), maize (71 MT), millets (26 MT), sugarcane (141 MT), fibre crops (8 MT) and pulses (28 MT). Uttar Pradesh (60 MT), Punjab (51 MT) and Maharashtra (46 MT) are major CR-generating states. Out of 140 MT surplus CR, 92 MT (18%) is burnt, whereas the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change says that it is over 25% of the total CR which is burnt in India, most of which is in UP, Punjab, Maharashtra and Haryana. With machine harvesting, a large quantity of CR is left in the field, the clearing of which becomes a labour-intensive operation, needed to be completed within a short time frame between the harvesting of the ripened crop and the sowing of the next crop. The problem has become more severe after the promulgation of the Preservation of Subsoil Water Acts by Punjab and Haryana governments in 2009, prohibiting the transplanting of rice seedlings before June 10, squeezing the time period to about three weeks only to complete rice harvesting, managing a huge quantity of leftover straw in the field and the sowing of wheat.As estimated by The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI), about 57.7 MT of surplus CR is expected to be utilised under ex situ management options under various government policies. The Punjab Government’s policy on renewable sources of energy, formulated in 2012, was set to achieve a capacity target of 600 MW from biomass and 500 MW from cogeneration (both bagasse and non-bagasse) within 10 years. However, only seven power projects have been commissioned so far with far less use of paddy straw as well as power generation. The Haryana government’s bio-energy policy, brought out in 2018, planned to achieve a target of 150 MW biomass-based power generation within four years; it, too, is far away from achieving its target.Besides energy generation, there is a need to accelerate the implementation of other measures like in situ management, biochar making, composting, addressing limitations of assured market of the end products and reducing additional cost incurred on logistics and transportation of material to longer distances. The procedures for carrying out in situ CR management need special machinery and equipment which is normally beyond the capacity to procure as well as short of full utility for the farmers with small holdings. Despite hefty subsidies, the main concern of the farmers is investment on such machines that can be used only once during the season rather than the others required to be used round the year. Hence, the availability of this machinery and equipment through cooperatives, farmer producer companies, groups of farmers, village panchayats by subletting/renting at affordable rates, can be a game-changer to address the burning issue of CR management. The development of low-cost, affordable machinery is the need of the hour.In March 2018, the Cabinet Committee for Economic Affairs approved Rs 1,151.80 crore for the ‘promotion of agricultural mechanisation for in situ management of CR in states falling in the Indo-Gangetic Plain and Rajasthan’ to sensitise farmers with different variants of required farm machineries. However, during the same year, of the total paddy straw residue, about 17% in Haryana and 50% in Punjab was burnt, indicating low implementation of the scheme. Turbo happy seeder and harvester combine fitted with super straw management system are the primary machines for in situ management of paddy straw residue. As per studies, including one by the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences, the available machines are not sufficient to manage the existing CR within the limited intervening time between paddy harvesting and the sowing of wheat.The interventions for successful management of CR and eliminating its burning are largely disintegrated. Under such a situation, reportedly even machinery worth Rs 650 crore could not douse farm fires in Punjab in 2019, according to a news report, and 76,626 machines given to Punjab by the Centre over three years have not produced the desired results. In the small-scale Indian farming system, the resource-poor farmers individually lack capacity and means; they should be supported in establishing an organised network, associations and community organisations for establishing services to manage CR. Offering services like collecting and transferring CR from the fields to the places of its utilisation as raw material and renting the machinery and equipment by government agencies should be centric to such arrangements operating at the doorstep of the framers. There should be an enabling system for efficient and effective CR collection, aggregation and viable models for the CR supply chain for the establishments involved in CR valorisation.The new law passed by Parliament in the recent monsoon session says that the Commission on Air Quality Management “may impose and collect environmental compensation from farmers causing air pollution by stubble burning.” However, penalising CR burning is an erroneous application of the ‘polluter pays’ notion because this pollution is not the outcome of any industrial or business venture. It’s better to dispense with it, considering the complexities of the problems and compulsions of the farmers who go for it. It is important to extend a helping hand and run awareness campaigns for technical and economical empowerment of people involved in farming activities.More importantly, CR management must not be viewed as an issue under the domain of the agriculture sector only but related to other sectors as well, hence requiring integrated approaches for devising and implementing practical solutions. Considering crop residue as a commodity and a useful asset, instead of waste, will result in its successful and beneficial management. However, due to its large volume, the capacities to manage it need to be scaled up.The author is ex-VC, Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology, UdaipurSend your feedback to letters@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/empower-incentivise-farmers-to-curb-farm-fires-307378
07-09-2021||Navdeep Suri||The Jallianwala Bagh makeover||It is grotesque, this thoughtless desecration of one of the most poignant memorials of our Independence struggle — the anger being expressed on social media and by some of the leading Indian and international historians who have worked on the Jallianwala Bagh massacre is legitimate and I’ve been straining to join the fray. But first, I wanted to see it for myself.Jallianwala Bagh: Kin of 1919 martyrs hold candle march, want original character restoredAlso read:Jallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampLooks nice: Punjab CM contradicts Rahul Gandhi on Jallianwala remakeI went to the Bagh and here’s the good news first. The undulating, landscaped lawns look lovely; there are a lot of young people taking pictures and selfies, most of them in a cheerful, out-for-a-picnic kind of mood. The museum and galleries are kind of interesting to the extent that they provide easy-to-digest information for the uninitiated tourist. I haven’t seen the light-and-sound show and can’t comment on the basis of personal experience. But educated citizens of Amritsar who have seen it are near-unanimous in decrying its tackiness. Overall, the place has a happy feel to it — if that’s how you want to feel at the site of the most egregious massacre committed by the British Raj in India.For me, the visit to the newly beautified environs of the memorial and to search for traces of the place we knew was a gut-wrenching experience.I was born in Gali Punjab Singh, a short distance from the Bagh. As a kid, I remember going to the Bagh whenever we had relatives visiting Amritsar for the customary pilgrimage to the Golden Temple. We would make our way through the nondescript wrought iron gate and down the narrow passage which dramatically opened into a mostly barren maidan. The pink sandstone memorial stood in front and a footpath took us to that red-brick wall, unplastered and pockmarked with bullet holes from the Vaisakhi day massacre. My mother would show the visitors around, making it a point to take a detour to the left and stop near the ancient martyrs’ well as she painted a vivid image of helpless men jumping into its bottomless depths, some to escape the hail of bullets and others after they had been shot. Peering over the ledge into the darkness below, I would try to see if the water was still tinged red with all the blood. There were times when I thought I could hear the screams of the victims echo dimly as I stood transfixed by the darkness.That infamous well, alas, has been enclosed in a brick-and-glass wall. Peer through the glass and you see the nicely backlit interior of the well, its walls painted an alluring pink. It makes a great spot for selfies, as we saw one couple after another make a beeline for the backdrop. With the song ‘Pagdi Sambhaal Jatta’ streaming from the outdoor speakers, it also provides a somewhat curious ambience for video enthusiasts.But there is a more important reason for my anguish. My grandfather Nanak Singh was one of the fortunate survivors of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. In the stories we often heard from our grandmother, he had gone to the rally to protest against the Rowlatt Act with two of his friends. Both friends fell victim to Brig Gen Dyer’s bullets, while my grandfather was knocked unconscious in the stampede and left for dead. He paints an intense picture of that ghastly afternoon of April 13, 1919 in ‘Khooni Vaisakhi’, a ballad that was first published in May 1920 and banned soon thereafter by the Raj.This was a 22-year-old youth who had no formal education beyond fourth grade in school. And yet, he had the sensibility to recognise that the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh must be remembered for posterity. In his opening verses that are an invocation to Guru Gobind Singh, Nanak Singh writes:To pen a portrait of those departed onesGrant me the strength, my Divine Guru.To remind my people across IndiaLest we forget their sacrifice, my Divine Guru.Do help me complete this mission of mineNanak Singh beseeches, O my Divine Guru.I will fall back on his words to give us a description of the Bagh and the mood of Amritsar city as he saw it a century ago.That narrow lane to enter the BaghSealed off on Dyer’s command, my friends.No exit, no escape, no way out was leftMaking Bagh a deathly trap, my friends.A fortunate few somehow survived,While most died then and there, my friends.Some ran with bullets ripping their chestStumbling to their painful end, my friends.Others caught the bullet while running awayDropping lifeless in awkward heaps, my friends.That narrowness of the passage, that absence of an exit were critical factors in making the Bagh a death trap for Dyer’s savagery. There is enough historical research to suggest that Dyer chose the Bagh for this very reason, to inflict maximum casualties, to teach a lesson and to instil fear. Going through that dingy passage was enough to put you in a sombre frame as you silently made your way towards the memorial.After the renovation, the passage is brightly lit and lined with murals depicting an improbably cheerful set of persons making their way into the Bagh. The visitor’s mood is influenced by the martial beats of ‘Aye Watan, Aye Watan, Hum Ko Teri Kasam…’ as she goes through the passage. And yes, the murals are also great for selfies. Sombre reflection be damned.We could argue over the interpretation of the murals. One explanation is that they portray ordinary people coming to celebrate Vaisakhi at the Bagh that fateful day. But the facts are different. Amritsar was already under tight restrictions following the police firing near the railway bridge on April 10. As Nanak Singh tells us, the people of Amritsar came to the Bagh in defiance of martial law, not to celebrate Vaisakhi.As the clock struck five on thirteenth AprilThey all gather in the Bagh, my friends.Seeking justice fair and honour, they standSikhs, Hindus, Muslims together, my friends.They went to speak, to share their griefPlace lives at stake without fear, my friends.With their own blood they wanted to bloomThe parched soil of the Bagh, my friends.Let me make one final point about the renovation. As we dragged our despondent feet back towards the passage to leave the Bagh, we were told off by the security guard. The passage was only meant for entering the Bagh. Hadn’t we seen the sign for an exit lane on the other side? An exit? Sure, what’s wrong with that, you may ask. Except for the inconvenient fact that there wasn’t an exit from the Bagh. And now there is. That’s how we treat history. And memory.Nanak Singh, perhaps, was prescient when he employed a dose of sarcasm to echo the voices of our martyrs:Make time to visit this Bagh of oursEchoes tales of gallant souls, O friends.With heavy heart, they mock our nationThanks so much for your love, O friends.Look closely at our bodies sievedA thousand wounds you’ll see, O friends.You stayed at home, reveling in your lifeAnd exiled us from your hearts, O friends.How could you promise, and forget?What a way to honour your words, O friends.Unfortunately, that’s what we’ve done to the Bagh. Somewhere in our technology-driven vision of modernity, we forgot that this was about preserving the soul of a place that we have held sacred. The scepticism of my grandfather has been justified. And it hurts.It didn’t have to be this way. I had made several visits to Jallianwala Bagh while working on the English translation of ‘Khooni Vaisakhi’ and always came away with a profound sense of disappointment over the way we abuse our heritage. The dusty bookcases, the plaster peeling in the visitors’ centre, the stinking toilets and the general air of apathy and neglect was all too visible. The need for a makeover was palpable and we were promised that it would be in place to mark the centenary of the massacre in April 2019.The Jallianwala Bagh Trust had shared its extensive research on the period with the Ministry of Culture. Guru Nanak Dev University in Amritsar has strong departments of history and architecture to provide the requisite intellectual and technical backup for a project of this nature. But the task was assigned to Vama Communications of Ahmedabad, working in tandem with the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and the NBCC (India) Limited (formerly National Buildings Construction Corporation Limited), and the results are there to see.It reflects both a missed opportunity and a deficit of imagination. Over the course of conversations with friends in Amritsar, I heard several suggestions that showed both ambition and vision. A senior professor at the university said that he had proposed making the Bagh a designated place for peaceful protests, like Jantar Mantar in Delhi. That might have been a balm for the martyrs who were asserting their right to assembly. Another friend, an eminent writer, suggested that the Bagh could become a place that embodies free speech, a bit of the Hyde Park Speakers’ Corner in Amritsar. That would consecrate the fact that the martyrs were protesting against the curtailment of civil liberties codified in the Rowlatt Act.Or maybe that’s too idealistic. A bit like the martyrs who died for their country.— The writer is a former diplomat. He translated Nanak Singh’s ‘Khooni Vaisakhi’ into English||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/the-jallianwala-bagh-makeover-307035
