08-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||4.5 lakh cases pending before Punjab and Haryana HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8The Punjab and Haryana High Court has claimed that approximately 4.5 lakh cases were pending before it and not 7 lakh as reflected earlier on the National Judicial Data Grid due to software mismatch. The High Court also claimed disposal of 90,543 cases out of 1,37,101 filed since March 2020, when it went into restrictive functioning mode following Covid outbreak.High Court Registrar Vigilance-cum-PRO Vikram Aggarwal said 7 lakh figure was earlier appearing due to mismatch between software “Case Information System” and “Integrated Software for High Court”. As a result, the disposal of cases was not being reflected on the NJDG.“The requisite data synchronisation has been done. As a result of the same, the current pendency in the High Court is 4.5 lakh cases approximately. This figure is expected to further come down once the softwares are fully synchronised,” Registrar Aggarwal added.He added 4,42,693 cases out of 7,23,041 filed in the District Courts of Punjab from April 1, 2020, to July 31, 2021, were disposed of. In Haryana, 7,37,718 cases were filed and 3,93,831 disposed of. Out of 39,595 cases filed in UT District Courts, 27,767 were disposed of.He added limited physical hearing in the High Court from February 8 had to be suspended as the second wave turned severe, affecting judges, judicial officers, advocates and staff. It was forced to go back to restrictive functioning from April 19.  But all Benches kept on functioning through the virtual mode.Following “massive surge” in cases, the functioning had to be restricted further from April 28. “Once the severity of the second wave reduced, all Benches started functioning again through the virtual mode from July 28…. All efforts were being made to hear all urgent matters. On any given day, more than 2,000 cases are being listed for hearing,” he said, adding that limited physical had resumed again from September 6. “It is, therefore, evident that the High Court, as an institution, did its best under the extremely adverse circumstances and constraints to fulfill its obligations towards the citizens,” he concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-5-lakh-cases-pending-before-punjab-and-haryana-hc-308442
08-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||SAD chief Sukhbir Badal gets bail in forgery case||A court here on Wednesday granted interim bail to Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal in a forgery case, involving allegations that his party submitted a false undertaking to seek recognition from the Election Commission of India.Badal, who appeared before the court here Hoshiarur, got bail on a personal bond and surety of Rs 1 lakh each.Social activist Balwant Singh Khera had filed a complaint against Badal and others in 2009 alleging that the SAD has two constitutions, one that it submitted to the Gurdwara Election Commission and the other to the Elections Commission of India (ECI) to seek recognition as a political party. He had alleged that the SAD had given a false undertaking to the ECI that it had amended its constitution to incorporate principles of socialism and secularism, whereas it continued its activities as a ‘Panthic’ party and participated in Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) elections.The court of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Rupinder Kaur fixed September 28 as the next date of hearing in the case. Badal’s counsel appealed for exempting him from personal appearance on the next date but the court asked him to move an application in this regard on the same day.On September 2, the court of Additional Sessions Judge Jatinder Pal Singh Khurmi had directed Badal to surrender in the trial court here on or before September 13 to get interim bail, subject to his furnishing a personal bond and surety.Badal had moved an application for interim bail, saying no custodial interrogation of him was required and a co-accused in the case, Daljit Singh Cheema, is already on bail.Police had booked Badal under Sections 420, 465, 466, 467, 468, and 471 of the Indian Penal Code. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-chief-sukhbir-badal-gets-bail-in-forgery-case-308441
08-09-2021||Phagwara||Union minister Som Parkash writes to Punjab CM, demands district status for Phagwara||Union minister Som Parkash on Wednesday wrote to Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh demanding district status for Phagwara.Presently, Phagwara is part of Kapurthala district.Parkash, who is an MP from Hoshiarpur, wrote, “It has been reported in the media that the Punjab government is considering making Batala a district. It is pertinent to mention that Phagwara is an old industrial town on the main national highway between Ludhiana and Jalandhar.”       He said the people of this area face a lot of problems as they have to travel far to the district headquarters for redressal of their grievances.The letter, whose copies were supplied to the media here, further said, “It has been a long-standing demand for granting district status to Phagwara by including Phillaur, Goraya and Behram. Earlier also, requests to this effect have been made which are pending consideration.”        The minister of state for commerce and industry wrote, “Keeping in view the emerging needs from administrative point of view and demand of the general public, it is expedient that creation of a new district of Phagwara be announced in order to give justice to the aspiration of the people.”          He demanded that the chief minister declare Phagwara as a district at the earliest.Parkash’s letter to Singh comes amid a demand for declaring Batala as a new district by two ministers, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, and Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/union-minister-som-parkash-writes-to-punjab-cm-demands-district-status-for-phagwara-308428
08-09-2021||Dubai||India’s Jeev Milkha Singh becomes first golfer in world to be granted 10-year Dubai Golden Visa||Star Indian golfer Jeev Milkha Singh has become the first professional golfer in the world to receive the prestigious 10-year Dubai Golden Visa in recognition of his outstanding achievements in the sport.The 49-year-old Jeev has had a long association with Dubai, having featured in several tournaments and making many friends in the city.“I am really honoured and humbled that the Dubai government has considered me for the Golden Visa and I am looking forward to making many more special memories here,” Jeev said in a release.During the 2001 Dubai Desert Classic, Jeev had established a world record at that time when he completed the four rounds with just 94 putts while finishing tied sixth.Jeev, winner of four titles on the European Tour, four on Japan Golf Tour and six on the Asian Tour, has received the 10-year ‘Gold card’ for being an elite professional athlete.“This is a huge honour. I think I came to Dubai for the first time in 1993, and I have loved every moment of my stay here and greatly admired the energy of this fascinating city,” he said.“My family has enjoyed the many offerings of Dubai, like the variety of restaurants and shopping, but being a professional golfer, the biggest attraction for me is the quality of golf courses and the practice facilities that you get here, which really are second to none.“I have also got a lot of support from Dubai. I was one of the first ambassadors for Jumeirah Golf Estates, and also of ‘Golf in Dubai’ for many years.”                  The Golden Visa was instituted by the UAE government in 2019 as a new system which allowed investors (minimum of AED 10 million) and entrepreneurs, as well as professionals and specialised talents like in the field of science, knowledge and sports, to apply for it.Other sportspersons who have been granted the Golden Visa by Dubai include footballers Cristiano Ronaldo, Paul Pogba, Roberto Carlos, Luis Figo and Romelu Lukaku, tennis superstar Novak Djokovic, Indian tennis star Sania Mirza and her husband and Pakistani cricketer Shoaib Malik.Bollywood stars Shah Rukh Khan and Sanjay Dutt have also received their visas.Son of the legendary Indian athlete, the late ‘Flying Sikh’ Milkha Singh, Jeev won two of the biggest tournaments on the European Tour—the 2006 Volvo Masters at Valderrama and the 2012 Scottish Open.He also won the 2008 Singapore Open and rose to No. 28 in the Official World Golf Ranking, a high that few Asian golfers have managed to surpass. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/indias-jeev-milkha-singh-becomes-first-golfer-in-world-to-be-granted-10-year-dubai-golden-visa-308423
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||SAD swaps 2 seats with alliance partner BSP in Punjab||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday decided to swap two seats with the BSP, its alliance partner for the Punjab Assembly polls next year.SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said his party had given two assembly seats, Sham Chaurasi and Kapurthala, to the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and taken back Amritsar North and Sujanpur Assembly seats from it.The Shiromani Akali Dal last month had declared its two candidates from Amritsar North and Sujanpur constituencies. At that time, Badal had said the decision was taken with the consent of the BSP.Both Amritsar North and Sujanpur were among the 20 seats given to the BSP as part of the seat-sharing arrangement between both the alliance partners.“SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal announced that the SAD had taken Amritsar North and Sujanpur seats back from the BSP. In their place, the BSP has been given Sham Chaurasi and Kapurthala Assembly seats,” senior SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema said on Wednesday.According to the alliance between both the parties for the 2022 Assembly polls, the Mayawati-led BSP will fight 20 of the 117 Assembly seats in Punjab, while the rest will be contested by the SAD. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-swaps-2-seats-with-alliance-partner-bsp-in-punjab-308396
08-09-2021||New Delhi||Union minister Gajendra Shekhawat appointed BJP in-charge for Punjab Assembly polls||BJP president JP Nadda announced poll teams for key states—including Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, and Uttarakhand—going to elections in 2022 on Wednesday, appointing senior ministers and party leaders as in charge and co-in charge.Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan has been given charge of Uttar Pradesh and Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat of Punjab. Despite a relatively limited stake in Punjab, Nadda appears to be leaving no stone unturned and has given Shekhawat a strong team of three deputies, including union ministers Hardeep Puri and Meenakshi Lekhi, both with Punjab connections, and Lok Sabha Member of Parliament Vinod Chavda, for the state.Given the high stakes in Uttar Pradesh, Pradhan’s army of deputies include union ministers Anurag Singh Thakur, Arjun Ram Meghwal, Shobha Karandlaje, and Annapurna Devi, Members of Parliament Saroj Pande and Vivek Thakur, and former Haryana minister Captain Abhimanyu.Apart from this, Uttar Pradesh has also been divided into six parts for organisational purposes with Lok Sabha member Sanjay Bhatia in charge of western Uttar Pradesh, Bihar MLA Sanjeev Chaurasia in charge of the Brij region, national secretary Y Satya Kumar in charge of Awadh, additional treasurer of the BJP Sudhir Gupta in charge of Kanpur, national secretary Arvind Menon for Gorakhpur and Sunil Ojha (‘sah prabhari’ for UP) in charge of Kashi.For Uttarakhand, the charge is with Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and his two deputies, Lok Sabha Member of Parliament Locket Chatterjee and national spokesperson RP Singh. In Manipur, Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav will hold the fort along with union minister Pratima Bhaoumik and Assam minister Ashok Singhal.Meanwhile, former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis has been made in charge of Goa along with union ministers G Kishan Reddy and Darshana Jardosh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/union-minister-gajendra-shekhawat-appointed-bjp-in-charge-for-punjab-assembly-polls-308365
08-09-2021||---||‘Most historians have ignored Sikh architecture’||Amritsar, September 7Most historians have ignored the Sikh Architecture; some have condescendingly accepted it as a syncretism of the Islamic and Rajputana styles, which Dr SS Bhatti, calls a historic fallacy. Dr Bhatti, former Principal, Chandigarh College of Architecture, was delivering his keynote address at the inaugural session of first ever international symposium on the Sikh architecture, which took off in a virtual format here on Tuesday.The three-part symposium is being attended by over many architects and other professionals from across the region and Pakistan. The event has been organised to commemorate the Parkash Utsav of Guru Granth Sahib and has been organised by Saakaar Foundation, Chandigarh, and is being supported by the Sikh Chamber of Commerce, Fire & Security Association of India, Indian Institute of Architects’ Chandigarh/Punjab Chapter, Ashrae, ASSOCHAM-GEM and eight schools of Architecture.Architect Surinder Bahga introduced the theme of the international symposium on the Sikh architecture.Dr Bhatti, in his third PhD on the Golden Temple, researched forms of the building design spread over 45 centuries worldwide lamented that the architects and the management have together ruined the glory of this holiest of holy shrines of the Sikh faith out of sheer ignorance of its religious tenets and the gurus’ spiritual exhortations.Aurangabad-based architect Abraham Pathrose spoke on the conservation work being carried on the Gurudwara Saragarhi Memorial and Gurudwara Chowrasti Attari of Amritsar. He said, “School trips, tourists shall be encouraged to propagate the vast glory of these two gurudwaras. Such documentation works shall continue for other heritage sites too.”Pakistan-based Dr Nadhra Shahbaz Khan, Associate Professor of the Art History at Lahore University of Management Sciences talked on, “Sikh monuments in and around the Lahore Fort.”She said, “Lahore is proud of its Sikh-era monuments and hosts several gurdwaras, havelis, samadhis and baradaris commissioned during the first half of the 19th century by Sikh royalty and nobility. Most of these monuments are unexplored or misread chapters of Punjab’s history that need to be studied with fresh eyes—what they can tell us about their patrons is not found anywhere in historical narratives!”Prof Shruti H Kapur from the CT Institute of Architecture and Planning, Jalandhar, said, “Sultanpur Lodhi, with its legacy to have historic buildings, vital landscape, relics from various architectural styles needs to preserved.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/most-historians-have-ignored-sikh-architecture-308318
08-09-2021||---||Online campaign seeks health warnings on ‘bad air’ days||Ludhiana, September 7In a first-of-its-kind campaign, citizens concerned and social organisations across Punjab have demanded that Urban Local Bodies (ULB) mandatorily issue timely health advisories publicly to alert citizens on ‘bad air’ days, which will help save vulnerable groups from severe health impacts of air pollution.The joint call comes from non-attainment cities, including Ludhiana, Amritsar, Khanna and Patiala, reeling under poor air quality.Bad air days are when the air quality index (AQI) — pollutant measuring indicator — rises beyond the safe limit for any location falling either under the poor, very poor or hazardous AQI levels.The online campaign was launched on Tuesday to mark the International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies. In its second year since its inception, the theme for 2021 is ‘Healthy Air, Healthy Planet’, which emphasises the health aspects of air pollution, especially considering the Covid pandemic.Punjab has a total of nine non-attainment/ million-plus cities under the National Clean Air Action Plan (NCAP). A non-attainment city is one that does not meet the prescribed air quality standards set by the Union Environment Ministry.Supreet Kaur, president of the EcoSikh India and member of the Punjab Clean Air Collective, a collaborative network of citizens’ organisations, institutions working towards the common objective of clean air, said this was a pan India citizen-led online campaign. “Breathing in pollution-free air is a fundamental right for all. Through this campaign, we want to intensify the need to breathe clean air. We want the citizens to be well informed so as to take necessary actions to safeguard the lives of all. We urge everyone, be it children, youth or elders, to support this cause,” she said.She added that as part of the campaign, citizen groups across all non-attainment cities in Punjab will also plan and meet their respective Municipal Commissioners and submit a letter stating the demand of health advisory when air quality deteriorates,” said Supreet.The online petition is also being shared widely on social media and WhatsApp groups across Punjab and is evoking positive response.Ludhiana-based senior scientist Dr Prabhjot Kaur, who is the Head of the Climate Change Department of Punjab Agricultural University, said, “Punjab with nearly 83 per cent area under crop cultivation is predominantly a green state. “Despite this fact, the AQI of Punjab in May 2021 ranged from 68 to 220, which indicates that the air quality ranged in the poor to very poor category. This continued even during the lockdown period despite reduced vehicular and industrial pollution, which highlights that we need to explore the possible reasons for the poor AQI in Punjab,” she added.KS Pannu, former IAS and Adviser, NHAI, Punjab, said, “Ludhiana is home to 30 lakh people who unfortunately have to constantly suffer from pollution in the air. One of the measures that were decided by the Centre and state was to introduce cleaner fuel of CNG, which Ludhiana missed due to some nagging litigation with the supplier company. “The state government should take proactive steps to bring in CNG at the earliest. State, society and NGOs should work in tandem to encourage electric three-wheelers in the city. Moreover, the issue of burning paddy straw in the winter months must be solved to ensure cleaner air for citizens,” he asserted.Divya Narayanan, who has created a portal for the citizens’ campaign, said the pandemic had forced all to seek out as much information as possible to safeguard health against the virus. “In the same manner, we must realise that we need to demand more information to be made widely available about the air we breathe, and its effects on our health. It’s all the more important now in light of Covid that we have information widely made available to us so we can make learned choices for our health on bad air days,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/online-campaign-seeks-health-warnings-on-bad-air-days-308274
08-09-2021||---||Anticipatory bail plea of Gurdas Maan rejected||Jalandhar, September 7Punjabi singer Gurdas Maan on Tuesday was denied anticipatory bail in the case of objectionable remarks made during a religious fair at Dera Baba Murad Shah in Nakodar last month. Maan had described Ladi Shah, who was the ruler of the dera, as descendant of third Sikh Guru Amar Das.Also read:Gurdas Maan booked for hurting religious sentiments of Sikh communityPunjabi singer Gurdas Maan posts video on social media offering apology over recent controversyRaja Warring backs Gurdas MaanFollowing his remarks, Sikh organisations, including the Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee, filed a case against him for hurting the religious sentiments of the community.Subsequently, Maan had filed an anticipatory bail petition in the District and Sessions Court. During the hearing, advocates of Sikh organisations Parminder Singh Dhingra and Ravinder Singh said Mann’s words had hurt the religious sentiments of the community. His remarks caused great resentment among the Sikh community. If Mann stays outside, it could increase people’s wrath, so he should not be given bail.They further added that Mann’s lawyer Darshan Singh Dayal argued that the singer had made the statement by mistake. However, he had apologised with folded hands and released a video of the same on social media. At the same time, the lawyer of Sikh organisations opposed stating that as per the law, such an apology was not valid. Meanwhile, Dayal did not interact with mediapersons.Also read: Gurdas Maan controversy: Dera Murad Shah devotees block Jalandhar-Nakodar highwayThe hearing of the case was adjourned for tomorrow. While Gurdas Maan himself did not appear in the court, his lawyer filed a bail application.Security was also beefed up in the court premises as members of the Sikh bodies had announced to hold a protest if Mann did not appear in the court. In view of this, there was tight security outside the court complex too. Protesters were present in the court in large numbers in the morning. Paramjit Akali said they would wait for the court and then only any further action would be taken.A case under Section 295-A of the IPC has been registered against Maan at the Nakodar police station. The Sikh bodies had earlier blocked the Jalandhar-Delhi highway, demanding the arrest of Mann.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anticipatory-bail-plea-of-gurdas-maan-rejected-308124
08-09-2021||---||Haryana Public Service Commission issues advisory for Sikh candidates||Chandigarh, September 7The Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) has issued an advisory for the Sikh candidates appearing for the preliminary examination for the Haryana Civil Services (Executive branch) and allied services to be held on September 12.Also read: Review ban on articles of faith in exam: Akal Takht to HaryanaThe Sikh candidates who intend to carry kara and kirpan should reach their examination centres an hour before the reporting time. They should allow the authorities concerned to screen their articles of faith. In case, any suspected device, electronic or otherwise, was found in the said articles of faith, they shall be restrained from carrying the same to the examination centre, an official spokesman said.In case, the Sikh candidates fail to report at the examination centre an hour before the reporting time or don’t cooperate with the screening staff on duty, they won’t be allowed to take the examination wearing the articles of faith.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/haryana-public-service-commission-issues-advisory-for-sikh-candidates-308101
08-09-2021||---||Batala district demand: After Capt Amarinder Singh's letter snub, ministers write back||Chandigarh, September 7A day after snub by Capt Amarinder Singh for “shooting” off a letter to him seeking district status for Batala, rebel ministers Tript Rajinder Bajwa and Sukhjinder Randhawa today wrote back to the CM, saying they were not bothered as to who gets the credit for the creation of a new district.Correct historical wrongRajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa said it was only after the British annexation of Punjab that the district headquarters were shifted from Batala to Gurdaspur. It is time to correct this historical wrong committed by British Raj.SSS Board chief opposes movePunjab Subordinate Service Selection Board Chairman Raman Behl on Tuesday warned against carving Batala district out of Gurdaspur, saying it would lead to implications. Gurdaspur had already suffered divisions during the reorganisation of 1966 and carving out of Pathankot district in 2011.Capt to cook for Olympic winnersChandigarh: Capt Amarinder Singh will host a dinner for Punjab Olympic winners, including Neeraj Chopra, on Wednesday. “From Patiala cuisine to pulao, lamb, chicken, aloo & zarda rice, Capt Amarinder will prepare each of these delicacies himself to keep his promise to Punjab Olympic medal winners and Neeraj Chopra at the dinner he is hosting tomorrow,” tweeted CM’s media adviser.In the same breath, the ministers expressed surprise at Rajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa writing on the same subject to the CM. “Partap Bajwa has written a letter to you to make Batala a district. This is a bit surprising because the person who has direct access to you should not have the need to write to you,” said the ministers while hitting back at the CM.The two ministers sent the letter while holding consultations with PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu at PCC general secretary (organisation) Pargat Singh’s residence.They further reminded the CM: “The Rajya Sabha MP had been writing letters for four and a half years and releasing the same to the media even at the cost of causing embarrassment not only to you and government but also the party, as he did not enjoy this rare privileged access earlier.”In their justification for writing to the CM, the two said: “We adopted the medium of writing to convey to you the legitimate and long-standing demand of the people of Batala city and region to make Batala a district because you were not holding public meetings for some time. All meetings, including that of the Cabinet, are being held by video conferencing. So we had no choice but to write to you.”Tript further drew CM’s attention to the Cabinet meeting wherein the decision to make Malerkotla a district was taken, saying he and then PCC chief Sunil Jakhar had then raised their voice for upgrading Batala to a district.The CM while taking a dig at the two ministers had yesterday said: “Had they come to me and spoken about it, I would have told them that I am already looking into the matter, and would have even consulted them in this regard.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/batala-district-demand-after-capt-amarinder-singhs-letter-snub-ministers-write-back-308012
08-09-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Batala: Proposed district status raises hope, scepticism||Tribune News ServiceBatala, September 7The proposal to elevate Batala sub-divisional town to a full-fledged district is being met with scepticism and hope in equal measure.Announcement on guru’s anniv?Amid speculation over the CM possibly announcing Batala as district on September 13, to mark marriage anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev, ex-MLA Ashwani Sekhri said: “Sept 13 may be a red-letter day for us.”There is a section of residents which claim that if the move fructifies Gurdaspur district will be reduced to a lame duck, while there are others who maintain that “the smaller a district the better it can be administered”.In 2011, Pathankot was carved out as a separate entity from Gurdaspur. Before that Gurdaspur had 1,530 villages. After the division, it was left with 1,279 villages. And now, if Batala is separated, just 800 odd villages will remain.In 1988, the government of the day driven by exigencies of terrorism, had designated Batala as a police district.Gurdaspur-based advocate Santokh Singh Basra claims a majority of his ilk will be left with no work if the government decides on a division. “Lawyers who have their practices in Gurdaspur will be rendered idle as litigants will get their judicial work done in Batala itself. My brethren will suffer a big financial loss?” said Basra.“Batala is Punjab’s eighth largest city and has a large number of industrial units. The city’s Municipal Committee has already been elevated to the status of a corporation following which more funds are now available. If Malerkotla sub-division with 150 villages in its fold can be converted into a district, why can’t Batala, which has nearly 480 villages?” questioned Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar, Chairman, Gurdaspur district planning committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/batala-proposed-district-status-raises-hope-scepticism-308013
08-09-2021||---||Defamation suit: AAP MP Sanjay Singh surrenders in Ludhiana court, granted bail||Legal CorrespondentLudhiana, September 7Aam Aadmi Party leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh today surrendered in a local court, a day after it ordered issuance of an arrest warrant over his non-appearance in a defamation case filed by former minister and SAD leader Bikram Majithia.While surrendering in the court of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Harsimranjit Singh, the AAP leader moved a fresh bail application, explaining the reasons for his non-appearance.Accepting his plea, the court granted him bail with directions to furnish new surety bonds amounting to Rs 1 lakh. After furnishing bail bonds, the court recalled the order of issuance of arrest warrants against him. The case will now come up for hearing on September 17.On September 6, former SAD minister Maheshinder Singh Grewal, a witness from Majithia’s side, was present in court for cross-examination. Besides, a newspaper official had come with records summoned by Sanjay Singh’s lawyer for confronting the witness with a news item content.However, neither the accused nor his lawyer was present for the cross-examination of the witness. Majithia’s counsel DS Sobti had opposed the exemption application saying he was taking the court proceedings lightly and intentionally delaying the proceedings by filing exemption applications time and again. The court subsequently dismissed the exemption application.Sanjay Singh was summoned in February 2016. In his criminal complaint, Majithia had alleged the AAP leader made a false and defamatory statement that had role in the drugs trade. The statement was made at a Moga rally on September 9, 2015.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/defamation-suit-aap-mp-sanjay-singh-surrenders-in-ludhiana-court-granted-bail-308014
08-09-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||47 Punjab-origin candidates in fray for Canada polls||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 7As many as 47 Punjabis are trying their luck in the Canadian Federal General Elections for which the polling is scheduled to be held on September 20.Prominent facesIn the final list of candidates, the maximum Punjabi candidates (17) have been fielded by the Liberal Party, followed by Conservative Party (13), New Democratic Party (10), People’s Party of Canada (5), Green (1) and one will contest as an Independent.The 2019 polls also saw the same number of candidates, 19 of whom made it to the House of Commons. With 16 of the sitting MPs and a Punjabi-versus-Punjabi contest on several seats, their relatives back home are keeping fingers crossed. The prominent Punjabi NRI faces in the poll fray are: Defence Minister Harjit Sajjan from Vancouver South, minister Anita Anand from Oakvilla in Ontario, minister Bardish Chaggar from Waterloo and Jagmeet Singh, leader of New Democratic Party (NDP) who provided support to the minority government of Justice Trudeau, is seeking reelection from Burnaby South.The Liberals have fielded Ruby Sahota (Brampton North), Sonia Sidhu (Brampton South), Kamal Khera (Brampton West), Anju Dhillon (Dorval-Lachine-LaSalle), Randeep S Sarai (Surrey Centre), Maninder Sidhu (Brampton East) and Sukh Dhaliwal (Surrey Newton) for reelection. The other candidates fielded by the Liberals are Lakhwinder Jhaj, Parm Bains and Sabrina Grover. Raj Saini was fielded from Kitchender Centre, but he withdrew his candidature on Saturday after facing allegations of inappropriate behaviour towards staffers.The NDP has fielded Tejinder Singh form Brampton South, Gurprit Gill from Brampton West, Avneet Johal from Surrey Newton and Gurinder Singh Gill from Calgary Skyview. The candidates fielded by the Conservatives include sitting MPs Tim Uppal, Jag Sahota and Jasraj Singh. Other candidates are Indira Bains, Priti Lamba, Naval Bajaj, Medha Joshi, Ramandeep Brar, Jagdeep Singh, Tina Bains and Sukhbir Singh Gill.Navdeep Bains (Mississauga-Malton), who was earlier a minister in the Trudeau cabinet, has reportedly quit politics and is not re-contesting. Along with him, Liberal MP Gagan Sikand (Mississauga-Streetsville) and Independent Ramesh Sangha (Brampton Centre) are also not seeking re-election this time.Even Parveen Hundal is contesting as an Independent from Surrey Newton and Devyani Singh from Green party is in fray from Vancouver Quadra. The power of the Sikh community has been gauged from the fact that in last House, it had 18 Sikh MPs in Canada.The Sikh community comprises just 1 per cent of the country’s population, but they have come to wield more power than most of their immigrant counterparts. The credit goes to a robust culture of grassroots politics, organisational skills and fundraising capabilities, and a particular feature of Canada’s electoral system that requires each candidate to bring in a certain number of signatures and party members in order to get nominated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/47-punjab-origin-candidates-in-fray-for-canada-polls-308015
08-09-2021||Vishav Bharti||No funds for gaushala upkeep, Punjab Govt ropes in Delhi-based firm||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 7The government-run gaushalas — once an ambitious project to control the stray cattle building on huge public cost and panchayat land — will be handed over to private players now.Can use 10% milch cattle for revenueAround five years ago, the previous SAD-BJP government had opened 22 gaushalas, one in each district, by acquiring panchayat land. But due to shortage of funds to arrange manpower and provide fodder to the cattle, the government was unable to run those properly.According to sources, the government has now decided to hand over these gaushalas to a Delhi-based private company, which is already managing gaushalas on similar pattern in Rajasthan.As per the proposed agreement, initially three gaushalas — those in Patiala, Gurdaspur and SAS Nagar districts — will be handed over to the company for five years. The agreement will be extendable up to 25 years.The company will be bound to keep at least 5,000 stray cattle in each gaushala and they will spend Rs 27 crore on each gaushala’s modernisation.Besides keeping at least 5,000 stray cattle, the company has been allowed to keep 10 per cent milch cattle for revenue purposes. Besides, the private company can make and sell milk products, products made from cow dung, bio fertilisers, solar power, building herbal parks, etc.A government committee comprising the Deputy Commissioner and the Deputy Director (Animal Husbandry) of the district concerned will be entitled to inspect the functioning of the gaushala.All attempts to contact Animal Husbandry Director Dr HS Kahlon remained futile as he refused to comment on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-funds-for-gaushala-upkeep-punjab-govt-ropes-in-delhi-based-firm-308016
08-09-2021||---||Custodial death: Rights panel orders FIR against two Batala cops||Tribune News ServiceBatala, September 7The Punjab State Human Rights Commission (PSHRC) has ordered registration of an FIR and initiation of disciplinary proceedings against Balkar Singh, then SHO of Sri Hargobindpur police station, and Sub-Inspector Jaswinder Singh, the then in charge of Harchowal police post, over their alleged involvement in the custodial death of Navdeep Singh in July last year.Action soughtThe PSHRC has also ordered initiation of disciplinary proceedings against then SHO of Sri Hargobindpur police station and then in charge of Harchowal police post over the custodial death of Navdeep Singh last year.Navdeep of Dhapai village, falling in the jurisdiction of Sri Hargobindpur police station, was nabbed by the Batala police under the Excise Act following which a case was made out against him on July 15, 2020. He was arrested the next day and subsequently sent on police remand till July 20 by a local court. However, on July 19, he died while in custody of the police.Since it was a custodial death, the PSHRC, vide an order passed on September 2, 2020, asked for a report from the DGP (Prisons), Gurdaspur DC and Batala SSP. In his reply, the SSP submitted the post-mortem report, cause of death based on the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) analysis and the inquest report.The District and Sessions Judge, Gurdaspur, had also directed the Chief Judicial Magistrate to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the circumstances leading to the death of Navdeep. The report was submitted to the commission by the Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Batala.“The (SSP’s) report is based on the statements given by senior police officers and close family members of Navdeep as well as the post-mortem report and other documentary evidence. As per the report of Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Batala, there were as many as 20 injuries on the body. No explanation for these 20 injuries is forthcoming,” said the PSHRC order.The commission has sought that the action taken on its report be placed before it within 30 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/custodial-death-rights-panel-orders-fir-against-two-batala-cops-308017
08-09-2021||---||No truce with Badals, says SAD (Sanyukt)||Chandigarh, September 7While clearing the air about rumours being spread by the Akali Dal about Ranjit Singh Brahmpura and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa rejoining the party, both the leaders of Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) issued a joint statement stating that Sukhbir Singh Badal should stop dreaming of their return.They said they won’t ever think of returning to Akali Dal. They said a person living with sheer arrogance never yields something positive and it was because of this arrogance that Sukhbir paid the price in the 2017 Assembly elections and would be taught a lesson by people of the state in the upcoming elections too.“The money looted by Sukhbir through sand, transport, liquor, cable and drug mafias is being used to oppress people’s voice, to which residents should give a firm answer,” the Panthic leaders said.They said they had always strictly adhered to the principles of the SAD and would continue to do so. “We would not enter into any agreement with the Badals till our last breath,” they added.Both the leaders urged the Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) leaders and workers to beware of the false rumours being spread by the Badals about their return.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-truce-with-badals-says-sad-sanyukt-308018
08-09-2021||Aman Sood||Deficit rain lowers Bhakra level, to hit crops in 3 states||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 7Deficient rainfall this monsoon in Punjab and Himachal has resulted in low water levels in Bhakra and Pong Dams. Experts suggest this may lead to less release of water in canals for irrigation purposes next year during Rabi season.According to irrigation department officials, Punjab and Himachal have recorded a deficiency of 24 per cent and 18 per cent, respectively, for this entire season so far. Water released from Bhakra is considered the lifeline of the Malwa belt in Punjab and many parts of Rajasthan.As per official records, the water level of Bhakra Dam stood at 1,629 ft on September 4 as compared to 1,659 ft last year. Its capacity is 1,685 ft.“Water level in Bhakra is 30 ft lower than the last year and 56 ft lower than the maximum level. Similarly, the water level of Pong Dam stood at 1,344.6 ft as compared to 1,374.6 ft on the same day last year,” said All India Power Engineers Federation spokesman VK Gupta.“The capacity of Pong Dam is 1,400 ft. This time, the water level is 30 ft less than last year and 55.4 ft less than the maximum level,” he added.Officials confirm that the target for filling the Bhakra reservoir is 1,650 ft on July 31, while it is 1,670 ft on August 15 and 1,680 ft on August 31. “Due to the low water levels of Bhakra and Pong dams, full water is not being released into the canals,” they say.According to a central water commission bulletin dated September 2, the overall water level in eight reservoirs of northern region is just 54 per cent of the total live storage, whereas this figure was 76 per cent last year.The storage at Bhakra Dam is 73 per cent, while at Pong reservoir is 58 per cent of the normal storage for the year. “Low rainfall and reservoir levels are likely to damage food production, pushing inflation and also threatening power production. The normal filling season for the reservoir ends on September 20,” claims an irrigation official.Mainly Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan use Bhakra’s water for irrigation and drinking purposes. Officials say it is high time the state governments chalk out a strategy to reduce dependency on Bhakra for irrigation and instead replace it with “sprinkler or drip irrigation” systems.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/deficit-rain-lowers-bhakra-level-to-hit-crops-in-3-states-308019
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||HC raps SIT on Tikshan Sood’s petition for security||Acting in a petition filed by Punjab’s former minister Tikshan Sood for protecting life, liberty and property and providing permanent security cover, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has rapped a special investigation team (SIT) of the Punjab Police for not functioning up to its due capability.Not up to markEven after two months since the written statement was filed, the state has not been able to arrest or interrogate the main accused… the facts only go on to show that the SIT is not functioning up to its due capability. — High Court BenchThe Bench observed a perusal of the state’s reply went on to show that a SIT had been constituted, comprising Hoshiarpur SSP, in addition to providing protection to the petitioner regarding an FIR registered on January 1 for criminal intimidation and other offences under Sections 506, 323, 148 and 149 of the IPC.“It is a matter of surprise that even after two months since the written statement was filed, the state has not been able to arrest or interrogate the main accused, who has been named specifically in the FIR and the petitioner has also placed photographs along with other electronic evidence on the file. The facts only go on to show that the SIT is not functioning up to its due capability,” the Bench added.Before parting with the case, Justice GS Sandhawalia also directed the filing of a fresh status report by the SIT head on active steps taken during the course of the investigation. The case will now come up for further hearing on November 10.Sood, through counsel KS Dadwal, had submitted that he did not make, nor intended to make, any statement hurting the feelings of protesting farmers. But political opponents twisted the facts, attributing to him a statement that protesters had no knowledge of the farm laws and were going to Delhi for picnic. Dadwal added threats were being extended to the petitioner.On January 1, several persons armed with batons came in a tractor-trolley, used abusive language and threatened Sood and his servants. They forcibly entered his house before unloading a dung-laden trolley at the gate. After the incident, an FIR was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-raps-sit-on-tikshan-soods-petition-for-security-308020
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||AAP flays Punjab Govt's move letting pvt dealers sell 50% DAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has condemned the state government’s decision to allow private dealers to sell 50 per cent DAP fertiliser in Punjab and termed the decision as anti-farmer and anti-cooperative agricultural societies.AAP Punjab Kisan Wing president Kultar Singh Sandhwan alleged, “Capt Amarinder Singh is ruining the cooperatives in Punjab by following the path laid down by the Centre. Therefore, the right to supply (distribution) of DAP fertiliser by the Cooperative Agricultural Societies has been reduced by 30 per cent and the supply to private dealers has been increased to 50 per cent.”He said the government was not serious about the DAP fertiliser crisis due to which farmers might face difficulties in the coming wheat-sowing season. Sandhwan said Punjab needed 4.80 lakh tonne of fertiliser for wheat-sowing and other purposes whereas till September, it had stock of only 75,000 tonne. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-flays-punjab-govts-move-letting-pvt-dealers-sell-50-dap-308022
08-09-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab’s tax revenue increases by 71% this fiscal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 7Showing signs of recovery post the Covid-induced economic meltdown, Punjab’s tax revenue is on the rise.Vat on fuel, rise in GST share fill kitty Better compliance has helpedBetter tax compliance and plugging the gaps in tax collections have helped the state increase its revenue. — A Venu Prasad, Additional Chief Secretary, TaxationThe state’s revenue receipts from VAT, excise and sales tax and Punjab State Development Tax in the first five months of the current fiscal have seen a jump of 71 per cent over the corresponding period of the last year. Even though there was a complete lockdown for almost two months (March end to mid-May) last year, the state’s income in the corresponding period over the one of 2019 was up by over 50 per cent.The increase in revenue comes amid the state’s reliance on the Centre for grants in aid and fiscal packages for years. The sudden rise in the state’s income, however, has come mostly at the cost of the common man. With the prices of retail fuel increasing by Rs 30 in the past one year, the VAT that the state earns on the fuel sale has kept the states cash registers ringing. Between April-August this year, the state earned Rs 3,394.73 crore as VAT, compared to Rs 1,981 crore earned in the corresponding period last year. In the same period in 2019, the VAT collected was Rs 2,345 crore. Thereason for the high increase in VAT collection is that for every Re 1 per litre increase in the price of fuel, the state’s tax collection goes up by 30 paisa.The GST collections are also up from Rs 3,630.48 crore last year between April to August to Rs 6,534.50 crore from April to August this year. In the corresponding period of 2019, the GST collection was Rs 4,883.54 crore.This year, though there is not much change in the collection of Punjab State Development Tax, the excise collections have increased substantially. As against Rs 1,968 crore collected last year in the first five months, the collections are up to Rs 2,358.41 crore this year. In the same period of 2019, it was Rs 1,912.32 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-tax-revenue-increases-by-71-this-fiscal-308023
08-09-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||Farmers celebrate Gang Canal’s 101st anniversary||Farmers on Monday garlanded the life-size statue of Maharaja Ganga Singh who had gifted Gang Canal, known as lifeline for the peasants. Kisan Sangharsh Samiti district president Amar Singh Bishnoi said the Gang Canal was ensured to get water under a tripartite agreement, which was signed by the states of Punjab, Bahawalpur and Rajasthan on September 6, 1920.He said the Gang Canal was the oldest of the three irrigation systems of Sriganganagar. Maharaja Ganga Singh of Bikaner laid the foundation of the canal in the early 19th century. To fight against famine in Bikaner state, the Maharaja took the services of AWE Stanley Chief Engineer in 1903. On December 5, 1925, foundation stone of Canal Head Works was laid at Ferozepur. The 89-mile-long lined canal was completed in 1927. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-celebrate-gang-canals-101st-anniversary-308024
08-09-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Sangrur man’s ‘quiet’ poll campaign a hit||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, September 7At a time when leaders of several parties are facing trouble entering villages amid protests against farm laws, Chamandeep Singh Milkhy (41), who has decided to contest as an Independent, has been campaigning without any problem.He has so far visited around 45 villages and various wards of Sangrur and Bhawanigarh cities. “I belong to Sangrur and have completed my school and college here. Majority of area residents know me personally. I am getting good response,” Milkhy said. He joined politics as a supporter of Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and remained associated with him for many years. But now, he has no connection with any party.“As all parties have failed to meet the expectations of farmers and other residents, they are facing protests. But villagers are calling me to their houses as they have high hopes from me. I started campaigning four months ago and daily try to visit at least two-three villages,” he said.Milkhy said improvement in education and health facilities was his main focus. “Since majority of politicians get treated at private hospitals, they never take required steps to improve government health facilities,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-mans-quiet-poll-campaign-a-hit-308025
08-09-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Moga youth killed in Canada in suspected hate crime||Tribune News ServiceMoga, September 7A 23-year-old youth from Bukkanwala village in Moga district was murdered with sharp weapons in Truro town of Canada’s Nova Scotia province late last night.Migrated in 2017Deputy Chief of Truro Police Service Robert Hearn confirmed to the local media the Indian youth of Punjab origin was found dead at a Robie Street apartment building. “The investigation is on and there is no risk to general public,” Hearn said. However, he did not release the victim’s name, nor provided information on any suspects.However, the locals and family members at Bukkanwala village here confirmed a village youth, identified as Prabhjot Singh Khatri, was murdered in Canada last night. Khatri had migrated in 2017 on a study visa. He was staying at the house of his sister Rajvir Kaur and her husband for the past four years. “He was coming back from his job when he was killed by some unidentified persons outside his apartment. He was working as a local taxi driver,” said Jatinder Kumar Deep Singh, a friend.He said there were a few international students in Truro, so most of them knew one another. Since, they both came from Punjab, they bonded in Nova Scotia. “We feel very unsafe,” he added. He has created an online fundraiser to help send his friend’s body back home.Agampal Singh, another friend, told the police his friend was a good person. “Nothing was robbed. Even his phone was in his pocket,” Singh said. “We don’t have any idea why this happened,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-youth-killed-in-canada-in-suspected-hate-crime-308026
08-09-2021||---||Bathinda nursing staff go on 2-day mass leave||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 7On a call of the Joint Action Committee Punjab and UT, the Bathinda unit of nursing staff took two-day mass leave and started a district-level protest in front of the Civil Surgeon’s Office here on Tuesday.Bathinda Nursing Association president Swaran Kaur said: “We repeatedly tried to resolve our issues with the government through personal correspondence but the government did not respond to the organisation so far.”She said their main demands included restoration of deducted allowances and pay parity. “We worked round the clock during Covid and served people at the risk of our own lives, but no honorarium was given in lieu of this,” she said.Speaking on the occasion, another association member said there is a shortage of staff in the nursing cadre due to which the employees are under constant pressure.Paramedical Coordinating Committee district president Gagandeep Singh, Multipurpose Health Employees Association general secretary Jaswinder Sharma and others also addressed the staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-nursing-staff-go-on-2-day-mass-leave-308027
08-09-2021||Amritsar||Pathankot drug seizure leads to more recovery from J&K||Following the interrogation of two Kashmir residents nabbed in connection with the seizure of 17 kg heroin in Pathankot 10 days ago, the rural police in a joint operation with the Army seized drug proceeds to the tune of Rs 1.64 crore from Rajouri district of J&K.Rs1.64 cr ProceedsEarlier, the police had seized Rs 29.5 lakh of drug money from the residence of Sikander Hayatt and Zaffar Hussain. Rs 1.64 crore was recovered from the house of their third accomplice Mansur Hussain, who was yet to the arrested.Acting on a tip-off, the Amritsar rural police had seized 17 kg heroin in the Madhopur area of Pathankot on August 27, while arresting a cabbie, Ranjit Singh Sonu. His interrogation led to the arrest of two prisoners – Ranjit Singh Rana lodged in Faridkot jail and Malkeet Singh from Muktsar jail. Their interrogation further led to the arrest of Sikander and Zaffar from the Nowshehra area, while Mansur remained absconding. Sonu had picked the drug consignment from duo (Sikander and Zaffar).DGP Dinkar Gupta said: “Following inputs of Sonu, a police team from Punjab with the support of J&K Police arrested Sikandar and Zaffar on August 29. Later, on the disclosures of Sikandar and Zafar, the police teams from Punjab had also recovered Rs 29.5 lakh drug money from their home at Nowshera.” He said after their revelations, the police on Saturday recovered 4 kg more heroin. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pathankot-drug-seizure-leads-to-more-recovery-from-jk-308028
08-09-2021||---||In extortion bid, Bathinda bizman shot at||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 7Two armed men allegedly opened fire at a city-based businessman, Rajinder Mangla, for failing to pay Rs 20 lakh extortion money to a Kotkapura-based gangster.Gangster arrestedSources said Goldy Brar had allegedly demanded the money on behalf of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang from the owner of Mangalam Flex. Brar had threatened to kill him if the ransom was not paid.As per information, two suspects on a motorcycle came to Mangla’s house on Sunday night and tried to set the main gate on fire using petrol. They later fired three shots at the businessman. Mangla saved his life by diving to the ground. The two later fled the scene, after which the police were informed. A team of the Thermal police station and CIA 1 reached the spot and started investigation. The incident was captured on the CCTV cameras installed at the house. Mangla claimed he had been receiving threat calls from the gangster for the past few days.Mangla also accused Chinki, a resident of Calcutta Wali Gali on the Amrik Singh Road, of passing on information about him to the gangster. As per sources, Brar had been making extortion demands on behalf of the Bishnoi gang. Earlier, the name of the gang had cropped up in a case involving extortion call from inside the jail. Thermal police station SHO Balwinder Singh said they had registered a case on Mangla’s complaint and the CIA-1 team was probing the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-extortion-bid-bathinda-bizman-shot-at-308029
08-09-2021||---||In Muktsar, 151 POs, 12 bail jumpers on the run||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, September 7Involved in murder, cheating, narcotics and other cases, 151 proclaimed offenders (POs) and 12 bail jumpers in Muktsar are yet to be arrested.Surprisingly, a man from UP was declared a PO in 1970 in a case registered against him under Section 381 of the IPC in 1969, but he is yet to be arrested. Further, there are a number of people who were declared POs around three decades ago, but are still on the prowl.A perusal of the records further revealed that 44 persons were declared POs for heinous crimes, 40 for economic offences, 53 for other crimes, six for matrimonial disputes and eight in cases registered under other Acts.Similarly, 12 persons are parole jumpers and have not returned to the jail yet.On this, Rajpal Singh, SP (Investigation), Muktsar, said: “We are registering cases against the POs and parole jumpers. Besides, their security is being forfeited and the process initiated to attach the properties as well. In the past, we have arrested some parole jumpers and POs.”The district police have registered four cases against POs and parole jumpers in the past 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-muktsar-151-pos-12-bail-jumpers-on-the-run-308030
08-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana HC to examine extent to which RBI can impose restrictions||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 7The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made clear its intent to examine the extent to which restrictions can be imposed by the Reserve Bank of India, while taking up a petition challenging a circular directing that current accounts cannot be opened by a “non-lending bank” for entity/company availing credit facilities from a “lending bank”.Curbs on use of current accountThe Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash was hearing a petition filed by Avantha Holdings Limited and other petitioners against the RBI and another respondent. At the onset, the Bench was told that the company had been availing credit facilities with its lending bank, YES Bank, for some time. But the account for various reasons was declared non-performing asset by YES Bank.Prior to it, the company had been maintaining a current account with HDFC Bank —non-lending bank insofar as the petitioner was concerned as credit facilities were not availed from it. But the RBI on August 6, 2020, issued the impugned circular/instruction. As a consequence, the petitioner received a communication from HDFC Bank, seeking to close its current account.After hearing senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi, Sajan Poovyya and Akshay Bhan for the petitioners, the Bench asserted it was required to be examined as to what extent such restrictions could be imposed by the RBI, which may not interfere with the right of a citizen to continue with trade and livelihood, especially when disputes with the lender existed.The Bench added: “The respondents would also have to address to the issue as to what is the grievance redressal mechanism under these set of circulars, which practically lay down the entire code and procedure for opening and maintaining of current accounts, which we find missing in these circulars.”Issuing notice of motion and notice regarding stay to the RBI and other respondents, the Bench added it had noticed the laudable object of these circulars. But these were required also to be balanced with the practical issues at the ground level to ensure that genuine entrepreneurs were not choked to death with this large sweep of wave.The Bench added entrepreneurs, resorting to legal remedies after being genuinely aggrieved against the lender bank, may not even survive till the dispute’s adjudication if deprived of banking arrangement. The RBI would also be required to reconcile its existing circulars providing restructuring and revival of NPA accounts with the impugned circulars, as restructuring an existing NPA account without banking facility appeared impossible.The notice was accepted by senior advocate Deepinder Singh Patwalia on RBI’s behalf. The case will now come up for hearing on September 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-hc-to-examine-extent-to-which-rbi-can-impose-restrictions-308031
08-09-2021||Amritsar||Non-Sikh Kartarpur head move opposed||Pakistan has appointed a non-Sikh, Mohammad Litif, as the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Project Management Unit (PMU), a self-financing body for the management and maintenance of Gurdwara Darbar Sahib.DSGMC sitting president Manjinder Singh Sirsa condemned the move and also sought the Union Minister of External Affairs’ intervention. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/non-sikh-kartarpur-head-move-opposed-308032
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Four years on, no decision in judicial officer’s case||More than four years have lapsed since the services of Additional District and Sessions Judge Hemant Gopal were placed under suspension, but the Punjab and Haryana High Court has not passed a final order in the matter despite his indictment.Staying the operation of judgment dated April 20, 2013, convicting former MLA Mangat Rai in a cheating case, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan asserted: “Though no final order has been passed by the High Court qua Hemant Gopal, Additional District and Sessions Judge, who is continuing under suspension for the last about four years, yet prima facie, his indictment as per the inquiry report is apparent on record.”Rai, through counsel Vishal Garg Narwana, had moved the High Court, seeking stay on conviction on the ground that Gopal, on a complaint against him, was “found guilty of the article of charges that he has demanded illegal gratification while passing the impugned judgment of conviction and has acquitted one of the co-accused”. Mangat, along with other accused rice millers, had faced trial for alleged violation of the “agreement billing” executed with the Bathinda FCI District Manager. The trial court, in all, convicted 22 accused. Justice Sangwan’s Bench was told that the appellant was not convicted under the Prevention of Corruption Act in the present case, but only under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC and was sentenced to seven-year rigorous imprisonment and Rs 20,000 fine. Justice Sangwan said the impugned judgment of conviction and order of sentence would remain stayed during the pendency of the appeal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-years-on-no-decision-in-judicial-officers-case-308033
08-09-2021||Moga||Man murdered in Moga village; cops begin probe||School van plunges into water channel, no one hurtAbohar: Nearly 12 students had a narrow escape on Tuesday, as the school van, they were travelling in, fell into a water channel, near Muktsar town. Farmers working in the nearby fields rescued the students. A student said the vehicle had developed some snag. People said wild growth along the road and the poor condition of the vehicle caused the mishap. OC500 saplings planted during ‘Amrit Utsav’ celebrationsAbohar: ‘Amrit Hariyawal Utsav’ was organised at the Multi-Specialty Veterinary Hospital and Regional Research and Training Centre being developed by GADVASU in Sappanwali village. As many as 500 saplings of different varieties were planted during a special campaign. DFO Prahlad Singh said the center would impart veterinary services and technical support to livestock owners. OC3 held with Rs7.5-cr heroinFerozepur: Sleuths of the Narcotics Control Cell (NCC) have arrested three suspected interstate drug peddlers with 1.5 kg heroin worth Rs7.5 crore. Besides, two mobile phones and a bike have been seized. SSP Rajpal Singh said on specific inputs, a team of the NCC laid a trap and arrested Wirk, alias Vicky, Moura, both residents of Khalchian Jadid village, and Gora of Lakho ke Behram village in the city area. OC3 mobile phones found in jailFaridkot: During search of a cell at the Modern Jail, where notorious gangster Navdeep Singh, alias Navi, has been lodged, the authorities seized a mobile phone and two SIM cards. The police registered a case against under the Punjab Prison Act. Two mobile phones were recovered from another prisoner, Harjit Singh, of Gurdaspur. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-murdered-in-moga-village-cops-begin-probe-308034
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||‘Plot’ to defame farmers: Punjab House panel report||The Punjab Vidhan Sabha committee probing into alleged atrocities by the Delhi Police on farmers, youths and others in the aftermath of January 26 incidents has concluded that there was a conspiracy to defame the protesting farmers.The committee has further pointed out that the route of the tractor rally to the Red Fort and the incidents thereafter were part of a “plot” to label farmers as hooligans.MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid is the chairperson of the panel, while MLAs Kulbir Singh Zira, Fatehjung Singh Bajwa, Sarabjit Kaur Manuke and Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra are its members.Also read: Farmers stay put outside Karnal secretariat, refuse to budge until demands are metThe panel submitted its report to Speaker Rana KP Singh, who will send it to the state government for ensuring justice to the victims. The committee has not only pointed out conspiracy theory, but also said that protesting farmers were implicated in false cases and tortured. They needed free legal aid and compensation, the panel said. Ill-treatment was meted out to farmers in jails after implicating them in false cases, it said.The committee said the state government should take up with the Centre the issue of withdrawal of false cases registered against such farmers, besides providing free legal aid and compensation to them. Farmers were arrested while they were headed to Tikri border to participate in the tractor rally, the panel has pointed out. The committee had visited Ludhiana, Moga and Bathinda to record statements of over 70 affected persons. — TNSJan 26 incidentsKey observations||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/plot-to-defame-farmers-punjab-house-panel-report-308011
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s lawmaker panel submit its report on ‘torture’ of farmers in Delhi’s Tihar jail||A special Punjab lawmakers’ panel formed to probe into the alleged atrocities on farmers after their Republic Day tractor rally in Delhi this year on Tuesday submitted its report to the state assembly speaker.The committee of five MLAs was set up by Speaker Rana KP Singh following demands from the members of the House in March this year.The committee comprised MLAs Kuldeep Singh Vaid as its chairperson and Kulbir Singh Zira, Fatehjung Singh Bajwa, Sarabjit Kaur Manuke and Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra as its members.This committee prepared its report after visiting Ludhiana, Moga, Bathinda, Sangrur, Mansa, Nawanshahr, Jalandhar and Amritsar districts to meet farmers and the youths there, an official statement said.The committee recorded the statements of the affected farmers and youths in the report so that they could be sent to the state government through the Vidhan Sabha.Vaid along with members Zira and Chandumajra handed over the report to the Punjab speaker.Punjab Assembly Speaker Rana K P Singh said the report will be sent to the Punjab government through a proper channel to ensure justice to the victims.Meanwhile, Shiromani Akali Dal legislator Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra sought tabling of the report in the House.Scores of farmers protesting the Centre’s three farm laws had clashed with the Delhi police on January 26 this year during their tractor rally.Later, many of them were arrested with some of them alleging that they had been tortured in Delhi Tihar jail. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-lawmaker-panel-submit-its-report-on-torture-of-farmers-in-delhis-tihar-jail-307979
08-09-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Capt Amarinder to turn ‘khansama’ for Punjab’s Olympic medallists, Neeraj Chopra||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh is donning a new hat—a chef’s this time.The Patiala royal has promised to cook for Punjab’s Olympic medal winners—and India’s only gold medallist in the Tokyo 2020 Olympics, Neeraj Chopra—and what a cook that's likely to be.From Patiala cuisine, to lamb, chicken, to pulao and Zarda rice, the spread—as one expects—is fit for kings. And all from Chef Amarinder.“From Patiala cuisine to pulao, lamb, chicken, aloo & Zarda rice, CM @capt_amarinder will prepare each of these delicacies himself to keep his promise to Punjab Olympic medal winners (& Neeraj Chopra) at the dinner he’s hosting for them tomorrow,” said Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's media adviser Raveen Thukral in his tweet.From Patiala cuisine to pulao, lamb, chicken, aloo & Zarda rice, CM @capt_amarinder will prepare each of these delicacies himself to keep his promise to Punjab Olympic medal winners (& Neeraj Chopra) at the dinner he’s hosting for them tomorrow! (file pic) pic.twitter.com/X9iOF16N5m||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-to-turn-khansama-for-punjabs-olympic-medallists-neeraj-chopra-307977
08-09-2021||Mesa (US)||Young Sikhs still struggle with post-Sept 11 discrimination||Sikh entrepreneur Balbir Singh Sodhi was killed at his Arizona gas station four days after the September 11 attacks by a man who declared he was “going to go out and shoot some towel-heads” and mistook him for an Arab Muslim.Young Sikh Americans still struggle a generation later with the discrimination that 9/11 unleashed against their elders and them, ranging from school bullying to racial profiling to hate crimes — especially against males, who typically wear beards and turbans to demonstrate their faith.As the 20th anniversary of September 11 nears, those younger Sikhs say much more is needed to improve how hate crimes against their community are tracked. The FBI didn’t even begin tracking hate crimes specifically against Sikhs until 2015, and many local law enforcement agencies fail to record bias attacks comprehensively.“The onus is on a community organisation like ours to identify the problem and then build support” to ensure better reporting, said Satjeet Kaur, executive director of the Sikh Coalition. Formed in the wake of September 11, the largest Sikh advocacy group in the US documented more than 300 cases of violence and discrimination against Sikh Americans in just the first few months.Media images of turbaned and bearded Taliban leaders who recently regained control of Afghanistan with the withdrawal of US troops have made Sikh Americans nervous again as they warn one another about those who incorrectly see their turbans and beards as symbols of extremismSuch attacks can be particularly hard on young Sikhs, who face bullying by classmates who try to yank off their turbans or mock them as “Osama’s nephew” or “Saddam Hussein”. They often struggle with the Sikh philosophy of “chardi kala,” which calls for steadfast optimism in the face of oppression.“The eternal optimism can help us get through it, but sometimes you also have to highlight the harsh realities,” said Tejpaul Bainiwal, 25, a doctoral candidate at the University of California, Riverside, who is studying the history of Sikhs who first began arriving in the US in the late 1800s.Bainiwal acknowledges he got into plenty of fistfights in high school with other students who tugged at his head covering and taunted him. He said terrified Sikh families, including his own, debated whether to continue displaying outward signs of faith, such as turbans, after the August 5, 2012, massacre at a Sikh temple in Oak Creek, Wisconsin, which ultimately killed seven worshippers.Now, as Americans watch from afar the events unfolding in Afghanistan, Bainiwal reflected on how Sikhs have been mislabelled and mischaracterised through history.“One hundred years ago we were labelled Hindus, then Saudi Arabians, and when Iran was in the American eye we were called the ayotollah.”Media images of turbaned and bearded Taliban leaders who recently regained control of Afghanistan with the withdrawal of US troops have made Sikh Americans nervous again as they warn one another about those who incorrectly see their turbans and beards as symbols of extremism. The Sikh faith forbids the cutting or removal of hair, and males traditionally wear head coverings over their long locks.The FBI listed 67 anti-Sikh crimes for 2020, the highest annual number since the category was created in 2015, said criminologist and civil rights attorney Brian Levin, director of the Center for the Study of Hate; Extremism at California State University, San Bernardino.He said the centre recently created a conflict advisory saying the risk of targeted aggression against Sikhs and others in the US has been elevated to a near “severe” level. Political and international events could sporadically push those dangers even higher over the next 18 months, the advisory said.Levin told the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs on August 5 that domestic extremism often follows “catalytic events” that provoke fear, such as the coronavirus outbreak, which sparked anti-Asian violence; the January 6 insurrection at the US Capitol; and the upcoming anniversary of September 11.After the 2001 attacks, Balbir Singh Sodhi was among the first of Sikhs, Arab Muslims and others targeted in hate crimes.Airplane mechanic Frank Roque was convicted of first-degree murder in the September 15, 2001, killing and was sentenced to death before that was commuted to life imprisonment. Roque also was accused of drive-by shootings the same day at an Afghan family’s home and a Lebanese man’s convenience store, although no one was injured in those attacks.Rose Kaur Sodhi, Balbir Singh Sodhi’s niece, was a second grader getting ready for a relative’s birthday party when her family learned of her uncle’s murder.“We knew something was terribly wrong because my dad came home crying. I had never seen that before,” she said of her father and Balbir’s brother, Rana Singh Sodhi, who became a well-known figure in the Sikh American community and taught her to share her family’s story and advocate for peace.“We couldn’t believe it,” said the younger Sodhi, now 27 and a medical resident in Los Angeles. “He was so nice, always giving candy from his store to all the kids.” In the months that followed, children at her elementary school near Phoenix began harassing her then-6-year-old brother, prompting her to complain to the principal when they called him names and tugged on his topknot.“That gas station where he was murdered is our ground zero,” said activist filmmaker Valarie Kaur, who refers to Balbir Singh Sodhi, a family friend, as “uncle.” Local and national dignitaries have been invited to remember Sodhi at a memorial there September 15.Kaur was a college student on September 11 when she watched the Twin Towers of New York City’s World Trade Center collapse on the television set in her parents’ bedroom in Clovis, California.When images of a bearded man in a turban repeatedly flashed on the screen, “I realised that our nation’s new enemy looked like my family,” said Kaur, who now lives with her husband and young son in Los Angeles.After Sodhi’s death, Kaur traveled around the US exploring the subsequent explosion in hate crimes against Sikh and Muslim Americans, along with other people perceived as foreign or different.The resulting documentary, “Divided We Fall: Americans in the Aftermath,” has been used in classrooms and communities across the country to inspire discussions about hate crimes. Kaur followed up last year with a memoir, “See No Stranger: A Memoir and Manifesto of Revolutionary Love.” Now, she worries about what her young son will have to deal with.“My son was born during the election season of 2016 ... when hate crimes were skyrocketing,” Kaur said. “Once again, I had to reckon with the fact that he’s growing up in a nation more dangerous for him than it was for me.”  Kaur said danger became exceedingly clear in 2012 when a white supremacist Army veteran shot and killed six worshippers at the gurdwara, or Sikh temple, in Wisconsin before taking his own life.A seventh person, Baba Punjab Singh, a Sikh priest visiting from India, was shot in the head and left partially paralysed. He died from his wounds on March 2, 2020.Over seven years, the priest’s son, Raghuvinder Singh, split his time between caring for his father in Oak Creek and working in Glen Rock, New Jersey, as assistant priest at a gurdwara there.When his father was still alive, he could communicate by blinking: once for “no,” and twice for “yes”. Singh, now 49, said the greatest lesson his father taught him was how to embody chardi kala.“I would say, Papa Ji, are you in chardi kala?’ And he would double blink every time,” Singh said. “In that condition, if he can live in chardi kala, why cannot we?” AP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/young-sikhs-still-struggle-with-post-sept-11-discrimination-307976
08-09-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Moga youth murdered in Canada in suspected hate crime||Tribune News ServiceMoga, September 7A 23-year-old youth hailing from Bukkanwala village in Moga district was brutally murdered with sharp-edged weapons at Truro town in New Scotia province of Canada, late last night.The Deputy Chief of Truro Police Service Robert Hearn confirmed to the local media that a 23-year-old Indian youth of Punjabi-origin was found dead at a Robie Street apartment building in the Truro town.“The investigation is ongoing and there is no risk to the general public at this time,” Hearn said. However, he did not release the victim’s name, nor provided information on any suspects.However, the local people and family members in Bukkanwala village here confirmed that a village youth identified as Prabhjot Singh Katri was murdered in Canada.He migrated to Canada from here in 2017 on a study visa.Prabhjot was staying there at the house of his sister Rajvir Kaur and her husband for the past 4 years. “He was an innocent guy. He was coming back from his job when he was killed by some unidentified persons outside his apartment. He was working as a taxi driver,” Jatinder Kumar Deep Singh, one of his friends, told the local police.Kumar Deep further stated that there were few international students in Truro, so most of them know each other. Since, they both come from Punjab, India, and so they bonded in Nova Scotia. “We feel very unsafe,” he added.He said the small Indian community in the town tends to keep quiet and stay out of trouble, but this unfortunate incident has shaken him.He has created an online fundraiser to help send his friend’s body home to his village in India, so his parents could put him to rest.Agampal Singh, another friend of the deceased youth, told the police that his friend was a good person. “Nothing was robbed. Even his phone was in his pocket,” Singh said. “We don’t have any idea why this happened,” he added.Prabhjot’s friends further told the police that he (Prabhjot) never had a bad company, never smoked, never drank, he didn’t touch drugs. He had only a few friends. He didn’t talk with people he didn’t know. “I think it might be a hate crime,” Prabhjot’s friends claimed.It may be mentioned that Prabhjot had recently completed his studies and was on a work visa and applying for permanent residency in Canada.His friends said that they trust the police would bring justice to their friend. “We are coming to this country for a good future,” he said. “We are not safe. I can’t even sleep,” Kumar Deep added.Back in India, at his ancestral village, one of his family members Kulwant Singh said it was hard to believe that they had lost Prabhjot Singh who was hard working and an ambitious youth.The family members had demanded from the Indian government to bring back the body of their kin so that his last rites could be performed, here, at his native village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-youth-murdered-in-canada-in-suspected-hate-crime-307973
