09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Two deaths, 29 fresh cases in Punjab||Two more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Thursday as 29 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection count to 6,00,940, according to a bulletin.Till now, the infection has claimed 16,451 lives in the state. Mohali reported seven cases, followed by four each in Barnala and Pathankot.The number of active cases in the state was 320. Twenty-three people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,84,169, as per the bulletin. Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, reported four cases, taking the UT’s infection count to 65,142.With one more death, the toll reached 816. The number of active cases in the city was 28 while the number of cured persons was 64,298, a bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-two-deaths-29-fresh-cases-in-punjab-308902
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Stop electioneering for now, farm bodies to ask political parties at Friday meeting||Farmer bodies protesting the Centre’s agriculture laws have called a meeting of political parties on Friday to press them not to carry out electioneering till the Punjab Assembly polls are announced.The BJP has not been called for the meeting.The Punjab Assembly polls are due early next year.Confirming it, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha general secretary Kulwant Singh Sandhu on Thursday said farmer bodies have convened a meeting of all political parties here on Friday.He said the BJP, which supported the three farm laws, has not been invited to the meeting.He said representatives of political parties will be asked not to indulge in electioneering or hold political rallies till the elections are announced as it could hurt the ongoing farmer struggle.The Shiromani Akali Dal on Thursday said party president Sukhbir Singh Badal has deputed Balwinder Singh Bhundar, Prem Singh Chandumajra, Mahesh Inder Singh Grewal and Daljit Singh Cheema to participate in the meeting.Aam Aadmi Party MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan said party representatives will participate in the meeting called by farmer bodies on Friday. The SAD on September 6 had invited all 32 farmer organisations to constitute a committee to hold talks with it to remove all “misgivings” regarding its poll outreach programme ‘Gal Punjab Di’.The SAD had formed a committee to hold talks with farmers to reiterate Akalis’ “unflinching support” for their agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws.The Akalis’ move had come after a group of farmers allegedly tried to force their way into the venue of a SAD event, where Badal was speaking, in Punjab’s Moga district recently. After this incident, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had put on hold for six days his party’s poll outreach campaign “Gal Punjab Di”. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-stop-electioneering-for-now-farm-bodies-to-ask-political-parties-at-friday-meeting-308896
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu slams Centre over MSP hike, asks if farmers’ income matched spending||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday attacked the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre over the MSP hike for wheat and asked whether farmers’ income grew in proportion to their expenditure.He also termed the promise of doubling farmers’ income by 2022 as a “jumla” while stressing that the Centre framed its contentious farm laws without having any data about farmers’ financial position.The Centre on Wednesday had hiked the minimum support price (MSP) for wheat by Rs 40 to Rs 2,015 per quintal.“Central Govt promised to double farmer income by 2022 but increased FRP on sugarcane by 1.75% (just Rs 5) MSP on wheat by 2% (just Rs 40). Meanwhile, in last one year expenses have increased diesel by 48% DAP by 140% Mustard Oil by 174% sunflower Oil by 170% LPG cylinder by 190 Rs,” said Sidhu in a tweet.In a video uploaded on his Twitter handle, Sidhu said the Union government led by PM Narendra Modi had said that it wanted to double farmers’ income but Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar had said his ministry had no data related to farmers’ financial position.“If you do not have data related to farmers’ financial position, then how could you frame three farm laws by giving a ‘jumla’ of doubling their income,” he said.He said the wheat MSP hike of Rs 40 per quintal was just two per cent increase and lowest in the past 12 years.Citing rising cost of items, including diesel and mustard oil, in the past one year, Sidhu asked the Centre whether the income of farmers grew in the same proportion.While hitting out at the Centre for the three farm legislations, Sidhu said in another tweet, “Farmer Income-No Data Available, Farmer Suicide - No Data Available, Job Loss-No Data Available, Migrant Labour - No Data Available, Now NDA means No Data Available.”He alleged that the three farm laws were brought to “benefit” some corporates.“NDA means No Data Available about Farmers, Labour & Small Traders …Govt only knows about its rich corporate friends, whose debt it waives-off, whose planes it travels in & who make their Policies, such as the three farm laws, which benefit 0.1%, while looting the 70% of Indians,” he alleged in another tweet.The cricketer-turned-politician also took on the Badals over the issue of farm laws and accused them of “shedding crocodile tears”, saying they first backed the legislations and later took a U-turn under public pressure.Sidhu said Harsimrat Badal resigned as Union minister not voluntarily but under public pressure and asked her to make public the “dissenting note” given on farm ordinances.He also criticised the Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP government in Delhi over the farm law issue, alleging it notified one of the three farm laws last year.Sidhu asked the Delhi government whether it had denotified it.“Sukhbir Badal supported farm laws at all-party meet in June 2020, Prakash S. Badal & Harsimrat Badal made videos favouring farm laws up till Sept 2020 before U-turn under public pressure … AAP’s Delhi govt implemented farm laws in private mandis while faking support to farmers,” said Sidhu in another tweet. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-slams-centre-over-msp-hike-asks-if-farmers-income-matched-spending-308889
09-09-2021||Toronto||Indo-Canadian lawmaker condemns killing of Indian youth, says fight to eradicate racism must continue||An Indo-Canadian lawmaker on Thursday condemned the murder of an Indian youth in Canada’s Nova Scotia province, saying hate, violence and racism have no place in the country and the fight to eradicate these menaces must continue.Also read: Moga youth murdered in Canada in suspected hate crimePrabhjot Singh Katri, 23, was found murdered at an apartment in Truro town on Sunday in a suspected case of racially-motivated hate crime.Katri, who worked for a taxi service company as well as one or two restaurants in Truro, had come to Canada from India in 2017 to study.“My heart goes out to the family and loved ones of Prabhjot Singh Katri who was killed in Truro, NS. This is an unacceptable act of hate,” tweeted Sonia Sidhu, Member of Parliament for Brampton South.“Hate, online hate, violence and racism have no place in our country and we must continue our fight to eradicate it,” the 53-year-old parliamentarian added.According to a CBC Canada report, police are treating the death as a homicide. A man was arrested in connection with the murder but was later released.A GoFundMe has been set up in an effort to send Singh’s body to India, CTV News reported.Singh’s friends are worried that the attack was a racially motivated hate crime, the report said.There were over one million registered Indians in Canada as of December 2019, according to database company Statista.There have been several incidents of racially-motivated crimes against Indians in Canada over the past few years. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/indo-canadian-lawmaker-condemns-killing-of-indian-youth-says-fight-to-eradicate-racism-must-continue-308864
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Contractual employees of Punjab Roadways, PRTC block entry, exit gates of bus stands for 2 hours||Contractual employees of the state-owned Punjab Roadways and PRTC on Thursday blocked entry and exit gates of all bus stands in the state for two hours as they stepped up their agitation in support of their demand of regularisation of their jobs.Protesters on Wednesday had announced that they would intensify their agitation after their meeting with senior officials of the state government over their demands remained inconclusive.Around 8,000 contractual employees had gone on an indefinite strike on Monday, demanding regularisation of their jobs and increase in bus fleet size.Nearly 2,000 buses of the state-owned Punjab Roadways and Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) continued to stay off roads, said protesters.Private buses, however, are plying in the state.“The main objective of blocking gates of all bus stands in the state for two hours was to register our protest against the Punjab government for not addressing our issues,” Punjab Roadways and PRTC Contract Workers' Union president Resham Singh Gill said on Thursday.He said the protesters staged sit-ins at the gates of bus stands and shouted slogans against the state government for not acceding to their demands. The two-hour long protest commenced at 10 am, he said.At some places, the protests continued for more than two hours, said Gill. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/contractual-employees-of-punjab-roadways-prtc-block-entry-exit-gates-of-bus-stands-for-2-hours-308862
09-09-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar cop dismissed for going abroad without getting ex-India leave sanctioned||Police Commissioner Vikramjeet Duggal has dismissed a constable for breach of discipline on Wednesday.Constable Manjinder Singh of EO Wing-2 went abroad without getting ex-India leave sanctioned on May 19, 2020. After reaching Canada, Manjinder sent an e-mail stating that he could not inform the department, due to time constraints. A departmental inquiry had been launched against the employee for committing serious misconduct by not getting leave as per the rules before going abroad. He was found guilty and a show-cause notice was also issued, but the department didn’t get any response. On the basis of the inquiry report, action was taken and constable Manjinder was dismissed.“Cops at the Amritsar Commissionerate of Police are a disciplinary force. Some personnel do not follow the discipline and take such decision without bringing it to the notice of their senior officers. Stern actions will be taken against violation of rules,” said the CP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-cop-dismissed-for-going-abroad-without-getting-ex-india-leave-sanctioned-308779
09-09-2021||---||Maiden flight to Rome takes off from Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 8The direct flight from Amritsar to Rome took off on Wednesday. As many as 183 passengers boarded the Amritsar — Rome direct flight from Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport and 130 passengers are expected to arrive from Rome, day after tomorrow on arrival flight.Air India’s Dreamliner has a total of 256 seats of which 238 are economy class and 18 are business class seats. Seven business class and 176 economy class seats were booked by passengers on this flight.Gurjit Singh Aujla, chairman of the advisory committee of Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport, Amritsar, congratulated the passengers of the flight and said this flight connects Amritsar to Europe, which is the hub of Punjabi community. “It was a long-standing demand of the people living in Italy and it was my duty to raise their demand,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/maiden-flight-to-rome-takes-off-from-amritsar-308778
09-09-2021||PK Jaiswar||Heritage structures in a shambles in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 8It has been over three years since the Service Club handed over the possession of the ‘deorhi’ located at the entrance of the historic Ram Bagh (garden) to the Municipal Corporation, but its restoration work is yet to see the light of day.Earlier, it was the Covid-induced lockdown and now its restoration work is stuck for want of necessary approval from higher authorities of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) in New Delhi.Also readThe Jallianwala Bagh makeoverSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in AmritsarSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn TaranDens of belief: Akharas of AmritsarThe historical structure — deorhi or entrance gate — is situated in the northern end of the summer palace of legendary Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh. Also known as Ram Bagh deorhi or Company Bagh deorhi, it is now crying for attention.One of the projecting balconies decorated with ornamental floral designs in lime plaster has fallen, while cracks have appeared from different sides in the structure. The structure remained in the occupation of the Service Club for nearly a century.Meanwhile, similar deorhi at the southern end of Ram Bagh deori is properly conserved and is currently under the occupation of the ASI, which runs its office from its premises. This deorhi comprises fortified citadel having the Darbar Hall, two pavilions on the eastern and western sides, two gateways on the northern and southern sides. Besides the façade contains beautiful balconies.Nevertheless, the façade of the deorhi (vacated by the Service Club) needs urgent repair. An outer balcony has caved in, while cracks have appeared on different sides.Sources in the ASI revealed that they have already written for the approval to senior officials in Delhi and the officials here were likely to get it within a couple of weeks.An ASI official wishing not to be quoted said after getting the approval, tenders would be floated for supply of material required for the repair and restoration of outer façade that has been in a dilapidated condition at present. It is likely to take one-and-a-half months for the completion of the entire process, he said. After this, they would again request the MC authorities to hand over the structure to them.The ASI has written a number of times to the civic authorities to hand over the protected monument. At present, three British-era clubs — Service Club, Lumsden Club and Amritsar Club — are being run from the premises. Besides, food kiosks, concrete pathways, children’s park, skating rink, tennis courts and zonal offices of the Municipal Corporation have been playing a spoilsport as far as the historic bagh’s heritage significance is concerned.The ASI and the Municipal Corporation had reached on an agreement, where the latter would remain the custodian of the garden, but the restoration of the heritage would be done under the ASI.What a neglect||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heritage-structures-in-a-shambles-in-amritsar-308772
09-09-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Barring BJP & its allies, Punjab farm unions call all-party meeting in Chandigarh tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, September 8Leaders of 32 farm unions on Wednesday gave a call to all political parties, except the BJP and its allies, in Punjab for a meeting at Chandigarh on Friday.This was decided in the meeting of Punjab’s 32 farm unions held at the kisan andolan office at the Singhu border on Wednesday.Kulwinder Singh Sandhu, general secretary, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, said the political parties, especially Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), were busy holding big rallies in the state, which wasn’t acceptable before the official declaration of the polls by the Election Commission of India. But the farmers discussed that this?act of the political parties would disturb the atmosphere in Punjab and also affected their ongoing agitation.That’s why the 32 farmers’ groups have decided to hold a meeting with the political parties to stop all such activities in the state till an official declaration of the state elections was made, he added.All parties, including Congress, SAD and AAP among others, will participate in the meeting and it has also been decided that the BJP and its allies, which are supporting the three farm laws, would not be allowed to participate in the meeting.Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, BKU (Lakhowal), said it was decided that a meeting with the leaders of all political parties would be organised at Chandigarh at 11 pm on Friday.Besides, the farm leaders have given 10 days to the Punjab Government for the cancellation of the criminal cases registered against the farmers in Moga and Machhiwara.To intensify protestAll farm union leaders have decided to strengthen the farmers’ protest at the Delhi borders. They also decided to intensify the protest at Karnal, BKU (Lakhowal) general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/barring-bjp-its-allies-punjab-farm-unions-call-all-party-meeting-in-chandigarh-tomorrow-308658
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||CAC eyeing to revamp cricket at all levels in Punjab: Reetinder Singh Sodhi||The newly formed cricket advisory committee (CAC) of the Punjab Cricket Association is eyeing to revamp the sport in the state – from junior to senior level.The committee led by former Indian cricketer Bhupinder Singh (Senior) also includes former India international Reetinder Singh Sodhi and Harpreet Kaur.Talking to Chandigarh Tribune, Sodhi, who played 18 ODIs for India, said Punjab cricket had a bright future. “Things have been streamlined to some extent. We have a panel of professional coaches and our support staff are equally good in their field,” said Sodhi.“We are not only eyeing the Ranji Trophy, but are also trying to have a desired output in the junior circuit,” he said.On his appointment in the CAC, Sodhi said he’s excited to play the new role. “I have been part of cricket for so many years and this is completely a new role. It’s a huge responsibility to which I am completely committed. It’s payback time and I will give my best.”Sodhi also appreciated PCA president Rajinder Gupta. “He is keen on promoting cricket,” said Sodhi. “Offering desired pay packages will not only bring accountability but will also inspire everyone to perform at their best.”“Gupta comes in with a rich experience and his contribution will surely improve cricket at the district level,” said Sodhi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cac-eyeing-to-revamp-cricket-at-all-levels-in-punjab-reetinder-singh-sodhi-308733
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara varsity awarded A+ NAAC rating||Chitkara University has been awarded A+ rating by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) which places it among 5 per cent higher education institutions (HEI) in India to be granted such a coveted grade.The university scored a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) of 3.26 on 4 point scale, said officials concerned here today. “The curricula are developed following standardised procedures and are revised at regular intervals by taking a feedback from all our stakeholders. The local, regional and global developmental needs regarding employability and entrepreneurship are considered while designing a course,” said Dr Madhu Chitkara, Pro Chancellor.“The university practices Global Week for students/faculties exchange programme with foreign academic institutions,” said Dr Archana Mantri, Vice-Chancellor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chitkara-varsity-awarded-a-naac-rating-308723
09-09-2021||---||Punjab ex-cop in two-day police remand for wife’s murder||Mohali, September 8A retired Punjab Police head constable, who allegedly killed his 69-year-old wife, was produced in a court today and sent to two-day police remand.The post-mortem of the victim, Kuldeep Kaur, was conducted at the Civil Hospital in Phase 6. The police have sent viscera samples for a forensic examination.Sources said there were injury marks on the chest, one side of the head and neck. The injury mark on the head was due to a blunt object. There are strangulation-like marks on the neck. The nature of injury in the chest was not clear yet, said sources.The suspect, Kartar Singh Riar (70), allegedly killed his wife by repeatedly banging her head against the floor at their house in Phase XI yesterday morning. The suspect was arrested two hours later. He was sitting near the body.The couple had strained relations for a long time, the police said. Presently, the victim was staying with his son in Sector 66 while the suspect was living in his Phase XI house. The incident took place when the latter had called the former to his house to sort out the issue.In 2017, Kartar had shot at his brother-in-law Tirlok Singh over a familial discord. He had recently come out of jail on parole in the attempt to murder case. The police said the victim was a witness in the case, which led to further bitterness between the couple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-ex-cop-in-two-day-police-remand-for-wifes-murder-308713
09-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||No offence by adults in live-in sans divorce: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that no offence would apparently be made out if two adults were in a live-in relationship without being divorced from their spouse. The High Court also refused to agree with a judgment that said a spouse was not entitled to protection with regard to relationship with another person without obtaining a divorce.The ruling by Justice Amol Rattan Singh came on a protection petition against the State of Punjab and other respondents. The Bench was told that the petitioner-man was married. He had filed a divorce petition, which was dismissed. An appeal against the order was filed by him before the High Court, which was still pending. In an order passed during the hearing of the appeal, it was observed by the High Court that there was no chance of reconciliation.Petitioner’s divorce plea was junkedThe ruling by Justice Amol Rattan Singh came on a protection petition against the State of Punjab and other respondents. The Bench was told that the petitioner-man was married. He had filed a divorce petition, which was dismissed. An appeal against the order was filed by him before the High Court, which was still pending. In an order passed during the hearing of the appeal, it was observed by the High Court that there was no chance of reconciliation.The counsel submitted that the petitioners were in a live-in relationship and were apprehending danger to their life and liberty. Even the police were harassing the petitioners.Justice Amol Rattan Singh observed that the petitioners were directed by a co-ordinate Bench to address arguments in terms of a judgment by the Allahabad High Court. The counsel, in response, submitted that it was observed a spouse was not entitled to protection qua a relationship with another person without obtaining a divorce.Justice Amol Rattan Singh added that he found himself unable to agree with the judgment, especially in view of the fact that the Supreme Court had struck down Section 497 of the IPC on adultery as unconstitutional and violative of Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution of India.“Consequently, prima facie at least at this stage, no offence would seem to have been committed by the petitioners, they being adults in a live-in relationship with each other, whether or not any divorce petition is pending before this court, which of course it is in the present case…,” added Justice Amol Rattan Singh.Before parting with the case, the Bench directed the Senior Superintendent of Police concerned to ensure that the life and liberty of the petitioners was duly protected. “A very adverse view to be taken by this court in case the petitioners are again harassed by the SHO on account of any live-in-relationship that they have with each other,” the Bench concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-offence-by-adults-in-live-in-sans-divorce-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-308712
09-09-2021||---||Ex-cop Iqbal Singh Lalpura who arrested Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale is National Minority Commission chief||New Delhi, September 8Few months to go for Punjab elections, the Government on Wednesday appointed Iqbal Singh Lalpura, former IPS officer and one of the three persons handpicked to arrest Sikh secessionist leader Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale in April 1981, as chairman of the National Commission for Minorities (NCM).Lalpura was an investigating officer for the 1978 Sikh Nirankari clashAt the time, Bhindranwale agreed to be arrested but demanded that only baptised officers will arrest him. So a three member team was formed to take him in. It included Lalpura, cop Jarnail Singh Chahal and SDM BS Bhullar. Lalpura currently serves as a member of several social organizations and has authored 14 books highlighting the richness of Sikh religious scriptures.Some of his books include "Japji Sahib ik vichaar", "Gurbani katha vichaar", "Wangaar", Marde ae Khuda Nanak", "Raaj karega khalsa". Lalpura's upcoming books are "Love, Serve and Protect", "Life with Crime and Criminals" (on his time with militants), "Jagat Guru Baba" and "Tilak Janju -- Manukhuta da Rakha".During his tenure as an IPS officer, Lalpura served as AIG CID Amritsar; SSP Amritsar City, SSP Tarantarn, SSP Kapurthala and SSP Amritsar Rural. He was also AIG CID Jalandhar. Lalpura joined the BJP in 2012 and was appointed party spokesperson. The highlight of his police life was his standing as a principal negotiator with the militants on the behalf of the government of the day.He was the one to retrieve the body of police officer AS Atwal from the Golden Temple. “I will work to protect the interests of minorities across the country and am thankful to the government for choosing me for this responsibility,” sadi Lalpura.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-cop-iqbal-singh-lalpura-who-arrested-jarnail-singh-bhindranwale-is-national-minority-commission-chief-308470
09-09-2021||Vibha Sharma||Dharmendra Pradhan BJP’s poll in-charge for UP, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat Punjab||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 8BJP chief JP Nadda today announced poll teams for key states, including Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand, going to elections in 2022, appointing senior ministers and party leaders as in-charge and co-in-charge.Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan has been given the charge of Uttar Pradesh and Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat of Punjab. Despite a relatively limited stake in Punjab, Nadda appears to be leaving no stone unturned and has given Shekhawat a strong team of three deputies, including Union Ministers Hardeep Puri and Meenakshi Lekhi, both with Punjab connections, and Lok Sabha MP Vinod Chavda.Given the high stakes in UP, Pradhan’s deputies include Union Ministers Anurag Singh Thakur, Arjun Ram Meghwal, Shobha Karandlaje and Annapurna Devi, MPs Saroj Pande and Vivek Thakur, and former Haryana Minister Captain Abhimanyu.Besides, UP has been divided into six parts for organisational purposes. For Uttarakhand, the charge is with Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and his two deputies. In Manipur, Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav will hold the fort.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dharmendra-pradhan-bjps-poll-in-charge-for-up-gajendra-singh-shekhawat-punjab-308474
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||4.5 lakh cases pending, not 7L, says Punjab and Haryana High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has claimed that around 4.5 lakh cases were pending before it and not seven lakh, as reflected earlier on the National Judicial Data Grid due to a software mismatch.High Court Registrar (Vigilance)-cum-PRO Vikram Aggarwal said the earlier figure of seven lakh was due to a mismatch between “Case Information System” and “Integrated Software for High Court”. As a result, the disposal of cases was not being reflected on the NJDG.“The requisite data synchronisation has been done. The current pendency is around 4.5 lakh cases. This figure is expected to come down further once the softwares are fully synchronised,” the Registrar said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-5-lakh-cases-pending-not-7l-says-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-308521
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||An army of re-employed doctors in Punjab||Though Haryana has started relieving the re-employed doctors at the age of 58, Punjab is still continuing with the practice. The state Health Department has a large army of doctors who have been re-employed.Also read: Doctors’ retirement age reduced to 58 from 65 in HaryanaAfter Congress came to power in 2017, it had done away with the system of giving any extension to the state government employees beyond the age of 58. Following that, a large number of doctors were relieved.But after the Covid outbreak, it started giving extension to retiring doctors. Though the provision of extension was mainly meant for clinical work, the government kept on giving extension to even those doctors who were not involved in any clinical work but were carrying out administrative duties.For example, Dr Manjit Singh, former Director Health Services (DHS), who retired in December last year, has been given extension till March 2022 and posted as Director, Punjab Health Systems Corporation. Similarly, Dr Avneet Kaur, another DHS, who retired in March 2020, continued on the post till December 2020. She then served as Covid consultant till March 2021.Dr Prabhdeep Kaur, who was handpicked to become Director, Family Welfare, superseding at least 15 others seniors to her, was offered a plum post after her retirement in December 2020. Currently, she is Adviser, Health Department, against a non-existent post. Another senior doctor, who is taking care of the administrative work of the TB control programme and is going to superannuate this month, has been given extension. — TNSPlum postings||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/an-army-of-re-employed-doctors-in-punjab-308522
09-09-2021||---||No headway, Punjab Roadways staff to step up agitation||Chandigarh, September 8The strike by contractual employees of the Punjab Roadways will continue as a meeting between the protesters and top government officials at the Punjab Civil Secretariat remained inconclusive on Wednesday.After an over two-hour-long meeting, the employee union leaders said they were told the government was coming up with a new policy on regularisation of contractual staff, subject to fulfillment of the laid-down criteria. They said they were not given any assurance as regards outsourced staff.Earlier, leaders of the Roadways’ Union refused to hold any meeting with Transport Minister Razia Sultana. The employees have announced intensifying their protest.Employees of the Punjab Roadways, PUNBUS and PRTC workers had planned to gherao the Siswan farmhouse of the Chief Minister in support of their demands on September 7. However, the protesting employees were called for a meeting. The main demand of the employees included the regularisation of their services. As many as 2,000 buses have been affected across the state due to the strike by contractual workers.The Transport Department has directed the managements of the state transport undertakings to deploy their regular staff, currently doing desk jobs, on field duties so as to minimise the impact of the bus strike.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-headway-punjab-roadways-staff-to-step-up-agitation-308523
09-09-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Punjab Govt to rope in Neeraj Chopra  to train budding athletes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8The Punjab Government will rope in Tokyo Olympics gold medallist Neeraj Chopra to train budding athletes of the state, Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi announced today.Also read: Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh hosts players to royal feastDuring a felicitation function at Punjab Bhawan, Chandigarh, Sodhi honoured Chopra with a cash reward of Rs 2.5 crore, which was announced by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh soon after Chopra won the historic gold medal in athletics at the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics. Other Olympians from Punjab, who brought laurels for the state, were also part of the felicitation ceremony.Neeraj Chopra, Olympic Gold MedallistInfrastructure upgrade key to successOur region has no dearth of talent. We have to channel it in the right direction by building more stadiums and hiring more coaches.“I would like to invite him (Chopra) to teach our young kids. Our department would love to take his expertise. We will soon plan his visits as per his convenience in various districts of Punjab,” said Sodhi, while talking to The Tribune. When questioned if the government was planning to enhance cash prize money for the state achievers at par with neighbouring Haryana, the minister said: “We will upgrade the state sports policy every year. We are keen to encourage sportspersons with whatever we can.”Chopra, meanwhile, said his feat of winning a gold medal had encouraged him to bring more laurels for the country in the coming years. While talking about areas of improvements in the region, he said there was a need to encourage more children to take up sports.“I am thankful to the Punjab Government for this honour. And I wish more players can get such opportunities for the country,” he added. Para-Asian Games medallist Gurlal Singh was felicitated with a cash award of Rs 50 lakh on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-to-rope-in-neeraj-chopra-to-train-budding-athletes-308524
09-09-2021||---||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh hosts players to royal feast||Chandigarh, September 8After the felicitation ceremony, Neeraj Chopra, along with other players, visited Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s farmhouse at Siswan. “This is an honour for me and for all other players. He (Amarinder) has announced to host us by cooking food...this is exciting and as a moment to remember,” said Chopra. The players were taken to the farmhouse in two buses.Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief Minister Loved every minute of itI started (cooking) at 11 am and most of it was done by around 5 pm. Then it was time for some final touches. I loved every minute of it.“I started (cooking) at 11 am. Most of it was done by around 5 pm and then it was time for some final touches. But I loved every minute of it,” said the Chief Minister. He added, “They (the sportspersons) worked so hard to win us glory, what I have done for them is nothing in comparison. The food always tastes better if served direct from the cooking vessel.”On the menu was nothing short of a royal feast: Mutton khara pishori, long elaichi chicken, aloo korma, dal masri, murg korma, dugani biryani and zarda rice (sweet dish). Hockey Captain Manpreet Singh said he had heard about the Maharaja’s cooking but what he savoured today exceeded his expectations. Discus thrower Kamalpreet said she was truly impressed by both the food and the CM’s hospitality. “It was rich (quite a bit of ghee) but it was excellent food,” said Chopra.Meanwhile, sources said though former hockey captain and MLA Pargat Singh was also invited for the dinner, he did not show up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-hosts-players-to-royal-feast-308525
09-09-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Politics hots up over 2 Bathinda flyovers||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 8Politics has intensified over two flyovers coming up on the Barnala road, a day after a delegation of residents headed by BJP state general secretary Dyal Sodhi met Union Minister Nitin Gadkari in New Delhi. Bathinda MP and former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal along with SAD leaders also held a virtual meeting with Gadkari over the same issue on Tuesday.Sodhi said: “We apprised Gadkari of the problems likely to be faced by people of the city with the construction of the sand-filled bridge.” A delegation member said Gadkari assured the people of Bathinda that welfare of citizens of Punjab was their top priority and a suitable alternative to the proposed bridge on the Barnala road would be announced shortly.Harsimrat took to Facebook and posted: “Spoke to Minister of Road Transport Nitin Gadkari regarding the overbridge where reinforced earth walls are being built on the Barnala bypass in Bathinda. Urged the minister to get the overbridge pillars redesigned to eliminate the distress of residents. He has assured to get the project executed as per the wishes of people.”Finance Minister and Bathinda MLA Manpreet Singh Badal laid the stone of the flyovers on August 7. The project has an estimated cost of Rs 50 crore. However, ever since work started on the project, residents have been demanding an elevated road instead of a sand-filled walled bridge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/politics-hots-up-over-2-bathinda-flyovers-308526
09-09-2021||Amritsar||Defamation Suit: Sanjay Singh appears in Amritsar court||AAP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh appeared in a local court today in connection with a defamation case filed by SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia for allegedly making defamatory statements against him during political rallies in the run-up to the 2017 Assembly elections.A witness from Majithia’s side also recorded his statement in the court. The next hearing in the case would take place on September 27.Majithia filed the case against AAP leaders—Arvind Kejriwal, Sanjay Singh and Ashish Khetan—in May 2016.In March 2018, Kejriwal apologised to Majithia for his statements. Sanjay Singh, however, did not apologise and decided to face the charges. The AAP leader on his visit to the city met Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh and other party leaders. Sanjay Singh said his fight for the truth would continue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/defamation-suit-sanjay-singh-appears-in-amritsar-court-308527
09-09-2021||---||Sukhbir Badal granted bail in SAD constitution case||Jalandhar, September 8Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Badal, along with party leader Daljit Singh Cheema, today appeared in a trial court at Hoshiarpur in connection with the “dual constitution” case against the SAD.The court of CJM Rupinder Singh granted bail to the SAD chief after he furnished a personal bail bond of Rs 1 lakh. He was represented by senior advocate Harjinder Singh Dhami in the court.The next hearing in the case will be held on September 28. Socialist Party leader Balwant Singh Khera, who is the complainant in the case, was represented by advocate BS Riar. Senior Akali leader Daljit Singh Cheema is already out on bail in the same case.Khera said the case was filed against the SAD for adopting dual constitution and keeping people in dark. He said the Akali Dal had declared itself to be a secular party, but it kept contesting elections without making requisite changes in its constitution.Khera filed a complaint against Badal in 2009 alleging the SAD had submitted two different constitutions to the Gurdwara Election Commisson and the Election Commission of India.Complainant’s pleaIn 2009, Socialist Party leader Balwant Singh Khera filed a complaint against Badal alleging the SAD had submitted different constitutions to the Gurdwara Election Commisson and the Election Commission of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhbir-badal-granted-bail-in-sad-constitution-case-308528
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court stays access to judicial file in Capt Amarinder Singh’s case||A year after a Ludhiana court permitted the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to inspect judicial file regarding a complaint filed by the Income Tax Department against Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today stayed the order.The Bench also stayed another order upholding the same. The HC order would remain in operation during the pendency of the proceedings. The Bench also made it clear that Amarinder Singh, his son Raninder Singh and other petitioners were not required appear in the trial court.Senior counsel Akshay Bhan and Siddharth Aggarwal submitted on petitioners’ behalf that complaints were filed under the Income Tax Act and the IPC. Information in the form of master-sheets was received by the Director-General of the Income Tax, Chandigarh, after being earlier received from Paris on June 28, 2011, by Foreign Tax and Tax Research (FT&TR) Division of Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT).This was in the form of a pen drive. On July 14, 2011, it was forwarded to the Commissioner of Income Tax (Inv.), CBDT, New Delhi. On July 22, 2011, this information was handed over to the DGIT (Inv.), Chandigarh, and a certificate under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act received from the competent authority. The documents were appended with the complaint. It is on the basis of this information that the complaint was filed in the Ludhiana court.It was argued that as per the international convention between the two countries, taking information from the documents attached with complaint was not justified. Additional Solicitor-General Satya Pal Jain, however, submitted that these issues were never raised before the courts below.Justice GS Sandhawalia said there were restrictions on sharing information once the complaint was based on information received under a convention. Prima facie, the ED would not be entitled to the information in view of the apparent legal bar.Justice Sandhawalia added permitting inspection would render the litigation infructuous. Not raising the issue in same letter and spirit before the courts below would not divest the HC from examining whether the ED had the authority to look into documents barred by the international conventions between India and France. In the absence of bar, the ED could have easily obtained information from the Income Tax Department. — TNSAppearance not required in trial courtThe HC order will remain in operation during the pendency of the proceedings. The court also made it clear that Amarinder Singh, his son Raninder Singh and other petitioners are not required appear in the trial court||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-stays-access-to-judicial-file-in-capt-amarinder-singhs-case-308529
09-09-2021||Faridkot||Gang of thieves busted in Faridkot||Two cops suspendedFazilka: City Police station SHO Manjit Singh has been dispatched to the Police Lines, while two constables have been placed under suspension for allegedly beating up a person at the police station. The suspended constables are Naresh Kumar and Raj Singh. OCProbe drug menace: CongChandigarh: Congress leader Damanvir Phillaur on Wednesday submitted a memorandum to party general secretary Pargat Singh at the Punjab Congress Bhawan here, seeking a probe into the drug menace by the Special Task Force, particularly in Phillaur. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gang-of-thieves-busted-in-faridkot-308530
09-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Civil court can’t decide cases in tribunal’s jurisdiction: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that the jurisdiction of the civil court would be completely barred for adjudication of matters falling within the jurisdiction of the Debt Recovery Tribunal.The Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu also made it clear that civil court jurisdiction could be invoked only in limited cases, such as matters where the action of the secured creditor was alleged to be fraudulent or their claim required probe being absurd and untenable.The Bench added the procedure before the tribunal was “more of a summary nature”. As such, civil court jurisdiction would be permitted to be invoked in cases involving prima facie substantial allegations of fraud. This was because full length evidence would be required to prove such an allegation, which may not be effectively possible during a summary trial before the tribunal.“The civil court would not have jurisdiction to negate any right of the secured creditor under the Securitisation Act, 2002, qua the secured asset in a civil suit instituted by the borrower/guarantor/any third party qua the secured asset,” the Bench added. A secured creditor is a lender, generally a bank, with the benefit of a security interest over some or all of the assets of the debtor.The Bench also defined the scope of powers of the District Magistrate exercising powers under Section 14 of the Securitisation Act, 2002, while adding that the provision’s purpose was to provide assistance to the secured creditor to take physical possession of the secured asset.The Bench added a District Magistrate “would not involve in any process of adjudication of any inter se rights of the parties, while examining any application under Section 14.” A proviso made it mandatory to record the District Magistrate’s satisfaction. But it was to be restricted to factual correctness of the affidavit by the secured creditor. He could not examine the legal validity of the steps taken by the secured creditor. The aggrieved borrower could approach the tribunal. The secured creditor could move the High Court, if the District Magistrate failed to pass the order, or it was not being implemented.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/civil-court-cant-decide-cases-in-tribunals-jurisdiction-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-308531
09-09-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Despite waiver, farm loans up in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8As the institutional loans advanced to farmers soar to Rs 77,700 crore, higher than the total farm debt in 2018, the futility of the Punjab Government’s flagship Farm Loan Waiver Scheme has hit home hard.Latest data available from the State Level Bankers’ Committee shows the total loans advanced to farmers in Punjab stand at Rs 77,753.12 crore, as on June 2021. When the loan waiver scheme was launched in 2018, the total loans advanced to farmers stood at Rs 74,878.46 crore. In the past over three years, since the scheme was announced and implemented, the loan advanced has increased by Rs 2,874.66 crore.This shows the hike in total advances in the agriculture sector is in spite of the fact that the state government brought out the much-hyped Farm Loan Waiver Scheme in January 2018, and claims to have waived loans of 5.64 lakh farmers worth Rs 4,624 crore. In addition, the state government has just extended the scheme for farm labourers. The government claims it wants to settle loans worth Rs 592 crore, taken by farm labourers from cooperatives, and so far, Rs 181 crore relief has been given.The reason why farm debt has continued to rise and surpassed the figure of the advances in agriculture made before the scheme was launched is that it excluded more people than it benefitted. Data available from the committee shows in 2018, there were 17.30 lakh farmers in Punjab who had taken loans from banks, but only 5.64 lakh were found eligible (had a loan amount of less than Rs 2 lakh and had less than 5 acres of land) for the waiver.“The majority of farmers were found ineligible. Various studies have shown the exposure to institutional credit among farmers having less than 5 acres is very less, as compared to farmers having more than 5 acres. Thus, a small percentage of farmers’ loans were waived. But in the subsequent years, these farmers again took loans and look at how the loan amount has grown. The scheme is flawed in the sense that it did not provide for either a roadmap or means for farmers to get out of the cycle of debt,” says RS Ghuman, who is an eminent economist. Rs74,878 cr Farm debt before scheme launchRs77,753.12 cr Farm debt in June 2021Rs2,874.66 cr Increase in debtRs4,624 cr Amount of debt waived||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despite-waiver-farm-loans-up-in-punjab-308532
09-09-2021||Amritsar||SGPC to arrange langar at Karnal protest site||Showing solidarity with farmers, the SGPC has announced providing need-based services in Karnal where the farmers have staged a sit-in.Also read:Farm stir: After Singhu & Tikri, now Karnal takes centre stageBan on mobile Internet services in Karnal extended till Thursday midnight as farmers' protest enters day 3SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said their sub-office in Kurukshetra and managers of gurdwaras in Haryana were instructed to start working in this regard. Similarly, teams have been deputed from the gurdwaras along the Haryana border to arrange langar, tea, water and beddings for the farmers. “Instructions were issued in this regard to the managers of Gurdwara Nada Sahib, Panchkula, Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib, Patiala and Gurdwara Patshahi Chhevin, Kurukshetra,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-to-arrange-langar-at-karnal-protest-site-308533
09-09-2021||Amritsar||Lathicharge no solution, talks must: Baljit Singh Daduwal||Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (HSGMC) president Baljit Singh Daduwal expressed concern over the standoff between farmers and the Centre over the three farm laws.After paying obeisance at the Golden Temple today, he said lathicharge against farmers was never a solution and the issues should be resolved amicably across the table.“Lathicharge, be it in Moga or Karnal, should have been avoided as violence will never yield good results. In Punjab, the issue of sugarcane price was resolved after the government raised the procurement price. Similarly, the friction between the Centre and farmers should be settled through dialogue. The Centre should also take an initiative to break the ice and fulfil their genuine demands ,” he said.He appealed to the Punjab and Haryana governments to compensate the kin of those farmers who died during the protest on the Delhi borders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lathicharge-no-solution-talks-must-baljit-singh-daduwal-308534
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Centre rubbing salt into their wounds: Punjab CM||Terming the Union Cabinet’s measly wheat MSP hike as pathetic, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday slammed the central government for “rubbing salt into the wounds of the beleaguered farmers”, who have been out on the roads agitating against the farm laws for the past 10 months.At a time when India’s agriculture sector is passing through a distress phase and the farmers are agitating for a remunerative MSP, the BJP-led Government of India has played a cruel joke on the ‘annadatas’, said the Chief Minister. Demanding an MSP of wheat to be fixed at Rs 2,830 per quintal (as against Rs 2,015/quintal announced today), Capt Amarinder said the farmers should not be forced to subsidise the consumers, which they have been doing since long. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/centre-rubbing-salt-into-their-wounds-punjab-cm-308535
09-09-2021||---||Punjab farmers give thumbs down to wheat MSP hike||Bathinda, September 8Punjab farmers are unhappy with the Centre’s decision to increase wheat MSP by only Rs 40 for the 2022-23 season, saying the new prices were “grossly inadequate” to meet even the input costs.Rejecting the hike, farmers questioned the Centre’s intentions on the issue of giving remunerative prices to farmers.Bhartiya Kisan Union Ekta Ugrahan state secretary Shingara Singh Mann said the Centre had increased the wheat MSP by just Rs 40 per quintal. “This meagre increase in wheat prices does not even cover the cost of increased diesel prices,” he said. According to the Swaminathan Commission report, all actual expenses should be calculated and the prices of all crops fixed at reasonable profit.At its meeting with farmer organisations, the Union Government talked about continuing with the MSP, but only three crops were procured in two or three states. He demanded that the government procurement of all crops should be guaranteed in all states by fixing reasonable prices.Farm leader Jasveer Singh Burj Sema said, “The government is fooling farmers. It has increased the MSP of mustard, masur, gram and barley, but who purchases these crops on MSP as these are sold at very low prices. So, until these crops are procured bythe government, farmers won’t get any benefit. If the government really wants to help farmers, it should guarantee MSP on all crops,” he said.SAD rejects increased priceSAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday said at a time when farmers across the country were agitating against the three laws, the Centre had gone ahead to announce the lowest MSP hike in recent years. “This is akin to sprinkling salt on the wounds of farmers,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-farmers-give-thumbs-down-to-wheat-msp-hike-308536
09-09-2021||Muktsar||Gurnam Singh Charuni asks farmers to contest Punjab polls||Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni today appealed to farmers in Muktsar to contest the state Assembly elections. Though he could not come to the farmers’ conference ‘Mission Punjab 2022’, organised at a hall in a gurdwara complex here today, he addressed the gathering through a recorded voice message.In his over 10-minute-long speech, Charuni first explained the farm laws and then exhorted the farmers to contest the state Assembly elections. “We can think of a better future, if we have power. I could not come to Muktsar due to the protest in Haryana today. I will visit Muktsar soon,” he said. Charuni had come to Muktsar on August 23 and clarified he would not contest the statet elections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurnam-singh-charuni-asks-farmers-to-contest-punjab-polls-308502
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bhagwant Mann in Delhi over AAP’s CM face||Amid political tussle over naming the chief ministerial candidate by AAP, Sangrur MP and frontrunner for the post Bhagwant Mann has rushed to Delhi. Sources in the party say Mann is in Delhi to urge AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal to name the candidate. So far, the only signal coming from Kejriwal is that the candidate will be a Sikh.Over the past few days, Mann, who remains the most popular face of the party in Punjab, has been flexing his political muscle and projecting himself as the best bet for the party. Though the party is on the lookout for a CM face, and has approached many leaders, it has failed to attract a leader having a mass political base into its fold. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bhagwant-mann-in-delhi-over-aaps-cm-face-308501
09-09-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Punjab CM’s adviser Major Amardeep Singh Manepur (retd), all set to take political plunge||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, September 8The proposed entry of Major Amardeep Singh Manepur (retd), an adviser to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, has added a new angle to the political dynamics of the Gurdaspur Assembly seat.His loyalists claim the retired Army man, considered to be the CM’s closest confidant, is sure to stake claim to the Congress ticket.Manepur’s repeated visits to the area, the latest one being on Tuesday to GNDU Senate member Anu Gandotra’s residence, are a clear indicator that he is eying the seat. His native village falls within the jurisdiction of the Gurdaspur Assembly constituency.“He has asked his supporters to organise health camps, blood donation events and eye-screening and cataract operation camps. Hence, it is quite obvious he is doing all this to tell the residents that he has arrived. There are several ticket aspirants and he is the latest in the line. It is apparent that he has the CM’s backing,” said an MLA.Also on the cards is an event wherein he will meet senior citizens. He spent the entire day in his village yesterday listening to the grievances of the people. At present, the seat is represented by Congress legislator Barindermeet Singh Pahra. He is a known supporter of PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu and Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa.Punjab Subordinate Service Selection Board (PSSSB) Chairman Raman Bahl, too, is an aspirant. He had unsuccessfully contested the 2012 elections on the party symbol. This time members of his community are busy digging out data pertaining to the caste equations. “This is a seat where a majority of the population is Hindu. When the SAD-BJP alliance was in place, this seat was always given to the BJP. So, why not give it to a Hindu face this time? And who fits the bill better than Raman Bahl?” averred a senior Congress man.Eyes ‘Gurdaspur’Major Amardeep Singh Manepur (retd), adviser to CM Capt Amarinder Singh, has lately been visiting the Gurdaspur constituency quite frequently. A Congress insider claimed the Chief Minister was going all out to ensure dissidents were kept out of the fray.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cms-adviser-major-amardeep-singh-manepur-retd-all-set-to-take-political-plunge-308500
09-09-2021||---||Shiromani Akali Dal swaps two seats with ally BSP||Chandigarh, September 8The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday decided to take back Amritsar (North) and Sujanpur seats from its alliance partner — Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) — and give it Sham Chaurasi and Kapurthala Assembly seats.Former BJP leaders who joined the SAD recently will be fielded from the swapped seats.Though some rebel BSP leaders were lobbying for Phillaur, Adampur seats in Doaba, where the party has a strong base, the two parties agreed on Sham Chaurasi and Kapurthala. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal announced the decision today.Last month, the SAD declared its candidates from Amritsar (North) and Sujanpur constituencies. At that time, Badal had said the decision was taken with the consent of the BSP.While Sham Chaurasi seat is reserved for Dalits, Kapurthala is a general seat. Interestingly, the BSP won from Sham Chaurasi in 1992. After that the SAD has won the seat thrice, while the Congress has done so twice, including in the last Assembly elections.The Congress has registered four consecutive wins from the Kapurthala seat. The SAD won it in 1997. The BSP has nothing to boast of from this seat.As per the SAD-BSP alliance for the 2022 Assembly poll, the BSP will contest 20 of the 117 Assembly seats in Punjab, while the SAD will contest the remaining 94 seats.Sham Chaurasi & Kapurthala for BSPBSP has got Sham Chaurasi and Kapurthala in return. The party last won Sham Chaurasi way back in 1992. Kapurthala has been a Congress stronghold, registering four consecutive wins.Anil Joshi meets Bathinda tradersFormer Cabinet Minister Anil Joshi on Wednesday held a meeting with traders in a private hotel at Bathinda. Joshi said the problems faced by the business sector would be resolved if the SAD-BSP coalition government came to power.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shiromani-akali-dal-swaps-two-seats-with-ally-bsp-308499
09-09-2021||---||Punjab CM says Centre’s wheat MSP pathetic, calls it ‘rubbing of salt on wounds of agitating farmers’||Chandigarh, September 8Terming the Union Cabinet’s measly wheat MSP hike as pathetic, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday slammed the Central government for rubbing salt on the wounds of the beleaguered farmers, who have been out on the roads agitating against the farm laws for the past 10 months.Read alsoAt a time when India’s agriculture sector is passing through a distress phase and the farmers are agitating for a remunerative MSP, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led Government of India has played a cruel joke on the ‘annadaatas’, said the Chief Minister.Demanding MSP of wheat to be fixed at Rs 2,830 per quintal (as against the meagre Rs 2,015/quintal announced today by the Centre), Amarinder said the farmers should not be forced to subsidise the consumers, which they have been doing since long. “It is time the government at the Centre heeds the problems of the farmers and gives them their due,” he said, adding that the BJP-led government’s continued apathy towards the farmers had brought the farming sector, which has been one of the country’s biggest economic strengths, to the brink of disaster. “Why is the Centre treating our farmers so obnoxiously,” he asked.Terming the MSP for wheat at Rs 2,015 per quintal as “far below the expectations of the farmers of Punjab,” the Chief Minister said his government has suggested the MSP of Rs 2,830 per quintal depending on the cost of production of wheat in the State. Pointing out that the CACP estimates project an increase of 3.5% only in the comprehensive cost of production (C2) over the last year, he said this does not even cover the inflation in cost of inputs. The Chief Minister pointed out that the MSP for wheat has increased from Rs 1,975 per quintal for RMS 2021-22 to Rs 2,015 per quintal for RMS 2022-23, which is just 2% increase over last year.However, the increase in input costs is much higher, he said, adding that wages have increased by about 7% during this year, diesel price by more than 4%, and machinery cost has increased by almost 20% in this period. As these inputs constitute major components of cost of cultivation of wheat, a meager 2% increase in MSP will not adequately compensate the Punjab farmers and will reduce their profitability, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-says-centres-wheat-msp-pathetic-calls-it-rubbing-of-salt-on-wounds-of-agitating-farmers-308445
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||From cooking delicacies to personally serving them, Capt Amarinder hosts Olympians for dinner||The atmosphere was joyous, the occasion truly memorable. It was the much-awaited dinner hosted by Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh for Olympic medallists and participants from the state, and some others, including gold medallist Neeraj Chopra.Pleasure intermingled with pride, as India’s celebration of the Olympic glory continued days after the return of the heroes. The lawns of the chief minister’s farmhouse in Mohali were lit up with the spirit of revelry and the aroma of the savouries that Capt Amarinder had painstakingly prepared for his cherished guests.Capt Amarinder’s special touch was unmistakable. It could be seen (and tasted) in every dish of the lavish spread on the table. And the smile of satisfaction on his face, even after hours of hard work as the chef of the moment, was enviable.“I started at 11 in the morning. Most of it was done by around 5 pm, and then it was time for some final touches. But I loved every minute of it,” said the chief minister, with the enjoyment of it all sparkling in his eyes.“They (the sportspersons) worked so hard to win us glory, what I have done for them is nothing in comparison,” he remarked, looking his usual dapper self as he greeted the guests personally, with no sign of fatigue from all those hours of cooking and supervising the arrangements.So what’s cooking? Something special indeed!@capt_amarinder #olympicswinner Watch this space for more. pic.twitter.com/cp0YIoDpbW  And the hospitality of Capt Amarinder clearly knew no bounds, as he could be seen serving his guests personally, straight out of the ‘patilas’ in which he had cooked his choicest dishes earlier.“The food always tastes better if served direct from the cooking vessel,” he remarked – his knowledge of food no less sharp than his cooking skills.On the menu was nothing short of a royal feast - Mutton Khara Pishori, Long Ellachi Chicken, Aloo Korma, Dal Masri, Murg Korma, Dugani Biryani and Zarda Rice (Sweet Dish).CM @capt_amarinder is giving the final touches to his finger-licking delicacies, of which Punjab’s #Olympic medallists & @Neeraj_chopra1 will get a taste in a short while from now. pic.twitter.com/YMtSFDd4T5  Hockey captain Manpreet Singh (DSP Punjab Police) said he had heard about the Maharaja’s cooking but what he savoured today exceeded his expectations. His personal favourite? Aloo!Discus thrower Kamalpreet said she was truly impressed by both the food and the hospitality of the chief minister.“It was rich (quite a bit of ghee) but it was excellent food,” to quote Neeraj Chopra.Besides Olympic javelin throw gold medallist Neeraj Chopra, the special guests for the evening included Olympics bronze medallist hockey players Manpreet Singh (Captain), Harmanpreet Singh (Vice Captain), Mandeep Singh, Hardik Singh, Rupinder Pal Singh, Shamsher Singh, Dilpreet Singh, Gurjant Singh, Varun Kumar and Simranjit Singh. Ahhh…that looks good, Malwinder Singh seems to be telling his brother @capt_amarinder ahead of the special dinner for #Olympics awardees. pic.twitter.com/bAVCvALQhp  The chief minister has already announced Rs 2.51 crore each for them.Women hockey semi-finalists Gurjit Kaur and Reena Khokhar, reserve hockey player Krishan Bahadur Pathak and Olympics finalist athlete Kamalpreet Kaur, also among the guests, have been awarded Rs 50 lakh each.The chief minister had also earlier announced Rs 21 lakh for Olympics participants, race-walker Gurpreet Singh and shooter Angadveer Singh Bajwa, who were also invited for the dinner.And the moment has arrived. A truly memorable evening that is scintillating with pride and pleasure at the dinner hosted by Punjab CM @capt_amarinder for #Olympics winners & participants. pic.twitter.com/UxxA1W2O9J||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/from-cooking-delicacies-to-personally-serving-them-capt-amarinder-hosts-olympians-for-dinner-308435
09-09-2021||Amritsar||Guru Granth Sahib 'Parkash Purb' celebrated at Golden Temple||The 417th 'Parkash Purb’, the first installation of Guru Granth Sahib at Golden Temple, was celebrated with religious fervour and devotion at Golden Temple, Amritsar.Also read: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in AmritsarSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn TaranA nagar kirtan commenced from Gurdwara Shri Ramsar Sahib and culminated at the Golden Temple. Kirtani jathas and gatka parties took part in the nagar kirtan. An akahand path was organised at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/guru-granth-sahib-parkash-purb-celebrated-at-golden-temple-308351
