11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 39 new Covid cases, no death||Punjab on Saturday reported 39 fresh cases, taking the infection tally to 6,01,009, according to a medical bulletin.No Covid-related death was reported in the last 24 hours in the state. The toll figure stood at 16,453.The number of active cases in the state was 319.Jalandhar reported 11 cases, followed by five in Kapurthala and four in Patiala, among new Covid-19 cases.Forty-three people recovered from the infection, taking the number of recoveries to 5,84,237, as per the bulletin. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-39-new-covid-cases-no-death-309816
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||SAD to observe September 17 as black day to mark a year of enactment of three agriculture laws||The Shiromani Akali Dal has decided to observe September 17 as black day on completion of one year of enactment of three farm laws.Party workers, alongside farmers, will hold a protest march from Gurdwara Rakabganj to Parliament.A decision to this effect was taken in a meeting of party MLA s, district presidents, Halqa Sewadars, legislators, and members of the core committee was presided over by party president Sukhbir Singh Badal.Senior SAD vice-president Daljit Singh Cheema said on Saturday that party leaders and workers along with farmers of Punjab will participate in this protest march and he appealed to everyone to participate wholeheartedly in the same.He said that Akali Dal is the only political party that had sacrificed ministership and alliance for the cause of farmers whereas others only claimed to have resignation letters in their pockets, which were never tendered. He said that Akali Dal has stood like a rock with farmers' cause and will continue to do so till the black laws were not repealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-to-observe-september-17-as-black-day-to-mark-a-year-of-enactment-of-three-agriculture-laws-309788
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM orders crackdown on scamsters after six held for police recruitment exam racket||As the Punjab Police department geared up for the next stage of its mega recruitment drive, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday directed the DGP to intensify the crackdown on leakage of exam papers, cheating, copying etc., after six persons were reportedly arrested for their suspected involvement in cheating during the Written Test held for Sub-Inspectors on August 22.The directives come ahead of the commencement of written exams for Head Constables (Investigation cadre), to be conducted from September 12 to 19 for 75,544 applicants who have applied for 787 vacancies, followed by exams for Constables (District & Armed cadres), slated for September 25-26, with a whopping 4,70,775 candidates have applied for filling up 4,358 vacancies. Following this, in a first-of-its-kind move by any state police in the country, another recruitment drive will take place in October for appointing 2600 uniformed specialists in the Punjab Police Department.The Chief Minister asked DGP Dinkar Gupta to further intensify the security measures at the examination centres in view of reported attempts by recruitment fraudsters and scamsters to sabotage and subvert the examination process.Jammers and other electronic gadgets were being installed in all examination centres to prevent internet or bluetooth connectivity, said Gupta in the wake of the arrest of six persons by Khanna Police in connection with cheating through Bluetooth connectivity during the Written Test for Sub-Inspectors held in Chandigarh and various districts of Punjab from August 17 to 24, 2021. More arrests are likely in the case, he said.“Any person, whether candidate of a tout or a professional scamster, found involved in any examination related malpractices will be immediately booked and arrested,” he said.  Warning candidates appearing for the next rounds of the Punjab Police recruitment exams to beware of touts, fraudsters and scamsters trying to lure, trick and cheat gullible individuals, the DGP made it clear that any promises of jobs through unfair means/incentives were false.“Any information about such offers/promises can be made on DIAL 181 Helpline, which is a 24x7 Punjab Police Helpline,” he said.Giving details of the arrests made Khanna Police in FIR no.170 registered under sections 420,467,468,471, 120- B IPC 66,66C IT Act on 23.8.2021 at PS City-II, Khanna, the DGP identified them as Ankit & Vikas from Khanouri in Sangrur, Ranbir Singh of district Hisar, Amit from Sonepat, Rajinder Singh from Hisar and a Sub-Inspector aspirant, Navjot Kaur, from Jind. Navjot, arrested from her village in Jind this morning on the disclosures of Vikas Singh had admitted that Vikas Singh met her and her father in Sector-19, Chandigarh on  August, 21, 2021, and handed over a micro-earphone and an  electronic bluetooth device for the purpose of communicating correct answers during her examination, said Gupta.Gurpreet Kaur Deo, Chairperson of the Central Recruitment Board for Constables,  said that strict protocols have been laid down for securing the areas outside the Test Centres as well as within the venues, and multiple rounds of physical frisking will be carried out, apart from use of various types of electronic & digital gadgets, etc.The Punjab Police mega recruitment drive is being conducted through 6 Recruitment Boards, each constituted under an ADGP rank officer.So far, written test for the posts of Sub-Inspectors (District, Armed, Intelligence & Investigation cadres) and Constables of the Intelligence and Investigation cadre had been conducted successfully, while the Written Tests for Head Constables of Investigation Cadre would begin on Sunday and will conclude on September 19, 2021. Among the 1,10,524 candidates who had applied for the 560 Sub-Inspector vacancies, around 7,589 candidates were graduates in Information Technology, Computer Science, Software engineering, etc. and 1,714 candidates were post-graduates. 80,826 male candidates and 29,698 female candidates had applied for the recruitment to these posts.A total of 53,632 candidates applied for the written test for Constables (Intelligence & Investigation cadres) that was held from 7-10 September for 1,156 vacancies. Among these, 42,276 candidates are male while 11,356 candidates are female. Further, around 5,055 candidates are graduates in Information Technology, Computer Science, Software engineering, etc. and 1,853 candidates are post-graduates.A total of 4,70,775 candidates applied for the written test for Constables (District & Armed cadres), of which around 3,68,819 male candidates and 1,01,956 female candidates registered for the recruitment. Among these, 77,938 candidates (around 15%) possess Graduation or other similar qualifications even when the minimum eligibility is of 10+2 level. Around 2,648 candidates are ITI and Diploma holders, 1135 are Engineering Graduates and 1510 are candidates with Post Graduate qualifications.A total of 75,544 candidates for Head Constables (Investigation cadre) applied for the written test to be conducted from September12-19, 2021, out of which the majority candidates belonged to B.A/B.Com/B.Sc graduation backgrounds (73%). Around 58,427 male candidates and 17,117 female candidates registered for the recruitment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-orders-crackdown-on-scamsters-after-six-held-for-police-recruitment-exam-racket-309783
11-09-2021||---||Sikhs still victims of hate crimes post 9/11: North American Punjabi Association||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 10Sikhs are still victims of hate crimes post 9/11 in the US. Satnam Singh Chahal, executive director, North American Punjabi Association (NAPA), said, “Some hate crimes are in the record of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI),but others go unnoticed as victims choose not to register their case in order to avoid harassment.”Chahal said this has been happening due to the identity crisis. He said community leaders were so busy with infighting that they had no time to think about it.He said, “In my day-to-day life, I have also become a victim of hate crime, but I always prefer not to register with the law enforcement agencies hoping that change will happen. Parents of school going kids are also sailing in the same boat.” He said members of the Sikh community were living under fear and feeling insecure.Chahal said Simratpal Singh, who belonged to Tarn Taran, died in custody of the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) at La Paz County Jail on May 3, 2019, but no Sikh organisation other than the NAPA followed up this case.He urged the Sikh organisations in the US and managing committees of all gurdwaras to start result oriented campaign to spread the ideology of Sikh Gurus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikhs-still-victims-of-hate-crimes-post-9-11-north-american-punjabi-association-309685
11-09-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||New Uttarakhand Governor Lt Gen Gurmit Singh is Kapurthala Sainik School alumnus||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, September 10“Sainik School, Kapurthala, is a place that has taught me everything. The teachers who were there during our times made us what we are today. Those teachers may not be there, but the spirit still prevails. I would definitely visit my alma mater again. There are so many touching memories there,” shared Lt Gen Gurmit Singh, who has been appointed as the Governor of Uttarakhand.In the past too, Saikapians have been rising to great heights in all walks of life, be it the Army, Navy, Air Force or civil services. With Lt Gen Gurmit Singh being appointed the Governor, it is another feather in the Sainik School's cap. I find myself singularly privileged to be the head of the institution. — Col Prashant Saxena, Principal, Sainik School, KapurthalaThe feeling of pride was palpable among the teachers and the principal of the school after the announcement of appointing the school’s alumnus Lt Gen Gurmit Singh as Governor. Gurmit Singh studied at the school from 1967 to 1973 before joining the National Defence Academy.A great debater, amazing sportsperson, academically brilliant, always a topper, and every time an appointment holder, this is how Jawahar Dhawan, Singh’s classmate remembers him. “He was very clear from the beginning that he wanted to join the armed forces,” he shared.Recalling the times he spent in the school, he said, “The school was one place where I learned everything. Every prospective of being a soldier was learned there, be it discipline, drill or sports. The teachers created an environment to prepare us as a future leader.”“A large portion of my service has been spent in terrorist-affected areas,” shared the Lieutenant General who served in Kashmir for a decade from 2005 to 2014. He also led a military delegation to Beijing, Urumchi and Shanghai. Apart from this, he visited Pakistan twice as a part of the delegation for defence-related talks. He also did a training course at the National Defense University at Washington (the US) and Taipei (Taiwan).Lt Gen Gurmit Singh remained a great sportsperson in the school. Expressing his admiration towards sports, “I liked riding, gymnastics and cricket. In fact, the armed forces and sports are interconnected. Games automatically become very important part of your life.”Col Prashant Saxena, Principal, Sainik School, Kapurthala, shared it was a matter of great pride for him. “In the past too, Saikapians have been rising to great heights in all walks of life, be it the Army, Navy, Air Force or civil services. With Lt Gen Gurmit Singh being appointed the Governor, it is another feather in the Sainik School’s cap. I find myself singularly privileged to be head of the institution. It is a matter of responsibility for me because when I see Saikapians doing so well, it reminds me of my duties,” the principal shared his feelings.Lt Gen Gurmit had also visited his alma mater as a chief guest a few years ago to give a speech. MS Bajwa, a maths teacher in the school, still remembers a lecture and terms it as one of the most powerful lectures he had ever heard. “He has got a great motivational power. The way he gave the lecture and the way he motivated the students was exemplary,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-uttarakhand-governor-lt-gen-gurmit-singh-is-kapurthala-sainik-school-alumnus-309686
11-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||High Court draws parallel between fable, Sumedh Singh Saini case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 10The Punjab and Haryana High Court today drew a parallel between a fable from the “Panchtantra” and Punjab’s former police chief Sumedh Singh Saini’s case by ruling that his plight appeared to be similar to the story.Also read: Can’t probe, arrest Sumedh Singh Saini till elections in February: Punjab and Haryana High CourtBefore referring to the detailed facts and arguments addressed by the senior counsel appearing for the parties, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan asserted it would be appropriate to refer to a story regarding “evolution of legal jurisprudence in India” from the Panchtantra — a compilation of moral-based stories “prevalent in the rural areas”.Justice Sangwan asserted an ape intruded into a village in a kingdom once upon a time. The entire village, including the young, the old, the educated and the uneducated, gathered to shunt him out. The poor ape climbed up a tall tree as the crowd gathered.He had no idea about the offence he had committed as a result of which everyone was running after his life. In the meantime, the village sarpanch carrying a stick or a symbol of authority came there. Looking at the crowd and hearing the noise, he enquired about the matter. A man stepped forward and said he was the ‘lambardar’ or the headman appointed by the king to shunt the ape out of the village.The sarpanch politely asked him, “What is the matter and why do you want to shunt him out”. The ‘lambardar’, in response, said he was the king’s representative and the sarpanch had no business to ask him. The sarpanch asked: “Are you all on one side?” The whole crowd replied in affirmative, compelling the sarpanch to ask who was on the ape’s side. His query was met with a pin-drop silence.The ‘lambardar’ questioned the sarpanch: “How do you expect anyone to be on the ape’s side”. The sarpanch smiled, raised his stick and said this was injustice and he stood for the ape. He would not allow the ‘lambardar’ to shunt the ape out unless he gave plausible reasons.“This is how the legal system in India work where the Court follows, the principal of ‘audi alteram partem’, i.e. nobody should be condemned unheard. The plight of the petitioner appears to be similar to the story as this Court protected the right of the petitioner by passing various orders,” Justice Sangwan added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-draws-parallel-between-fable-sumedh-singh-saini-case-309545
11-09-2021||Ludhiana||Punjab Roadways, PUNBUS, PRTC staff to protest outside ministers’ residences tomorrow||As demands of contractual employees have not been accepted by the state government so far, members of Punjab Roadways, PUNBUS and the PRTC Contract Workers Union, Punjab, have decided to continue their strike.The contractual employees had gone to participate in a state-level protest to gherao the Siswan farmhouse of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today, on the fifth day of their strike.Meanwhile, government buses being operated by the contractual staff did not ply on roads even today. A union leader, Satnam Singh, said they would meet Chief Minister on September 14 as a meeting had been fixed in this regard after today’s protest.However, he said, the strike would be continued.Shamsher Singh, another leader, said: “Our protest remained peaceful today. Now, we will stage protests for two hours outside the residences of the Cabinet ministers on Sunday. We will beat dhols to mark our protest on Monday. If our demands were not met in the upcoming meeting on September 14, we will intensify the agitation and block highways on September 15.”Demanding regularisation of their services and adding a new fleet of buses to the service, the contractual staff had gone on an indefinite strike on Monday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-roadways-punbus-prtc-staff-to-protest-outside-ministers-residences-tomorrow-309627
11-09-2021||Amritsar||Heavy rain floods Amritsar, throws life out of gear||Rain for around six hours on Friday not just left the entire holy city flooded, but also exposed monsoon-ready claims of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation. Irked residents raised questions on crores of rupees spent in the name of desilting.Top cop Vikram Jeet Duggal leads from the frontWades through waterlogged Heritage Street barefoot to take stock of the ground situationNot just low-lying areas, the Heritage Street, Katra Jaimal Singh, Katra Ahluwalia, Outer Ring Road, GT Road, BRTS lanes, bus stand, Mall Road, MM Malvia Road, Majitha Road, Batala Road, Mall Road, Putlighar, Khalsa Collage lane, SSSS Chowk and several areas of the walled city remained inundated.OfficialspeakIt was an extremely heavy downpour. It was beyond the capacity of our existing system. As there is no storm water sewer in the city, so it takes a few hours to drain rainwater. We operated disposal pumps without any disruption. Rainwater was drained out within two hours because of desilting. Malwinder Singh Jaggi, MC CommissionerThe rainwater entered houses in low lying areas in Inderpuri, Islambaad and Kot Khalsa. As all major sewers remained choked, the rainwater remained stagnant on roads throughout the day.Apart from this, the rain also exposed the true picture Heritage Street. The rainwater entered shops around the Golden Temple and devotees could be seen navigating through stagnant water.ResidentspeakWaterlogging is a regular problem. The rainwater enters our shops everytime and damages our goods. Today, rainwater damaged my goods worth Rs1 lakh. Similar situation was witnessed last year. Insurance companies do not cover such damage and nobody listens to us. It is a curse to have a shop on the Heritage Street. Rahul, a shopkeeper at Heritage StreetCommuters, especially motorcyclists and pedestrians, had a tough time. Several vehicles got stuck due to waterlogging, which further led to massive snarls in the city. Supply of milk and vegetables, too, got affected.‘No desilting by civic body’Suresh Sharma, an RTI activist, alleged that the Amritsar Municipal Corporation claimed to spend Rs 12.10 crore in 2018-19 on desilting of sewers. Then Rs 40 lakh was sanctioned for each Assembly segment. Later, Rs 1 lakh was sanctioned for several areas in the city. There is no public record related to desilting. The office-bearers of the MC General House, senior officials and contractors were hand-in-glove and they embezzled the funds, said Sharma.“There should be a vigilance inquiry. They have passed the bills, but not conducted desilting. If sewer lines were cleaned then how come the city turned into a pool?” asked Sharma.According to sources, there is no check of administration on desilting work. “Generally, they park the super-sucker machine on a manhole and click pictures and send it to senior officers of the MC. There is no inspection of any department. No one measures the level of silt before and after the desilting is done. Noting is in public domain. Nobody responds to public representative in this regard,” said a councillor.No power in several areasPower remained suspended in several localities of the city. Amit Kumar, a resident of Veer Enclave, said a power cut was imposed at 9 am.Early sown paddy at riskHeavy rain accompanied with high-velocity winds flattenend early grown varieties of paddy in parts of the district. Sukhbir Singh Sandhu, Block Agriculture Development Officer said, “Heavy rain in the area has partially damaged all early sown varieties. It will affect the colour of grain, which is on a maturing stage. The late sown varities such as 1121 are safe. The risk of bacterial leaf blight of rice plant is also there as water accumulates in fields, which results in spreading of bacterial diseases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heavy-rain-floods-amritsar-throws-life-out-of-gear-309512
11-09-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Won’t allow entry to any leader: Sangrur villagers||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, September 10On a day when representatives of parties met SKM leaders, residents of various villages here further hardened their stand against the entry of politicians. At many places, WhatsApp groups are being created to mobilise support against politicians’ entry in villages.“We have been protesting for months. But neither the Centre nor BJP leaders from Punjab seem serious. Leaders of other parties have also failed us. We will not allow any politician to enter villages,” said Parmjit Singh, a protester.“We have started forming WhatsApp groups at village level to oppose the visit of leaders. Since elections are approaching fast, politicians want to visit villages only for votes,” said Gurdial Singh, another protester.Though largely farmers are united against the entry of all leaders, there are few, who support certain parties. They have started sitting at village entry points and are quick to share information with villagers about the arrival of any leader from parties they are opposed to. “The bitter fight between the supporters will not allow any leader to enter the villages,” said Dharminder Pashore, a BKU (Ugrahan) leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wont-allow-entry-to-any-leader-sangrur-villagers-309343
11-09-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Leaders divided over district status to Batala||Tribune News ServiceBatala, September 10A majority of city residents want the coming Monday to be a red-letter day for them even as the proposed decision to elevate Batala subdivision into a full-fledged district is having some interesting fallouts.There is widespread speculation that Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh will make an official declaration on the occasion of the marriage anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak — also known as ‘Babe Da Viah’ — falling on September 13. Even as the city is agog with religious fervour and excitement, residents feel an official announcement will provide the icing on the cake.Move not in our interest: LawyersIn the battle to make the town a district, friends have become foes and vice-versa. The Gurdaspur District Bar Association has nearly 400 members on its rolls. These lawyers have different political affiliations but when ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Tript Rajnder Singh Bajwa,and Rajya Sabha Member Partap Singh Bajwa wrote to the Chief Minister seeking the district status, the advocates gave their difference a quiet burial and instead came together on a single platform.They vociferously claimed the creation of a separate district would harm their professional interests. “Right now, 65 per cent of our professional work originates from the Batala subdivision. If the proposed decision takes practical shape, all of us will be doomed. Our earnings will substantially decrease,” said leading lawyer Santokh Singh Basra. Around 90 lawyers, concerned over the proposal, have sought a meeting with the Chief Minister. Despite the fact that there was no confirmation from the Chief Minister’s office, these advocates left Gurdaspur today for Capt Amarinder’s farmhouse at Siswan in Mohali.Interestingly, three known dissidents — Randhawa, Bajwa and Gurdaspur legislator Barindermeet Singh Pahra, who earlier were hand in glove with each other, are now finding themselves at two ends of the spectrum.While the ministers have passionately committed themselves in the battle to get the district status, Pahra has been left withno option except to go with the voices which do not want a division.With the D-day fast approaching, Batalvis, many of whom have started prayers in religious places, are waiting with a bated breath for an official word. “Batala district was a separate entity till the British merged it with Gurdaspur. By restoring the original position, the Chief Minister will actually be correcting a historical mistake,” said Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar, chairman of the Gurdaspur Planning Board.Committed to causeBoth the ministers have passionately committed themselves to the battle of getting the district status for Batala. Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa has also written to the Chief Minister, seeking the district status.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/leaders-divided-over-district-status-to-batala-309344
11-09-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Oppn hits out at Congress Moga MLA Harjot Kamal over soap debut||Tribune News ServiceMoga, September 10Congress’ Moga MLA Harjot Kamal will soon appear in a new avatar as an actor in a 13-episode TV serial ‘Dharti Da Putt’, being produced by Jagdev Singh Mann, the shooting of which is under way in Moga district.However, the move has invited the Opposition’s ire. Spokesperson of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Navdeep Singh Sangha alleged the Congress MLA was indulging in a publicity stunt to attract local populace as the voters were turning away from the Congress in the run up to the Assembly elections. “The popularity graph of Harjot Kamal has gone down after his wife lost the local MC elections recently,” he said.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has also scoffed at the MLA over his “publicity stunt”. “Instead of serving the people and helping them in the hard times of the Covid pandemic, the MLA, who is a doctor by profession, has kept himself busy in shooting a TV serial for vested political interests,” said Barjinder Singh Brar, a youth Akali leader.The MLA however said his criticism by the Opposition was uncalled for as he had tried to give a message of social transformation among the rural people. “The TV series appeals to the youth to stop feeling proud of showcasing luxury vehicles and state-of-the-art weapons. Instead, they must take pride in their land and start farming,” he claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/oppn-hits-out-at-congress-moga-mla-harjot-kamal-over-soap-debut-309345
11-09-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||BSP rebels in touch: SAD (A)||The SAD(A) will contest all 117 Assembly seats and hold a convention on September 18 at Amritsar to chalk out a strategy for the SGPC elections.The decision in this regard was taken in a meeting of the political affairs committee of the party held at Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib today. All members of the PAC and district jathedars participated in the meeting. SAD (A) chief spokesman Iqbal Singh Tiwana said the party decided to support the SKM’s Bharat bandh call on September 27.He said a group of BSP workers opposed to the alliance with SAD (B) had approached them for a tie-up in Doaba. He said the SAD (A) would hold a convention on September 18 at Amritsar to chalk out a strategy for the SGPC polls. He alleged the Badal family had taken the SGPC’s control as all major appointments were being made at its behest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsp-rebels-in-touch-sad-a-309346
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder’s new panel a sham, alleges AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) senior leader and Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema today flayed the formation of a committee of MLAs by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to address problems of the people. He said the move was a mere pretence as the CM did not fulfil his poll promises made to the farmers, labourers, employees, students and youth in his four-and-a-half-year rule.Cheema said: “Every section of Punjab has been forced to protest to get the promises made in the Congress manifesto fulfilled.”He said Capt Amarinder Singh made big claims to develop the state by putting up huge advertisements on government buses and various other places, but the ongoing protests had exposed him. He added 1,153 dharnas had taken place the CM’s hometown alone. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinders-new-panel-a-sham-alleges-aap-leader-harpal-singh-cheema-309347
11-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Plant 75 trees as costs: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 10The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ordered a litigant to plant 75 trees by way of imposing costs. The direction by Justice Arun Monga of the High Court came in a case where the petitioner claimed that his right to file a written statement before a Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) had lapsed.Taking up the petition filed through counsel Saurav Bhatia, Justice Monga asserted the writ petition is allowed subject to costs assessed at Rs 10,000. By way of imposition of costs, the petitioner would plant 75 trees of deciduous and perennial nature of any variety such as neem, amla, gulmohar and alstonia in the vicinity of his residence.Justice Monga added the plantation would be carried out under the supervision of the District Horticulture Officer concerned. He will also have to give a letter of proof to the MACT. The Justice added that the court below would ensure the compliance of the direction.In case of default on the petitioner’s behalf, the High Court Registry would be at liberty to place the matter before the Bench again for reporting non-compliance. The proof of plantation was also directed to be furnished by the petitioner in the Registry, along with supporting letter from the Horticulture Department.The Bench during the course of hearing was told that the petitioner had filed his written statement in an earlier round of claim petition, which was dismissed as withdrawn. Though he prepared the written statement in the second claim petition, he could not file it on time leading to passing of the impugned order vide which his defence has been struck off. Bhatia added the petitioner was 90 per cent disabled and unable to walk and could not even attend the court hearings in person. He was necessarily dependant on his counsel and others to follow up his interest.Justice Monga added the court was of the view that interest of justice would be met if one more opportunity was granted to file the written statement subject to certain costs. The non-filing did not appear to be deliberate, borne out from the earlier round of litigation where the petitioner had already filed his written statement.Accident caseThe direction by Justice Arun Monga of the High Court came in a case where the petitioner claimed that his right to file a written statement before a Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) had lapsed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/plant-75-trees-as-costs-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-309348
11-09-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Pest attack on Mansa, Bathinda cotton crop||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 10Pink bollworm attack on cotton crop is reported in various Mansa and Bathinda district villages, which are the main cotton sown areas in the southern Malwa belt in the state.After learning about the attack, farmers are quite worried about the safety of their crops. Dr Baldev Singh, Joint Director (Agricultural Input) visited various villages in Jhunir block in Mansa district.During the visit, he inspected cotton fields along with farmers in Bhamme Khurd and Khayali Chahilanwali village and it was found that pink locust infestation was seen in cotton but the percentage of attack was not same in different fields.Spray pesticides as recommendedIt is imperative for farmers to keep a close watch on the crop. Besides, they should spray the pesticides recommended by the Agriculture Department. —Dr Baldev Singh, Joint director (agricultural input)Addressing the farmers, the official said it was imperative for every farmer to keep a close watch on the crop. Seeing the situation, they should also spray the pesticides recommended by the Agriculture Department. He also informed the farmers about the measures to be taken for control of locusts on cotton in the coming kharif season.Mansa Chief Agriculture Officer Manjit Singh, who also holds the charge of Bathinda district, said he along with Joint Director Dr Baldev Singh had inspected the fields and checked the pest attack. “We have told the farmers to contact the department if they find pest in more than 5 per cent of the field,” he said.Farmer leader and BKU Ekta Ugrahan state secretary Shingara Singh Mann said: “The situation at ground level is quite grim as we are getting reports from farmers daily that despite spraying pesticides, the pest is not dying and destroying their crop.”He said: “We demand that the state government should collect samples of the pesticides and get them checked, as we feel that fake pesticides are being sold to farmers in the state, which is not solving the purpose.” Mann also claimed that if the situation is not controlled, it could spell trouble for the entire cotton produce, as was the case in 2015.”AAP smells ‘scam’AAP legislator Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer has alleged a "big scam" due to ineffectiveness of pesticides on pink bollworm despite repeated sprays, causing huge losses to farmers. “Just as the white fly destroyed the farming community due to counterfeit medicines during the Akali-BJP government, pink bollworm was destroying the community today,” the AAP leader said, demanding a high-level investigation into the whole matter and Rs1,000 per quintal relief for cotton farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pest-attack-on-mansa-bathinda-cotton-crop-309349
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Zero tolerance to burning of stubble: Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan||In order to adopt zero tolerance to stubble burning during the upcoming paddy harvesting season, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan has ordered deployment of special task force in 10 red category districts, which had witnessed over 4,000 stubble burning incidents each during the previous paddy season, for strict enforcement and regulatory measures.Editorial: Checking stubble burning: Curb the menace to reduce pollutionBesides, nodal officers have been appointed at village, cluster, tehsil, and district levels to keep air pollution in check for containing the spread of respiratory diseases in view of Covid. Chairing a high-level meeting to review the preparedness and steps taken to curb stubble burning, the Chief Secretary asked the Animal Husbandry Department to explore the modalities for using paddy straw as a fodder in gaushalas. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/zero-tolerance-to-burning-of-stubble-chief-secretary-vini-mahajan-309350
11-09-2021||GS Paul||Rectify Jallianwala Bagh facelift ‘lapses’ to avoid flak, Trustee asks Centre||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 10Amid criticism over the alleged tinkering with the original character of the Jallianwala Bagh during its renovation, the former MP and one of the trustees of the Prime Minister-led Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, Tarlochan Singh, has approached the Centre to rectify the shortcomings.Observing several lapses, Singh said he had written to the Union Ministry of Culture, under whose supervision the first phase of renovation worth Rs 20 crore was executed in the Bagh, so that negative publicity could be avoided. Though the work was done in collaboration with the Archaeological Survey of India, there remained some lapses, he said.Also read: The Jallianwala Bagh makeoverRestore Jallianwala Bagh’s old look, panel writes to PM ModiJallianwala Bagh: Kin of 1919 martyrs hold candle march, want original character restoredJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampLooks nice: Punjab CM contradicts Rahul Gandhi on Jallianwala remakeHe demanded the murals erected on the walls of the narrow street from where General Reginald Dyer passed through with his troops be removed and it should be restored as it was.Sentiments hurt, probe Rs 20-crore project: Laxmi Kanta Chawla Another major blunder was to introduce a new ‘exit’ passage. “This itself belies the history as there was a single entry and exit passage and people got stuck up in the absence of any other exit. Had there been a passage to go out, people would have run out of the Bagh. So, the new exit gate has to be closed,” he said.He also pointed out that the pyramid-like small pedestal depicting the place of firing was replaced with just a marker on the floor which was hardly visible. It should be rebuilt again.“Many doors and windows of the historic office building have been removed. I have requested to examine the old photographs and make them look like the same,” he said.He said there would be no entry fee to the Bagh, but the e-ticketing machines and the ticket counters built at the entrance raised suspicion. “I have requested to remove the ticket counter structure and the e-ticketing machines”, he said.The martyrs’ families demanded the pictures of their forefathers, who sacrificed their lives, to be reinstalled. “This was also a genuine demand and I have requested to place their photographs”, he said.‘Remove murals, rebuild pedestal’Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust member Tarlochan Singh has urged the Centre to remove murals erected on the walls of the narrow street, close the new exit gate, rebuild pedestal depicting the place of firing, reinstall the pictures of martyrs and remove the ticket counter structure and e-ticketing machines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rectify-jallianwala-bagh-facelift-lapses-to-avoid-flak-trustee-asks-centre-309351
11-09-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala dental college runs on just 36% staff||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 10The Government Dental College and Hospital here is reeling under acute staff shortage. Against the requirement of at least 36 teachers, as per the Dental Council of India, the college is making do with just 13 professors, including a reemployed professor.The college, owing to the “casual attitude” of the people at the helm, has been reportedly short of staff for over a decade now. The last faculty recruitment was done in 2008. It has been learnt that the Dental Council of India had regularly inspected the college and told the authorities to recruit faculty.New buildingIronically, a new building worth crores has been constructed on the college premises wherein one entire floor has been dedicated to the oral surgery department, but the college has no oral surgeon.Consequently, majority of the patients at the hospital are being looked after either by interns or post-graduation students. A professor said: “A medical college, just a few metres away from here, recruits faculty every year. Though crores have been spent on constructing a new building, no serious efforts are being made to hire faculty.”Dr Renu Bala Sroa said: “Despite shortage, students are being taught. The hospital is also being managed by the staff available. The process to recruit new faculty is on.” She said the government, in March this year, had created new posts by framing new rules, but those yet to be approved by the Cabinet. “As per new rules, the number of posts has been increased to 56. Once those get the Cabinet nod, the faculty will immediately be hired.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-dental-college-runs-on-just-36-staff-309353
11-09-2021||---||HIV positive blood transfusion: NHRC seeks infected patient’s medical record||Bathinda, September 10The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has taken cognisance of a complaint by social organisation Naujawan Welfare Society, Bathinda, in a case of transfusion of HIV positive blood to an anaemic woman, admitted to the Civil Hospital, by the government blood bank here.The commission has issued orders to the Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, to send all medical documents related to the admission and discharge summary of the victim admitted to the hospital on May 5, 2020, within four weeks.Society president Sonu Maheshwari said that none of those responsible for transfusing HIV-positive blood to several people would be allowed to escape. Besides ensuring punishment for the suspects, they would strive towards getting the victims adequate compensation.In the complaint to the NHRC, Maheswari had stated that the anaemic patient was transfused with HIV positive blood due to the negligence of the blood bank staff of the Civil Hospital, but even after months, no information was given by the blood bank or the hospital management/ officials about the transfusion of infected blood to the woman or her family.As a result, the victim’s three-year-old girl, who took her mother’s milk, besides husband had tested HIV positive. This was revealed when the government hospital team conducted tests on her family on August 27, 2021.“The woman is from a poor family and her husband is a labourer. Ever since the family came to know about this, it is in a bad condition. Their pain cannot be described in words. You are requested to take appropriate action regarding this incident,” Maheshwari had written to the National Human Rights Commission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hiv-positive-blood-transfusion-nhrc-seeks-infected-patients-medical-record-309354
11-09-2021||Abohar||Days after crunch, 2,300 get jab in Abohar||Days after some social activists drew attention of PCC ex-president Sunil Jakhar to the poor supply of Covid vaccine to his native village Panjkosi, the Health Department has intensified its drive.It was brought to Jakhar’s notice that only 4,000 people were vaccinated in Abohar subdivision in the past week, whereas 1 lakh people were inoculated in Ludhiana and around 90,000 in neighbouring areas of Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh on a single day on Saturday.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu happens to be the minister-incharge for Fazilka district, but hundreds of people have been returning empty-handed from vaccine centres daily in all subdivisions. There seems to be some improvement in the situation now even when people were still waiting for the second dose of Covaxin. The Sub-Divisional Civil Hospital in Abohar today set a record by providing Covishield vaccine to 2,300 people. The timing for vaccination has been extended from 9 am-2 pm to 4 pm now and 50 health workers, including ASHA workers and ANMs, have been deployed for registration and vaccination. Yesterday, camps were held at the government hospital and Naam Charcha Ghar and 2,700 people got inoculated.SMO Dr Gaganjit Singh and Nodal officer Dr Sahib Ram said efforts were on to step up availability of vaccine. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/days-after-crunch-2-300-get-jab-in-abohar-309356
11-09-2021||---||BSF targets drone, seizes 6 kg heroin along border||Tarn Taran, September 10BSF personnel today confiscated six packets of heroin, weighing 6 kg, worth Rs 30 crore in the international market.The contraband was smuggled into the Indian territory by Pakistan-based anti-national forces using drones near the Havelian border outpost falling in the Tarn Taran area and in the jurisdiction of the Amritsar sector of the BSF.A spokesperson for the BSF said the troops heard buzzing sound of a flying unmanned aerial vehicle around 11.15 pm last night. Later, a sound of dropping of some bag was heard, prompting the jawans to fire 14 shots in the direction.However, the drone apparently returned to the Pakistan side after dropping the consignment. Sources said soon afterwards, teams of the BSF and district police from Sarai Amanat Khan and Chabal areas reached the spot and launched a search operation, leading to the recovery of six packets of heroin.The case has been handed over to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), the nodal agency of the Ministry of Home Affairs. The BSF authorities said anti-national forces in Pakistan, including smugglers and banned terrorist outfits, were using all means to sneak in contraband, and arms and ammunition. In the combined seizures with other agencies, the BSF has so far confiscated 324 kg heroin this year.Worth Rs 30 cr in international marketThe consignment costs Rs30 crore in the international market. A spokesperson for the BSF said the troops heard buzzing sound of a flying unmanned aerial vehicle around 11.15 pm on Thursday night. Later, a sound of dropping of some bag was heard, prompting the jawans to fire 14 shots in the direction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bsf-targets-drone-seizes-6-kg-heroin-along-border-309357
11-09-2021||---||HC flags lapses in ‘recovery’ of contraband; accused gets bail||Chandigarh, September 10The Punjab and Haryana High Court has noticed serious lapses in the alleged recovery of contraband from an accused and non-compliance of mandatory provisions. The Bench also dubbed it “altogether absurd” a contention raised by the state to justify the same.The assertions came as Justice Sudip Ahluwalia granted bail to the accused in a case alleging recovery of contraband commercial quantity. The accused was seeking regular bail in FIR registered on September 1, 2019, under the provisions of the NDPS Act at a Sultanpur Lodhi police station in Kapurthala.The Bench was told that contraband in the form of 1 kg heroin was allegedly recovered from the petitioner. Justice Ahluwalia asserted compliance under Section 50 of the NDPS Act was not even attempted. The petitioner was not given an option to have himself searched before a magistrate or gazetted officer as provided under the statute before the recovery was carried out from him.The explanation on the state’s behalf was that Section 50 was not required to be complied with, since the recovery was not made from the accused, but from the “ground” where he had allegedly thrown the shoulder bag that he was carrying.Justice Ahluwalia asserted the contention raised on the state’s behalf was “out and out incorrect and totally inconsistent with the explicit statement of the complainant in the original FIR itself”. It was stated that the recovery was made after the petitioner picked up his shoulder bag containing the contraband with his right hand. He walked up to the spot where he had thrown the bag and produced it before the complainant/SHO stating that it contained heroin. “It would altogether be absurd to raise a contention that the recovery was made from the ground and not from the person,” Justice Ahluwalia added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-flags-lapses-in-recovery-of-contraband-accused-gets-bail-309358
11-09-2021||Sameer Singh||Awareness drive, drug raids at Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s ancestral village Mehraj||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 10Police teams have started holding awareness seminars even as raids in different parts of Mehraj village in the district yielded no results following a report carried in these columns on September 7 on the drug menace.Editorial: Drug deaths in Punjab: An urgent probe should reveal the supplier-peddler networkPolice teams have set up checkpoints and are frisking people entering or leaving the village. In the report — I have lost two sons, curb drug menace: Father — it was highlighted that the menace was rampant at Mehraj, the ancestral village of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. Many youths had lost their lives to drugs over the past few years and incidents of youngsters falling unconscious due to drug overdose were commonplace in the village.Also read: In Punjab Chief Minister's ancestral village Mehraj, an old man loses 2 sons to drug menaceA day after the report was carried, IG (Bathinda range) Jaskaran Singh and SSP Ajay Maluja along with other police officials visited the village and conducted awareness seminars, exhorting residents not to fall prey to drugs. SSP Ajay Maluja said: “After the news was published, we visited the village to take stock of the situation. We also conducted seminars on drugs menace. We have conducted raids at different places but have not caught hold of any peddler or seized drugs.”Apart from launching a crackdown on drug peddlers, the police would continue to hold awareness seminars at regular intervals so that people stayed away from drugs, he said. “We have constituted special police teams to curb the menace in other parts of the district as well,” he added.AAP plans bike rallyAAP MLA Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer on Friday said from September 20, the youth wing would hold a motorcycle rally from Bathinda to Patiala to raise drug awareness among people. They would burn an effigy of the CM, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/awareness-drive-drug-raids-at-punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-singhs-ancestral-village-mehraj-309359
11-09-2021||Moga||Moga ASI dismissed for aiding  gangster Arshdeep Singh Daala||An Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) of the Moga police has been terminated from the service after being found prima-facie guilty of verifying wrong antecedents and recommending issuance of passport to gangster Arshdeep Singh Daala, who is facing many criminal cases and is presently operating from Canada.SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the accused, then a Head Constable, Kuldeep Singh, verified wrong antecedents to issue a good character certificate of the said gangster, which allowed him to get a passport, due to which Daala managed to flee to Canada.Preliminary investigations revealed that the gangster had applied for issuance of passport at the Regional Passport Office in Jalandhar in 2017. The police verification of it was marked to the Ajitwal police station in the district. Kuldeep was then posted at the police station and issued a good character certificate to Daala. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-asi-dismissed-for-aiding-gangster-arshdeep-singh-daala-309360
11-09-2021||Muktsar||Panel summons Muktsar DSP in Dalit assault cases||Taking note of complaints lodged by two Dalit women, Punjab State Scheduled Caste Commission’s senior vice-president Deepak Kumar and member Raj Kumar Hans today visited Muktsar town to hear their complainants.After hearing out a victim from Nanak Colony on Maur Road here, the commission directed Muktsar DSP Harvinder Cheema to personally submit a report on September 16. The complainant had accused the police of failing to act against the culprits who had thrashed her and passed casteist remarks. In the second complaint, a woman alleged she along with her two children was detained by a landlord. The commission took serious note of the absence of the complainant and directed the SHO concerned to ask for the reason. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/panel-summons-muktsar-dsp-in-dalit-assault-cases-309361
11-09-2021||Anirudh Gupta||Fund unutilised, Saragarhi memorial awaits facelift||Ferozepur, September 10Even after two years of release of Rs 1 crore grant by the Chief Minister for the beautification and development of the historic Saragarhi memorial, the funds have not been used for the said purpose. The monument was raised to pay homage to 22 valiant 36 Sikh Regiment soldiers of the British Indian Army who died fighting 10,000 Afridis during the Battle of Saragarhi on September 12, 1897, in North-West Frontier Province, now in Pakistan.After The Tribune on September 9, 2019 highlighted the failure of successive regimes to develop the memorial, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had sanctioned Rs 1 crore to develop the memorial, depicting the saga of unparalleled chivalry in the history of military warfare. However, due to procedural wrangles, development work never took off.As per information, the district administration had released a tender inviting proposals for preparing detailed project report for the development of the memorial in June, but no progress has been made on ground thereafter. Though a project on the construction of the Tourist Felicitation Centre under centrally funded Swadesh Darshan Scheme is afoot, all promises and commitments by the consecutive state governments have not been honoured till date.Capt Amarinder Singh had promised to make the memorial as one of the iconic monuments in the country as this saga of Saragarhi has been close to his heart.Tribute to soldiersThe monument was raised to pay homage to 22 valiant 36 Sikh Regiment soldiers of the British Indian Army who died fighting 10,000 Afridis during the Battle of Saragarhi on September 12, 1897, in North-West Frontier Province, now in Pakistan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fund-unutilised-saragarhi-memorial-awaits-facelift-309362
11-09-2021||Aparna Banerji||Sole earner shot in US, kin in dire straits in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 10Six years ago, Simarjit Singh sold off his 7 kanals to send elder son, Gurjit Pal Singh, to the US. On Monday, Gurjit (22) was shot by a man in Texas over a game in a casino where he worked.Resident of Bassi Jaid village near Begowal in Kapurthala, the family is in dire straits as they have lost their only earning member, on whom they had pinned their hopes of a happy future.Jasraj Singh, Gurjit’s 16-year-old brother, who studies in Class XI, says: “The store owner called us to tell my brother had been shot. My aunt’s daughter who is also in the US also reached there. We are devastated.”Jasraj’s mother hasn’t stopped crying since. It was Gurjit’s sixth year in the US. He was working at a multi-utility store in Houston, Texas, which had a gas station and a casino within.Gurjit’s father Simarjit works as a milkman to make both ends meet. The family relied heavily on Gurjit’s earnings.“We had sent him after selling off land. He was repaying the debt. Our only earning member is gone. Father sells milk for a living but it merely keeps us afloat,” says Jasraj. Their sister is married in Canada.Speaking about the incident, Jasraj adds: “A man came to the casino around 7.30 pm and returned again at 10.30 pm. He shot my brother in a fit of rage after being told the casino timings were over. He was apparently under the influence of drugs.” “We don’t believe it’s a hate crime,” he adds.The family is now in a dilemma over catching a last glimpse of Gurjit. “Due to Covid, it will take two months to bring back the body. It will be handed over to relatives tomorrow. We request that my mother and father be granted a visa to visit the US for the last rites,” says Jasraj, adding both were vaccinated and had passports.Father sold landGurjit Pal Singh’s father Simarjit Singh had sold off his 7 kanals to send his son abroad six years ago. Now, he works as a milkman to make ends meet. Gurjit was working at a multi-utility store in Houston, Texas, and was repaying the family debt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sole-earner-shot-in-us-kin-in-dire-straits-in-punjab-309364
11-09-2021||Abohar||Fill vacant posts in government colleges: Panel to Sunil Jakhar||A deputation of the Sarkari College Bachao Manch met ex-PCC chief Sunil Jakhar and sought his intervention to improve the infrastructure in government colleges.Gurpreet Singh Dhaliwal, a member of the panel, said 1,873 regular posts of lecturer in 50 government colleges were notified in 1990 but the institutions had just 370 regular lecturers because successive governments made no efforts to recruit teaching staff. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fill-vacant-posts-in-government-colleges-panel-to-sunil-jakhar-309366
11-09-2021||Nangal||Labourer held for ‘killing’ wife||Shahi Imam passes away at 63Ludhiana: Shahi Imam Punjab, Hazrat Maulana Habib Ur Rehman Sa-ani Ludhianvi (63), passed away at a private hospital in Ludhiana on Thursday night after a brief illness. He is survived by his wife, a daughter and two sons. He was laid to rest beside the grave of his father. CM Capt Amarinder Singh mourned the demise. TNS‘Harassed’, man ends lifeSangrur: A man allegedly died by suicide at the house of his in-laws. The police have registered a case and started investigation. Sharing details, Inquiry Officer Badal Singh said the deceased, Maghar Singh, was married to Manpreet Kaur of Ghabdan on June 23. “The family of the deceased has alleged he was facing harassment from his wife and in-laws,” he said. TNSPolice to hire domain expertsChandigarh: The Punjab Police on Thursday began the recruitment process for hiring 2,631 domain experts in the rank of sub-inspector and constable. The last date for filing applications is September 29. The recruitment will be made under the technical and support service cadres. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/labourer-held-for-killing-wife-309369
11-09-2021||---||Punjab farmers join Karnal dharna||Ambala, September 10Hundreds of farmers from Punjab today gathered at the Shambhu toll plaza and took out the “Haryana Kisan Bachao” rally to join farmers protesting outside the Karnal mini secretariat.Carrying BKU (Charuni) flags and banners of “Mission Punjab 2022”, a long cavalcade of vehicles was seen on the Ambala-Delhi NH. Haryana farmers welcomed them at the toll plaza.Also read: Lathicharge: Govt puts onus of talks on Karnal admnFarmers pitch waterproof tents, gear up for long haul in KarnalThe farmers, mostly from Fatehgarh Sahib and Patiala, said they were on their way to Karnal to extend support to protesters there. If the demands are not met, more groups from Punjab would join the Karnal dharna, they said.Sarabjit Singh, a farmer leader from Punjab, said: “We support farmers’ demands. More ‘jathas’ will reach Karnal daily if the demands are not met.”Another farmer said, “Hundreds of FIRs have been registered against farmers for protesting, but no action has been taken against then SDM Ayush Sinha, who directed the police to crack the head of farmers. He must be booked and dismissed from service.”Meanwhile, farmers stopped at Pipli to mark the one year of police lathicharge. On September 10 last year, a high-voltage drama was witnessed as farmers and the police clashed after the former were denied entry to the Pipli grain market to participate in a state-level ‘Kisan Bachao-Mandi Bachao’ rally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-farmers-join-karnal-dharna-309462
11-09-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders call shots as parties line up for meet||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 10“Power with the people” was evident today at the meeting of top leaders of various political parties with the Samyukt Kisan Morcha leadership. The farm leaders dictated the terms and almost all parties towed their line.Also read: No breakthrough in Karnal, fresh parleys todayPunjab farmers join Karnal dharnaThe unions wanted the parties not to organise any big political events in the state till the time the elections were formally announced. Other than the Congress and SAD, all other parties supported the SKM on the issue.Congress and Akali representatives are learnt to have told the leaders they would discuss the issue with their respective party high commands before taking a call.As SKM leaders summoned politicians from all parties in Punjab (barring BJP), these leaders queued up outside the venue. As the farm union leaders called the shots, politicians of varied hues waited patiently for their turn to meet them.Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu along with other leaders waited for almost an hour to meet the leaders of 30 unions at People’s Convention Centre here. Sidhu and SAD (Sanyukt)’s Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa were the only party presidents to show up for the meeting, as other parties sent their representatives. The Dhindsas — Sukhdev and Parminder — who came to meet the farm leaders at 11 am were told to wait for their turn, till post lunch, for the meeting.No poll activityAnyone who starts political campaign now will be deemed as our opponent. Political activity starts only when polls are announced. — Balbir Singh Rajewal, SKM leaderCadre to visit DelhiWe will not hold rallies on day the SKM has a special event. The SAD will also send cadre to Delhi border to strengthen the stir. — Akali leaderAll should back stirThe Congress has suggested that all political parties should join the farmers in staging a dharna at Delhi borders. — Kuljit Nagra, CongressStand by themAAP has been standing by farmers since the protest began. We accept their demand for legal recognition to poll manifesto.— AAP leadersSatnam Singh, president, Kisan Ekta, Chandigarh, called it the “power of democracy” that had “tipped the scales” in favour of people. “Khu aap chal ke pyase kol aaya hai” (the well has walked up to the thirsty), he said.The first to meet the farmer leaders were SAD representatives led by Prem Singh Chandumajra. They later said they tried to convince the farmer leaders that going to the people was as much their right as that of the farmers.“We understand the kisan movement should not be affected. We will not hold rallies on any day on which the SKM announces a special programme. We are also ready to support the sangharsh by sending our cadre to the Delhi border protest sites. The SKM is also free to set a quota for participation from every political party and we will adhere to it,” said an Akali leader.After the meeting, Sidhu refused to comment, but tweeted: “Had a positive meeting with SKM… discussed the way forward!” Kuljit Nagra, who accompanied Sidhu, said they had suggested that all political parties should join the farmers in staging a dharna in Delhi.At the meeting, the leaders said peace in the state should not be disturbed and the democratic and political process should not be stopped. They said everyone should be wary of actions that could lead to imposition of President’s rule in the state.“We have asked all parties not to hold rallies till the elections are announced. It not only diverts people from the morcha to rallies, but also divides people along political lines and could threaten the farmers’ morcha against the three agriculture laws. We also wanted to know their (parties) views on free power to farmers,” said Veerpal of Bhartiya Kisan Union Qadian.Later, BKU leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said they had asked farmers not to gherao leaders when they came for social functions. “Anyone who starts their political campaign now will be deemed as our opponent and dealt with accordingly. Political activity starts only when the elections are announced. Then why do it now?” he said, adding they had asked all parties to ask their elected representatives to stage a dharna outside Parliament.Rajewal said they had asked all parties to give legal sanctity to their manifestos and come up with a roadmap to fulfil the promises made before elections. “We also reminded them of their promise to withdraw all cases registered against farmers while they were participating in the ongoing protests,” he said.On their part, AAP leaders Aman Arora and Kultar Sandhwan said: “AAP stood with farmers from the beginning and will always be there. Legal recognition to poll manifesto is the need of the hour, and we accept this. Even if the Congress and Akalis agree not to hold rallies, they will continue their political activity through the government and SGPC, respectively.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/samyukt-kisan-morcha-leaders-call-shots-as-parties-line-up-for-meet-309342
11-09-2021||---||Can’t probe, arrest Sumedh Singh Saini till elections in February: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, September 10In an embarrassment for Punjab, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today ruled that former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini’s role in multiple cases could be a “political ploy in the wake of the upcoming state Assembly elections”. The assertion came as the court ordered a clear stay not only on the investigation in all cases against him, but also on his arrest in all registered or likely to be registered cases.Also read: High Court draws parallel between fable, Sumedh Singh Saini caseThe order would remain in force at least till the elections in February next year. Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan asserted he was conscious of the dare shown by the Punjab Police officials in trying to overreach the court, which was also a circumstance to be considered about the nature and quality of the investigation being conducted by them in the FIRs. In his 46-page judgment, Justice Sangwan asserted the order was being passed considering it to be a case of exceptional circumstances and hardships being caused to the petitioner by the Punjab Government on political grounds.He asserted there would be a clear stay on his arrest in all cases pending, likely to be registered, or registered, along with matters where he was sought to be implicated “in the aid of Section 120-B of the IPC (conspiracy)”. The only exception would be the Multani case where the matter was pending before the Supreme Court. There would also be a clear stay on conducting further investigation in all FIRs pending against him.Saini was directed not to leave the country without the court’s prior permission till then. The case will now come up for hearing on December 13. He was, among other things, seeking directions to the state to handover the investigation to the CBI or to other independent agency outside the state. His counsels APS Deol and HS Deol contended the petitioner apprehended false implication in criminal cases on account of malice, mala fides and ulterior motives on the part of the political party in power in the state.Court observes...||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cant-probe-arrest-sumedh-singh-saini-till-elections-in-february-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-309446
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Forced leave for staff ducking vaccine; Punjab curbs till September 30||Extending the existing Covid restrictions till September 30, the Punjab Government today said its employees who failed to take even the first vaccine dose till September 15 would be compulsorily sent on leave.Chairing a review meeting here today, CM Capt Amarinder Singh announced several measures, including limiting the gatherings — political, religious or others — to 300.It will be mandatory for organisers to ensure that participants, management and staff at food stalls in festival-related or other events are fully vaccinated or at least have had the first dose. The CM allowed teaching and non-teaching school staff who have taken at least one dose of vaccine more than four weeks ago to resume duties, subject to submission of weekly RT-PCR negative test reports. Those with comorbid conditions shall be allowed only after they are fully vaccinated.The CM said the situation in schools had remained under control. Calling for continued vigil during festivals, he urged political parties to lead by example, while directing the DGP to ensure compliance of restrictions. — TNS34,973 cases in IndiaTOTAL DEATHS 4,42,009 ACTIVE CASES 3,90,646260 deaths in 24 hoursPolitical gatherings limited to 300||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/forced-leave-for-staff-ducking-vaccine-punjab-curbs-till-september-30-309456
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Stop electioneering till schedule for Punjab Assembly polls is out: Farm bodies to political parties||Farmer bodies protesting the Centre’s agriculture laws on Friday appealed to political parties to suspend their election campaign till the schedule for the Punjab Assembly polls is out so that the focus remains on their agitation.Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, who presided over the meeting, said Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders said they will consult their party leadership before announcing their decision.The Congress delegation was led by its Punjab unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.In a tweet after the meeting, Sidhu said, “Had a positive meeting with Samyukt Kisan Morcha … Discussed the way forward !!”            Apart from the two parties, representatives of AAP, BSP, Lok Insaaf Party and the SAD (Sanyukt) took part in the meeting, for which the invite was not sent to the BJP for the party’s pro-farm laws stand.Meanwhile, the Shiromani Akali Dal requested the farmer bodies not to impose restrictions on political activities in Punjab, stressing that the protesting organisations should maintain the national character of their stir.After the five-hour-long meeting, Rajewal told reporters, “We appeal to parties that electioneering should not be held before the polls are announced. The party, which will still insist on running an election campaign before poll dates are announced, we will consider them as against the farmers’ agitation.”      Rajewal further said, “As our Morcha (agitation) is going on and a different kind of situation prevails currently, farmers’ attention is focused on the Morcha. When parties conduct electioneering and mobilise supporters for their programmes, it diverts their attention.”                 Some other farm leaders said representatives of political parties were asked not to indulge in electioneering or hold political rallies till the elections are announced as it may hurt the farmers’ struggle.However, they said parties are free to hold small functions that do not attract big gatherings.Rajewal said all parties asserted that they stand behind farmers.As many as 32 farmer bodies under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha had called the meeting.Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, state party general secretary Pargat Singh and working president Kuljit Singh Nagra attended the meeting ,while the SAD was represented by Balwinder Singh Bhundar, Prem Singh Chandumajra and Daljit Singh Cheema.Aam Aadmi Party MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Lok Insaaf Party’s Simarjit Singh Bains and SAD (Sanyukt) leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa also attended the meeting.Political parties were allotted time slots for the meeting and many were seen waiting at the venue here before their turn came.Rajewal said they urged parties that their poll manifesto should be a legal document and most participants supported this.Farm leaders also urged the parties to declare time frame under which they will fulfil their promises.Rajewal said they appealed to MPs and MLAs to give a dharna before Parliament against the farm laws.All cases registered against farmers in the state during the ongoing agitation should be taken back, the ruling outfit was urged. Congress leader Kuljit Nagra said they will discuss the demand raised by the farmer bodies on the party platform.Nagra said the Congress has always stood with farmers and continues to support them in their fight against the farm laws.AAP’s Kultar Singh told reporters that his party was the first to oppose the farm ordinances and later when these were introduced as laws. They will abide by whatever farm unions decide, he said.The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has requested the Samyukt Kisan Morcha to retain the national character of the agitation by not imposing any restriction on political activities in Punjab even as it offered all help to further strengthen the stir, a party statement said.Senior SAD leaders Prem Singh Chandumajra and Maheshinder Singh Grewal said a conspiracy is afoot by the Centre to restrict the agitation to Punjab and then suppress it by imposing President’s rule in the state.“Our fight is with the BJP-led government at the national level. Political activity has not been restricted due to the farmers’ agitation in any other state. Going to people is as much your right as ours and this should not be restricted,” Chandumajra said.The SAD leaders said they will not hold rallies on any day on which the SKM announces a major programme in Punjab. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stop-electioneering-till-schedule-for-punjab-assembly-polls-is-out-farm-bodies-to-political-parties-309318
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||HC stays ex-Punjab DGP Sumedh Saini's arrest in all cases till February 2022||In a major embarrassment for the Punjab government, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Friday ruled that Punjab’s former police chief Sumedh Singh Saini’s involvement in multiple cases could be a “political ploy in wake of the coming State legislative assembly general elections”. The assertion came as the High Court ordered a clear stay not only on the investigation in all the cases against him, but also on his arrest in all the registered or likely to be registered cases.The order would remain in force at least till the general election in the state February next onwards. Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan asserted he was conspicuous of the dare shown by the Punjab Police officials in trying to overreach the Court, which was also a circumstance to be considered about the nature and quality of investigation being conducted by the Punjab Police in the FIRs.In his 46-page judgment, Justice Sangwan asserted the order was being passed considering it to be a case of exceptional circumstances and hardship being caused to the petitioner by the State of Punjab on political grounds.Elaborating on the directions, Justice Sangwan asserted there would be a clear stay on his arrest in all cases pending, likely to be registered, or registered, along with matters where he was sought to be implicated “in the aid of Section 120-B of the IPC (conspiracy)”. The only exception would be the Multani case, where the matter was pending before the Supreme CourtJustice Sangwan added there would also be a clear stay on conducting further investigation in all the FIRs pending against the petitioner as attempts were made to arrest him for conspiracy in the aid of Section 120-B of the IPC. In the previous FIRs, such attempts were made and the petitioner had to file repeated petitions before the High Court.Justice Sangwan added there would also be a clear stay on conducting or pursuing any other investigation, including by any commission appointed by the State, till February 2022. Saini’s personal appearance before Courts where any trial was pending would also remain exempted till then on moving an appropriate applicationSaini, too, was directed not to leave the country without the High Court’s prior permission till then. The case will now come up for hearing on December 13. He was, among other things, seeking directions to the State of Punjab to handover the investigation in any matter registered against him to the Central Bureau of Investigation or to any other independent agency outside the State of Punjab. His counsel, senior advocate APS Deol and H.S. Deol, contended the petitioner apprehended false implication in criminal cases on account of malice, mala fides and ulterior motives on the part of the political party in power in the State.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-stays-ex-punjab-dgp-sumedh-sainis-arrest-in-all-cases-till-february-2022-309304
11-09-2021||---||Govt employees to be sent on compulsory leave if first dose of Covid vaccine not taken: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, September 10Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh said on Friday that state government employees failing to take even the first dose of Covid vaccine for any reason other than medical will be compulsorily sent on leave after September 15.This strong measure, an official statement said, was announced by Capt Amarinder to protect the people of the state from the disease, and to ensure that those who are vaccinated do not have to pay the price for continued vaccine hesitancy of those who are not.At the high-level virtual Covid review meeting held on Friday, the Chief Minister said vaccine effectiveness is evident from the data being analysed.Special efforts were taken to reach out to government employees, and those who continue to avoid getting vaccinated will now be asked to go on leave till they get the first dose, he said.Captain Amarinder also allowed teaching and non-teaching school staff, who had taken at least one dose of vaccine more than four weeks ago, to resume duties, subject to the submission of weekly negative RTPCR test reports. However, all those with co-morbidities shall only be allowed once they are fully vaccinated, he added.Noting that the state had already vaccinated more than 57% of the eligible population, with the first dose administered to 1.18 crore and second to 37.81 lakh people, the Chief Minister ordered further intensification of the vaccination drive. Teachers, parents of young children and vendors should be given priority for inoculation, he directed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-employees-to-be-sent-on-compulsory-leave-if-first-dose-of-covid-vaccine-not-taken-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-309279
11-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Shahi Imam passes away; Amarinder expresses grief||Punjab Shahi Imam Hazrat Maulana Habib Ur Rehman Saani Ludhianvi died at a private hospital in Ludhiana after a brief illness, a state government statement said here on Friday.The 63-year-old died on Thursday night. He is survived by wife, a daughter and two sons.Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh condoled the demise.In a message, Singh described the Shahi Imam as a spiritual personality, who always propagated the message of love, peace and harmony.“Shahi Imam’s immense contribution in cementing the bonds of brotherhood, amity and bonhomie amongst mankind would always be remembered by one and all across the state,” he said.“A void has been created in the religious fraternity, especially amongst the Muslim community, which is difficult to fill,” the chief minister said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-shahi-imam-passes-away-amarinder-expresses-grief-309249
11-09-2021||Amritsar||Post-revamp: Sec 144 clamped at Jallianwala Bagh||As anger against the “renovation” of Jallianwala Bagh is brewing up, the Amritsar police have put a ban on holding any protest, assembly or gathering of five or more persons in its vicinity.Over a century after the bloodbath, it was for the first time that Section 144 was imposed in and around the Bagh, citing a threat to the life and property by outfits planning rallies and protests.Also read:The Jallianwala Bagh makeoverJallianwala Bagh: Kin of 1919 martyrs hold candle march, want original character restoredJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampLooks nice: Punjab CM contradicts Rahul Gandhi on Jallianwala remakeOn Baisakhi in 1919, Brigadier General Reginald Dyer had opened fire at unarmed people at Jallianwala Bagh, claiming that he had ordered a ban on public assembly in any part of the city.Effective till Nov 6Such a situation can create fear of damage to public and private property. It’s prudent to take preventive steps. The order will remain in force till November 6. —Parminder Singh Bhandal, Amritsar DCPDharna on Sept 14This order is an attempt to stifle people’s voice. We will stage a dharna on Sept 14 at 11 am as the Bagh’s history has been tampered with. —Ramesh Yadav, Folklore research academyNow, Parminder Singh Bhandal, Executive Magistrate-cum-Deputy Commissioner Police, Amritsar, using his powers under Section 144 of the CrPC, has ordered a ban on the assembly of five or more persons at one place for protest, rallies, meetings or raising slogans in the jurisdiction of all police stations of the Amritsar police.Bhandal said some farmers, political outfits and other organisations had been planning gatherings, rallies, protests and dharnas in the district. The orders will remain in force till November 6.“Such a situation can create fear of damage to public and private property. It is prudent to take the preventive steps to maintain the law and order and protect the life and property of common people,” he said.According to the directions, these orders should be publicised through speakers fitted atop vehicles of the district Public Relations Department and copies should be pasted on the notice boards of offices of the administration, district magistrate, tehsildars and all police stations in Amritsar urban and rural segments.Meanwhile, martyrs’ kin and various social and political organisations staged protest against several changes introduced during the renovation of the Bagh. They demanded its originality to be restored.AAP district in charge Jeevan Jyot, Folklore Research Academy president Ramesh Yadav, CPI senior leader Amarjeet Singh Asal, Pragatisheel Lekhak Sangh activist Bhupinder Singh Sandhu and Tarksheel Society president Sumeet Singh have jointly declared to stage a dharna at the Bagh on September 14 at 11 am.“The ‘nadarshahi farmaans’ of the government are an attempt to stifle people’s voice. We will stage a dharna as per our plan as the history of the Bagh has been tampered with,” Yadav said.Sunil Kapoor, great grandson of martyr Vasu Mal Kapoor, said: “The same orders were enforced 100 years ago by the British government at the Jallianwala Bagh. When it was defied, the British troops opened fire at innocent people. It appears that the same vision and mentality prevails in the present day government. Such orders will not deter us from contesting the Centre’s move to ignore our forefathers’ sacrifices. We won’t let this Bagh turn into a recreational park,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/post-revamp-sec-144-clamped-at-jallianwala-bagh-308917
11-09-2021||Aparna Banerji||Restore Jallianwala Bagh’s old look, panel writes to PM Modi||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 8The Desh Bhagat Yaadgar Committee, Jalandhar, has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is also the chairman of the Jalliwanala Bagh National Memorial Trust, expressing resentment and anger over the recent ‘beautification’ of the Jallianwala Bagh. The committee has requested the PM to form a panel of prominent historians to “right the historical wrong” and sought the restoration of the Bagh. Also read The Jallianwala Bagh makeoverJallianwala Bagh: Kin of 1919 martyrs hold candle march, want original character restoredJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampLooks nice: Punjab CM contradicts Rahul Gandhi on Jallianwala remakeMembers of the committee had recently visited the memorial on September 4 after which they raised objections over the recent changes made at the Bagh.Desh Bhagat Yaadgar CommitteeNot a festive placeThe murals displayed on the walls of its entrance remind one of a festival and not of a place where more than thousands of Indians were massacred by the British government.In its memorandum, signed by committee president Ajmer Singh and general secretary Gurmeet Singh, sent to the PMO, the committee sought restoration of the Jallianwala Bagh to its earlier form and layout.The committee members said: “We have also asked the government not to impose any entrance fee for visiting the memorial, as they have constructed booking counters at the memorial.”They said the changes had divested the memorial of its historical heritage and had transformed it into a picnic spot. “The murals displayed on the walls of its entrance remind one of a festival and not of a place where more than thousands of Indians were massacred by the British government. Similarly, the well in which hundreds of people jumped to escape the British, has now been concealed in a glass wall through which almost nothing is visible,” they said. The letter adds, “In the same manner, the rendition of history in the videos has its own deliberate omissions and inaccuracies. The use of the term ‘nationalism’ and avoidance of the terms ‘freedom struggle’ or ‘anti-colonial movement’ is also methodologically problematic.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/restore-jallianwala-baghs-old-look-panel-writes-to-pm-modi-308537
