12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Had Harsimrat rejected farm ordinances, farmers would have spared ‘black day’: AAP||Had Harsimrat Kaur Badal not “signed” the Centre’s farm ordinances, the SAD would not have needed to observe September 17 as “black day”, the Aam Aadmi Party said on Sunday.AAP MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan made the remarks taking a dig at the Shiromani Akali Dal’s announcement on Saturday that they would observe September 17 as “Black Day” on the completion of a year of the promulgation of the ordinances.The SAD had also said its workers would take out a protest march from Gurdwara Rakabganj to Parliament to seek the repeal of the three farm laws.“If Harsimrat Kaur Badal had not signed the ordinances as Union minister, the black day would have never dawned on farmers,” said Sandhwan.Sandhwan, however, appealed to all pro-farmer organisations and political parties to observe September 17 as a “black day” at the national level to support farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws.He alleged that the Narendra Modi government has turned out to be the “most dictatorial government in the history of India, violating the rights of the farmers, labourers, employees and students of the country”.The AAP MLA also said the agitation against the “black laws” from the land of Punjab has not only empowered farmers in India but also created awareness among the farmers and labourers of the USA, Canada, Australia, Europe and Africa, for the protection of their rights.“When the Akali Dal Badal has unwittingly declared September 17 as a black day with reference to anti-agriculture black laws, they should also repent for signing the farm ordinances and campaigning for the agricultural laws for three months,” he said.The AAP leader further said in fact, the Akali Dal was “one of the pioneers of black agriculture laws” and had been “a big supporter and propagandist” of these laws.He said in Punjab, the Akali Dal was not allowed to enter the villages and cities by the public.Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal had resigned as Union minister while the Akali Dal had quit the National Democratic Alliance over the farm laws last year. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/had-harsimrat-rejected-farm-ordinances-farmers-would-have-spared-black-day-aap-310210
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||33 new Covid cases reported in Punjab||Punjab recorded 33 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday that took the infection tally to 6,01,040, according to a medical bulletin.No Covid-related death was reported on Sunday. The death toll stands 16,453, it said.The number of active cases in the state dropped to 306 from 319 on Saturday.Of the new cases, Ludhiana reported nine, followed by seven in Patiala and five in Gurdaspur, according to the bulletin.Forty-four people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,84,281, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/33-new-covid-cases-reported-in-punjab-310207
12-09-2021||Ferozepur||Punjab CM pays tribute to soldiers of historic Saragarhi battle||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday paid tributes to the soldiers of the historic Saragarhi battle on its 124th anniversary.The chief minister digitally paid obeisance in Gurdwara Saragarhi during the state-level martyrdom day function.In his address, he also recalled the valour of the 22 soldiers of the 36th Sikh stationed near Samana ridge (now in Pakistan), who laid down their lives after a fierce battle following an attack by nearly 10,000 Afghans on September 12, 1897.Giving the background, the chief minister said in order to quell the disturbances in the Pathan areas, four columns of the then British Indian Army were sent by General Lockhart.Of these, 36th Sikh comprising 21 Sikh soldiers and a cook, was assigned the task of defending Saragarhi an observation post to ensure that the communication between Fort Lockhart and Fort Gulistan is not disrupted.“On September 12, 1897 morning, Pathans of Afridi and Orakzai tribes in huge numbers attacked the Saragarhi post. The Pathans demands for surrender were rebuffed strongly by Havaldar Ishar Singh.“Soon the attack ensued, prompting Ishar Singh to send a signal to his superior Colonel Houghton who asked them to hold positions,” said Singh, adding the battle continued till mid-afternoon and every Sikh soldier fired 400-500 rounds of ammunition.The chief minister further said all the efforts to send help to the besieged soldiers were unsuccessful owing to a large number of tribal Pathans.At last, Sepoy Gurmukh Singh sent the last signal to Colonel Houghton and picked up the gun to fight. None of the soldiers surrendered and all were martyred.The CM further said it is also a matter of pride that the statue of Havaldar Ishar Singh is being unveiled today in Wolverhampton in the United Kingdom.Paying glowing tributes to the martyrs on the occasion, Sports and Youth Affairs Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi said the martyrdom of these Sikh soldiers was recognised all over the world with even Queen Victoria acknowledging the same and awarding the highest gallantry award at that time, Indian Order of Merit (IOM), equivalent to Param Vir Chakra, to each martyr.While releasing a brochure on Saragarhi, the minister said the sacrifices of these soldiers would be ever remembered by one and all. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-pays-tribute-to-soldiers-of-historic-saragarhi-battle-310203
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu writes to Punjab CM, seeks action on farmers’ demands||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday wrote to Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, seeking action on farmers’ demands, including cancellation of “unfair” FIRs registered against growers during their agitation.Asserting that the Congress stood by farmers’ agitation against the farm laws at every stage, Sidhu, however, asked the state government, “we must do more” and “not let the three black laws be implemented in Punjab at any cost.”Sidhu wrote to the chief minister two days after meeting representatives of 32 farm bodies which had raised their demands with him.In a meeting with representatives of all political parties except the BJP, the farmer leaders had told them not to carry out electioneering till the Punjab polls are announced.In a letter to the CM, Sidhu wrote, “This is to bring to your attention and request for necessary action, upon the demands raised by 32 farmer unions at the meeting called by them.”Sidhu said farmer leaders demanded “the cancellation of unjust and unfair” FIRs registered against the farmer unions due to cases of violence during the agitation in the state.”Noting that the Congress and the state government provided support to farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws, Sidhu said, “Yet, some FIRs have been registered due to untoward incidences,” adding that the government could set up a mechanism to consider each case on compassionate grounds and cancel all “unfair” cases.Referring to farmers’ fear of demand for land records by the Centre before the crop procurement, Sidhu asked the state government to fight against the Centre’s “injustice”.“I personally believe it is unfair,” said Sidhu, adding that partition of land had not happened in many parts of the state for decades.“This is also an attack on the resilient system of procurement by MSP through Arhtiyas and to push the farmers away from APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committees) mandis towards private markets where no such records are being demanded. Thus, I strongly feel that the Central Govt is actually creating ‘One Nation, Two Markets’ with different rules for APMC and private markets. This injustice we must fight against !,” wrote Sidhu.Sidhu also pointed out a hike in budget allocation for agriculture, Rs 7,181 crore of power subsidy, Rs 5,810 crore of farm debt waiver and Rs 520 crore of loan waiver for farm labour and landless farmers.“Noting the efficiency of Govt procurement done by the Congress Govt. Congress workers and leaders have stood by the farmer agitation at every stage of the protest.“Yet, we must do more, standing firmer on our resolution passed in Vidhan Sabha in October 2020, We should not let the three blacks be implemented in our state at any cost !,” he stated.Sidhu stressed on procurement of pulses and oilseeds through state corporations to increase farmers’ income.“We must take steps ahead from the farmer agitation’s fight against the three black laws to do more and present the vision for Punjab agriculture, to increase Punjab’s farmers’ income using every resource and power we have as a state to stand with the farmers,” he wrote.He said, “We must begin procurement of ‘dals’ and oilseeds through state corporations.” “Further, invest in diversification with giving MSP on more crops, giving storage capacity in hands of farmers and strengthening farmer’s financial capabilities through cooperatives and forward linkages to trade without dependence on corporates,” he wrote. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-writes-to-punjab-cm-seeks-action-on-farmers-demands-310201
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Rains lash many parts of Punjab, Haryana; mercury drops||Rains lashed many parts of Punjab and Haryana on Sunday leading to a dip in the day temperatures.Chandigarh, the common capital of both states, which was lashed by 17 mm of rain during the day, recorded a maximum temperature of 28.4 degrees Celsius, down five notches against normal range, according to the Meteorological Department’s weather report issued here.In Haryana, Ambala was lashed by heavy rains (23.8 mm) after which day temperature dropped by three notches below normal to settle at 29.8 degrees Celsius.Karnal, which received 7.8 mm of rain, recorded a maximum of 30.6 degrees Celsius, down two notches.Hisar’s maximum settled at 32 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal limits, after receiving 0.6 mm rain.Gurugram, which received 4.8 mm rain during the day, recorded a high of 30.6 degrees Celsius, down three notches against normal while Rohtak, which received 7 mm rain, recorded a maximum of 31.8 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal.In Punjab, holy city Amritsar, which had received a heavy downpour two days ago leading to water-logging in some areas, on Sunday received 4 mm rain and the maximum temperature dropped nine notches below normal limits to settle at 25.7 degrees Celsius.Ludhiana’s maximum temperature settled at 27.9 degrees Celsius, down five notches after being lashed by 12 mm of rain while Patiala, which received 2 mm rain, recorded a high of 30.2 degrees down three notches against normal. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rains-lash-many-parts-of-punjab-haryana-mercury-drops-310183
12-09-2021||Ludhiana||Chairman of Nova cycles Harmohinder Pahwa dies of cardiac arrest in Ludhiana||Noted industrialist Harmohinder Singh Pahwa, the chairman and managing director of Nova cycles, died of cardiac arrest here on Sunday at the age of 76.He is survived by his son and two daughters.Pahwa had gone to a local club where he suffered a heart attack. He was immediately taken to a private hospital where he breathed his last.D S Chawla, the president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association said, “All his life he (Pahwa) worked for the growth of the cycle industry. He was a gentleman industrialist.”His cremation will take place after one of his daughters return from London. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chairman-of-nova-cycles-harmohinder-pahwa-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-in-ludhiana-310177
12-09-2021||---||Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya honours Punjab schools||Mohali, September 11Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya today presented the FAP State Awards 2021 at Chandigarh University, Gharuan.The event was hosted by the Federation of Private School and Association of Punjab.Gurukul Grover Crenza Senior Secondary School Patran (Patiala); Dream Public School, Ramgarh Sikri, Talwara (Hoshiarpur); Premjot Public Senior Secondary School Kapurthala; Dayanand Aadarsh Vidyala Hoshiarpur; and Angel World School, Morinda, were awarded for the best infrastructure.Noted Punjabi writer and poet Dr Surjit Patar received the Lifetime Achievement Award for his contribution in the field of Punjabi literature. Environmentalist and social worker Balbir Singh Seechewal was given the Lifetime Achievement Award for his contribution in the field of environment protection.The Governor also conferred Award of Honor to India hockey players Harmanpreet Singh, Rupinderpal Singh and captain Manpreet Singh, who were part of the bronze medal winning team at the Tokyo Olympics.“Punjab is a progressive state in every field, including education,” said Dattatreya.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/haryana-governor-bandaru-dattatreya-honours-punjab-schools-309891
12-09-2021||Mohali||Closing in on 2 killers of SOI leader Vicky Middukhera: Mohali Cops||The police claim to have identified two of the four killers of SOI leader Vicky Middukhera. Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said: “Two of the four assailants are gangsters involved in various incidents in the past. One of them belongs to Haryana while the other is from Delhi. Our teams are actively pursuing them and it is just a matter of time that they will be nabbed.”Whether the murder is a case of contract killing or personal rivalry is yet to be established, he added.Middukhera was shot dead in broad daylight in Mohali on August 7. Four armed men fired around 10 bullets at the young leader in the Sector 71 market around 10.30 am before fleeing the spot. He tried to run away from the spot when two youths opened fire at him, but the assailants fired more bullets at him.From Day 1, the police have been probing the case from the gang-war angle among others. The police believe Lucky Khuda Lahora, a gangster lodged in a jail of Armenia, to be one of the prime suspects. They have been conducting raids in Haryana, Delhi and other places and rounding up suspects to get leads. The police have questioned several gangsters and suspects lodged in various jails of Punjab. Now, they have shifted their focus on to gangsters active outside Punjab. “Two of them are not from Punjab; the identity of the other two is being worked out,” he said.After the incident, the police said the assailants were spotted in CCTV footage in which they were fleeing in a white car towards Delhi on the Chandigarh-Delhi highway near Ambala. Hours after the murder, the Davinder Bambiha group had claimed they murdered Middukhera over personal reasons. A day later, the Lawrence Bishnoi group vowed to avenge his death.Middukhera had played an active role in supporting Bishnoi and Nehra in student politics around 2010. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/closing-in-on-2-killers-of-soi-leader-vicky-middukhera-mohali-cops-309904
12-09-2021||Aman Sood||Commuters brave traffic snarls as agitators block Patiala roads||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 11Local commuters and the ones passing through the city are facing a harrowing time with traffic snarls being reported on almost all roads. Agitators have blocked some roads permanently.Last night, traffic jams stretching up to 5 km were witnessed on the Sirhind road where traffic coming from Chandigarh and Sirhind side was diverted.Agitators have erected tents at two protest sites while the district administration has turned a blind eye to the encroachment. Contractual employees of the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), contractual employees of various departments, police recruits awaiting joining and teachers are on strike in Patiala.“It took me three hours to reach from Chandigarh to my house in Patiala. To cover the last 6 km in Patiala, it took me around two hours. There was no policeman to manage the traffic. Even buses and trucks were using that narrow Sirhind road,” said a former IAS officer.“People in the hometown of the Chief Minister are suffering every day due to regular blockades by various associations. It is high time the government starts bothering about the common man on road,” he said.Another commuter, Ashim Gupta, told The Tribune that earlier, it would take 15 minutes to reach the bank from his house. But these days, it took him an hour to reach there. “Fuel prices are rising and it is sheer harassment being faced by the public in Patiala. The government is not acting tough and agitators block roads at will,” he said.“The agitators come to Patiala since they want to be heard in the CM’s home constituency. But since the CM is not here, only residents of Patiala are being troubled,” he added.The police are under pressure regulating traffic and ensuring law and order at dharna sites in the city. Owing to inability on the part of the government to take decisive action against agitators, all major roads stand blocked.“A majority of agitators are demanding regular jobs or are upset with the government on some pretext or the other. If we get clear directions, we can stop all such agitations,” said a police officer, preferring anonymity.Patiala SDM Charanjit Singh said: “We have asked the traffic police to put up more traffic signage boards on the Sirhind bypass. Moreover, we are planning to deploy more traffic marshals on the stretch to manage traffic movement. Besides, people, who want to go to Chandigarh , should use the Sangrur bypass.”Traffic advisoryThe administration has stated that the Patiala-Rajpura road from Urban Estate Chowk to Choura Road Chowk would be closed to traffic from Sunday for construction of a flyover in front of the new bus stand. People coming from Chandigarh/Rajpura side are advised to divert from Urban Estate Chowk to the Sirhind bypass. Those coming from Patiala and going to Rajpura/Chandigarh side can take route via Sirhind bypass/Baddi Nadi road.Royal City protesters’ favouriteAccording to the data collected by The Tribune, 1,153 dharnas or agitations had been held in Patiala from March 1 to August 31. Of these, 57 were state-level dharnas, for which the district administration had to call additional force from other districts and even reserve battalions. Several police personnel and agitators were injured during protests. On an average, the district police and local residents are troubled by around 200 agitations per month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/commuters-brave-traffic-snarls-as-agitators-block-patiala-roads-309908
12-09-2021||---||Congress, BJP men clash in Ludhiana; 15 hurt||Ludhiana, September 11As many as 15 persons were injured when Youth Congress (YC) and BJP workers today clashed near the Clock Tower, hurling stones and shoes at each other. The injured were admitted to various city hospitals.The clash occurred after Youth Congress workers staged a protest and tried to lock the BJP office to protest price rise and three farm laws.The BJP office was barricaded by the police to prevent Congress workers from entering the premises. However, the situation got out of hand after workers from both sides started pelting stones. Heavy police force deployed at the venue tried to contain the situation by resorting to a lathicharge.Centre to blameThe Centre has not acceded to the genuine demands of farmers. That’s why it was decided to lock the local BJP office. —Yogesh Handa, YC district presidentwhat about scamsIt is a bid to divert the attention from alleged swindling of crores of rupees from the sale of property by the Improvement Trust. Ashwani Sharma, Punjab BJP chiefYogesh Handa, YC district president, said: “Our plan was to lock the local BJP office to protest rising prices and show solidarity with farmers. For nearly a year, the Centre has not acceded to the genuine demands of farmers. That’s why it was decided to lock the local BJP office.”District BJP president Pushpinder Singhal claimed Congress workers started pelting them with stones, injuring party workers. “One of them even lost his eyesight. We are not frightened. We will give an apt reply,” said Singhal.District Congress president Ashwani Sharma said their protest was peaceful. “In the past too, protests have been held over inflation, but today BJP workers pelted our workers with stones in which four party men got injured. What has happened is uncalled for as holding peaceful protest is our right,” he said after enquiring about the health of party workers at the hospital.Later, Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma reached Ludhiana to check on the injured party workers. Sharma said there was no law and order in the state. “It is bid to divert the attention from alleged swindling of crores of rupees from the sale of public property by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust through e-auction. We won’t be silenced by such acts,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-bjp-men-clash-in-ludhiana-15-hurt-309817
12-09-2021||---||Provide cheaper diesel to farmers, PM Modi urged||Faridkot, September 11The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Khosa) on Saturday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to issue special cards to farmers to provide them diesel on base prices for agricultural use.In a letter to the Prime Minister’s Office, the union asked PM Modi to provide diesel at Rs 35 per litre. For this purpose, the government needed to provide special cards to farmers.Keeping in view the high input costs in agriculture with a stupendous increase in fuel prices, seeds, pesticides, insecticides and fertilisers, farming was turning into a low-return venture, claimed the union leaders. Diesel was one of the main components in agriculture to run tractors for sowing and transportation. The meagre increase in the MSP was no succour, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/provide-cheaper-diesel-to-farmers-pm-modi-urged-309818
12-09-2021||---||Akali Dal plans Parliament march, no poll yatra for now||Chandigarh, September 11While keeping the ‘Gal Punjab Di’ yatra temporarily suspended, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today decided to observe September 17 as a ‘Black Day’ to mark the completion of one year of enactment of the three farm laws.In a statement issued here today, party senior vice-president Daljit Singh Cheema said party workers alongside farmers would hold a march from Gurdwara Rakabganj to Parliament demanding repeal of the three laws on September 17. Cheema said the decision was taken at a meeting of party MLAs, district presidents, halqa sewadars and members of the core committee here today. Party president Sukhbir Singh Badal presided over the meeting.Deliberations under wayWe are holding further consultations with party workers and leaders on how and when to restart the ‘Gal Punjab Di’ yatra. —Daljit Singh Cheema, SAD senior vice-president“We are holding further consultations with party workers and leaders on how and when to restart the ‘Gal Punjab Di’ yatra,” said Cheema. The Akalis had halted the yatra after members of the Kisan Morcha protested against the campaign.The Kisan Morcha leaders had on Friday held meetings with various political parties, including the Akalis, and asked them to defer election campaign till the elections schedule was announced. With the fresh decision, the Akali Dal aims to avoid confrontation with the farmers.Cheema said on September 17 last year, party MPs Harsimrat Kaur Badal and Sukhbir Singh Badal had opposed the passage of the three farm laws in Parliament and they were the only MPs to vote against the Bills.Later, Harsimrat resigned from the Cabinet and the SAD quit the NDA government before snapping its alliance with the ruling BJP.Cheema said the Akali Dal was the only political party that had “sacrificed ministership and alliance for the cause of farmers” whereas others only claimed to have resignation letters in their pockets, which were never tendered. He said the SAD stood by the farmers in their cause and would continue to do so until the “black laws” were repealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akali-dal-plans-parliament-march-no-poll-yatra-for-now-309819
12-09-2021||---||DAP limit cut for coop societies irks unions||Bathinda, September 11The state government’s decision to reduce DAP fertilisers’ limit for cooperative societies from 80 per cent to 50 per cent (as per a notification issued recently) has not gone down well with Malwa farmers who have termed it a “ploy” by Centre to end cooperative societies in the state and hand over their control to private players.Union leaders said the move would directly affect marginal farmers in the state. Not only would it become expensive to buy DAP at subsidised rates from societies, but it would also get tougher for them to procure fertiliser from private players, they said.Earlier, 80 per cent of DAP fertiliser was sold to farmers by cooperative societies while 20 per cent was sold by private players. Through a recent notification, the state government has announced that fertiliser would now be sold at 50:50 ratio by cooperative societies and private players. Farmers have asked the government to revoke the notification or they would start a state-wide agitation soon.Will Spell doomThe farming sector is already facing crisis and weakening or end of cooperative societies will spell doom for the marginal farmer. —Bhupinder Singh, Union presidentCan’t exhaust stockFarmers are already buying 50% of fertilisers from private players and since societies’ stocks can’t be exhausted, their share has been reduced. —Sukhdev Singh Sidhu, Agri dept directorBKU Sidhupur state president Jagjit Singh Dallewal told The Tribune: “Such decisions are nothing but pressure tactics of the Centre that wants to give reins of agriculture and related sectors to private players. It wants to end cooperative societies — a support system that has assisted marginal and medium scale farmers for years.” Owing to short supply of urea and DAP, farmers had to buy it at exorbitant rates from private players last year.Sources in the Cooperative Department said wheat season was drawing closer and with new changes in place, the shortage of fertiliser was bound to create problems for farmers in the state.BKU Ekta Ugrahan Mansa president Ram Singh Bhaini Bhagha said: “We condemn the government decision. Cooperative societies do handholding of farmers by providing them fertilisers and other material at lower interest rates. The 50:50 ratio will encourage hoarding and create shortage, thus leading to a rise in cost of fertilisers in the market.” Moreover, cooperative societies sell fertilisers other material on credit. “We urge the government to strengthen cooperative societies, instead of promoting privitisation,” he said.Sukhdev Singh Sidhu, Director, Agriculture Department, said: “The decision was taken as farmers have been buying 50 per cent of fertilisers from private players already and since stocks available with cooperative societies couldn’t be exhausted completely, its share has been reduced to 50 per cent. Farmers know very well that if rates are same, the question of loot does not arise.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dap-limit-cut-for-coop-societies-irks-unions-309820
12-09-2021||---||In Ropar, farmers block highway over pest attack||Ropar, September 11Demanding immediate girdawari to assess losses caused by a pest attack on maize crop, a large number of farmers staged a dharna, blocking the Ropar-Anandpur Sahib highway here today.While the district administration has already started girdawari, the farmers claimed there was undue delay. Even yesterday, Ropar DC Sonali Giri, in a press release, had assured the farmers of completing girdawari by Monday. The delay was due to a strike by patwaris, she had claimed. Over 21,000 hectares is under maize crop in the district and a majority of it has been damaged due to the fall armyworm attack.According to a survey conducted by Agriculture Department officials last month, between 50 per cent and 100 per cent maize crop had been damaged over 4,500 acres in Nurpur Bedi block alone. Apprehending further delay in completing girdawari, a large number of farmers staged a dharna on the highway at Bunga Sahib around 9.30 am.Farmer leaders, including Kirti Kisan Morcha’s Nurpur Bedi block president Veer Singh, BKU leader Rupinder Singh and Jamhoori Kisan Sabha’s Gurnail Singh, in their address said they would continue their dharna for the next 48 hours if the administration didn’t relent.The protest ended around 1.30 pm after Anandpur Sahib SDM Keshav Goyal assured the farmers of completing girdawari within a couple of days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-ropar-farmers-block-highway-over-pest-attack-309821
12-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Cotton damaged in Abohar||Abohar, September 11A large number of trees that fell on roads due to heavy rain disrupted traffic in Abohar subdivision on Saturday. After light showers during the past two days, urban and surrounding rural areas today faced incessant rain, that began at 11.30 am and continued till 2 pm.Streets in many low-lying areas like Nanak Nagari, Jain Nagari, Chandigarh Mohalla, Thakur Abadi, Azeemgarh and Subhash Nagar got waterlogged. People found it difficult to move out. Construction work on the main roads was halted. Two-wheeler drivers had to face trouble due to the waterlogging.Gurpreet Singh Pattisadiq, a farmer, said they hoped for a bumper cotton crop but were feeling anxious because of the damage today. Moong and guar crops would also face an adverse effect. The rain could, however, benefit fruit plants which had suffered due to soaring mercury in the past two months, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cotton-damaged-in-abohar-309822
12-09-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Partap Singh Bajwa throws hat in the ring from Batala||Tribune News ServiceBatala, September 11Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa announced his return to state politics in a big way by addressing meetings of his supporters at as many as eight places on the first day of his scheduled three-day tour of this Assembly seat.Today’s development means Bajwa has chosen Batala as the seat to contest the Assembly poll. In between his hectic schedule, he also addressed a press conference where he threw a stunner by saying, “Make no mistake, I have come here with the blessings of my party high command”.SDM Shayari Bhandari, Municipal Corporation Commissioner JS Grewal, SSP Ashwani Kapur, Chairman of Improvement Trust Pawan Kumar Pamma, Chairman of Market Committee Gurvinder Singh and other senior officers were also present. Observers claim their presence clearly indicates that he has the support of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in his endeavour to stake claim to the seat. The development has upset the carefully crafted political calculations of two of his main rivals: Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and three-time ex-MLA Ashwani Sekhri.The MP also made it clear that he had an “emotional attachment”with Batala and Batalvis which is why he has decided to return to the city and nowhere else.His term as an RS MP is ending in April next year, barely weeks after the poll results will be out. His entry into state politics was imminent and the only speculation was the name of the seat he would select to contest.“Today, Bajwa has made it clear that Batala is his chosen seat. Even as other ticket contenders are still glued to the drawing board, he has already started his campaign. Round one surely goes to the MP,” said an MLA. Bajwa said the election manifestos should be made legal documents. “In Canada, they pull up the people’s representatives who do not fulfil their poll promises. Why cannot it be implemented in Punjab?” he said.‘No differences with Chief minister’MP Partap Singh Bajwa said he had reconciled his differences with the CM. “You must have noticed that I have been giving him issue-based support. It was at my behest that he agreed to increase the sugarcane SAP. If the issue at hand is just in nature, I will continue to support him in the future too,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/partap-singh-bajwa-throws-hat-in-the-ring-from-batala-309823
12-09-2021||---||Special girdawari to assess Tarn Taran crop loss||Chandigarh, September 11Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday ordered the Deputy Commissioner, Tarn Taran, to conduct a special girdawari to assess the damage caused to crop and houses due to heavy rains that led to waterlogging in nearby villages following the flooding of the Kasur nullah.The Chief Minister also directed the Principal Secretary, Water Resources, to rush in a high-level team, comprising senior officers of the department and its drainage wing, to initiate dewatering in some villages of Khemkaran area in Patti tehsil by pressing into service requisite machinery and manpower. He instructed the team to further strengthen the flood protection works in the vulnerable areas on a priority basis so as to prevent recurrence of such incidents due to incessant rains in the region in the coming days. The Chief Minister also asked the district administration to keep its relief and rehabilitation teams ready to face any eventuality arising out heavy rains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/special-girdawari-to-assess-tarn-taran-crop-loss-309824
12-09-2021||Gidderbaha||MLA Warring on stone-laying spree||With Assembly elections round the corner, Congress MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring is on a foundation stone-laying spree in his Gidderbaha Assembly segment.Over the past over a month, Warring has laid stones of nearly 10 projects involving road upgrade, waterworks construction, concrete flooring of yards, beautification of parks and health wellness centres at Bhundar, Sukhna Ablu, Assa Buttar, Kothe Hazure Wale, Kotbhai, Kothe Himmatpura, Kothe Dashmesh Nagar, Kotli Ablu, Bhallaiana and Khunan Khurd villages, besides Gidderbaha town.“In the last elections, I had promised Gidderbaha residents to carry out maximum development works and I am busy doing that. For the purpose, I have not just got discretionary funds from Cabinet ministers, but also from MPs,” said Warring. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mla-warring-on-stone-laying-spree-309825
12-09-2021||Malout||Street work ‘substandard’, 2 probes marked||The construction work of streets using interlocking tiles has come under lens in Malout town. The Municipal Council is the executing agency, which has allotted the work to some private contractors.However, after some local residents complained of substandard work, the Department of Local Government and the Deputy Commissioner have marked two probes. Earlier, Shubhdeep Singh Bittu, President, Malout Municipal Council, had also taken note of the complaints.Some residents said the construction of streets was still under way but in some parts of the town, the interlocking tiles had either broken or potholes had emerged.On this, Vishal Deep Bansal, Executive Officer (EO), Malout Municipal Council, said, “The head office has marked a probe to the municipal engineer. However, the contractor is liable if the streets have broken somewhere. These are being repaired. The rainy season is going on, so there may have been a problem somewhere. However, the truth will come out in the probe report.”He said the Deputy Commissioner had also marked a probe to the local SDM, who had further made a three-member committee consisting of tehsildar, SDO (B&R) and SDO (Punjab Mandi Board). Gopal Singh, SDM, Malout, said, “After getting the complaint, we have formed a committee of technical experts.” Sources said the payment of the work executing firms had also been stopped for a while. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/street-work-substandard-2-probes-marked-309826
12-09-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Canada polls: Jagmeet Singh-led NDP may again play kingmaker||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 11The New Democratic Party (NDP), led by Punjab-origin Canadian Jagmeet Singh, can again prove to be a “kingmaker” in the country’s federal election scheduled for September 20.As the latest trends indicate a neck and neck fight between Liberals and Conservatives, the party with small but crucial number of seats would be important if both main parties fail to get majority. In 2019, Justin Trudeau’s Liberal Party got 157 seats, 13 short of majority in the 338 House of Commons and Conservative got 121 seats. The NDP had won 24 seats. Trudeau formed a minority government with the support of NDP.Repeat of 2019?Eying to convert his minority government into majority and confident of getting support for his work during the Covid-19 pandemic, Trudeau called mid-term snap polls, but as opinion polls and trends are to be believed, the Opposition is catching up with Liberals over the “high cost” of housing.Conservative party leader Erin O’Toole is getting support of young voters, whereas the NDP has good base in two thickly populated areas of British Colombia and Ontario and is getting good support from Indian and Asian communities. As per opinion polls, the NDP is expected to increase its seats this time from the previous tally of 24.The Indian diaspora in Canada is much sought after as a support base as they tend to be high-income professionals and educated. As a group, the people of Indian origin, especially the Sikh diaspora, have become a powerful group and prominent voice in domestic political space.As many as 47 Punjabi NRIs are in the fray this time. The main issues being raised by the Punjabi NRIs are direct flight ban from India, racism and high housing cost. A political expert claims that many Indo-Canadians stranded in India due to the ban on direct flights will not be able to cast vote and are being deprived of their rights.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/canada-polls-jagmeet-singh-led-ndp-may-again-play-kingmaker-309827
12-09-2021||Ludhiana||New ‘leash’ of life for BSF’s sentinel||Tyson, a 4-year-old male Labrador Retriever of 58 Bn., Border Security Force, Gurdaspur, got a new lease of life after its life-saving dialysis was performed at GADVASU hospital.According to the BSF, Tyson was involved in an operation at the India-Pakistan border where it led to tracking and subsequent arrest of infiltrators some months ago. Tyson was previously on border duty with 170 Bn. BSF and was handed over to 58 Bn. BSF in December 2019 for tracking and fence guarding.Dr Randhir Singh, who performed the dialysis, said Tyson was brought to the hospital in an emergency at night in a critical condition. “After stabilisation, intermittent haemodialysis was performed on Tyson, which led to its subsequent recovery from acute uremia with all uremic parameters within normal physiological range. Had dialysis not been performed at the earliest, Tyson might have succumbed to the ramifications of acute uremia,” he said.Dr SS Randhawa, Director of Clinics, said dialysis facility for pets was only available at GADVASU teaching hospital in the entire north India and only two other veterinary colleges of India had this facility. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-leash-of-life-for-bsfs-sentinel-309828
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||86,204 cases taken up at Lok Adalat||As many as 86,204 cases were today taken up by 378 Benches during the National Lok Adalat organised by the Punjab State Legal Services Authority across Punjab.Another 255 cases were disposed of during the e-National Lok Adalat organised by the Punjab and Haryana High Court Legal Services Committee (HCLSC). In all 665 cases were listed before 10 Benches presided over by High Court judges as the president, and senior advocates as members.The HCLSC adalat was organised under the patronage of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and guidance of Justice Augustine George Masih, a judge of the Punjab and Haryana HC and chairman, HC Legal Services Committee. A statement issued by the HC said the HCLSC was constantly adapting new norms and coming up with creative solutions in the face of the unprecedented situation created by the pandemic. The introduction of e-Lok Adalat was one such innovation and might continue in future.The adalats in Punjab were held through physical as well as virtual mode under Justice Ajay Tewari, a judge of the Punjab and Haryana HC, and executive chairman of the Punjab State Legal Services Authority. Long pending matters relating to matrimony, property, cheque bounce and labour disputes, along with criminal compoundable cases, cancellation/ untraced reports of FIRs were taken up. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/86-204-cases-taken-up-at-lok-adalat-309829
12-09-2021||---||6 held in police recruitment scam||Chandigarh, September 11Hours after six persons were arrested for their suspected involvement in cheating during the written test held for Sub-Inspectors on August 22, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today directed the DGP to intensify the crackdown on leakage of exam papers, cheating, copying, etc.The directives come ahead of the commencement of written exams for Head Constables (Investigation cadre), to be conducted from September 12-19 for 75,544 applicants who have applied for 787 vacancies, followed by exams for Constables (District & Armed cadres) on September 25-26 for which 4,70,775 candidates have applied for 4,358 posts.‘25K out of cop net’Exams begin todayIn a first-of-its-kind move by any state police, another recruitment drive will take place in October for appointing 2,600 uniformed specialists in the Punjab Police Department.The Chief Minister asked DGP Dinkar Gupta to further intensify the security measures at the examination centres in view of reported attempts by recruitment fraudsters and scamsters to sabotage and subvert the examination process. The Punjab Police mega recruitment drive is being conducted through six recruitment boards, each constituted under an ADGP-rank officer.So far, written test for the posts of Sub-Inspectors (District, Armed, Intelligence & Investigation cadres) and Constables of the Intelligence and Investigation cadre had been conducted successfully. Among the 1,10,524 candidates who had applied for the 560 Sub-Inspector vacancies, 7,589 candidates were graduates in information technology, computer science, software engineering, etc. and 1,714 candidates were postgraduates. As many as 80,826 male candidates and 29,698 female candidates had applied for the posts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-held-in-police-recruitment-scam-309830
12-09-2021||Ferozepur||Army man held for ATM theft||The police have nabbed an Army man in connection with last week’s ATM burglary outside a Punjab and Sindh Bank branch in the city. An unidentified person took away Rs 4.84 lakh from the ATM.SSP Rajpal Singh said: “During probe, we suspected the role of Charanjit Singh (30), a resident of Basti Bela Singh Wala in Mallanwala block. He is a Sepoy in the Army and is posted in West Bengal. In July, he had come to his native village on vacation.” The suspect was nabbed from Mallanwala area. “He had borrowed money from friends and invested it in the share market. He lost the money and took lessons on the YouTube on ways to remove ATM machines using gas cutters,” the SSP said. A case has been registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/army-man-held-for-atm-theft-309831
12-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Can’t seek uniform criteria for govt jobs: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 11The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that candidates cannot seek directions for uniform qualification and experience criteria for government jobs as each state is entitled to lay down the prerequisites.The ruling by Justice Anil Kshetarpal came on a petition filed by Arshdeep Singh Anand and other petitioners, seeking directions to the State of Punjab and another respondent to quash/modify experience relaxation to the petitioners for Assistant Forensic Officer’s posts advertised on August 17.No rule flouted, court can’t interfereThe petitioners are not claiming violation of any provisions of the service rules. It's the employer’s prerogative to lay down the minimum requirements for recruitment to a particular post in accordance with the service rules. The court is not expected to interfere in the absence of violation of any rule or the requirement being patently arbitrary. —Justice Anil Kshetarpal, High CourtThe Bench was told that the state issued a recruitment notice, inviting applications for filling up 150 vacancies of Assistant Forensic Officer, along with certain other posts. The petitioners belonged to the first batch of BSc Forensic Science in Punjab and they did not get genuine opportunity to gain experience required for the post. Directions were also sought for granting the benefit of the Covid-19 period while calculating their age as on January 1 in accordance with the SC judgment for extension of limitation.Elaborating, the petitioners’ counsel contended the period starting from March 15 till further orders was directed to be considered as “zero” and excluded for all purposes. Their counsel also contended experience was not a requisite in the recruitment notices issued by the different states. As such, the State of Punjab’s action was discriminatory.Justice Kshetarpal asserted the petitioners were not claiming violation of any provisions of the service rules. It was the employer’s prerogative to lay down the minimum requirements for recruitment to a particular post in accordance with the service rules. The court was not expected to interfere in the absence of violation of any rule or the requirement being patently arbitrary.Justice Kshetarpal ruled that every state was an independent employer and entitled to lay down the minimum qualifications and experience required before recruiting the employees. The recruitment notice issued by other states could not be, as such, binding on the State of Punjab.“The petitioners cannot be permitted to invoke Article 14 in such circumstances. They cannot claim that the requirements regarding the minimum qualification and experience should be uniform for all states. Hence, this court does not find any ground to issue the writ. Consequently, the present writ petition is dismissed,” Justice Kshetarpal concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cant-seek-uniform-criteria-for-govt-jobs-hc-309832
12-09-2021||---||Girl killed, 3 injured in Rajpura cracker blast||Patiala, September 11A 13-year-old girl was killed and three others — aged six, eight and 14 years — were severely injured in a blast inside a house at Jhandoli village in Rajpura.According to the police, a cracker manufacturing unit was being run illegally from the house. The roof of the house was blown apart in the blast. While Manpreet Kaur died on the spot, the injured were taken to a Chandigarh hospital. A police team visited the spot and started their investigation.Rajpura DSP Gurbans Singh Bains said a major portion of the roof was missing while a part collapsed with the impact. “A team of forensics experts visited the spot to ascertain if the blast was accidental or due to some other reason. However, prima facie it looks like a cracker factory blast,” he said, adding potassium was recovered from the scene.The owner, Krishan Kumar, and his wife were away when the incident took place. The police said they would register an FIR and that their first priority was ensuring the safety of the children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/girl-killed-3-injured-in-rajpura-cracker-blast-309833
12-09-2021||Moga||Dengue larvae found at 210 places in Moga||As suspected cases of dengue continue to arrive at district hospitals, the health department has constituted a team to conduct a survey and detect dengue larvae in and around vacant, residential and commercial properties here.The team has checked 2,220 locations over the past few days and found dengue larvae at 210 places. The health team has issued 11 challans and forwarded the same to the MC for legal action.The health officials said the larvae were destroyed on the spot by the team members who apprised people of the need to curb the spread of dengue. As part of the campaign, Fridays were being observed as ‘dry days’ in the district. The health team is going house to house urging people to clean fridges and coolers, besides other breeding ground of mosquitoes.“It takes seven days for the dengue mosquito to develop from an egg, so coolers, pots, fridge trays and other utensils should be cleaned once a week,” the team said. Meanwhile, tests and treatment of dengue, malaria and chikungunya were available for free in government hospitals. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dengue-larvae-found-at-210-places-in-moga-309834
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Government approves proprietary rights  for 6 more slums||The Punjab Government has approved proprietary rights for six more slums in Ferozepur, Jalandhar, Mansa, Patiala and Ludhiana districts under CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s flagship scheme ‘Basera’.The approval was granted at a meeting of the scheme’s steering committee chaired by Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan here. As many as 8,141 households in various districts have so far been awarded proprietary rights under the programme.The Chief Secretary ordered a monthly review of the ‘house-for-houseless’ scheme and directed the deputy commissioners to work proactively for its seamless execution. Punjab is the first state in the country to formulate a scheme for slum dwellers in urban areas occupying government land. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-approves-proprietary-rights-for-6-more-slums-309844
12-09-2021||Patiala||Explosion at fireworks unit in Punjab's Rajpura kills 10-year-old||An accidental explosion at a fireworks unit in Rajpura killed a 10-year-old girl and wounded three other children, police sources said on Saturday. The wounded children are currently at a hospital getting treatment. The fireworks unit was unlicenced and set up at a house in Sant Nagar, the sources said. The explosion ripped apart most of the house. Police are currently investigating the explosion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/explosion-at-fireworks-unit-in-punjabs-rajpura-kills-10-year-old-309770
