13-09-2021||Chandigarh/Amritsar||Amritsar police bust an international drug smuggling network||In a major breakthrough, Punjab Police on Monday arrested an international smuggler identified as Harpreet Singh alias Happy, a resident of village Chawinda Kalan in Amritsar, for his role in the smuggling of 40kg heroin-consignment, which was recovered at Indo-Pak Border.Director General of Police (DGP) Punjab Dinkar Gupta said the police have also recovered 1kg heroin from the possession of Happy, who was arrested by the Amritsar police from village Chheharta in Amritsar.Police have also impounded his Splendor motorcycle, he added.Amritsar rural police had earlier foiled a major drug smuggling bid by recovering 39 packets of heroin, weighing 40.81 kg, in the Panjgraian Border Outpost (BOP) area of Amritsar on August 21.DGP Dinkar Gupta said the investigations carried out so far had pointed to Happy’s nexus with international-based drug smugglers and gangsters.“His (Happy) links with smugglers in Pakistan and smuggler Jagga, who works from Malaysia are also being deeply probed,” he added.Commissioner of Police (CP) Amritsar Vikram Jeet Duggal said the police are carrying out further investigations to unravel the international drug supply network operating in the state.Meanwhile, a case has been registered under section 21 of the NDPS Act at police station Chheharta in Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-police-bust-an-international-drug-smuggling-network-310614
13-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Gurdas Maan moves HC after additional sessions judge dismissed anticipatory bail plea||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 13Less than a week after an Additional Sessions Judge dismissed Gurdas Maan’s anticipatory bail plea in a case registered against him on August 26 for hurting religious feelings of the Sikh community, the Punjabi singer on Monday moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Among other things, Maan contended the “Sessions Judge was apparently influenced by the show of public outcry, generated by some sections through a sustained campaign”. His counsel Arshdeep Singh Cheema and Tarannum Cheema in the petition added that the settled principles regulating the question of bail were overlooked in an atmosphere projected as surcharged. The statutory parameters and the settled norms through precedents were relegated to the background. “The Judge did not even pause to consider as to whether the investigating agency had asked for custodial interrogation and further made a valid case for the same.”It was added that the petitioner had deep roots in the society and nothing in his previous conduct during the inquiry would show that he was likely to abscond.Moreover, the alleged objectionable material was already in public domain and nothing was required to be recovered from the petitioner warranting his custodial interrogation.“Moreover, as a humble Sikh and a sensitive citizen, the petitioner made a widely circulated public apology…. His words ought to be interpreted in the total background of his lifelong devotion to venerable Sikh Gurus and to the principles of Sikhism,” it was added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurdas-maan-moves-hc-after-additional-sessions-judge-dismissed-anticipatory-bail-plea-310602
13-09-2021||Amritsar||Drone sighted, two empty bags found from Bharopal border village||Security and intelligence agencies have been put on alert after findings of two empty bags dropped by a drone in Bharopal border village falling under Gharinda police station here in the wee hours.The jawans located the drone when it was returning. Though they fired at the drone, it returned to Pakistan territory.Immediately after, a search operation was launched in the border villages where drone movement was sighted by the Border Security Force as well as Punjab Police following which two thermocol boxes were found from nearby Bhaini village. The boxes were opened and smuggled material was missing.“It could be anything, heroin, weapons or hand grenades,” said an official who was part of the search operation being continued in the area. An FIR is being registered with Gharinda police and further investigations are under progress to identify the suspects who came to the spot and retrieved the consignments.“We cannot rule out anything. It may be heroin or weapons. Police teams were still searching the areas. We are hoping to get some clues about the suspects who retrieved the consignment from the spot. It is a serious issue and we are leaving no stone unturned to identify the smugglers,” said Amritsar Rural SSP Gulneet Singh Khurana.Sources added that the box was one-feet wide and one feet high. It can contain up to 4kg heroin or nearly 10 weapons.A BSF official said concerned agencies besides Punjab Police were informed following the sighting of the drone. We started the search operation immediately after the UAV (unmanned aerial vehicle) sighting after midnight.August 8: A tiffin bomb with 2kg RDX, four hand grenades dropped by drones were located near Daleke border village.August 10: Another drone movement was noticed in Mullankot border village near Bachchwind and Daleke village where a tiffin bomb was recovered.September 10: Alert Border Security Jawans confiscated six packets of heroin containing 6kg heroin smuggled into Indian Territory using drones near the Havelian border outpost in Tarn Taran area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drone-sighted-two-empty-bags-found-from-bharopal-border-village-310578
13-09-2021||---||Ludhiana man arrested for smoking at Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib||Anandpur Sahib, September 13A resident of Ludhaina was on Monday arrested for allegedly smoking at Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib.The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee security guards deployed on the spot overpowered Paramjit Singh, a Jatt Sikh, and handed him over to the local police.The relatives of the accused informed the police that for last one year he was under treatment for schizophrenia, a disorder that affects a person’s ability to think, feel and behave clearly.SGPC security guard Swaran Singh informed the police that it was around 4.30 am when Paramjit Singh after taking a puff threw his cigarette behind the ragis sitting in darbar sahib and blew the smoke towards them.Ropar SSP Vivek Sheel Soni, who reached the spot, said the accused had been arrested after registering a case under Section 295-A of the IPC against him.He said the investigation would be held by a high-powered police team in coordination with a five-member committee appointed by the Takht Jathedar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhiana-man-arrested-for-smoking-at-takht-sri-kesgarh-sahib-310556
13-09-2021||New Delhi||Urge Centre to direct states to mandatorily use Pusa bio-decomposer for stubble management: Kejriwal||An audit by a central agency in Delhi has found the use of Pusa bio-decomposer, a microbial solution for stubble management, highly effective, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday, and urged the Centre to ask neighbouring states to distribute it for free among farmers.He said stubble burning in neighbouring states in October is a major factor behind the high level of air pollution in Delhi."The farmers are not at fault. Governments are at fault because they had to offer a solution," Kejriwal said.Last year, the Delhi government distributed the bio-decomposer free of cost which was used by farmers on 1,935 acres of land in 39 villages to convert stubble into manure, he said.A survey by a central government agency, WAPCOS, has come up with very encouraging results on the use of the bio-decomposer.Ninety per cent of the farmers claimed that the solution turned stubble into manure in 15-20 days. Also, the content of carbon in the soil increased by 40 per cent, nitrogen 24 per cent, bacteria seven times and fungi three times. Sprouting of wheat also increased by 17-20 per cent, the chief minister said."We appeal to the Centre to ask the states to distribute the bio-decomposer free of cost among farmers to stop them from burning stubble," he said.Kejriwal said he would call on the Union environment minister with the audit report and request his personal intervention in the matter. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/urge-centre-to-direct-states-to-mandatorily-use-pusa-bio-decomposer-for-stubble-management-kejriwal-310544
13-09-2021||---||ED summons AAP leader Pankaj Gupta in PMLA case linked to Punjab MLA Khaira||New Delhi, September 13The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has issued a summons asking Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) national secretary Pankaj Gupta to appear before it and record his statement under the Prevention of Money laundering Act (PMLA) in connection with a case in which Punjab MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira is being investigated by the central agency.Sources in the ED said Gupta had been asked to join the investigation and appear before the Investigation Officer (IO) of the agency in the case next week. They said Gupta would be questioned in connection with a case in which the Punjab MLA is being probed.The central financial probe agency had searched the premises of Khaira in March this year in connection with its probe under PMLA.Sukhpal Singh Khaira, who was earlier an AAP member, is being investigated in a case after the ED took cognisance of two separate FIRs related to drug trafficking and fake passport.Sources said Khaira is also under the scanner in connection with donations of approximately US $ 1 lakh, which was raised on behalf of AAP by Khaira in the US.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ed-summons-aap-leader-pankaj-gupta-in-pmla-case-linked-to-punjab-mla-khaira-310543
13-09-2021||---||8 injured as Haryana Roadways bus rams into stationary truck in Punjab's Dera Bassi||Dera Bassi, September 13Eight people were injured in a bus-truck collision near Dera Bassi on the Chandigarh-Delhi highway in the wee hours of Monday.The injured were rushed to the Dera Bassi hospital from where six patients with serious injuries were referred to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh. Two patients were discharged after the first aid, said Dera Bassi SMO Sangeeta Jain.Dera Bassi SHO Kamal Juneja said, ''The incident took place around 3.20 am when a Haryana Roadways bus of Gurugram depot rammed into a stationary truck on the highway. Police have impounded the vehicles and are investigating.''The left front side of the bus was badly damaged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/8-injured-as-haryana-roadways-bus-rams-into-stationary-truck-in-punjabs-dera-bassi-310521
13-09-2021||---||Chamkaur Sahib SAD leader Harmohan Sandhu quits party||Ropar, September 13Former AIG (Personnel) Harmohan Singh Sandhu, who left his government job and joined the SAD two years ago, on Monday resigned from the primary membership of the party.Sandhu, who posted a message on his Facebook page, said the resignation would be submitted to party president Sukhbir Singh Badal.Sandhu had resigned from his police job on November 26, 2018, eight years before his retirement. His father Ajaib Singh Sandhu has been an MLA twice and his mother, former minister Satwant Kaur Sandhu, won the Assembly seat from Chamkaur Sahib five times.Sandhu was believed to be the SAD candidate for the forthcoming Assembly elections. His prospects in politics, however, dimmed when Chamkaur Sahib Assembly seat was allotted to the BSP. Following this, Sandhu was under pressure from his supporters to take a call.Sandhu said that he, with the consent of the SAD high command, had even negotiated with the BSP for his candidature from Chamkaur Sahib.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chamkaur-sahib-sad-leader-harmohan-sandhu-quits-party-310515
13-09-2021||PK Jaiswar||Now, Amritsar cops to get leave on their birthday, marriage anniversary||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 12In a novel gesture, Amritsar Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal has decided to give leave to cops on their birthdays and anniversaries.The cops on the other hand hailed the move and said it would also boost their morale. “As frontline warriors and emergency service providers, policemen work round-the-clock in stress, thereby disturbing not only their family and personal lives, but it also take toll on their health. Therefore, the basic idea to give a leave on their special days like birthdays and anniversaries was to give them enough space to cherish their moments,” said Duggal.“As society has been passing through unprecedented health crisis and there is enormous challenges before policemen, cops have doubled as relief providers and in enforcing law and order. They need some personal space to be prepared for new challenges,” he pointed out.Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, Deputy Commissioner of Police, investigations, said ground-level officers mostly remain on field and hardly find time for themselves. This sometimes leads to frustrations and mental stress. “It is a welcoming step and every cop appreciated the gesture,” he said.Not only this, other officials were also directed to extend wishes to cops on their birthdays and anniversaries.Earlier, too, Duggal had taken similar step when he was SSP Amritsar rural in 2019 and later as SSP Patiala last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-amritsar-cops-to-get-leave-on-their-birthday-marriage-anniversary-310431
13-09-2021||Gurnaaz Kaur||New York-based Kabir Partap is all set with a docu-series on the legacy of Partap Brothers||The Partap Brothers have been nothing short of an institution when it comes to the Indian classical music, especially Gurmat Sangeet. Over the years, the siblings – Davinder, Mohinder and Ravinder – have been credited with preserving and reviving the Puratan Gurmat Sangeet. They have amassed legions of fans across the globe and created a legacy that needs to be celebrated and cherished.It was this thought that prompted New York-based Kabir Partap, son of Mohinder Partap Singh, to conceptualise a documentary series chronicling the four-decade journey of his father and uncles. With the unfortunate demise of his father in February this year due to Covid, Kabir realised the scale of their music and how impactful it has been over the years.The documentary series is in the pre-production stage and Kabir Partap is leaving no stone unturned to make it a one-of-its-kind series that blends the best elements of documentary filmmaking – raw footage, intense reality moments and unique stories. The film will be in English and translated into Punjabi, Hindi and Urdu.For Kabir, the documentary is a love story. “This is a tale that will resonate with all of us, as it focuses on trials and tribulations of our daily lives — family struggles, political and social events that impact us personally, expectations from our closed ones that we struggle to meet and the fight between the old and the new,” he quips.Ravinder Partap hopes that the documentary will inspire the audience to carry forward and preserve the rich treasures of the classical Gurmat Sangeet. “We hope that after having seen the film, the new generation with keen interest in classical kirtan will reach out to us with questions. The youth must know that we are a resource for them,” he says.For Davinder Partap, the documentary is a medium to relive the moments spent with Mohinder Partap, who, in his words, “brought a very unique element of artistry in tabla”.“Mohinder had his own presence on stage, his own energy and flair. We will never be complete without him, but we will try our best to make him proud every time we perform on stage,” says Davinder Partap with his voice cracking.What kept the three brothers going for more than four decades? “The passion for Gurmat Sangeet,” Ravinder says and adds “when we are performing together a spiritual, transcendental bond is created. This bond transcends worldly relationships”.Probe the brothers about the difficulties in keeping the classical/traditional music alive today, Davinder Partap admits that there are a myriad of barriers to enter the arena, but he remains hopeful.“My greatest hope is that parents in our community will encourage their children to pursue Gurmat Sangeet. We, as a community, must encourage and support creativeness and artists,” he says. Davinder’s hope stems from the resurgence of interest in classical music globally, especially the Puratan Gurmat Sangeet. Ravinder, the youngest of the Partap Brothers, nods in unison and adds, “A lot has changed in the past few years. For example, social media and streaming platforms have brought together fans of classical music from around the globe. The younger generation has especially taken a keen interest in reviving the Indian classical music.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-york-based-kabir-partap-is-all-set-with-a-docu-series-on-the-legacy-of-partap-brothers-310284
13-09-2021||Manjit S. Kang||Crop residue management: Innovative solutions can douse farm fires||The problem of burning of crop residue (stubble) following combine harvesting of paddy in Punjab and Haryana has been around for more than 50 years. The main causes of stubble burning are the narrow window for sowing wheat after harvesting paddy; labour shortage; much stubble left behind by the combines; and the high cost of removing/transporting stubble.Editorial: Checking stubble burning: Curb the menace to reduce pollutionAlso read: Incentivise alternative technologies, raise awarenessIn-situ mgmt, mulching effective for managing paddy strawAs estimated by the International Rice Research Institute, each kg of milled rice generates 0.7 to 1.4 kg of rice straw, depending upon the variety of rice, cutting height, and moisture content at the time of harvesting.Pusa DecomposerThe Union government has taken steps for creating awareness about Pusa Decomposer, the new low-cost capsule which can convert paddy stubble into bio-manureWhile wheat straw can be fed to cattle, paddy straw contains a high amount of silica, which makes it less palatable to livestock and less digestible. In addition, it wears out components (e.g., conveyers and grinders) of the processing machines.A four-capsule packet of of Pusa Decomposer costs Rs20, from which 25 litres of solution can be prepared to treat about one hectare of land. The cost/acre is merely Rs8. A microbial solution is sprayed on the stubble, converting it into manure within about 25 days.Stubble burning causes emissions that worsen air pollution. Some of the emitted gases are also responsible for global warming and climate change, which are expected to impact all aspects of agriculture, food security and rural livelihoods.According to the Hyderabad-based International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), Punjab’s farmers lose Rs 133 crore worth of urea and Rs 220-260 crore worth of all nutrients in burning crop residue. Stubble burning also kills essential soil organisms and farm-friendly insects.As Albert Einstein put it, “We cannot solve our problems with the same thinking we used when we created them.” It must be recognised that a practice that has been going on for over 50 years cannot be stopped at once. Farmers need economically viable solutions. Farmers should have the choice to adopt a solution that best suits them.Incorporating paddy stubble into the soil: The chief principle of sustainable agriculture is to return to the soil what has been taken out of it. A sustainable agricultural system is one that produces abundant food without depleting the earth’s resources and without polluting the environment. Thus, it is best if crop stubble is incorporated into the soil. This would enhance soil health and curtail air pollution.Earlier, PAU and ICRISAT developed a method that produced compost from crop stubble in about 45 days. That compost contained about 2% nitrogen, 1.5% phosphorus, and 1.5% potassium, which could increase crop production by 4 to 9%. This method required much labour.The most recent and most promising method, Pusa Decomposer, has been developed by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) to decompose paddy stubble in the field itself.The IARI has partnered with two outfits: a company called nurture.farm, whose mission is “Making agriculture profitable and environmentally sustainable today and in the future”, and IIM-Rohtak. The company has enrolled 25,000 farmers from Punjab and Haryana and plans to cover five lakh acres of farmland this year. Reduce area under paddycultivation: Noted rice expert Dr GS Khush has suggested that area under paddy could be reduced from 27 lakh hectares to 15 lakh hectares in Punjab. This could be a doubly beneficial — helping with crop diversification and saving groundwater. Farmers can choose shorter-duration varieties of paddy, giving themselves more time for planting wheat.Biofuel production: As done in countries such as China, the Philippines, Malaysia and Japan, crop stubble could be used to produce bioenergy. Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA) has listed on its website some energy development projects from paddy straw. They have indicated that several biomass power projects (total capacity of 97.5 MW) have already been commissioned and are operational in Punjab, utilising 8.8 lakh metric tonnes of paddy straw annually.In January 2021, a paddy straw briquetting plant was inaugurated at Kulburchan village (Patiala), which has a per-day capacity of 100 tonnes. The Punjab State Council for Science and Technology was instrumental in setting up this plant.Straw management systems: The Punjab Government provides 50% subsidy to individual farmers and 80% to cooperatives or groups of farmers for the purchase of machines such as Happy Seeder. The government has already provided close to one lakh machines on a subsidy of about Rs 1,000 crore. The much-improved Happy Seeder allows farmers to plant wheat directly in the standing paddy stubble. When, in the not-too-distant future, Pusa Decomposer becomes available on a large scale, the paddy stubble could be turned into useful manure in a short time.Build cheap houses from paddy stubble: I chaired a workshop on ‘Innovations in Paddy Straw Management’ in Chandigarh in December 2018. Harsharan ‘Dhido’ Gill demonstrated how to build a room from paddy straw. He stated that, based on substantial research, houses built from paddy straw were being promoted in the US and Europe. Such houses cost much less than traditional houses and saved electricity, as these houses stayed warm in the winter and cool in the summer.The author is former Vice-Chancellor, PAU, Ludhiana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/crop-residue-management-innovative-solutions-can-douse-farm-fires-310450
13-09-2021||---||Denied money for outing by dad, Jalandhar girl commits suicide||Jalandhar, September 12A 22-year-old girl committed suicide in the Aman Nagar area after her father refused to give her money to go out here on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Muskan. After the police were informed about the incident, a team of cops reached the spot and sent the body for a post-mortem.Rajinder Kumar, father of the victim, said his daughter was insisting on going out and was asking for money and when he refused to give her money and asked her to go some other day, she got angry and locked herself in a room.“She also played loud music. After a while when we asked her to come out, she did not respond. Later, we broke open the door only to find her hanging from a ceiling fan. By the time we brought her body down, there was no movement in her body. Subsequently, the police were called,” added Rajinder Kumar, who runs a paan and cigarette stall.Inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC have been initiated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/denied-money-for-outing-by-dad-jalandhar-girl-commits-suicide-310415
13-09-2021||Patiala||Thapar students protest over hostel timings||Students of the Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Patiala, held a protest on the campus demanding an increase in hostel timings, late this evening. The students said the university had reduced the evening time to 8 pm during Covid-19, which they wanted to be extended.They said the protest started late in the evening wherein several students came out of their hostels and gathered in the open.The students said the university authorities had assured them of a meeting tomorrow morning, following which the protest was lifted.Gurpreet Singh Bhinder, SHO, Civil Lines, said the police received information about the protest. “We will inquire into the matter,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/thapar-students-protest-over-hostel-timings-310361
13-09-2021||Muktsar||Man nabbed with poppy husk in Muktsar||Roadways staff stage protestMuktsar: Members of the Punjab Roadways-PUNBUS Contractual Workers’ Union on Sunday lodged a protest outside the residence of Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal at Badal village here. The protesters demanded regularisation of their jobs. TNSLand dispute in SangrurSangrur: A police team has been deployed in Shadihari village over a dispute on entry of some Dalits in Nazul land of the village. “There is a dispute between two groups of Dalits over Nazul land. We are trying to settle it,” said Bikkar Singh, a leader of the Zameen Prapti Sangharash Committee. TNSSchoolteacher held for graftAbohar: A team of the Anti-Corruption Bureau claimed to have nabbed a government schoolteacher for graft on Saturday in Sriganganagar and seized Rs 1.5 lakh from the accused. Bureau Additional SP Tejpal Singh said accused Bhim Sain Oadh had allegedly demanded Rs 2 lakh from Virpal Kaur of Chak 14-SHPD village. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-nabbed-with-poppy-husk-in-muktsar-310243
13-09-2021||---||Four booked for thrashing youth in Muktsar||Muktsar, September 12The Malout Sadar police have booked four persons for allegedly thrashing a youth on Saturday over a suspicion of his love affair with a married woman at Jhorar village in Malout subdivision here.The injured, Gurprem Singh, is admitted to a hospital. Meanwhile, accused Manga Singh, along with a youth, has reportedly uploaded a video on social media, claiming they had thrashed the boy. The accused claimed they were associated with gangster Davinder Bambiha group. Those booked are Manga Singh, Sukhman Singh, Raja Singh of Jhorar village and Gaggu of Ennakhera village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-booked-for-thrashing-youth-in-muktsar-310244
13-09-2021||Sangrur||5 FIRs against travel agents in Sangrur||The police have registered five FIRs at different police stations in the past 24 hours against travel agents for duping area residents of lakhs on the pretext of sending them abroad.As per information, complainant Gurbir Singh of Rupaheri village accused Jasmel Singh, Dalvir Kaur and Mukesh Kumar of duping him of Rs 6.48 lakh on the pretext of sending him abroad. They have been booked at the Dhuri Sadar police station under Section 420, IPC. In another FIR against the same suspects, Mandeep Singh alleged they had duped him of Rs 13.81 lakh.In a case registered at the Sadar police station against Amarjit Singh, complainant Avtar Singh alleged the suspects duped him of Rs 1.95 lakh on the pretext of sending him to Spain on work permit.In the fourth FIR registered at the Bhawanigarh police station against Gurpreet Singh, complainant Kulwinder Singh claimed the suspect fraudulently took Rs 18.50 lakh from him. The Sunam police have registered a similar FIR.Sangrur SSP Swapan Sharma said, “I am personally examining all investigations. Those who feel their investigation is slow, can approach me any time.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-firs-against-travel-agents-in-sangrur-310245
13-09-2021||Sangrur||Offline exams begin today, parents worried||At a time when the threat of the third wave of Covid looms, the Education Department’s decision to conduct offline exams for school students has left parents worried. Many of them are unwilling to send their children to schools and have already conveyed it to the authorities.Malkiat Singh, Sangrur DEO (Secondary Education)Will ensure Covid norms followedThere won’t be any online exams. Our officials will ensure that Covid guidelines are implemented at exam centres. “As per reports, the third wave is imminent and we do not possess required facilities and infrastructure to deal with it. But school authorities are compelling us to send our children for offline exams. I will not send my son at any cost,” said the father of a local student.As per instructions, exams for Classes VI to XII will commence from September 13. The timing for Classes VI, VII, IX and XI students will be from noon to 2 pm, and that for Classes VIII and X will be from 9 to 10 am (11 am for some papers). Besides, the exams for Class XII students will be conducted from 9 to 11 am. Exams for Class III students will be held from 9 to 10 am, Class IV from noon to 1 pm and for Class V from 10.30 to 11.30 am. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/offline-exams-begin-today-parents-worried-310246
13-09-2021||---||Another Rajpura cracker unit blast victim succumbs, toll two||Patiala, September 12The count of deaths in Saturday’s blast in a house at Rajpura reached two with the death of the brother of the girl who was killed yesterday. With this, Rajpura is back in focus as an illegal cracker hub.On Saturday, 13-year-old girl Manpreet Kaur was killed and three others — aged six, eight and 14 years — were severely injured in a blast inside a house at Jhandoli village. Late night, victim’s brother Gurpreet Singh (14) succumbed to the injuries.According to the police, a cracker manufacturing unit was being run illegally from the house. The roof of the house was blown apart in the blast.The blast at the illegal cracker unit being run from the house of Krishan Kumar — father of the injured children — has sent shock waves across Patiala district. Illegal production of crackers continues unabated in the district with Rajpura emerging as a hub.Crackers were being manufactured, stored and sold without regulation. Fire officials said they had not given permission to produce or store crackers.In 2017, a person died and three others were injured in a blast at a cracker unit in the Mirch Mandi area of Rajpura. A week before Diwali in 2017, a 13-year-old girl had lost her life while making crackers in another factory. A shop in Balbera had also caught fire in 2017 leading to loss of lakhs of rupees.“The cracker business picks up pace after the rainy season. Crackers are mostly brought from outside and stored in the town. We will carry out raids at unregulated shops,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/another-rajpura-cracker-unit-blast-victim-succumbs-toll-two-310247
13-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh pays tribute to martyrs on 124th Saragarhi battle anniversary||Ferozepur, September 12Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today paid tribute to the 22 Sikh soldiers of the historic Battle of Saragarhi on its 124th anniversary at a state-level event organised here.Though the CM could not make it to the event physically as he claimed that his chopper could not take-off due to rain and inclement weather, he joined the event virtually. Cabinet Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, MLA Parminder Singh Pinki, senior Army and civil officials were present on the occasion. Earlier, Saragarhi Martyrs’ Memorial Trust chairman Brig Vignesh Mahanty Chairman welcomed all of them at Gurdwara Sargarhi.The CM in his online address recalled the valour of the 22 soldiers of the 36th Sikh Regiment stationed near Samana Ridge (now in North West Frontier Province, Pakistan) who laid down their lives fighting 10,000 Afridis on September 12, 1897.The CM said the blueprint of the Saragarhi War Memorial was being finalised and it was a matter of pride that a statue of Havaldar Ishar Singh was being unveiled in Wolverhampton (UK).Cabinet Minister Sodhi said the martyrdom of these soldiers was recognised all over the world, with even Queen Victoria acknowledging the same by bestowing the highest gallantry award — Indian Order of Merit — to these martyrs. The minister while releasing a brochure on Saragarhi prepared by Advocate Harpreet Singh Sandhu said that the sacrifices of these soldiers would be remembered by one and all forever.‘War memorial to come up soon’The CM said the blueprint of the Saragarhi War Memorial was being finalised and it was a matter of pride that a statue of Havaldar Ishar Singh was being unveiled in Wolverhampton (UK). He recalled the valour of the 22 soldiers of the 36th Sikh Regiment who laid down their lives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-pays-tribute-to-martyrs-on-124th-saragarhi-battle-anniversary-310248
13-09-2021||Bathinda||Antibodies in 50% Bathinda kids: Survey||In a sero survey conducted by the Health Department among kids aged between 2 and 17 years in July, it was revealed that antibodies were present in 50 per cent of children in Bathinda district.This means 50 per cent of children were infected by Covid in the second wave and due to no symptoms, they were cured on their own.The survey was done by the department in male and female categories in urban and rural areas. In this, the maximum antibodies have been found among children in rural areas. The survey was conducted among 92 children of the district. In all, 36 male and 36 female children were included. The antibodies were found in 46 of them.Dr Ravikant Gupta, paediatrician, Civil Hospital, Bathinda, said the development of antibodies in the body was important in the fight against Covid. It could either be caused by vaccination or after a person has been infected with the virus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/antibodies-in-50-bathinda-kids-survey-310249
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||50L vaccine shots in month, drive gathers steam in Punjab||Punjab’s Covid vaccination drive, which had been running on a slow pace due to shortage of supply from the Centre, seems to have gained momentum in the past few weeks as in the past 30 days, around 54 lakh doses of vaccine were given in the state.Till last month, Punjab was labelled as one of the worst-performing states in the country when it came to vaccinating the population above 60 years.However, the situation started changing last month as the Chief Minister took up the matter with the Union Health Ministry. As per official figures, till August 12, the department administered 1.07 crore doses of vaccine and now, the figure has reached 1.61 crore. With these figures, the state has already vaccinated more than 57 per cent of the eligible population, with the first dose administered to around 1.2 crore and second to around 40 lakh people. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/50l-vaccine-shots-in-month-drive-gathers-steam-in-punjab-310250
13-09-2021||Karam Prakash||Dengue cases double in Punjab, Hoshiarpur worst hit||Tribune News ServicePatiala/Bathinda, Sept 12While the Covid third wave looms, Punjab has been severely hit by the deadly dengue. The state has reported 811 positive cases this season so far.The number is almost double than the last year. Notably, only 441 positive cases were reported during the corresponding period last year. It is learnt that several districts of the state are reeling under the fear of a dengue outbreak. The Health Department said Hoshiarpur district was the worst hit in the state with 195 positive cases in the ongoing season. After Hoshiarpur, Amritsar has reported 181 cases while Muktsar has reported 154 cases till now.Though only one suspected dengue death has been reported so far, the department didn’t bother to conduct an audit to ascertain the actual cause of the death. The department said all districts had already been put on alert and dengue wards had been set up in each district to handle patients.State health officials said their teams had been visiting all districts on a regular basis for entomological surveillance. “If there is a spike in dengue cases in any district, we will send more teams,” said a senior health official.Dr GB Singh, Director, Health Department, said though there was a rise in dengue cases, the situation was under control. “Some districts witnessed a sharp rise. However, our officials are doing what they can, and the situation is under control so far,” he said.Meanwhile, dengue has started spreading tentacles in Bathinda too, with as many as 61 cases being reported this season. Notably, following constant spells of rain recently, stagnant water in many parts of the city has increased the risk of vector-borne diseases. Officials said dip in temperature levels around this time provided an ideal atmosphere for breeding of dengue larvae. They warned against accumulation of water in residential and public places in the city.State on alertThough only one suspected dengue death has been reported so far, the Health Department didn't bother to conduct an audit to ascertain the actual cause of the death. The department said all districts had already been put on alert and dengue wards had been set up in each district to handle patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dengue-cases-double-in-punjab-hoshiarpur-worst-hit-310251
13-09-2021||---||Paddy arrival in Punjab mandis may be delayed: Agriculture Department||Chandigarh, September 12Widespread rain across Punjab may have brought cheer among residents reeling under high temperature and humidity but it is a cause for concern for the farming community.As the state witnessed widespread rain, and the Met department predicts downpour for another two days, farmers are on a strict vigil in their fields. While the yield of paddy crop, which is at the tillering stage, could be affected because of the heavy rain, the cotton farmers are standing guard against the attack of the bollworm.Officials in the Agriculture Department anticipate that rain at this time was likely to delay the arrival of paddy in mandis as the moisture content would be high. Due to possibility of rain, farmers were advised to temporarily withhold irrigation and chemical spray in the crops and vegetables. They were also advised to keep a vigil on pest diseases in the fields, said a crop advisory by the IMD.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/paddy-arrival-in-punjab-mandis-may-be-delayed-agriculture-department-310252
13-09-2021||Fazilka||Boy killed in Fazilka wall collapse||Incessant rain over the past three days has brought the town down to its knees. According to official sources, 22 mm rainfall was recorded on Saturday. An eight-year-old boy, Vansh, reportedly died in a wall collapse at Rana village in the district following incessant rain. Sources said Sahil Kumar was returning home along with two sons when the wall of a house they were passing by collapsed, crushing Vansh. The father and his second son sustained minor injuries.Niranajan Singh, a resident of Shamsabad village, said due to heavy rain, his kutcha house had collapsed. Reports of another house collapse had been received from Hasta Kalan village. Life has virtually come to a standstill as water has entered shops and houses in low-lying areas of Radha Swami Colony, Chandora Basti, Anni Delhi, Jattain Mohalla, etc. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/boy-killed-in-fazilka-wall-collapse-310219
13-09-2021||Our Correspondent||12 Tarn Taran border villages inundated||Tarn Taran, September 12Despite efforts by the district administration to control flooding in the Kasur Nullah, the situation in more than a dozen border area villages remains critical.There was an acute shortage of dry and green fodder, and animals were in an urgent need of vaccination against possible infection.The administration is yet to start the special girdawari ordered by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh yesterday to assess loss to crops and houses.The worst-affected villages include Thathi Jaimal Singh, Kalia, Sankatra, Gajjal, Noorwala, Mastgarh, besides Khemkaran township along the Pakistan border.DC Kulwant Singh and Khemkaran MLA Sukhpal Singh Bhullar along with officials visited the affected villages and issued instructions to provide relief to the residents.The administration said Patti and Bhikhiwind SDMs Alka Kalia and Amandeep Kaur, respectively, were in touch with officials engaged in draining out water from flooded areas.The administration said Army blockades at several places in the area were causing hurdles, but the officials were trying to contact the Army to resolve the issue. Raj Singh, former sarpanch of Thathi Jaimal Singh, said crop on over 2,000 acres at Thathi Jaimal Singh, Kalia, Sankatra, Gajjal, Noorwala, Mastgarh and Khemkaran had been affected. He said the water level in the inundated areas had gone down but the situation was still critical.The locals blamed it on the failure of the administration to remove water hyacinth from Kasur Nullah in time, which they claimed had led to to the flooding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/12-tarn-taran-border-villages-inundated-310218
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Diary: Foes turn friends||Million-dollar questionBatala: Whenever the Assembly polls are around, the debate invariably veers around whether Batala is a Hindu or Sikh dominated seat. In the 2012 and 2017 polls, Congress leader Ashwani Sekhri managed the ticket after propounding the logic that it is a Hindu majority seat. He won in 2012, but lost in 2017. This means the Hindu factor worked for him in 2012, while five years later, the same didn’t. This time, RS Member Partap Singh Bajwa, who is eyeing the constituency, claims Batala is a Sikh-dominated seat. Only the results will tell whether his caste calculations were right or wrong.Gauging the problemPathankot: A wave of jubilation had swept the city when a year ago, MP Sunny Deol informed his constituents the Railways is in the process of constructing an elevated track to tide over the problem of the nine narrow gauge railway crossings in the city. However, not much was heard about the project subsequently. Congress MLA Amit Vij has now deputed his best-known spin doctor and brother Ashish Vij to ensure the venture is taken to its logical conclusion. Residents say they want the problem solved at the earliest. They don’t care two hoots whether the BJP solves it or the Congress. In an election year, the project has the potential to sway votes. Nobody, seems to understand this better than the MLA.Brar in tight spotBathinda: Senior leader Jagmeet Singh Brar, who has jumped into the electoral battle as SAD candidate from the Maur Assembly segment in Bathinda district, is in an awkward situation with his old video purportedly targeting the Badals going viral on the social media. Brar remained a senior Congress leader for a long time before joining the Akalis in 2019. During his stint with the Congress, he contested against the Badal family and in 1999 even defeated Sukhbir Singh Badal from Faridkot in the Lok Sabha polls. He was quite vocal against the Badals during his earlier days.Sputnik is right for LeftChandigarh: Punjab Leftists’ love for the erstwhile Soviet Union is not all lost. Even if it has meant months of wait, several Left leaning activists and scholars in Punjab are opting for Russia-made Sputnik when it comes to Covid vaccination. A prominent Left scholar travelled all the way from Patiala to the state capital to get a shot of the vaccine, which at present is available only in the government sector. Significantly, Sputnik was also a popular magazine in the Soviet heyday and was widely read in Punjab.Power tussleFatehgarh Sahib: MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra has emerged as the tallest leader in Fatehgarh Sahib ever since assuming charge as Pradesh Congress Committee working president. However, power tussle continues in two other constituencies of the district — Amloh and Bassi Pathana. In Amloh, Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharmsot’s supporters are trying to pin MLA Kaka Randeep Singh down by holding meetings. In Bassi Pathana, Cabinet Minister Kuldeep Singh Sidhupur’s son in-law has projected himself as the party nominee. He has even purchased a residential house there. To neutralise this, legislator Gurpreet Singh GP invited Dharmsot to inaugurate a park, where the minister announced GP as the candidate.Contributed by Rajmeet Singh, Ravi Dhaliwal, Sukhmeet Bhasin, Vishav Bharti & Surinder Bhardwaj||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-diary-foes-turn-friends-310232
13-09-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Crowds at Singhu, Tikri thinning as protesting farmers head home ahead of harvesting season||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, September 12With a large number of Punjab and Haryana farmers returning to their villages to check their paddy crop before harvesting, crowds have been thinning fast at the protest sites on the Delhi border.Also read:Days after Samyukt Kisan Morcha meet, Navjot Singh Sidhu wants FIRs droppedMorcha diktat on party events win-win for Capt Amarinder SinghFarmers gherao BJP office in JalandharKarnal victory shot in arm for morcha: BKUIntelligence sources said the numbers at Singhu and Tikri, the epicentre of protests against the farm laws on the Haryana-Delhi border, had fallen considerably over the past few days. The leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 32 farm unions spearheading the protest, however, called it a temporary decline. “The farmers have gone home to take care of their paddy crop. They will start returning in a week,” claimed Harinder Singh Lakhowal, BKU (Lakhowal) general secretary.SKM leader Yogendra Yadav too called it an agriculture-based phenomenon. “They will be back soon. Moreover, our focus is on making the September 27 Bharat Bandh successful and streamlining campaign for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly poll,” maintained Yadav. Another union leader said nonetheless, they would plan a fresh strategy to revitalise the agitation, which will complete 10 months later this month.Sources said besides paddy, the thinning crowds could be attributed to “non-availability” of senior leaders at the protest sites. The veterans, the sources said, remained occupied with Muzaffarnagar ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ and the Karnal sit-in over the past fortnight while others were busy planning a strategy for the Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand Assembly elections.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders last week asked the top politicians of various parties in Punjab to defer their political functions till the Assembly elections were announced so as to retain crowds at the protest sites. Besides, the morcha has asked its top leaders to convince more farmers to move to the Delhi border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/crowds-at-singhu-tikri-thinning-as-protesting-farmers-head-home-ahead-of-harvesting-season-310337
13-09-2021||---||Punjab waives Rs 41 crore debt of 10K SC youths||Chandigarh, September 12Punjab has waived loans of 10,151 youths belonging to the SC community, amounting to Rs 41.48 crore.Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Minister for Social Justice, Empowerment and Minorities, said the government led by Capt Amarinder Singh had decided to waive various loans taken from the Scheduled Castes Development and Finance Corporation.Loans, he said, were provided by the corporation to Scheduled Caste persons with disabilities at low interest rates for the purpose of self-employment, who were now finding it difficult to repay the money due to “failure of trade, death of beneficiary, no earner at home and circumstances arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic.” The minister said it had been decided to waive loans up to Rs 50,000 taken by the SC youths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-waives-rs-41-crore-debt-of-10k-sc-youths-310336
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Both SAD, BJP to blame for farm deaths: AAP||Taking a swipe at the Akali Dal for announcing ‘Black Day’ on September 17, AAP has said the Badals should observe the day with remorse as farmers didn’t have to see the day had Harsimrat Badal as Union Minister not signed the ordinances.AAP kisan wing head Kultar Singh Sandhwan held the SAD as much responsible for the death of over 600 farmers and labourers during the struggle as the BJP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/both-sad-bjp-to-blame-for-farm-deaths-aap-310214
13-09-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib. September 12||Karnal victory shot in arm for morcha: BKU||Senior SKM leader and BKU (Ekta Sidhupur) president Jagjit Singh Dalewal today formed a youth wing of his union to ensure participation of youths in the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the central agriculture laws. He also announced the formation of a women’s wing shortly.Also read: Crowds at Singhu, Tikri thinning as protesting farmers head home ahead of harvesting seasonMorcha diktat on party events win-win for Capt Amarinder SinghFarmers gherao BJP office in JalandharAddressing the mediapersons, he said the success of the farmers’ struggle in Karnal had boosted their morale and encouraged them to continue protesting the laws. He said the SKM had been exercising maximum restraint, but BJP leaders were constantly provoking them. He said farmers would ensure no BJP candidate won in the Punjab elections. — OCSidhana leads convoy to SinghuHundreds of vehicles led by gangster-turned-social activist Lakha Sidhana on Sunday left from Fatehgarh Sahib for the Singhu border to join the farmers’ stir. Lakha said he along with his supporters would fully support the SKM’s September 27 Bharat bandh call.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/karnal-victory-shot-in-arm-for-morcha-bku-310217
13-09-2021||Jalandhar||Farmers gherao BJP office in Jalandhar||Farmers of the BKU (Rajewal) today gheraoed the BJP office in Jalandhar to protest an event held to honour former AISSF president Harminder Singh Kahlon, who joined the party earlier this year.Busy in protest, farmers’ personal works getting hitA group of farmers reached the BJP office and raised slogans against the party. As the protesters approached the office, they were stopped by the police using barricading.Also readDays after Samyukt Kisan Morcha meet, Navjot Singh Sidhu wants FIRs droppedCrowds at Singhu, Tikri thinning as protesting farmers head home ahead of harvesting seasonMorcha diktat on party events win-win for Capt Amarinder SinghKarnal victory shot in arm for morcha: BKUAround 5 pm, the farmers tried to break through the barricading but were prevented by the police from doing so. While the farmers protested outside the office for an hour, they left after the meeting.This is the first protest by farmers in the city against a BJP leader after the overnight dharna against party state chief Ashwani Sharma’s meeting at the Circuit House some days ago.Kahlon was among the six Sikh personalities from Punjab who had joined the party at its Delhi headquarters in the presence of Sharma and Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. The BJP was looking to project fresh faces from the state in a bid to “break the perception that people of Punjab are upset with the BJP”. Kahlon has been appointed party spokesperson in the state.Meanwhile, Kahlon was honoured by the BJP leadership at the event. Former Cabinet minister Manoranjan Kalia and former district chief Raman Pabbi were among those present. — TNSLdh clash Bid to disturb peace: AAPChandigarh: The AAP has condemned the clash between Congress and BJP workers in Ludhiana, saying it was an attempt by political parties, including SAD, to vitiate the atmosphere of the state. AAP MLA Aman Arora alleged parties wanted to create fear among people ahead of the polls and get President’s rule imposed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-gherao-bjp-office-in-jalandhar-310215
13-09-2021||---||Morcha diktat on party events win-win for Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, September 12While the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) diktat to political parties in Punjab to stop their campaign till the Election Commission (EC) of India announces the poll schedule has put the Punjab Congress at unease, the state government will go ahead with CM’s scheduled functions in Nawanshahr and Hoshiarpur tomorrow.Also read: Days after Samyukt Kisan Morcha meet, Navjot Singh Sidhu wants FIRs droppedCrowds at Singhu, Tikri thinning as protesting farmers head home ahead of harvesting seasonFarmers gherao BJP office in JalandharKarnal victory shot in arm for morcha: BKUWhile the Punjab Congress, headed by Navjot Singh Sidhu, is yet to give its mind on party’s plan to hold political conference at Chhapar Mela in the Dakha Assembly segment on September 20 and other functions thereafter, the SKM’s diktat seems to be working to the advantage of the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government.Party MLAGovt shows sparedThrough a govt function, presence of respective MLAs will give political advantage to the CM.“If the weather is clear, the CM will be coming. It is a government function regarding development works. The number of participants will be restricted to 300,” said a senior leader.“Through a government function, presence of respective MLAs would give political advantage to the CM. In the election year, government holds such functions to prepare ground for the coming elections. The Punjab Congress needs to reinvent to change from large gatherings to personal contact programmes,” said a senior party MLA.During the meeting of the three-member delegation of the PCC with SKM representatives, PCC working president Kuljit Nagra and general secretary (organisation) Pargat Singh are learnt to have pointed out that the diktat would hamper the democratic process and only benefit those opposed to farmers.Act against illicit liquor trade: DulloAmritsar: Slamming his own party’s government over the illicit liquor trade, Congress’ Rajya Sabha MP Shamsher Singh Dullo on Sunday gave an ultimatum to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to take action, or else he would stage a sit-in at his official residence in Chandigarh. He alleged the state government had failed to initiate any action against illegal distilleries operating in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/morcha-diktat-on-party-events-win-win-for-capt-amarinder-singh-310216
13-09-2021||---||Days after Samyukt Kisan Morcha meet, Navjot Singh Sidhu wants FIRs dropped||Chandigarh, September 12Two days after a Punjab Congress delegation led by Navjot Singh Sidhu met representatives of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), comprising 32 farmer organisations, the PCC chief has sought cancellation of the remaining FIRs registered against the farm unions for violence during the agitation, besides opposing the Centre’s demand for land record prior to procurements and seeking a way forward in crop diversification.Also read: Morcha diktat on party events win-win for Capt Amarinder SinghCrowds at Singhu, Tikri thinning as protesting farmers head home ahead of harvesting seasonFarmers gherao BJP office in JalandharKarnal victory shot in arm for morcha: BKUNavjot Sidhu to CM Set up mechanismThe government could set up a mechanism to consider each case on compassionate grounds and cancel all such unfair cases.Flagging the demands raised by the unions, Sidhu in a letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh said the party and state government had supported the farmers’ agitation against the three central farm laws, yet some FIRs had been registered against unions for violence during the protests.“The government could set up a mechanism to consider each case on compassionate grounds and cancel all such unfair cases,” he said.Raising another concern of the farmers, the PCC chief said they feared the demand for land records to demarcate details of land ownership before procurement as ordered by the Central Government was unjust.A large number of farmers was sowing crops by taking land on lease. “This is also an attack on the resilient system of procurement by minimum support price (MSP) through arthiyas and an attempt to push the farmers away from APMC mandis towards private markets,” he stressed.In a tactical change in approach, the PCC chief, instead of taking on his own government, praised the state government for allocating 10.9 per cent of its Budget expenditure for agriculture in 2021-22, much higher than the average allocation by other states at 6.3 per cent.While praising the waiver of Rs 5,810 crore loan of farmers and Rs 520 crore of farm labour and landless farmers, besides seamless procurement, Sidhu said: “We must do more, standing firmer on our resolution passed in Vidhan Sabha in October 2020 against the three farm laws.”Seeking an in increase in state farmers’ income, beginning with procurement of pulses and oilseeds through state corporations, the PCC chief stressed the need for investment in diversification by giving MSP on more crops, augmenting storage capacity of farmers and strengthening their financial capabilities through cooperatives and forward linkages to trade without dependence on corporates.Make PCC chief CM face: Amargarh MLAAmargarh MLA Surjit Singh Dhiman has said the party should make Navjot Singh Sidhu its chief ministerial face. Dhiman has been siding with the rebel ministers on the issue of replacing the Chief Minister. He said he would not contest the Assembly elections if they were fought under Capt Amarinder Singh.Give MSP on more cropsThe PCC chief sought a way forward in crop diversification by giving MSP on more crops, augmenting storage capacity of farmers and strengthening their financial capabilities through cooperatives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/days-after-samyukt-kisan-morcha-meet-navjot-singh-sidhu-wants-firs-dropped-310213
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt waives loans worth Rs 41.48 crore of over 10,000 SC youths||The Punjab government has waived loans worth Rs 41.48 crore of 10,151 Scheduled Caste youths after they found it difficult to repay the money due to various reasons, including circumstances arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic, state minister Sadhu Singh Dharmsot said on Sunday.“This pro-people move by the state government has given a big relief to the SC youth,” a state government statement quoted Dharmsot as saying.The minister for social justice, empowerment and minorities said the Punjab government has decided to waive up to Rs 50,000 for all kinds of loans taken by SC youths for self-employment from the Scheduled Castes Development and Finance Corporation.Dharmsot said these loans are given by the corporation to SCs and persons with disabilities at low interest rates.He said the SC youths of the state were finding it difficult to repay the loans taken for self-employment “due to failure of trade, death of beneficiary, no earner at home and circumstances arising out of Covid-19”.The minister said it was decided to waive the loans of the youth to get them out of this problem. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-waives-loans-worth-rs-41-48-crore-of-over-10-000-sc-youths-310180
13-09-2021||---||Women in small cities making big strides||Amritsar, September 10Sukhmani Sadana has always been a multi-tasker, as an actor, a content creator and now, editor-in-chief of a lifestyle magazine. Hailing from Amritsar, she has also been the one striving to break stereotypes about small-town girls in the Bollywood. Her successful appearance in Sacred Games and Manmarziyan has bagged get her a quality work in the industry that’s famously unforgiving to outsiders. She says hard work and not luck is what gets things done. “I feel that artistes and actors, who come from small towns, have a lot of baggage, as they work hard to prove that they are as capable as those who come from big cities. There is an ambition to shine, there is that drive to excel because you have so much competition that it’s so inspiring,” she said.The Boss Ladies, a community of women entrepreneurs in Amritsar, Sukhmani said smaller cities now have more women who are running successful small businesses. “The fact that women have taken this opportunity to shine in their role as entrepreneurs is heartening. Smaller cities offer a better work-life balance and maybe that’s why women here have more to choose from,” she said.On the work front, Sukhmani has wrapped up shooting for two OTT series. “I am working with Poonam Dhillon, Raj Babbar, Chandrachud Singh for an upcoming series called Those Pricey Thakur Girls and also shot for Apharan 2. I am also doing a Netflix series, which will be a career defining moment for me but it’s too early to reveal the details,” she said.More women turning their home businesses into brandsBringing together women, who get things done at the professional and personal front, Boss Ladies, a community of women entrepreneurs was launched in city. Himja Rana, the woman behind the start-up community, who has been into the profession of business marketing and strategising, says that she saw the opportunity for an exclusive community for women entrepreneurs as more women are turning their home businesses into brands. “Today, more and more women are running small scale businesses through the comfort of their home. Also, post pandemic, several women have turned not just bread winners but also realised business opportunities in earning their bread. I wanted to develop a network of women entrepreneurs from small cities to educate and enable them to expand their businesses and realise marketing startegies,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/women-in-small-cities-making-big-strides-309503
