14-09-2021||Patiala||PRTC employees end indefinite strike; huge relief to passengers||The contractual employees of state transport undertakings – Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) and PUNBUS, on Tuesday, announced to call off their indefinite strike. The announcement came after the protesting employees had held a meeting with senior government officials. The announcement to end the strike is a huge relief to the commuters, who had been at the receiving end of the strike for a long time. Due to the strike, only 25-30 per cent of the buses of PRTC were on the roads, and chaotic scenes were commonplace at various bus stands during the strike.Confirming the development, Resham Singh, state president of the contractual employees’ union of PRTC, PUNBUS, and Punjab Roadways, said that they would resume their duties from tomorrow.He said the government had assured them to increase their monthly salaries by 30 per cent.He said, “Drivers will now get around Rs 18,100 per month,” said the union leader after meeting with officials.He further informed that the government had also agreed to increase their monthly salary by 5 per cent – every year.  As to the enhancement in the number of buses, Harkesh Kumar, union leader, said the government had given a word that they would soon add around 700 buses to Punjab Roadways while 275 buses to PRTC.Notably, PRTC, which had already been reeling under the poor fiscal condition owing to the Covid induced lockdown, has been under huge financial losses due to the current strike. It has been learnt that PRTC faced a loss of around Rs 10 crore due to the strike.Meanwhile, protesting employees said that the government had sought a time-window of a week to decide on the issue of regularisation of the employees.Harkesh said, “We have given them two weeks to decide on the regularisation. If the government fails to take a decision even after two weeks, we will again go on strike.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/prtc-employees-end-indefinite-strike-huge-relief-to-passengers-311082
14-09-2021||Faridkot||Rickshaw puller bags Bhagat Puran Singh award for service to humanity||The Baba Farid society, which organises the annual Baba Farid heritage festival here, has announced names of winners of 22nd Baba Farid award for honesty and Bhagat Puran Singh award for service to humanity on Tuesday.While a rickshaw puller of Chheharta town of Amritsar has been selected for Bhagat Puran Singh Award for service to humanity, Kumar Saurav Raj, a former deputy commissioner of Faridkot has been chosen for the Baba Farid award for honesty.Saurav Raj is presently working as director, higher education department in Punjab.Rajbir Singh, the 45-year-old rickshaw-puller, is known for penning a book “Rickshaw Tey Chale Zindagi” (Life on a rickshaw), the book is a compilation of 14 short stories on his 20 years of experience as a rickshaw puller, meeting persons of different categories.The book has painful but inspiring stories of many poor mechanics, rickshaw pullers, daily wagers who live a hard life to run their families but live life with dignity.He has also installed a donation box in his rickshaw to collect financial help for the poor.In this donation box, other than the voluntary donation from the passengers, he himself contributes a part of his earning.The society had instituted these awards in 2000 and since then, 32 persons have been bestowed with Baba Farid award for honesty and 28 persons have been given Bhagat Puran Singh award for service to humanity.Each award carries Rs 1 lakh and a citation. The awards would be presented on September 23, the concluding day of the Baba Farid festival, said Inderjeet Singh Khalsa, chairman of the society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rickshaw-puller-bags-bhagat-puran-singh-award-for-service-to-humanity-311078
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt removes Dr GB Singh from post of Director Health Services||The Punjab government on Tuesday removed Dr GB Singh from the post of Director Health Services.Dr OP Gojra to be the new Director Health Services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-removes-dr-gb-singh-from-post-of-director-health-services-311068
14-09-2021||GS Paul||Various organisations, kin of martyrs protest against Jallianwala Bagh facelift||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 14Various political, farm and social organisations and kin of martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh on Tuesday conducted a protest march against the renovation and beautification of Jallianwala Bagh alleging it to be tinkering with the historic site.They were denied entry to the Bagh as a preventive measure, since the Amritsar police have imposed Section 144 banning the assembly of five or more persons at a spot, and holding of a protest in the vicinity of the memorial till November 6.Amid heavy police barricading, the protesters, including representatives of Desh Bhagat Yaadgar Society, Kisan Sanjha Morcha and martyrs’ families, had no option but to stage a sit-in on the Heritage Street metres ahead of the Bagh for a few hours.CPI district secretary Amarjit Singh Asal said the heavy police arrangement showed that the anti-democratic vision of Gen Reginald Dyer and Gen O’ Dwyer still prevailed in our system. “A century ago, at the same place the British regime had imposed a ban on public assembly. Now, the present dispensation has been replicating the same. We just wanted to convey to the authorities that till the historic heritage is restored at the Bagh, we would continue to raise our voice,” he said.Jallianwala Bagh Freedom Fighters Foundation president Sunil Kapoor, who lost his great grandfather Lala Wasu Mal in the 1919 massacre, said the Bagh appeared to be more of a “picnic” and “selfie” spot than a memorial.“What is wrong when we demand that the memorabilia and pictures of martyrs be re-installed? We have been raising the issue of granting a freedom fighter status to the martyrs from the Centre and the state governments for long but in vain,” he said.They demanded that the murals mounted on the walls of the original narrow street, from where Gen Dyer passed through with his troops and opened fire on a gathering of unarmed men, women and children assembled in the Bagh, be removed. They also wanted the separate exit point to be closed as it defied history which speaks only about one entry-exit point.The pedestal on which Dyer stood and ordered firing has also been erased; it should be rebuilt at the same place, they demanded.They objected to shifting of the Amar Jyoti flame, which was earlier at the entrance of the memorial, to the back. They demanded that it be restored at its original spot to evoke a patriotic feel.Another objection raised by them was about the new structure built on the martyrs’ well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/various-organisations-kin-of-martyrs-protest-against-jallianwala-bagh-facelift-311017
14-09-2021||---||Punjab to set up 24,689 polling booths for upcoming Assembly election||Chandigarh, September 14Punjab Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju on Tuesday said Punjab would set up 24,689 polling booths for the upcoming Assembly elections. There will be one booth for a population of 1,200.He said that at present Punjab had a stock of 37,576 VVPATs, 34,942 control units and 45,136 ballot units.Taking note of Covid situation, the number of voters per booth have been reduced from 1,400 to 1,200. Besides, the commission will make elaborate Covid safety arrangements, including providing PPE kits, gloves, masks, etc, for voting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-set-up-24-689-polling-booths-for-upcoming-assembly-election-310992
14-09-2021||---||Rs 28-lakh fraud: Jalandhar BJP legal cell chief held in Amritsar||Amritsar/Jalandhar, September 13The Division B police of Amritsar on Monday nabbed Jalandhar BJP legal cell chief Lakhan Gandhi in a Rs 28.44-lakh fraud case.The complainant, Charanjit Kaur, told the police that the accused cheated her of Rs28.44 lakh on the pretext of getting an FIR against her son, Lovepreet, cancelled and getting him released on bail. Lovepreet was booked by Division B police in a case of rape lodged on March 8 last year.Serving as an advocate for the past nearly six years, Lakhan Gandhi had passed out from the local St Soldier Law College. Using his connections, he got himself appointed as the BJP legal cell chief last yearGandhi was produced before a court, which sent him to one-day police custody. A total of four persons were booked in the case. Besides Gandhi, the police had booked complainant’s sister Manju Khera and her nephew Nitin Khera, both residents of Basti Gujjan in Jalandhar, and Amandeep Singh of Sultanwind Road under Sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC. Division B police station SHO Sarvan Singh said raids were on to nab the remaining three suspects.Amritsar Bar Association chief Vipin Dhand, who appeared before the court on behalf of Gandhi, pointed out that his client took only Rs25,000 as fee and did not know about the remaining amount. On the contrary, the Jalandhar Bar Association, where he remained junior vice-president, and is reportedly related to ex-president Ashok Gandhi, did not show any solidarity with Lakhan.Serving as an advocate for the past nearly six years, Lakhan Gandhi had passed out from the local St Soldier Law College. Using his connections, he got himself appointed as the BJP legal cell chief last year. He reportedly came into contact with the complainant as her sister Manju Khera was his neighbour.Complainant Charanjit Kaur alleged that Lakhan Gandhi in connivance with her sister and nephew had committed a huge financial fraud against her, including creating a fake FDR of Rs8.5 lakh for securing bail her son from the Punjab and Haryana High Court. In her complaint, she also stated that she kept trusting all the accused blindly, including her sister and nephew who too were involved in the alleged racket.She said her conversation with Punjab and Haryana High Court lawyer Manish Puri came as an eye-opener to her. She said while the accused (Lakhan) had sought Rs1.5 lakh for him (Manish Puri) from her, Puri had been paid only Rs 70,000.The complainant said she found that Rs6 lakh taken in the name of SHO in Amritsar too had been taken fraudulently from her. When she approached Axis Bank with FDR details, she was told that this too was fake. She said when she took on the accused over the matter, she was threatened and told that she should not take any step as they were politically well-connected. But she finally lodged the complaint in May this year after which an FIR was formally lodged on September 11.Meanwhile, Punjab and Haryana Bar Council Chairman Minderjeet Yadav wrote to the DGP, Punjab, alleging that the complaint was false and motivated. “Police personnel have misbehaved with the family of the advocate (Lakhan). The Bar Council condemns the conduct of Amritsar police,” he has written, demanding the release of Lakhan Gandhi and cancellation of the FIR against him.Bar council head writes to DGPPunjab and Haryana Bar Council Chairman Minderjeet Yadav wrote to the DGP, Punjab, alleging that the complaint was false and motivated. “Police personnel have misbehaved with the family of the advocate (Lakhan). The Bar Council condemns the conduct of Amritsar police,” he has written.The caseThe complainant, Charanjit Kaur, told the police that the accused cheated her of Rs28.44 lakh on the pretext of getting an FIR against her son, Lovepreet, cancelled and getting him released on bail. Lovepreet was booked by Division B Amritsar police in a case of rape lodged on March 8 last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-28-lakh-fraud-jalandhar-bjp-legal-cell-chief-held-in-amritsar-310703
14-09-2021||---||‘Punjab Government advertisement’ on question paper raises eyebrows||Patiala, September 13“The government is using exams as an advertising tool,” alleged teachers here today. Teachers of government schools attacked the Punjab Government for using school exams for their political gains through a “government advertisement” in a question paper.Citing an instance, the teachers alleged that the government smartly highlighted the increase in social security pension from Rs750 to Rs1,500 in the Punjabi exam of Class V that was held today.The Democratic Teachers Front (DTF) said the Education Department had been using the exam as a “PR tool” ahead of the Assembly elections.Vikram Dev, president, DTF, said the government had stooped to a new low by using question papers as a platform for their political advertisements. He said: “This is shameful. We strongly condemn this. They deliberately have chosen government ad, which has been widely used across the state.”Dev said over two lakh students took the examination today, and they took the question paper home while answer sheets (OMR) were submitted at the centre.The teachers said the Education Department had played tricks and directed the teachers, students and parents to like, comment and share the posts which were uploaded by the department on Facebook.Meanwhile, Harinder Kaur, District Education Officer, said: “The questions are prepared by the state Education Department. Therefore, I am not in a position to comment.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-advertisement-on-question-paper-raises-eyebrows-310913
14-09-2021||---||Stir hurting Punjab economy: Capt Amarinder Singh to farmers||Hoshiarpur, September 13Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday appealed to the representatives of farmers’ unions not to hold protests over the three central farm laws in Punjab as these “have considerably impacted economic development”.He said if the farmers wanted to put pressure on the Centre, they should shift their protest to Delhi borders as Punjab had already expressed solidarity with them on the issue.Also read: Punjab Chief Minister fears poll losses, claim SKM leaders BJP main target, won’t oppose others: Joginder Singh UgrahanIn his public address after laying the stone of a government college at Mukhliana village in Chabbewal, the CM emphasised: “The farm protests at 113 sites in Punjab are not in the interests of the state’s economy and its people. Anything within the purview of my government was done promptly.”Capt Amarinder pointed out that the Constitution had been amended 127 times since 1950. “So why not one more time to repeal the farm laws for providing succour to the farmers,” he said.He said the Central laws had already been rejected by the state Assembly and replaced by its own laws which were sent to the Governor for his assent, but to “our dismay these have not yet been forwarded to the President”. Higher Education Minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa, who owes allegiance to the Sidhu camp, remained conspicuous by his absence at the Hoshiarpur event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stir-hurting-punjab-economy-capt-amarinder-singh-to-farmers-310762
14-09-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Punjab Chief Minister fears poll losses, claim SKM leaders||Tribune News ServicePanipat, September 13The Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders flayed the Punjab Chief Minister’s remark.While Harpal Singh Sangha, president of the Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Doaba, claimed Captain was afraid that the farm stir could damage his party’s prospects in the upcoming Assembly elections, Kulwinder Singh Sandhu, who heads the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha pointed out: “We have not paralysed the functioning of any Punjab Government office. Adani and Jio establishments are surely not part of the government.”Also read: Stir hurting Punjab economy: Capt Amarinder Singh to farmersBJP main target, won’t oppose others: Joginder Singh UgrahanAnil Vij flays CaptainPunjab CM telling farmers to do whatever they want in Haryana or Delhi, not in Punjab, is an irresponsible statement... He has done the task of instigating farmers. Haryana Home Minister Anil VijHe claimed the CM was afraid that the Centre may impose President’s rule in Punjab and “that’s why he is making such statements.”Yogender Yadav of Jai Kisan Andolan called the CM’s statement “very unfortunate and irresponsible,” adding that it was an attempt to divide the farmers of Punjab and Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-chief-minister-fears-poll-losses-claim-skm-leaders-310763
14-09-2021||Bathinda||Punjab-origin nominees in Canada poll fray face racist slogans, attacks||Punjab-origin candidates contesting the federal election are facing racial attacks in Canada.A poster of Randeep Singh Sarai, a Liberal candidate who is running for re-election in Surrey Centre, was defaced by spray-painting a swastika, a symbol of Nazis.Also read: Jagmeet Singh-led NDP may again play kingmaker47 Punjab-origin candidates in fray for Canada pollsSarai tweeted, “I am disappointed to see that one of my signs was defaced in Surrey Centre. This behaviour is intolerable. I deplore this anti-Semitic behaviour, I know my neighbours will join me in calling it out. Let’s move forward with kindness and constructive discussion.” In another incident, two volunteers of Sabrina Grover, a candidate of the Liberal Party from Calgary Central, were attacked during campaigning.Offensive remarksSarai’s poster defacedVolunteers attackedMemorial vandalisedRacial abuse is one of the major issues among the Punjabi diaspora in the election. The Punjabi community in Canada is also upset over the vandalisation of the Komagata Maru Memorial situated at Coal Harbour in Vancouver. The incident, reported on August 22, led to resentment among the diaspora.Sabrina Grover said, “The volunteers were campaigning in an apartment building when they were approached by a man, slapped and spat on. Both my volunteers are unharmed, but shaken. This is not right, hateful interaction is unacceptable. I was born and raised in Calgary. This is my home.”NDP leader Jagmeet Singh faced a racist remark while campaigning in Windsor, Ontario. During an event in a park, a man shouted “go back home” from a passing vehicle, while Jagmeet, who was born in Scarborough, Ontario, and raised in Windsor, continued his speech undeterred.Later, Jagmeet said he doesn’t “focus on himself” when such things happen, but he is concerned about the growing level of hate in Canada.Racial abuse is one of the major issues among the Punjabi diaspora in the election. The Punjabi community in Canada is also upset over the defacement of the Komagata Maru Memorial situated at Coal Harbour in Vancouver.White paint was splattered on the wall bearing the names of the victims, white hand prints were also visible and ‘893 YK’ had been written on it.Rachna Singh, an MLA from Surrey Timber Greens and parliamentary secretary for anti-racism initiatives, said, “during the campaign, we have seen candidates’ hoardings being vandalised with messages of hate. It’s unacceptable and cowardly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-origin-nominees-in-canada-poll-fray-face-racist-slogans-attacks-310767
14-09-2021||Muktsar||Land allotted to minorities can’t be transferred: Punjab panel||Implement Seventh Pay Panel proposals: TeachersSangrur: On a call of the Punjab Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union, the staff of Akal Degree College, Mastuana Sahib, staged a protest in front of the office of the principal. Union president Sarika Jain demanded the state should implement the recommendations of the Seventh Pay Commission. TNSTwo of family returning to Jalalabad killed in mishapAbohar/Sriganganagar: Two members of a family, who were returning to Jalalabad, in Fazilka, were killed when the driver reportedly lost control of the car. Vidya Bai (50) and Princejeet Singh (20) died on the way to hospital. In two separate accidents in Sriganganagar, three more persons died. OC5 mobile phones seized from inmates in Faridkot prisonFaridkot: The authorities confiscated five mobile phones, seven SIM cards and other accessories from a barrack in the jail here. On the complaint of assistant jail superintendent, the police have booked six jail inmates for possessing prohibited goods under Section 52-A of the Punjab Prison Act. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/land-allotted-to-minorities-cant-be-transferred-punjab-panel-310801
14-09-2021||Patiala||Panchayat union to protest tomorrow against Punjab government||Members of the Sarpanch Panchayat Union, Punjab, today said they would hold a protest against the state government on September 15 in which panchayats from across the state would participate. Union state president Gurmeet Singh Fatehgarh Sahib said panchayats should leave political parties and come together to find solutions to their problems.The members said MGNREGA payments and development works had been pending in rural areas for long and their demands had gone unheard.They were forced to spend on development projects in villages from their own pocket, they claimed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/panchayat-union-to-protest-tomorrow-against-punjab-government-310800
14-09-2021||Faridkot||Closure of agri course at Faridkot Government Brijindra College opposed||To oppose the closure of BSc (agriculture) course at Faridkot Government Brijindra College, many retired teachers, students and social activists have started a chain hunger strike here.While students of the college have been holding a sit-in at the gate of the college for the past many months, social activists and teachers have joined hands with them.The students alleged that no admissions were made to the BSc course for the past two years on the pretext that the college was not fulfilling some conditions under the Punjab State Council for Agricultural Education Act.It is alleged that many colleges in the state were found not complying with the rules, as mentioned in the Act, in order to provide necessary infrastructure for imparting practical knowledge to the students. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/closure-of-agri-course-at-faridkot-government-brijindra-college-opposed-310799
14-09-2021||New Delhi||ED summons AAP national secretary Pankaj Gupta in Sukhpal Singh Khaira case||The ED has issued summons to AAP national secretary Pankaj Gupta asking him to appear before it and record his statement under the Prevention of Money laundering Act in connection with a case involving MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira.Sources said Gupta had been asked to appear in the case next week. Reacting to the move, AAP convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “As we grow in Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand and Gujarat — we get an ED notice! The people of India want honest politics — these tactics of BJP will never succeed, they will make us stronger.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ed-summons-aap-national-secretary-pankaj-gupta-in-sukhpal-singh-khaira-case-310798
14-09-2021||Manav Mander||At 1,280, Ludhiana sees max accidents||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 13The state has reported 8,211 accidents in the last two months (July 1-September 7) and Ludhiana, with 1,280 cases, has topped the chart, followed by Patiala (856) and Mohali (560). Comparing the data with the corresponding period in 2020, Ludhiana reported 650 accidents against 749 in 2019; Patiala 495 in 2020 and 670 in 2019; and Mohali 358 in 2020 and 363 in 2019.The number of accidents reported in 2020 was less due to Covid-induced lockdown. All these cases were assisted by 108 emergency ambulance services.Saikat Mukherjee, Project Head, Ziqitza Healthcare, Ambulance 108, said Ludhiana reported the highest accidental cases in the last two months. “Our staff ensured that all victims were admitted to hospital in time and were given medical support.”Dr Kamaljeet Singh Soi, member of National Road Safety Council, said damaged roads and poor drainage system were main reasons for the rising number of accidents.“We don’t have rain water drainage system in Ludhiana and roads are in bad shape. During monsoon, roads are waterlogged almost all the time and in some places potholes remain filled with water, posing health risks too. Whenever a car/ two-wheeler drives through such pool of water at high speed, drivers lose control, resulting in accidents,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/at-1-280-ludhiana-sees-max-accidents-310797
14-09-2021||Anandpur Sahib||Ludhaina man arrested for violating Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib sanctity||A resident of Ludhaina was on Monday arrested for allegedly smoking at Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib.Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) security guards deployed on the spot overpowered Paramjit Singh, a Jatt Sikh, and handed him over to the local police.Relatives of the accused informed the police that for the last one year he was under treatment for schizophrenia, a disorder that affects a person’s ability to think, feel and behave clearly.SGPC security guard Swaran Singh informed the police that it was around 4.30 am when Paramjit Singh after taking a puff threw his cigarette behind the ragis sitting in darbar sahib and blew the smoke towards them. Ropar SSP Vivek Sheel Soni said the accused had been booked and arrested.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur condemned the incident and said some anti-Sikh forces were adopting various tactics to disturb peace in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ludhaina-man-arrested-for-violating-takht-sri-kesgarh-sahib-sanctity-310796
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Gurdas Maan moves HC for anticipatory bail||Less than a week after an Additional Sessions Judge dismissed Gurdas Maan’s anticipatory bail plea in a case filed against him for hurting religious feelings of the Sikh community, the singer today moved the HC.Maan contended the “Sessions Judge was apparently influenced by the show of public outcry, generated by some sections”. His counsel Arshdeep Singh Cheema and Tarannum Cheema said principles regulating the question of bail were overlooked in an atmosphere projected as surcharged. — TNS Also read: Gurdas Maan booked for hurting religious sentiments of Sikh communityGurdas Maan posts video on social media offering apology over recent controversyDera Murad Shah devotees block Jalandhar-Nakodar highwayRaja Warring backs Gurdas Maan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurdas-maan-moves-hc-for-anticipatory-bail-310795
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Salary of cops stayed over inaction||Describing police inaction as a joke upon “the court process and procedure”, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today stayed the salary of an investigation officer and a Station House Officer of a police station concerned. The direction came in a case where the police failed to act even after the anticipatory bail plea of a person was dismissed as withdrawn some two years back.The Bench made it clear that the order would come into operation if the person was not arrested within a week and would remain in force till the next hearing in December. Justice Rajbir Sehrawat of the High Court was hearing a petition filed by Jaswinder Singh against the State of Punjab and other respondents.HC tells Ludhiana CP to file affidavitThe Ludhiana Commissioner of Police (CP) has been directed to file an affidavit specifying the date whenever the petitioner is arrested. He has also been directed to specify whether the salary of the officials was stopped in fact. The case will now come up for further hearing in December third week.As the case came up for preliminary hearing through videoconferencing, an Additional Advocate General appearing on the state’s behalf accepted the notice of motion issued by Justice Sehrawat. Responding to a query, the state counsel pointed out that even a challan had not been presented in the case. He added this was despite the fact that an FIR in the matter was registered way back in December 2018.Justice Sehrawat asserted that a perusal of the records showed that the petitioner had earlier also preferred a similar application for anticipatory bail, which was dismissed as withdrawn on July 9 last year. Despite the lapse of about two years, the police were yet to take action in the case.In his detailed order, Justice Sehrawat said: “Accordingly, it is ordered that the payment of salary of the investigating officer of the case and the SHO of the police station concerned shall remain stayed till the next date of hearing, if the petitioner is not arrested within a period of one week from today”.Before parting with the order, Justice Sehrawat directed the Ludhiana Commissioner of Police to file an affidavit specifying the date whenever the petitioner is arrested. He has also been directed to specify whether the salary of the officials was stopped in fact. The case will now come up for further hearing in December third week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/salary-of-cops-stayed-over-inaction-310794
14-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Ferozepur MLA Parminder Singh Pinki seeks Rs 11 cr for for Saragarhi memorial||Ferozepur, September 13Ferozepur MLA Parminder Singh Pinki appealed to the Prime Minister to provide a grant of Rs 11 crore for the development and beautification of the historic Saragarhi memorial.During a state-level martyrdom day function held at the memorial yesterday, Pinki also appealed to the Chief Minister to provide funds for construction of langar hall on the adjacent 2.5-acres forest land.The Chief Minister directed Deputy Commissioner (DC) Vinit Kumar to send a detailed progress report. The DC said he further told the revenue officials to prepare their report, which he would send to the Chief Minister.Pinki said a central park containing an open-air gym, fountains, play equipments and other facilities could be constructed at the land.Recently, a 10-foot-tall bronze statue of Havildar Ishar Singh, the leader of the 21 Sikh soldiers, who attained martyrdom in the battle, was unveiled at Wednesfield, a suburb of Wolverhampton in the UK. Youth Congress leader and Saragarhi Foundation senior vice-president Gurbhej Singh, a member of the Indian delegation, who attended the ceremony, said, “For the first time, a monument related to the battle of Saragarhi has been set up in the UK. This is a proud moment for us.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ferozepur-mla-parminder-singh-pinki-seeks-rs-11-cr-for-for-saragarhi-memorial-310793
14-09-2021||---||A first, Batala gets e-clinic||Batala, September 13The state government on Monday established the first of its kind e-clinic at the Batala Civil Hospital. Middle-aged city based diabetic patient — Harvinder Singh — became the first ever patient to be treated through the facility. Harvinder was given medicines by a Patiala-based government doctor sitting 250 km away.The novel healthcare initiative was inaugurated virtually by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu accompanied the CM during the event. Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq and SDM Shayari Bhandari were present at the civil hospital.Guru’s wedding anniv celebratedCovid norms were thrown to the winds as over 50K devotees thronged gurdwara Kandh Sahib on the occasion of the marriage anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev on MondayIn the midst of festivities, residents who were optimistic that the CM would elevate the sub-divisional status of Batala to district, suffered a setback as no such announcement was madeThe initiative is the brainchild of Punjab Health Systems Corporation (PHSC) chairman Ashwani Sekhri. “It is people from the lower strata of society who visit government hospitals. The rich make their way to expensive private hospitals, while the poor come here. With this facility, a patient can avail any specialised doctor’s advice in Punjab. The software is such designed that based on a patient’s symptoms, a government doctor, who at that time is not busy with his official work, comes online and listens to the patient,” said Sekhri.He added that with the launch of e-clinic, travelling will be reduced. “The clinic gives you the facility of discussing your problems with senior medical practitioners, without a need to visit them personally,” said Sekhri.He said the Batala Civil Hospital had been selected as a pilot project. “If it is successful, then other hospitals in Punjab will also get the facility,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/a-first-batala-gets-e-clinic-310792
14-09-2021||---||Top smuggler nabbed in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 13In a big breakthrough, the Punjab Police today arrested an international smuggler, identified as Harpreet Singh, alias Happy, a resident of Chawinda Kalan village in Amritsar, and confiscated 1kg heroin from his possession.Terming it a “big catch”, the police claimed Happy was instrumental in the smuggling of 40 kg heroin consignment that was recovered in the Ramdas area along the Pakistan border last month.In a statement, DGP Dinkar Gupta said the Amritsar City police arrested Happy from the Chheharta area. The police have also impounded a motorcycle, he added.The Amritsar Rural police had earlier foiled a drug smuggling bid by recovering 39 packets of heroin, weighing 40.81 kg, in the Panjgraian border outpost area of Amritsar on August 21.Investigations revealed Happy was having links with smugglers in Pakistan and smuggler Jagga, who operated from Malaysia.Commissioner of Police Vikram Jeet Duggal said the police were carrying out further investigations to unravel the international drug supply network operating in the state.A case under Section 21 of the NDPS Act has been registered at the Chheharta police station in Amritsar.2 kg heroin seized along borderMoga: In a joint operation with the Border Security Force, the Moga police have recovered 2 kg heroin along the Pakistan border in Fazilka sector, a senior police officer said Monday. Inspector Tarlochan Singh said the drug was recovered from Pillar No. 232 of the Border Observation Post at Jodha Bhaini village||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/top-smuggler-nabbed-in-amritsar-310791
14-09-2021||Ludhiana||Spy racket involving Pak operative busted||The counter-intelligence wing of city police’s CIA-3 today claimed to have busted an espionage racket involving a Pakistan intelligence operative (PIO) on the basis of inputs provided by the Air Force Intelligence Unit, Jodhpur.A ‘spy’, identified as Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Uchi Daud village, Malud, has been arrested. He was currently employed in Malerkotla. Officials of the counter-intelligence wing said Jaswinder’s preliminary questioning revealed he was in touch with the Pakistan-based operative, who had introduced herself as “Jasleen Brar” from Bathinda.Police officials said the PIO had been using a WhatsApp number, activated through a one-time password provided by Jaswinder, to honey trap Army and defence personnel. “WhatsApp chats have confirmed contact between seven defence personnel and the PIO and further analysis of Whatsapp chats is being done,” said the officials.The PIO had managed to get entry into two WhatsApp groups of defence personnel.Jaswinder was also learnt to have received Rs 10,000 from the PIO in his bank account via ‘PhonePe’ app. On directions of the PIO, he further transferred the amount to another account from Pune, Maharashtra. The alleged spy had provided three numbers to the PIO for WhatsApp use. An FIR has been registered under the IPC and the Official Secrets Act. Further investigation was on, said the police. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/spy-racket-involving-pak-operative-busted-310790
14-09-2021||---||Drone spotted; two boxes seized in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 13Security and intelligence agencies have been put on alert after two empty boxes dropped by a drone were found at Bharopal border village falling under the Gharinda police station here early today.The jawans spotted an UAV (unmanned aerial vehicle) while it was returning after making the drop. The troops opened fire but it hovered back into the Pakistan territory.A search operation was launched by the Border Security Force and the Punjab Police in the border villages where drone movement was noticed. Two empty boxes were later found near Bhaini village. The police suspected the consignment sent from across the border was apparently taken away by smugglers.“It could be anything — heroin, weapons or hand grenades,” said an official part of the search operation.Recent recoveriesAug 8: A tiffin bomb with 2kg RDX, 4 grenades dropped by drones found near Daleke villageAug 10: Tiffin bomb seized after drone spotted at Mullankot village, near Bachchwind and Daleke villagesSept 10: BSF seizes 6 kg heroin smuggled using drones near Havelian border outpost in Tarn Taran areaThe police said an FIR was being registered and further investigations were on to identify the suspects who retrieved the consignment.“We haven’t ruled out anything. Police teams are still searching the area. We hope to get some clues about the suspects who retrieved the consignment. It is a serious issue and we are trying to identify the smugglers,” said Amritsar rural SSP Gulneet Singh Khurana.Sources added each of the two boxes, measuring one square feet, could contain up to 4 kg heroin or nearly 10 weapons.A BSF official said agencies concerned besides the Punjab Police were informed about the drone sighting and subsequent seizure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drone-spotted-two-boxes-seized-in-amritsar-310789
14-09-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Punjab Education Department claims ‘high student enrolment’ but not many turn up for exam||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 13The Education Department is leaving no stone unturned to prove that the government schools are doing well and being preferred over the private ones. However, the claim of “excellent enrolment” fell flat today when a few primary schools failed to show the student strength they had depicted in the state-level data. Not only this, the school authorities took the exam of the same class in shifts.At Government Primary Smart School, Haibowal, Mangat I block, two teachers said 168 Class IV students were appearing for the exam (12-1 pm) and the attendance was “100 per cent”.When counted, only around 90 students were present. When asked about the remaining students, head teacher Shivani, telephonically informed, that due to Covid-19, the teachers had taken the exam of many students earlier.“We have got too many students, all can’t be accommodated at one time, so we took the exam in shifts. Secondly, we adjusted the students as per parents’ timings as many are not free to drop and pick their wards,” she said. When asked if it was allowed officially, she did not say anything.Last year, there were 119 students in Class IV. This year, the enrolment has risen to 168.At Government Primary School, Chander Nagar, of the 55 students, who were to appear for the Class IV exam, around 40 were present. The in charge said the building was small and a few students of lower classes had been shifted to a nearby community hall.She said as far as the exams of the remaining students were concerned, the OMR sheets would be sent to them.Despite repeated attempts, the DPI (Primary) and Secretary (Education) could not be contacted.Later, Dr Devinder Singh Chhina, Nodal Officer (Media) of the department, called up on the behalf of the Secretary (Education). He said, “Due to the Covid situation, primary students had been given the option of alternative timings because the safety of the students and consent of the parents are the foremost priorities of the department.”No infra availableWhere are the facilities for students? There is no infrastructure, no teachers but the government is pressuring for admission of more students. — Surinder Kumar Puari, teachers’ unionFlexible timingsDue to Covid, primary students had been given the option of alternative timings. The safety of the students is the foremost priority of the department. — Devinder Singh Chhina, Edu official||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-education-department-claims-high-student-enrolment-but-not-many-turn-up-for-exam-310787
14-09-2021||---||Rename caste-based villages, towns of Punjab: Panel||Chandigarh, September 13The Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes has asked the state to rename caste-based villages, towns and other places, besides refraining from using words such as Harijan and Girijan in official functioning by ensuring strict compliance of the instructions issued by the state government in 2017.Commission chairperson Tejinder Kaur, in a communication to Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, said it had been brought to the notice of the commission by various organisations belonging to the Scheduled Castes that most of the villages, towns, schools, mohallas, basti, streets, dharamshalas and societies in the state have caste-based names, while in a letter dated July 28, 2017 to all heads of the state, issued by the Social Justice, Empowerment and Minorities Department (Reservation Cell) Punjab in the light of guidelines dated August 16, 1990 of the Government of India, it was directed that using words Harijan and Girijan in official functioning and on the certificates of Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes should be refrained.The chairperson, while asking the Chief Secretary to intervene in the matter, said directions should be issued for refraining from use of the words Harijan and Girijan in official functioning and the departments concerned such as the Revenue, Rural Development and Panchayat, Local Government, School Education and Registrar Cooperative Societies should be issued necessary guidelines to ensure renaming of the villages/towns, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rename-caste-based-villages-towns-of-punjab-panel-310784
14-09-2021||New Delhi||Plea to acquire Bhagat Singh case file from Lahore||Lamenting Pakistan’s reluctance to share with Indian scholars the Bhagat Singh case files kept in the archives in Lahore, Professor Chaman Lal, adviser, Bhagat Singh Archives and Resource Centre, Delhi Archives, urged Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to acquire a copy.In a letter to Kejriwal on Monday, Chaman Lal, former chairperson, Centre for Indian language, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), wrote that when journalist Kuldip Nayar was alive, he had promised to talk to then Chief Minister of West Punjab Shahbaz Sharif and try to make the Bhagat Singh files accessible to Indian researchers. The idea could not materialise because of the sudden deterioration in India-Pakistan relations at that time.“However, situation has now changed for the better. On March 23, 2018, for the first time Lahore archives held a month-long exhibition of more than 200 items from the Bhagat Singh files. There was a plan to digitalise these files,” Chaman Lal wrote, and urged Kejriwal to immediately set in motion official correspondence with the Punjab Government, Lahore. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/plea-to-acquire-bhagat-singh-case-file-from-lahore-310779
14-09-2021||Amritsar||Heritage tampered with, says Laxmi Kanta Chawla at Jallianwala Bagh; MP Shwait Malik differs||BJP leaders are divided over the renovated Jallianwala Bagh. Former Cabinet Minister and senior BJP leader Laxmi Kanta Chawla today visited the Bagh. Pointing out the flaws, she said it was an act of “tampering with the heritage in the name of modernisation”.BJP Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik however countered Chawla’s claims, saying the site’s heritage was intact. Also read: Rectify Jallianwala Bagh facelift ‘lapses’ to avoid flak, Trustee asks CentreAutomated barriers at Jallianwala Bagh: Martyrs’ kin against entry feeSection 144 clamped at Jallianwala BaghThe Jallianwala Bagh makeoverRestore Jallianwala Bagh’s old look, panel writes to PM ModiJallianwala Bagh: Kin of 1919 martyrs hold candle march, want original character restoredJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampLooks nice: Punjab CM contradicts Rahul Gandhi on Jallianwala remakeChawla said she would bring it to the notice of PM Narendra Modi that how the Jallianwala Bagh committee had changed the ambience of this historic site and made it a recreation garden.On the e-ticketing machines installed at the entrance, she said: “This shows that a paid entrance to the Bagh is next to be introduced.... The narrow street from where General Dyer had gained entry with his troops has got murals of people in joyous mood.The ‘martyrs well’ has also lost its identification that was there in our minds with the old structure. Now, it looks like a glass box. Similarly, the new exit gate mismatched with the history. There was no separate gate other than the narrow street. The Amar Jyoti has been shifted backside where there were toilets. I will ask Modi ji to take cognisance and direct the members of the Jallianwala Bagh committee to restore its originality.”She also reiterated her demand that the PM-led Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust should make public the details of Rs 20 crore spent on the project. Malik, one of the members of the Trust, said Chawla was free to write to the Union Ministry of Culture which had executed the project.He stressed the heritage aspect of the Bagh was never touched. “The murals on both side walls of the narrow street depict that people from all walks of life were entering the Bagh to celebrate Baisakhi that fall on that particular day in 1919 too. Not all were there to attend the assembly against the Rowlett Act. The Amar Jyoti has been placed as per the requirement of the light and sound show,” he said.Malik claimed the separate exit gate was already there during the Congress regime. “We just refurbished the passage for safe visitors’ exit”, he said. On the paid entry, Malik said: “Being a Trust member, I assure you that the entry to Jallianwala Bagh would be free.” — TNSIdentity lostThe martyrs well has lost its identification that was there in our minds with the old structure. Now, it looks like a glass box. — Laxmi Kanta Chawla, BJP leaderIt’s intactThe originality of the martyrs’ well is intact. It has been upgraded so that visitors can get a clear view of inside the well. — Shwait Malik, BJP MP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heritage-tampered-with-says-laxmi-kanta-chawla-at-jallianwala-bagh-mp-shwait-malik-differs-310776
14-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||Farmers block Sangat Singh Gilzian’s vehicle||PCC working president Sangat Singh Gilzian was today gheraoed by members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee at Pandori Kadd village. Gilzian was on his way to attend the inauguration ceremony of a government college at Mukhliana village when the farmers blocked his vehicle and raised slogans.The standoff continued for about an hour even as the police tried to disperse the protesters. Samiti representatives agreed to let him go after Gilzian agreed to talk to them. The committee members accused Gilzian of getting FIRs wrongly registered against them, a charge denied by the Congress leader. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-block-sangat-singh-gilzians-vehicle-310773
14-09-2021||Bathinda||BJP main target, won’t oppose others: Joginder Singh Ugrahan||Taking a stand different from other farmer organisations, the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), the largest farmer union in the state, has said it would only oppose the BJP and not others.As few days ago, 32 farmer unions, under the umbrella of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), had told the political parties to refrain from campaigning till the Punjab Assembly elections were formally announced. However, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan has said: “We are protesting the farm laws introduced by the Centre, which is headed by the BJP. So we will protest the BJP everywhere in the state, but won’t oppose other political parties. We will just appeal to villagers not to attend their rallies.” Further, the BKU leader said the protest was at a critical juncture and needed support from all. The main parties had their cadre in the villages, and by opposing them, they didn’t want to lose their support, he added.Reiterating Ugrahan’s stand, union secretary Shingara Singh Mann said their union was not part of the recent meeting of the 32 farm organisations with parties. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-main-target-wont-oppose-others-joginder-singh-ugrahan-310771
14-09-2021||---||Giani Zail Singh’s grandson Inderjeet Singh joins BJP||New Delhi, September 13Inderjeet Singh, grandson of former President Giani Zail Singh, today joined the BJP in the presence of Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri. Immediately after joining the BJP, he raised a question mark over the accident that led to the death of the former President in a road accident in 1994.A Congress loyalist, Giani Zail Singh served as the President from 1982 to 1987, the five-year period that was marked by events such as Operation Bluestar, assassination of former PM Indira Gandhi and the anti-Sikh riots.Inderjeet belongs to the Ramgarhia Sikh community, which has a strong presence in several parts of Punjab. Several other members of the community also joined the BJP.Stating that he was “fulfilling the wishes of his grandfather by joining the BJP”, Singh claimed the Congress “did not behave well” with his grandfather.“He was unhappy over the way he was treated and wanted me to join the BJP and also introduced me to top leaders like Atal Bihari Vajpayee and LK Advani.“He was preparing me (for a political career) and then the accident happened, don’t know whether it was an accident or the accident was orchestrated…” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/giani-zail-singhs-grandson-inderjeet-singh-joins-bjp-310769
14-09-2021||---||17 new faces on SAD list of 42; no word on Parkash Singh Badal||Chandigarh, September 13Keeping suspense over the candidature of five-time CM Parkash Singh Badal from the Lambi constituency, the SAD today announced candidates for 42 seats. The list has 17 new faces.The party has so far announced 64 candidates. Surprisingly, a lone woman candidate — Vaninder Kaur Loomba from Shutrana constituency — figures on the list.The Akalis aim to take the lead in poll campaigning despite the setback owing to farmers’ protests against their “Gal Punjab Di” yatra.Ex-AIG Sandhu quitsEx- AIG Harmohan Singh Sandhu, son of former minister Satwant Kaur Sandhu, resigned from the primary membership of the SAD on Monday. His father Ajaib Singh Sandhu was a two-time MLA and his mother won the Chamkaur Sahib seat five times. He was expecting a SAD ticket from Chamkaur Sahib seat. But it was allocated to the BSP. (Read full story)The fresh list released by party president Sukhbir Singh Badal is silent on the Lambi seat. Party leaders insist the senior Badal was healthy to lead the campaign but it was his call on contesting from Lambi. There is also speculation that some other member from the Badal family may contest from the seat if the senior Badal decides otherwise. Sources indicate the party is mulling fielding former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra from the Ghanaur seat. It will mark Chandumajra’s return to the state elections after almost 25 years.His son Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra has got the ticket from the Sanaur constituency in Patiala. Tota Singh and his son Barjinder Singh Makhan Brar have also got the party ticket from Dharamkot and Moga, respectively. However, another contestant Sikander Singh Maluka could not get a ticket for his son.Among the new faces are two former BJP leaders — Anil Joshi and RK Gupta — and three former Congress leaders — Jagmeet Brar (Mansa), Jagbir Brar (Jalandhar Cantt) and Hans Raj Josan (Fazilka).Youngster Paramjit Dhillon has got the ticket from Samrala, while kabbadi player and farm activist Gulzar Singh Gulzari will contest from Dirba. Maheshinder Singh Grewal will contest from Ludhiana West.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/17-new-faces-on-sad-list-of-42-no-word-on-parkash-singh-badal-310766
14-09-2021||Sangrur||Vijay Inder Singla reaches out to bete noire Surinderpal Singh Sibia||After remaining at loggerheads for years, Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla finally seems to be getting along with former MLA Surinderpal Singh Sibia.Singla, along with several senior Congress leaders called on Sibia at his residence.Though Congress leaders termed it a routine meeting, sources said since former MLA Arvind Khanna, a businessman, was likely to contest the Assembly elections from Sangrur, Singla and his team had started consolidating their position. “If any party leader is having any problem, we will resolve that,” said Congress leader Satish Kansal, who accompanied Singla.Sibia said: “Singla came last evening to my house for a cup of tea. I have assured him my full support. I am a loyal Congress worker.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vijay-inder-singla-reaches-out-to-bete-noire-surinderpal-singh-sibia-310761
14-09-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Capt Amarinder Singh begins outreach, targets Akalis||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 13After having survived a bid to oust him, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has started work on reclaiming political edge over his adversaries in the run-up to the 2022 Assembly elections, if the beginning of his outreach programme today at Nawanshahr and Hoshiarpur was any indication.In a clear move to send the message down the line, the CM camp has already started work to roll out welfare programmes in various Assembly segments. With the CM as face, new initiatives and more programmes will be announced. A social media team has been put in place to highlight the programmes.Amarinder as CMCM Capt Amarinder Singh’s camp has already started a campaign to project him as the chief ministerial face in the 2022 elections. Though the party’s central leadership has been avoiding announcement of the CM nominee, the Amarinder camp has started fortifying his position.Setting the political tone for his outreach programme, the CM gave a clear message to farm unions to avoid protest in Punjab against the “black” laws and instead exert pressure on the Centre. “It was a clear message to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) which has issued a diktat to political parties to stop their campaign till the Election Commission announces the poll schedule. However, the SKM diktat does not apply to government functions,” said a party leader.Setting his agenda, the CM targeted the SAD by accusing party supremo Parkash Singh Badal and his son Sukhbir Singh Badal of playing a double game on the farm laws passed by the BJP-led government at the Centre. Taking advantage of the changed political equation in the Punjab Congress after the intervention of the party high command to control internal strife, the CM camp has already started a campaign to project him as the CM face in the 2022 elections. Though party’s central leadership has been avoiding announcement of the CM nominee, the Amarinder camp has started fortifying his position.Assigning of duties to senior party leader Lal Singh and three MLs Kiki Dhillon (Jat), Surinder Kumar Dawar (Hindu) and Raj Kumar Chabbewal (Dalit) to address public grievances at the CM’s residence was a clear sign of things to come.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-begins-outreach-targets-akalis-310759
14-09-2021||---||Moga: 3 women booked for giving fake jabs in Dharamkot||Moga, September 13Acting on a complaint by the Health Department, the Moga police have booked three women for allegedly administering fake Covid-19 vaccines to local residents in Dharamkot sub-division of the district, a police officer said today.Rakesh Kumar Bali, Senior Medical Officer and in-charge of Primary Health Care Centre, Kot-ise-Khan, claimed the three — Manpreet Kaur, a resident of Pandori Araian village, Luvpreet Kaur of Lohgarh village and Harpreet Kaur of Mandar Kalan village — endangered the lives of residents by spreading misinformation on the pandemic.The kingpin, Manpreet, allegedly impersonated as an ‘Asha’ worker while the other two assisted her, arranging fake vaccination camps in rural areas. The health officer claimed they were fraudulently administering multivitamin injections to people in the name of Covid-19 vaccine.“We have recovered some multivitamin injections from the Bhai Ka Khooh area in Dharamkot town where they were administering fake vaccines. One suspect fled the scene, taking away a huge stock of injections,” said Dr Bali.He said the Health Department was committed to protecting local residents from fraudsters. Preliminary probe suggested the suspects profited from peddling unapproved remedies and stirring up false fear among people.“We will act to protect trust in the medical developments that are enabling us to emerge from the problems presented by the pandemic”, said the health officer. When a team of department raided a fake vaccination camp, the three allegedly assaulted a local ‘Asha’ worker, Paramjit Kaur, who blew the lid off the wrongdoing. The authorities were yet to ascertain the number of fake vaccination camps or jabs administered by the three. The three were at large.A case under Sections 419, 420, 353, 356, 511 and 186,IPC, has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/moga-3-women-booked-for-giving-fake-jabs-in-dharamkot-310758
14-09-2021||Aman Sood||Rs 25-cr sop for industry to curb farm fires in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 13The Punjab Government is looking to incentivise industry, including distilleries and breweries, in a bid to tackle the menace of paddy stubble and farm fires.With farm fires expected to start this week, the government is trying to promote stubble use with cumulative fiscal incentives of Rs 25 crore to certain industries, in addition to deputing over 8,000 officials in the field — starting Wednesday.Editorial: Checking stubble burning: Curb the menace to reduce pollutionOfficials privy to the development confirmed industries such as sugar mills, pulp and paper mills, besides those having boilers with steam generation capacity of more than 25 tonnes per hour will be eligible for the incentives.Senior Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) officials said the government had decided to provide cumulative fiscal incentives of Rs 25 crore to the first 50 existing industries on a first-come-first-served basis.Also read: Crop residue management: Innovative solutions can douse farm firesIncentivise alternative technologies, raise awarenessIn-situ mgmt, mulching effective for managing paddy straw“New and existing distillery and brewery units, proposing replacement of old boilers or expansion with installation of new boilers, are required to use paddy straw as fuel. Further, we will allow non-fiscal incentives to such industry in terms of availability of ‘panchayat’ land for storage of paddy straw with 33-year lease agreement,” said officials.Sources say the government plans to ensure they manage to cut farm fire incidents by half this season by using various means. “Punjab wants to add to the farm income by diverting additional farm stubble to such units due to rising cases of farm fires,” said a source.“We welcome the move and it’s a positive step and but its success will depend highly on the farmer getting a suitable price for the stubble,” said Satnam Singh Behru, president, Consortium of Indian Farmers’ Associations.According to the government data, in 2020 over 76,500 farm fires were reported in Punjab. In 2019, the number stood at 52,900, while in 2018, over 51,700 incidents were recorded. Every season, over 15 million tonnes of paddy straw is burnt in open fields ahead of winter sowing.“To curb the menace of paddy straw burning adding to poor air quality, the state government is working to present ‘paddy straw’ as a resource that creates value and wealth for industry and the farming community,” said a top official.Meanwhile, starting Wednesday, over 8,000 village-level nodal officers appointed for the current paddy season will monitor farm fires round the clock using a mobile app. In addition, over 76,626 advanced machinery will be available in the state.However, experts suggest this year, stubble burning can start as early as mid-September, given early sowing in parts of the state, and these are not good signs amid the Covid pandemic, which affects patients with weak lungs.The state Agriculture Department is banking on 76,000 machines, which will take care of the 20 lakh hectares of agricultural fields with stubble. “This year, we expect 40 per cent less cases of stubble. However, ensuring cooperation from farm unions is crucial,” said a senior agriculture official.“With elections round the corner, soft approach towards punishing erring farmers could be a deterrent to ensuring ‘no farm fire policy’,” added the official.According to the Central Pollution Control Board, stubble burning contributes significantly to air pollution in Delhi and NCR every post-paddy season.Distilleries to benefitWin-win for allThe government is working to present paddy straw as a resource that creates value and wealth for industry and farming community. — A govt official||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs-25-cr-sop-for-industry-to-curb-farm-fires-in-punjab-310755
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Amarinder's statement proves he instigated farmers: Anil Vij||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Monday hit back at Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s “irresponsible” statement regarding farmers and said that it clearly indicates instigating the farmers.Vij tweeted here today that “Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh ji telling farmers to do whatever they want in Haryana or Delhi and don’t do it in Punjab is a very irresponsible statement. This proves that Amarinder Singh has done the work of instigating the farmers”.It is noteworthy to mention that Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said during a function in Hoshiarpur that farmers should not agitate in Punjab.They do whatever they want by going to Haryana and Delhi, but do not spoil the atmosphere of Punjab. He also said that farmers are sitting on dharna at 113 places in Punjab, which is causing financial loss to the state.पंजाब के CM अमरिंदर सिंह का किसानों को कहना कि हरियाणा, दिल्ली में जाकर जो मर्जी करो, पंजाब में मत करो, बहुत गैर जिम्मेदाराना है। इसका मतलब है कि तुम पड़ोसी राज्य हरियाणा,दिल्ली की शांति भंग करना चाहते हो।इसका मतलब किसानों को उकसाने का काम उन्होंने ही किया है:हरियाणा के गृहमंत्री pic.twitter.com/1fzjTQJdu3  The chief minister also said the Punjab government has given full support to the farmers’ movement. Had the Punjab government stopped, there would not have been such a crowd at the Singhu and Tikri borders, he said.The CM also said that Punjab was the first state whose government refused to implement these agrarian reform laws. Capt Amarinder had said after this we sent our laws but the governor did not forward them, due to which we could not implement them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-amarinders-statement-proves-he-instigated-farmers-anil-vij-310617
14-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly polls: SAD announces 67 new candidates; Sukhbir Badal to contest from Jalalabad||Shiromani Akali Dal announced 42 candidates for the Punjab Assembly elections next year. SAD president Sukhbir Badal will contest from Jalalabad. Badal is a Member of Parliament from Ferozepur. Among other candidates, Jathedar Tota Singh will contest from Dharmkot; Janmeja Singh Sekhon from Zira;  Daljit Singh Cheema from Ropar; Maheshinder Singh Grewal from Ludhiana West; Sikander Singh Maluka from Rampura Phul; Jagmeet Brar from Maur; Sharanjit Singh Dhillon from Sahnewal; and Gulzar Singh Ranike from Attari (SC) Constituencies.SAD, which is contesting 97 of the 117 assembly seats, has so far announced candidates for 64. The Bahujan Samaj Party, which is contesting the elections in alliance with SAD, will take the rest.Punjab Assembly elections are due early next year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-assembly-polls-sad-announces-67-new-candidates-sukhbir-badal-to-contest-from-jalalabad-310595
14-09-2021||New Delhi||Former President Giani Zail Singh's grandson Inderjeet Singh joins BJP||Inderjeet Singh, grandson of the former President Giani Zail Singh, today joined the BJP in the presence of Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri. Immediately after joining the saffron party, he dropped a political bombshell, raising questions over the accident that led to the death of the former President in a road accident in 1994.A Congress loyalist, Zail Singh served as the President from 1982 to 1987, the five-year period that was marked by events like Operation Blue Star, the assassination of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, and the anti-Sikh riotsInderjeet Singh belongs to the Ramgarhia Sikh community which has a strong presence in several parts of poll-bound Punjab. Several other members of the community also joined the BJP along with Inderjeet Singh.Stating that he was “fulfilling the wishes of his grandfather by joining the BJP,” Singh claimed that the Congress “did not behave well” with his grandfather. “My grandfather wanted me to be in the BJP. We all know what the Congress did to him...how he was treated by that party even after the loyalty shown by him. He was unhappy over the way he was treated and wanted me to join the BJP and also introduced me to top leaders like Atal Bihari Vajpayee and LK Advani. I also campaigned for the BJP during the Madan Lal Khurana days in Delhi.“He was preparing me (for a political career) and then the accident happened, don’t know whether it was an accident or the accident was orchestrated..... that we will talk about later. Then there was no one to guide me and I went to Punjab,” he said, speaking to the media after joining the BJP at the party's Delhi headquartersBeginning and ending his statement to the media by paying obeisance to Lord Vishkarma, Inderjeet Singh said he had been bringing together the ‘Vishkarma samaj’ and also thanked Haryana leader Ramchander Jangra for connecting him with the BJP Welcoming Singh, Puri said the BJP will benefit from his social work and that he can help spread the message regarding welfare policies of the Narendra Modi government that have not been implemented by the Punjab Government Puri also said that he, along with union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat Meenakshi Lekhi and national spokesperson RP Singh, “will take guidance from Inderjeet Singh over what needs to be done” in Punjab  Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat is in charge of Punjab along with Puri, Lekhi and Lok Sabha MP Vinod Chavda. General Secretary in charge of the state, Dushyant Gautam, said his joining shows the “special place and affection” the BJP and Prime Minister Modi have in the hearts of the people of Punjab.Shri Inderjeet Singh, grandson of former President Of India Giani Zail Singh joins BJP at party headquarters in New Delhi. https://t.co/Fj54Wek10X||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/former-president-giani-zail-singhs-grandson-inderjeet-singh-joins-bjp-310571
14-09-2021||Jalandhar||Punjab’s economic state getting affected due to farmer protests: Capt Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday asked the farmers protesting in Punjab to hold dharnas in Haryana and Delhi instead of in the state.The chief minister said this while laying the foundation stone of Government College, Mukhilana, in Hoshiarpur.He said the farmers were protesting in 113 sites across the state. He said that such protests were adversely affecting the economic prospects of Punjab.“If the farmers are to hold dharnas, they should move to Haryana and Delhi instead of Punjab,” he said in his address.Launching a fierce attack on the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) for double crossing the farmers over the issue of black farm laws, the chief minister said the farm laws were drafted with the consent of SAD with Harsimrat Kaur Badal as the Union minister and even former CM Parkash Singh Badal arguing in favour of these laws but changing their tune completely when their move backfired.Taking on the Union Government, the chief minister said that the Constitution has been amended 127 times since 1950.“So why not one more time to repeal the farm laws for providing succour to the farmers who have been sitting at Singhu and Tikri borders,” he said, adding that the Punjab government has provided Rs 5 lakh to every farmer from the state who died during the agitation against farm laws besides a job to the kin of the deceased farmers.The chief minister also addressed a gathering on the occasion of laying the foundation stone of PAU College of Agriculture at Ballowal Saunkhri in Nawanshahr and kick-starting the academic session with admissions already made to 60 seats and classes set to begin from October 1.The chief minister said it would be the first time that a College of Agriculture outside the Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, would come up with the BSc (Agriculture) course.He said the opening of this college will prove to be a milestone in the development of agriculture in the Kandi area and will be helpful in strengthening its research on the problems and crops of this region as well as agricultural services for region’s farmers.Announcing a horticultural research station in Nawanshahar, Capt Amarinder Singh emphasised apple research also as part of diversification.“The state government would now pay 90 per cent of the subsidy from earlier 60 per cent paid to the small farmers for erecting barbed wire fencing in order to protect their crops from animals,” announced the chief minister adding five Horticulture Estates have been set up to guide the farmers and provide them the services for raising the fruits and vegetables.MP from Anandpur Sahib Manish Tewari advocated reconstruction and realignment of Kandi canal phase-2 apart from exploring the possibility of a wood park and coffee plantation.MLA from Balachaur Chaudhary Darshan Lal Mangupur expressed gratitude to the chief minister for bestowing a gift to the region in the form of the College of Agriculture and leaving no stone unturned in ensuring adequate funds for the development of the Kandi region.He reiterated that the Congress would again form the government in the state in 2022 under the leadership of Capt Amarinder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-economic-state-getting-affected-due-to-farmer-protests-capt-amarinder-310564
14-09-2021||---||28-year-old India shooter Namanveer Brar ‘dies by suicide’ at his Sector 71 house in Mohali||Mohali, September 13India shooter Namanveer Singh Brar, 28, allegedly died by suicide at his Sector 71 house here on Monday morning.Trap shooter Brar had finished fourth in the Minimum Qualification Score (MQS) category of the Delhi Shooting World Cup in March this year.In 2015, he had bagged the bronze in the double-trap shooting event of the World University Games at Gwangju, South Korea. Details are awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/28-year-old-india-shooter-namanveer-brar-dies-by-suicide-at-his-sector-71-house-in-mohali-310545
