15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM orders high alert as police nab 4 more in oil tanker IED tiffin bomb blast case||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has ordered high alert in the state following the arrest of four more members of an ISI-backed terrorist module involved in a bid to blow up an oil tanker with an IED tiffin bomb last month, making it the fourth case of a Pakistani terror module being busted in the state in the past 40 days.Two Pak-based terrorists, including a Pakistani intelligence officer, have also been identified and nominated in the case, in which one person was arrested earlier, DGP Dinkar Gupta disclosed on Wednesday.Taking a serious note of the increased attempts by terror groups to disturb the state’s peace, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has directed the police to be on high alert, particularly in view of schools and educational institutions reopening, as well as the festival season and the assembly polls ahead.The chief minister has asked the DGP to ensure high level of security arrangements to be put in place, especially in busy places, such as markets etc, as well as at sensitive installations across the state.Giving details of the arrests, the DGP identified Pak-based ISYF chief Lakhbir Singh and Qasim, a resident of Pakistan, and Lakhbir Singh Rode alias Baba, a native of village Rode, police station Samalsar, Moga district, who is currently based in Pakistan, as being behind the terror module.Those arrested yesterday have been identified as Rubal Singh, of village Bhakha Tara Singh, Vicky Bhutti, of Ballharwal, Malkeet Singh, of Ugar Aulakh, and Gurpreet Singh alias Gopi of Uggar Aulakh.While Rubal, also wanted in a murder case of September 1, 2021, was picked up from Ambala around 5 pm yesterday, the other three were nabbed from their villages in Ajnala, Amritsar.Their fifth accomplice, Gurmukh Brar, was arrested earlier by Kapurthala police, on 20th August.The DGP said the Pakistani intelligence officer, identified as Qasim, and International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF) chief Rode had promised to transfer over Rs 2 lakh to the terrorist module for carrying out the blast.Investigations into the financial aspects are also being carried to unravel the money trail, he added.Rubal and Vicky Bhutti were in touch with Qasim, who was working in close collaboration with Rode. Rode and Qasim had reportedly tasked the four members of a terrorist module to blast an oil tanker for causing maximum damage to people and property.The terror attempt was made on 8th August, when at about 11:30 pm, the Ajnala police received information that an oil tanker (PB-02 CR 5926) parked at Sharma Filling Station Ajnala, located on the Amritsar-Ajnala road near village Bhakha Tara Singh, had caught fire.The fire was controlled by a fire brigade and FIR no.260 was registered at police station Ajnala.Analysis of the CCTV footage at the filling station showed that four unknown persons had come near the petrol pump at about 11 pm and had stayed there for a few minutes, before going towards Amritsar side. The suspects returned at about 11:19 pm and placed some suspicious material on the fuel tank of the oil tanker before fleeing. Then, at about 11:29 pm, two of the suspects again returned, and within a minute, there was an explosion and the fire.Preliminary investigations have revealed that Gurmukh had placed the tiffin IED at Hambowal on Jalandhar-Amritsar highway, from where, on 6th August, Vicky, Malkeet and Gurpreet Singh picked it up on the directions of Rode and Qasim. The trio hid the bomb near a canal in the Rajasansi area.A pen-drive was attached with the tiffin box, which contained an instruction manual in the shape of the video with detailed steps on how to operate the tiffin bomb IED.After retrieval of the tiffin bomb IED, Vicky and Rubal were tasked by Rode to place the tiffin bomb on an oil tanker to create a big explosion and cause maximum damage.On 8th August, these terrorist operatives carried out a recce of Sharma Filling Station during the day and placed the IED at about 11 pm, with the timer of the tiffin bomb IED set to 8 minutes. The blast took place at about 11:30 pm, leading to the fire in the tank of the oil tanker.All the five arrested operatives, along with Rode and Qasim, have been booked in FIR no. 260 dated 11-8-2021 registered under section U/S 436,427 IPC, 13, 16, 18, 18 B, 20 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act 1967 and Section 3, 4, 5 of Explosive Substances (Amendment) Act 2001.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-orders-high-alert-as-police-nab-4-more-in-oil-tanker-ied-tiffin-bomb-blast-case-311609
15-09-2021||---||You could have averted farmers’ crisis, no moral right to speak now: Punjab CM to Harsimrat||Chandigarh, September 15Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said no Akali leader, especially former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, had the moral right to speak on the crisis triggered by the Farm Laws, which they could easily have averted when they were part of the central government and party to each of its anti-people decisions.In a response to Harsimrat’s “irresponsible claims and baseless allegations” against him with reference to his statement on the impact of the prolonged farmers’ stir in Punjab on the state’s economy, the Chief Minister slammed the Akali leader over her politically motivated remarks which were nothing but a cover-up of her and her party’s failure to prevent the crisis that was of their own deliberate making.Ridiculing the former union minister’s remarks that he (Capt Amarinder) was speaking the language of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership and the Prime Minister, the Chief Minister said left to the ruling party at the Centre and in neighbouring Haryana, the farmers would not have even reached the Delhi borders to make their voice heard. “I never asked the farmers to go to Delhi. They were forced to leave their homes and sit at the border of the national capital, facing the elements and even losing their lives, as a result of your coalition government’s acts of commission and omission,” he said.Dubbing as atrocious Harsimrat’s suggestion that the farmers should protest in Punjab while their fight was against the BJP-led government at the Centre, the Chief Minister quipped “it’s like asking someone to go to the western front to fight an enemy that is standing at the eastern border.”Taking a dig at Harsimrat’s claim of being “surprised and pained” at his remarks, the Chief Minister said either the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader was deliberately lying or was totally dumb and apathetic to the plight of the state and its people.As for not taking the farmers’ fight to the Centre, the Chief Minister advised Harsimrat to ask her media team to search out the press reports of his personal visits, meetings, letters and phone calls to the Prime Minister, the Union Home Minister and other central government ministers on the issue over the past one year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/you-could-have-averted-farmers-crisis-no-moral-right-to-speak-now-punjab-cm-to-harsimrat-311591
15-09-2021||Ludhiana||After SC panel’s orders, Punjab Govt issues degree to Ludhiana-based MBBS student||Sheena Mattu finally got her MBBS degree today, which was withheld by college authorities due to amendments to the Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme for SC students.After the National Commission for Scheduled Castes’ (NCSC) directions, the Punjab Government issued the degree to the Ludhiana-based doctor.Mattu took admission to Dayanand Medical College (DMC), Ludhiana, in 2015, under the management quota and was paid scholarship amount for the first two years. But the state government decided to discontinue it after receiving a circular from the Centre.“As per the Central Government circular issued in 2018, the state governments were asked to discontinue the scholarship scheme for students seeking admission under the management quota. However, it was clearly mentioned that the beneficiaries already enrolled under the scheme would continue to get scholarship till completion of their courses. However, students taking admission in 2017-2018 will not be given such benefits. The circular was not applicable on Dr Mattu as she had got admission in 2015,” NCSC chairman Vijay Sampla said.During a recent meeting at New Delhi, Sampla had asked the state government officials and college authorities to release the degree of Sheena Mattu. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-sc-panels-orders-punjab-govt-issues-degree-to-ludhiana-based-mbbs-student-311427
15-09-2021||---||Rain predicted, PAU experts advise Punjab farmers to not irrigate fields||Ludhiana, September 14As light to moderate rain/thundershowers are expected at many places in the state over the next two days, experts from the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) have advised farmers not to irrigate/spray the crops during this period.The weed growing on cotton field bunds, waste lands, roadside and irrigation channels/canals should be eradicated to avoid further spread of whitefly. Regular surveillance of whitefly on cotton should also be done, the experts said.“It is time to sowmid-season varieties of cauliflower. Punjab broccoli-1 and palam samridhi varieties can also be sown. It is the right time to sow PC161, Punjab carrot red and Punjab black beauty varieties of carrot,” an advisory issued by the Gramin Krishi Mausam Sewa (GKMS) of PAU stated.The prevailing weather is favourable for fruit rot and die back disease in chilli. Farmers can protect the crop by spraying 250 ml Folicur or 750 g Indofil M 45 or Blitox in 250 litres of water per acre after weather clears up, the advisory maintained.To check fruit and shoot borer attack in brinjal, spray 80 ml Coragen 18.5 SC or 80 g Proclaim 5SG in 100-125 litres of water per acre, experts shared.Planting of evergreen fruit plants, such as guava, mango, litchi, papaya, bael, sapota, pomegranate etc can also be done in this season. As heavy rainfall is expected, farmers were advised to make proper channels to drain out excessive water from orchards.“Do not allow water to stagnate around the tree trunks. Keep the basin of the plants slightly higher than rest of the orchard soil. Apply white wash mixture containing copper sulphate on the main trunks of fruit trees to protect them from diseases. Regularly remove the suckers arising from the rootstock portion of the newly planted fruit plants and support these with sticks to keep them erect during rainy season,” the advisory added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rain-predicted-pau-experts-advise-punjab-farmers-to-not-irrigate-fields-311437
15-09-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Decades-old ties help Amritsar importers in getting dry fruits from Kabul on credit||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 14Even though no fund transfer is taking place through the Bank of Kabul, a few importers, who have been into the trade for decades, are getting supplies of dry fruits from Afghanistan on credit due to their connections.The trade between the holy city and Afghanistan goes back to centuries. Most of the business houses in Majith Mandi, which is a hub of dry fruits and spices in the walled city, are involved in this trade.Anil Mehra, a city-based importer, said: “The entire business is taking place on credit now. No new import house is getting supplies as the employees of the Bank of Kabul have not joined duties after the change of guard.”A city-based importerInstead of covering costly eatables with tarpaulin sheets, some buckets were placed under the leaking roofs. Obviously, these are not adequate to prevent the seeping rainwater from reaching the bags. The authorities at ICP failed to protect the costly eatables from rainwater.Meanwhile, importers are busy assessing losses incurred after the imported Afghan dry fruit got drenched in the downpour from leaking roofs recently while being stored in warehouses at the Integrated Check Post (ICP), Attari-Wagah, 36 km from here. He said assessing the total loss would be an onerous task as the stored material was despatched to different parts of the country. He, however, made it clear that they would not get good returns on drenched imported eatables. He said: “Proper care is not being taken despite paying heavy maintenance and demurrage (charges).”Importers pay nearly Rs22,000 per truck as maintenance charges on the very first day, when the material is unloaded in godowns. In addition, Rs4 per tonne demurrage is given for the next two to three days. This is raised to Rs50 per tonne for the next five days and then it is increased to Rs150 per tonne.Importers said instead of covering costly eatables with tarpaulin sheets, some buckets were placed under the leaking roofs. Obviously, these were not adequate to prevent the seeping rainwater from reaching the bags. They are irked at the authorities at the Integrated Check Post (ICP) for failing to protect the costly eatables from rainwater.Though no official of the Land Ports Authority of India (LPAI) came forward to clarify, sources said holes were made in the godown roofs to install solar panels. Work for the same is under way. However, the rainwater managed to make its way inside the godowns through these holes.BK Bajaj, a city-based dry fruit importer, said: “Though the Bank of Kabul is lying closed for want of staff, the Afghan exporters are dispatching material in good faith and on credit to clear their stock of freshly harvested crop. So, over 30 trucks are arriving at the ICP daily.”Recently, his counterparts in Afghanistan conveyed to him to pay for the imported material through third country. Most of the Afghan exporters have chosen the UAE for payments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/decades-old-ties-help-amritsar-importers-in-getting-dry-fruits-from-kabul-on-credit-311150
15-09-2021||---||EC sounds poll bugle in Punjab, increases booth count||Chandigarh, September 14Amid farmers’ resistance to the Assembly elections and Covid situation, the Election Commission (EC) has sounded the poll bugle in Punjab. The EC would set up 24,689 polling booths, up from the existing 23,211, for the upcoming Assembly elections.Multi-tier securityWarehouses set up across the state with multi-tier security, including installation of CCTV cameras.Following SOPs on transportationThe Chief Electoral Officer said the EVMs were being transported by adopting the standard operating procedure set by the Election Commission of India. He said district-wise nodal officers were picking up these machines from Madhya Pradesh in GPS-fitted special transport containers under tight security after proper scanning.Taking note of the pandemic, the number of voters per booth has been reduced from 1,400 to 1,200.Apart from that, the EC is going to make elaborate safety arrangements, including providing PPE kits to poll staff and masks to voters.During a press conference, Punjab’s Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju said the state had a stock of 37,576 voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) machines, 34,942 control units and 45,316 ballot units. The Chief Electoral Officer said the ECI had given its concurrence to arrange additional EVMs required for the Assembly polls in Punjab. He said 10,500 control units and 21,100 VVPAT were being transported from Madhya Pradesh to Punjab.Raju said with the addition of these machines, the state would have 45,316 ballot units, 34,942 control units and 37,576 VVPAT machines. The Chief Electoral Officer said the EVMs were being transported by adopting the standard operating procedure (SOPs) set by the ECI. He said district-wise nodal officers were picking up these machines from MP in GPS-fitted transport containers under tight security.The EVM-VVPAT machines had safely reached headquarters of 10 districts — Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran, Kapurthala, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Ferozepur, Muktsar, Mansa and Amritsar, he said, adding that in the rest of the districts, the machines would reach within two days.He said the first level checking of the machines would be undertaken in the presence of representatives of national and state political parties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ec-sounds-poll-bugle-in-punjab-increases-booth-count-311199
15-09-2021||---||Now, Punjab CM forms six-man manifesto panel||Chandigarh, September 14Getting into the election mode, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has constituted a six-member CM’s committee on implementation of manifesto, headed by senior party leader Lal Singh.In poll modeNo dissent in partyReacting to absence of Higher Education Minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa and Cabinet colleague Sukhjinder Randhawa from CM’s college unveiling event in Hoshiarpur, Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari said: “Nothing much should be read into it. The CM was accompanied by School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla. There is no dissent in party.”Other committee members include MLAs Surinder Kumar Dawar, Kushaldeep Dhillon and Dr Raj Kumar Chabbewal; political secretary to CM Capt Sandeep Sandhu and military historian and columnist Mandeep Bajwa.A meeting of the committee has been convened by the CM on Wednesday at his Siswan farmhouse. Apart from discussing manifesto-related issues, the working guidelines and functional powers of the committee are likely to be taken up.A few days ago, the CM had constituted a four-member committee, comprising Lal Singh, Dawar, Dhillon and Dr Chabbewal, to listen to day-to-day public grievances and issues raised by party workers. It has been positioned at the CM’s Sector 2 residence.Sources said apart from assigning political role to other important party leaders, the CM was likely to involve the MPs in taking various political decisions to fortify his position.Senior party leader and CM confidant Lal Singh, who is also the chairman of the Punjab Mandi Board, has been tasked with coordinating the working and assigning of duties to MLAs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-punjab-cm-forms-six-man-manifesto-panel-311201
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||AAP objects to Capt Amarinder Singh’s outreach programme||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has objected to the voter outreach programme of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, stating that the Congress was carrying it out by going against the farmers’ order. It also termed the Chief Minister’s statement asking the farmers to end protests in the state irresponsible.Hold house sessionAAP senior leader and Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema has asked the Punjab Government to convene the pending monsoon session immediately. He said issues related to farmers, labourers, traders, employees and the unemployed needed to be discussed in detail in the Assembly.AAP’s national executive member and MLA Aman Arora appealed to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) to either rein in the Congress and Captain or reconsider its diktat on barring political parties from holding rallies/events. “After four and a half years, Captain, who was sitting in the farmhouse, now suddenly remembers going to the public before the elections,” he added, saying he could have waited for three more months and followed the Kisan Morcha’s order. Arora said allowing only Captain to do political programmes would be unfair to other parties.On Capt Amarinder asking farmers to protest in Delhi only, Arora said: “Amarinder Singh should tell what pressure he has put on Prime Minister Narendra Modi till now to withdraw the farm laws. He should also tell what steps he has taken to save Punjab from economic losses before these protests.”Meanwhile, AAP senior leader and Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema has asked the Punjab Government to convene a session of the Assembly immediately. According to Cheema, issues related to farmers, laborers, traders, employees and the unemployed need to be discussed in detail in the Assembly as the pending monsoon session would be the last session of the present government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-objects-to-capt-amarinder-singhs-outreach-programme-311202
15-09-2021||Sangrur||Farmer leaders flay Punjab CM Capt Amarinder on 'fiscal impact' remark||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s appeal to the farmer unions “not to hold protests over the three central farm laws in Punjab as these have considerably impacted economic development” appears to have angered farmers in the state. Advising the Chief Minister not to side with the central government indirectly, they announced stepping up their agitation further.“The statement of CM Capt Amarinder Singh is surprising. Since the beginning of our agitation, he has been supporting us. But now he has started asking us to end the protest, which is not acceptable,” said Barinder Singh, a protesting farmer from Sangrur. Another farmer, Jaswinder Singh, alleged the statement was made at the behest of the Centre.“Our agitation began last year; what development did the Congress government bring to Punjab before that? CM must share a comparison to clarify that our agitation has impacted economic development,” said Gurdarshan Singh, another protester.Sangrur BKU Ugrahan block president Gobinder Singh said farmers would not end the protest until the farm laws were repealed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-leaders-flay-punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-on-fiscal-impact-remark-311203
15-09-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Panel for agri zoning, metering groundwater in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 14With Punjab headed towards desertification by 2037, the only way to conserve water is by agricultural zoning of the state and by metering groundwater.Other major recommendations…These are the major recommendations of the special Vidhan Sabha committee, which submitted a report to Speaker Rana KP Singh here today, suggesting that a policy on groundwater extraction and recharge be brought out.Formed by the Speaker with representation from all parties in March, the panel is headed by MLA Rana Gurjit Singh and comprises Harparatap Singh Ajnala, Gurpratap Singh Wadala, Hardev Singh Laddi, Dr Raj Kumar Chabbewal and Gurmeet Singh Hayer as members.With irrigation for agriculture being the major source of groundwater depletion, the committee has now recommended that the state be divided into agricultural zones, with certain arid or dry areas being brought under horticulture crops (in Kandi area) and under cotton (in South Malwa), with at least 7.50 lakh hectares under the “white gold”.This will help in less extraction of groundwater vis-à-vis a scenario where MSP regime and easy availability of groundwater through tubewells is weaning all farmers across Punjab towards paddy. Interestingly, this recommendation of agricultural zoning was also made in the report on crop diversification submitted to the Centre by the state government.Another crucial recommendation is to start metering the groundwater supply, initially for domestic supply and later for the agricultural supply. There should be an audit on demand and supply in agriculture and industry, which should form the basis of a water credit scheme. “Farmers and the industry that reduces the usage of water would earn credit points, which can then be rewarded through concessions,” said Rana Gurjit Singh.The Punjab Water Regulation and Development Authority, constituted by the Capt Amarinder government two years ago, had recommended levying of charges for extraction of groundwater for commercial and industrial use. But this has so far not been implemented. With elections to the state assembly round the corner, it is unlikely that a decision on this be taken soon.Every year, the groundwater is depleting by 70 cm in the state. The annual extraction of groundwater is 14 million cubic metre, which is more than the groundwater recharge.Various studies have shown that 17 per cent of tubewells are now dug as deep as 600-650 metre as water is not available in the first 300 metre of the aquifer. “Thus, there is urgent need to reassess the use of groundwater and take immediate steps to prevent the desertification of Punjab, which is expected in next 25 years if the groundwater extraction continues at the current rate,” said Harparatap Singh Ajnala, a member of the special committee.The committee has recommended that an extensive study be carried out on the extent of water recharged, though some reports suggest that only 20 per cent of the rainwater is recharged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/panel-for-agri-zoning-metering-groundwater-in-punjab-311204
15-09-2021||---||7 Punjabi University staffers suspended, three terminated for fraud||Patiala, September 14Over a month after the Patiala police registered an FIR against seven individuals, including one Punjabi University employee for misappropriation of UGC scholarship grants, the university has initiated action against 10 more employees for involvement in the scam.Rs 40 lakh bungledWe have come across wrong transactions amounting to Rs40 lakh. As such, seven of those identified for involvement have been suspended and a probe is under way. — Prof Arvind, VC, Punjabi UniversityThe university has come across wrongful transactions worth Rs 40 lakh in which undue amounts were transferred from university accounts to respective accounts of the employees.University officials said they had suspended seven employees and filed a chargesheet against them while services of other three contractual employees have been terminated. The university, however, has not revealed the names of the accused. The revelation has come a month after the police registered a case against seven individuals on receipt of a complaint from the university and launched an investigation.As a matter of fact, the university had started investigating its records in June after a number of fake bills of UGC grants amounting in Rs 7 lakh were reported to the Vice Chancellor. In a report submitted to the police, the university said fake bills of UGC scholarship grants had been generated on the campus in the name of former university students. These were passed by a superintendent. The signatures of a head of a department on the bills were also forged.The university complained to the police that registered a case against senior assistant Nishu Chaudhary, ex-peon Jatinder Singh and others, including Akashdeep Singh, Sonu Kumar, Harpreet Singh, Vinay and Nisha Sharma, in August. The accused have been on the run since then. The university then also started investigating its financial records of the past five years.VC Arvind said, “We have come across wrong transactions amounting to Rs 40 lakh. As such, seven of those identified for involvement have been suspended and the university has started an inquiry against them after filing a chargesheet. Services of remaining three contractual employees have been terminated.”Meanwhle, the police have nabbed one of the accused named in the FIR. He has been identified as Vinay. Urban Estate SHO Ronnie Singh said he was nabbed from from Patiala city. “We are carrying out drives to arrest more people,” the SHO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-punjabi-university-staffers-suspended-three-terminated-for-fraud-311206
15-09-2021||Muktsar||Congress councillors oppose Muktsar MC chief||Of the 17 councillors of the Congress in the Muktsar Municipal Council (MC), 13 have written to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu, requesting them to replace their own party’s MC president Krishan Kumar Shammi Tehria and vice-president Mintu Kang.I have no ill-feeling against any councillor. The development works are being carried out in all wards. — KKS Tehria, muktsar MC PresidentThey have also written to Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra, district Congress president Harcharan Singh Sotha and former Muktsar MLA Karan Kaur Brar over the issue. The Congress councillors have accused the president and vice-president of the Municipal Council of corruption and giving them a cold shoulder.Supporting the demand, Karan Kaur Brar said: “The matter will be taken up with the senior leadership. Not much time is left to complete the development works. The committee is having a budget of Rs 18 crore, but the public money is being misused on interlocking tiles. Councillors want to focus on improving the sewerage and drainage system in their wards.” Yadwinder Singh Yadu, a councilor and former vice-president of Muktsar MC, said, “We have written a letter to the senior party leaders, demanding replacement of the sitting president and vice-president of the MC.”Reacting to the letter, Tehria said: “I have no ill-feeling against any councillor. The development works are being carried out in all wards. Many have no problem. The party leadership, too, has not yet sent me any message or sought my clarification.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-councillors-oppose-muktsar-mc-chief-311207
15-09-2021||Faridkot||Posters targeted, SAD takes to painting walls||Facing opposition to its entry into the rural area for the campaigning and frequent damage to its hoardings, the SAD is furthering its election agenda with a new strategy. It has engaged many local artists for wall paintings and writings.Earlier, party leaders had started pasting posters and installing flex boards, showcasing the party leaders’ photos and election promises in the rural belt. However, most of these posters and flex boards were damaged or removed.Now the party leaders have started the campaign, using big wall paintings and writings. These are being made with paint, ink and other material on the walls of houses of Akali workers and supporters in villages. The walls of rooms, constructed near the tube wells in fields, alongside the national highway, state highways and link roads are also being used to display candidates’ photos, poll promises and party symbol. “As there is a risk of defacement of small-sized painting and writing on the wall also, we have opted for full-sized display. As these have been drawn on personal properties, there is less chance of defacement by our opponents,” said a senior Akali leader of the area.“Making wall paintings on public property is violative of Election Commission orders. Moreover, these writings can invite opposition from farm union members and our opponents. So we chose the properties of our party workers and supporters,” said the leader. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/posters-targeted-sad-takes-to-painting-walls-311208
15-09-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||SAD workers upset over dropping of Fatehgarh Sahib leader Didar Singh Bhatti from nominee list||Supporters of Didar Singh Bhatti, who has been working as SAD halka incharge in the Fatehgarh Sahib constituency for the past 10 years, have been thronging his residence to express solidarity with him as he failed to make the cut in the list of candidates declared by the party yesterday.Bhatti’s confidants Rajbir Grewal and Surjit Singh Sahi said it was unfortunate the party did not took him in confidence before deciding the ticket. The former MLA had been touring the constituency for the past two months and holding party functions, expecting a ticket. Grewal said party workers were upset and were mulling over the future course of action.SAD senior vice-president Karnail Singh Panjoli also expressed his anguish over denial of ticket to Bhatti. “His supporters are disappointed and if the party fails to persuade him it can affect the party’s prospects. I will brief party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on the issue.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-workers-upset-over-dropping-of-fatehgarh-sahib-leader-didar-singh-bhatti-from-nominee-list-311209
15-09-2021||Jalandhar||Harinder Singh Kahlon's speech puts BJP in spot||A video of a recent BJP meeting in which party’s newly inducted leader and spokesperson Harinder Singh Kahlon is seen advocating “harsh” measures while dealing with protesting farm leaders has put the party in a spot.In the video, the former AISSF leader and advocate based out of Jalandhar is seen saying had he been in place of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he would have cane-charged the protesting farm leaders and put them in jail.“This according to me is the only solution and we will have to do it,” he is heard saying in the video. The viral video, which was reportedly filmed at the district BJP office in Jalandhar on Sunday amidst massive protest by farmers, invited has criticism on the social media.Kahlon’s speech, in presence of senior leaders such as former minister Manoranjan Kalia, drew applause from party men. “The video has been edited and is being taken out of context. Kahlon had spoken against Left leaders, not farmers,” claimed Kalia. A number of other party leaders internally condemned the speech, saying such statements should be avoided.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/harinder-singh-kahlons-speech-puts-bjp-in-spot-311211
15-09-2021||Aman Sood||MC booths for jobless given to Congress men in Patiala: Oppn||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 14Over 20 prime sites allotted as “Verka booths for unemployed youths” by the municipal corporation here are under the scanner over alleged favouritism to “select Congress councillors” and their aides. However, the corporation claims all rules have been followed.Conduct probeBooths will not only create traffic bottlenecks, but also usurp footpaths. A thorough probe must be done to ascertain the actual beneficiaries. — Amarinder Singh Bazaz, Former MayorRules followedAll rules have been followed by the House as per the requirement of Verka. If there is any violation, the Local Bodies Department can overturn the decision. — Sanjeev Sharma Bittu, Patiala MayorA majority of the booths, to come up on government land covering footpaths and roads, will generate a meagre revenue instead of the market rent.The Opposition, however, alleges the MC’s move to benefit a few individuals will cause inconvenience to commuters and flout the “right to walk” of residents.Information gathered by The Tribune reveals aides of a handful of Congress councillors have been allotted the booths. A temporary employee of the corporation, two persons attached with another councillor, and a few others considered close to a Congress councillor, all drawing salaries, have been allotted booths.As per the official documents, the finance and contracts committee of the corporation had passed the resolution saying such booths would “boost Verka sale and provide employment to unemployed youngsters”. The Congress holds the majority in the 60-member corporation, barring a SAD councillor.“In certain cases, the actual beneficiaries have got allocations in other names. The booths will not only create traffic bottlenecks, but also usurp footpaths in already busy markets. A thorough probe must be done,” said ex-mayor Amarinder Singh Bazaz.“In a majority of the markets where the new booths are proposed, shopkeepers are already present, having bought shops spending lakhs,” he said.SAD district president Harpal Juneja alleged public land was “encroached upon and a permanent structure was coming up” just to benefit a select few. “Such booth constructions are illegal and we will take up the matter with the MC Commissioner’s office. It is a scam to misuse properties worth crores,” he said.MC Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said the land was allocated by the corporation after taking it up at a meeting of general House.Patiala Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu said all rules were followed by the House while allocating the booths as per requirement received from Verka. “If there is any violation, the Local Bodies Department can overturn the decision,” he said. Patiala District Congress Committee president KK Malhotra said he would procure the list of all allottees and inform the party high command. “I have sought the complete list of allocation to ascertain who all belong to the party,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mc-booths-for-jobless-given-to-congress-men-in-patiala-oppn-311213
15-09-2021||Amritsar||Martyrs’ families protest Jallianwala Bagh facelift||Civil societies of Amritsar, along with Jalandhar-based Desh Bhagat Yaadgar Committee and kin of martyrs of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre, today conducted a protest march to convey their resentment against the recent renovation of the bagh.Amid heavy police barricading, the protesters had no option but to stage a sit-in some metres ahead of the bagh on the Heritage Street.Also read:The Jallianwala Bagh makeoverKin of 1919 martyrs hold candle march, want original character restoredJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampThey were denied access towards the bagh as a preventive measure, since the Amritsar police have imposed Section 144. Committee assistant secretary Parminder Singh termed the lapses as an insult to those who laid down their lives for the nation’s freedom. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/martyrs-families-protest-jallianwala-bagh-facelift-311214
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||ED to quiz AAP national secretary Pankaj Gupta over US fundraiser||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) summons to AAP national secretary Pankaj Gupta in connection with the money laundering cases yesterday have come after Congress MLA Sukhpal Khaira is learnt to have told the central agency that he had visited the US to raise funds for AAP.Khaira, who had recently switched over to the Congress, is facing the ED probe in two cases relating to drug trafficking and issuance of a fake passport. He is also under the ED scanner in connection with a case involving raising of $1,00,000 worth of donations during his visit to 18 US cities in 2016.The AAP’s national secretary has been summoned to seek clarifications in the probe against the Bholath MLA, said sources.The ED had registered two cases against Khaira earlier this year to investigate money laundering — first based on a trans-border drugs smuggling network unearthed in Fazilka in 2015, and the second pertaining to a fake passport racket in Delhi. The agency even raided Khaira and his son-in-law Inderveer Singh Johal in March and questioned them a few times. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ed-to-quiz-aap-national-secretary-pankaj-gupta-over-us-fundraiser-311215
15-09-2021||Ludhiana||Govt ad in Class V Punjabi paper, teachers zapped||Eyeing the Assembly elections next year, the Capt Amarinder Singh government has started publicising its welfare schemes, now in the question papers of schoolchildren.But the move has not gone down well with teachers and principals here, who feel that politics should not be mixed with education. Students of Class V, who took their Punjabi exam yesterday, were handed over question papers carrying an advertisement on hiking social security pension and listed questions related to it.After announcing that the government spent around Rs 4,800 crore on the project, the ad followed multiple-choice questions such as the advertisement is on which subject — children, senior citizens, pension distribution, etc. and when was the scheme started.A senior Punjabi teacher, wishing not to be named, said: “Was it a question from their syllabus? Why are we stooping so low that we are using students for our vested interests?”Ramanjit Singh Sandhu, state committee member, Democratic Teachers Front, said why the state government was highlighting its schemes in the question papers of primary students. He said education must not be used as a tool to boast achievements. “Several other platforms are available. They can always use those,” he said.Dr Devinder Boha, state coordinator, Padho Punjab, under whose patronage resource teams set question papers, did not respond to several phone calls and text messages. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/govt-ad-in-class-v-punjabi-paper-teachers-zapped-311218
15-09-2021||Vishav Bharti||Write-up row haunts minority panel chief Iqbal Singh Lalpura||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 14Days after former cop Iqbal Singh Lalpura took charge as the National Minority Commission Chairman, his past returned to haunt him.Also read: Ex-cop Iqbal Singh Lalpura who arrested Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale is National Minority Commission chiefFree to move courtI wrote the article after visiting Pak and it was part of my book published in 2004. I have authored 13 books. Why will I plagiarise his article? If Pannu has any grudges, he is free to approach court. Iqbal Singh Lalpura, national minority commission chairmanIn 2007, being the Punjab Police AIG, Lalpura had published an article related to Sikhism in the department’s official magazine ‘Darpan’. The article was about Rai Bular Khan Sahib and was published in the January 2007 issue of the magazine. A Muslim, Rai was inspired by Guru Nanak Dev. He had donated over 18,500 acres agricultural land, which is now under the control of the Evacuee Trust Property Board of Pakistan.However, Sikh scholar Professor Harpal Singh Pannu of Punjabi University, Patiala, claimed that Lalpura had plagiarised his 1993 piece and taken up the matter with the then DGP and alleged that his article had been reproduced word-to-word, but in Lalpura’s name.After Lalpura took over as the Chairman, Pannu has once again raked up the issue on the social media. Recalling the incident, Pannu said one of his readers, who was serving in the police, brought the issue to his knowledge and sent him a copy of the magazine as well.“I shot off a letter to the DGP. Following that, Lalpura called and requested me to give him a chance. He had said that he would come to my house to personally apologise for the mistake. But I asked him to apologise in the magazine,” Pannu claimed.In the following issue, the DGP, being the editor of the magazine, under the title “Likht Di Chori Da Dosh” (accusation of plagiarism) also expressed regret “for the lapse” and stated that a reply had been sought from Lalpura on Pannu’s letter. “But the reply never appeared in the magazine,” Pannu said. Lalpura said he had written the article following a visit to Pakistan and it was part of his book published in 2004. “I have authored 13 books. Why will I plagiarise his article?” he said. “If Pannu has any grudges, he is free to approach the court,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/write-up-row-haunts-minority-panel-chief-iqbal-singh-lalpura-311219
15-09-2021||---||Court denies bail to gang-rape accused despite compromise||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 14The Punjab and Haryana HC has refused anticipatory bail to accused in a gang-rape case even though they had entered into a compromise with the alleged victim. The Bench ruled that extending the concession for “offences like the one in hand” would send a wrong signal to society at large. The assertion came even as the state counsel submitted that custodial interrogation of the petitioners was not required.A Coordinate Bench, vide an order dated February 12, had granted interim bail to the petitioners by taking into consideration the compromise arrived at between the prosecutrix and the accused-petitioners. Taking up the matter, Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul said the court while deciding the petition would refrain from commenting on the compromise. More so, when it was prima facie a gang-rape case. The matter stood excluded from the category of offences which could be compounded under the CrPC.“Though the counsel for the state, on instructions, has submitted that custodial interrogation of the petitioners is not required, in the wake of the nature and gravity of the offence alleged and taking into account the tone and tenor of the compromise, there is every likelihood that the petitioners could tamper with material evidence in case they are allowed the concession of anticipatory bail,” Justice Kaul asserted.Vicky and another petitioner had moved the court for anticipatory bail in an FIR registered on September 28 last year for rape, criminal intimidation and other offences at the Beas police station in Amritsar.Justice Kaul asserted the allegations levelled in the FIR lodged by the prosecutrix were, prima facie, grave and specific. In her statement, the prosecutrix named the accused, including the petitioners. She also gave a vivid account on how they, along with other co-accused, armed with lethal weapons trespassed into her house in the middle of the night, while she was sleeping with her two daughters before committing gang-rape.The petitioners, while fleeing, physically assaulted her and her family, indulged in arson by damaging her car and household articles and extended threats of dire consequences.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/court-denies-bail-to-gang-rape-accused-despite-compromise-311221
15-09-2021||---||Sangrur: Officials pulled up for poor hygiene in Civil Hospital||Sangrur, September 14Divisional Commissioner of the Patiala division Chander Gaind pulled up Health Department officials for poor sanitary conditions in the emergency and Covid wards in the Civil Hospital, Sangrur, during an inspection late on Monday. Gaind has directed the Civil Surgeon to ramp up the facilities as he would again inspect the premises soon.Local residents have often accused the authorities of not providing facilities despite Sangrur being hit the most during Covid with highest fatality rate of 5.3 per cent. As per reports, 859 died due to Covid till June-end. “I also visited the oxygen plant, drug de-addiction centre and sewage treatment plant. I have directed officials to ensure smooth functioning. The OOAT clinics are a revolutionary step and a large number of addicts have been taking treatment at these centres,” said Gaind.His directives have given hope to locals who were worried about the facilities at the hospital. “My uncle died here due to lack of facilities. We request the government to improve health facilities here as the threat of third wave looms large,” said Jaswinder Singh, a local.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-officials-pulled-up-for-poor-hygiene-in-civil-hospital-311223
15-09-2021||Faridkot||Amritsar rickshaw-puller gets ‘service to humanity’ award||The Baba Farid Society has announced names of winners of the 22nd Baba Farid Award for Honesty and Bhagat Puran Singh Award for Service to Humanity.Rajbir Singh, 45, is known for penning book ‘Rickshaw Tey Chale Zindagi’ — a compilation of 14 short stories on his 20-year experience as a rickshaw puller, meeting people of different ages and mindsets. While rickshaw-puller Rajbir Singh (45) of Chheharta town of Amritsar has been selected for Bhagat Puran Singh Award for Service to Humanity, Kumar Saurav Raj, former Deputy Commissioner of Faridkot, has been chosen for the award for honesty.Rajbir is known for penning the book ‘Rickshaw Tey Chale Zindagi’. The book is a compilation of 14 short stories on his 20-year experience as a rickshaw puller, meeting people of different ages and mindsets. The book has painful but inspiring stories of many poor mechanics, rickshaw-pullers and daily wagers who live a hard life to run their families. He has also installed a donation box in his rickshaw to collect money for the poor.Instituted in 2000, each award carries Rs 1 lakh and a citation. The awards would be presented on September 23, the concluding day of the Baba Farid Festival, said Inderjeet Singh Khalsa, chairman of the society. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-rickshaw-puller-gets-service-to-humanity-award-311224
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Lawyers can opt for virtual hearing||The Punjab and Haryana HC has given the advocates the option of appearing through virtual mode in the courts nominated for physical hearing as per the weekly roster.The HC has made it clear request for appearing through physical mode would not be entertained for the courts being held through virtual mode only on the given date.An order issued on behalf of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha by HC Registrar Vigilance Vikram Aggarwal said a “videoconferencing group” for the purpose of communication would be made for the courts nominated for physical hearing as well.If a case was listed in “urgent motion cause list” of a court nominated for physical hearing, a counsel may make a request in the “VC group/mobile number” of official concerned of the Bench for hearing the matter virtually. The request could be made on the day preceding the date on which the case was listed. But a “no objection” from all opposite counsels was required. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lawyers-can-opt-for-virtual-hearing-311226
15-09-2021||---||PRTC, PUNBUS staff end stir||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 14Contract employees of state transport undertakings — Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) and PUNBUS — on Tuesday called off their indefinite strike. The announcement came after the protesting employees held a meeting with senior government officials, including Political Secretary to CM Capt Sandeep Sandhu.After a three-hour-long meeting, it was agreed upon that wages of the outsourced employees, as part a 2018 order, would be increased. The announcement to end the strike is a huge relief to commuters, who had been at the receiving end for a long time. Due to the strike, only 25-30 per cent buses of the PRTC were on road, and chaotic scenes were commonplace at various bus stands.Resham Singh, state president, Contractual Employee’s Union of the PRTC, PUNBUS and Punjab Roadways, said they would resume their duties from tomorrow. He said the government had assured them of increasing the monthly salaries by 30 per cent. “Drivers will now get around Rs 18,100 per month,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/prtc-punbus-staff-end-stir-311227
15-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Court considers murder suspect’s alibi, grants bail||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 14Can a person be present at two places simultaneously? The issue cropped up before the Punjab and Haryana High Court after a person accused of being involved in a shooting incident at a saloon in Jalandhar district was found admitted to a counseling and rehabilitation centre in Kapurthala by the police after looking into the allegations of false implication.Taking up the petition filed against the state of Punjab by Tanvir Singh through counsel Harsh Chopra, Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu has now directed his release on interim anticipatory bail in the event of his arrest. The accused had moved the High Court for anticipatory bail in an FIR registered on November 25, 2020, for murder and other offences under Sections 302, 307, 148 and 149 of the IPC and provisions of the Arms Act at the Adampur police station in Jalandhar district. The complaint in the case had alleged that he, along with a friend, had gone to a saloon on November 25 last year, when the firing incident took place. The complainant had added he could identify three of the six persons, including the petitioner. While the complainant and another person were injured, his friend died.Appearing before the Bench, Chopra contended the allegations against the petitioner were totally false. He was, in fact, admitted to the AAS Foundation for Counseling and Rehabilitation at Dayalpura in Kapurthala district from November 21, 2020, to December 9, 2020. The question of him being present at the saloon at the time of the alleged incident did not arise, Chopra contended.An affidavit filed by Adampur Subdivision DSP Harinder Singh, during the course of hearing, confirmed the contention. Among other things, it said the investigating officer visited the foundation, checked the records and recorded the statements of the incharge and ward boy.“It has been found that petitioner was admitted to the AAS Foundation on November 21, 2020, and remained there till December 9, 2020. The CCTV footage of the date of incident was also seen. It showed the petitioner was present on the date and time of incident at the AAS Foundation,” it added. The case will now come up for further hearing on November 18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/court-considers-murder-suspects-alibi-grants-bail-311228
15-09-2021||Anandpur Sahib||Sanctity ‘violated’, markets shut in Anandpur Sahib||Political parties as well as religious organisations today condemned the alleged violation of sanctity of Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib by a Ludhiana man yesterday. Traders kept their shops in the town shut while lawyers struck work at the local court in protest.Suspect linked to dera: Akal TakhtAkal Takht acting Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh claimed the accused was a dera follower and that his father was part of a seven-member dera committee.The Bar association also passed a resolution against pleading the case of the accused in court. Akal Takht acting Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, in a video message from the UK, said the incident had hurt the sentiments of the Sikh community. Alleging the accused was a dera follower, Giani Harpreet claimed his father was part of a seven-member dera committee. “The real culprits should be exposed as this act had hurt the sentiments of Sikh community globally,” he said. Ludhiana resident Paramjit Singh was nabbed by security guards yesterday for smoking on the Takht premises. Later, the police arrested the accused. According to sources, the accused was an addict. His wife had claimed he was schizophrenic. The cigarette found on the accused allegedly had cannabis, said the sources. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sanctity-violated-markets-shut-in-anandpur-sahib-311229
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Markfed to sell products in Himachal Pradesh||In a big boost to Punjab, various products of state-run Markfed can now be sold at 5,000 PDS depots in HP.Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa inked an MoU with his HP counterpart in Shimla today. Randhawa had met HP CM Jai Ram Thakur and offered to supply products of Punjab’s cooperative sector institutions to the neigbouring state. The occasion also saw discussion on exploring the possibility of supplying sugar to HP. The Food and Civil Supplies Department would discuss the issue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/markfed-to-sell-products-in-himachal-pradesh-311230
15-09-2021||Gurdaspur||10 injured as bus hits tipper||As many as 10 persons were injured, including two seriously, when a private bus going to Sri Hargobindpur from Gurdaspur rammed into a tipper at Sathiali bridge, 10 km from here, today.The injured were admitted to the Gurdaspur Civil Hospital. Two of them were referred to an Amritsar hospital. Four of the injured were women.Eyewitnesses claimed the bus driver, while trying to overtake a car at a high speed, lost control of the vehicle and it rammed into the tipper coming from the opposite direction. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-injured-as-bus-hits-tipper-311232
15-09-2021||Amritsar||Another suspect nabbed in heroin seizure case||Day after the arrest of alleged international smuggler Harpreet Singh, alias Happy, the rural police have arrested another suspect in the 40 kg heroin seizure case. A police official identified the suspect as Ranjit Singh, alias Bidi.Happy was produced in a local court, which remanded him in two-day police custody for further interrogation. Happy was arrested by the city police with 1 kg heroin from the Chheharta area yesterday. DCP Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said the police would bring his accomplice Hardip Singh on production warrant. Hardip was currently lodged in the Amritsar central jail. He would be interrogated to break the nexus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/another-suspect-nabbed-in-heroin-seizure-case-311233
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Satish Chandra to head police complaints authority||On NCSC directions, Ldh doctor gets MBBS degreeChandigarh: After the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) directions, the Punjab Government on Tuesday issued the MBBS degree to a Ludhiana-based SC doctor. The degree was earlier withheld by the college authorities due to amendments to the post-matric scholarship scheme for SC students. Commission chairman Vijay Sampla had asked the government and college authorities to release the degree of Dr Sheena Mattu. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/satish-chandra-to-head-police-complaints-authority-311234
15-09-2021||---||Punjab increases gallantry award allowance by 80%||Chandigarh, September 14The Punjab Government today increased the monthly allowance of gallantry, distinguished service awardees, their widows, widows of posthumous awardees and the next of kin by 80 per cent.A spokesperson of the Defence Services Welfare Department said out of 2,044 winners of gallantry and distinguished awards, the allowance for Param Vir Chakra winners has been increased from the existing Rs 23,100 to Rs 41,580. The Ashok Chakra awardees would now get Rs 33,264 in place of earlier Rs 18,480, while the Maha Vir Chakra awardees would now be entitled to Rs 31,601 instead of Rs 17,556. The Kirti Chakra winners would now get Rs 24,948 instead of Rs 13,860 earlier, while the Vir Chakra awardees would now get Rs 18,295 instead of Rs 10,164.The allowance for Shaurya Chakra winners has been hiked from Rs 6,480 to Rs 11,664. The Sena/Nao Sena/Vayu Sena Medal (Gallantry) awardees would now get Rs 5,580 instead of Rs 3,100 earlier.The Mentioned in Dispatches (Gallantry) awardees would receive Rs 2,790 instead of Rs 1,550. Widows of Military Cross awardees would get Rs 20,790 instead of Rs 11,550 earlier. The beneficiaries of Military Medal awardees would be given Rs 9,720 in place of Rs 5,400 earlier.The Indian Distinguished Service Medal awardees would get Rs 2,790 against Rs 1,500 earlier. The Sarvottam Yudh Seva Medal awardees would henceforth receive Rs 1,386 instead of Rs 770.Rs 1,260 would be given to the winners of the Param Vishishta Seva Medal against Rs 700. Thosee awarded with the Uttam Yudh Seva Medal would receive Rs 1,116 instead of Rs 620.Ati Vishisht Seva Medal awardees would get Rs 972 instead of Rs 540. Yudh Seva Medal winners would be given Rs 846 against Rs 470, while Sena/Nao Sena/Vayu Sena Medal (Distinguished) awardees would get Rs 720 against Rs 400 earlier. Vishisht Seva Medal awardees would receive Rs 720 instead of Rs 400.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-increases-gallantry-award-allowance-by-80-311225
15-09-2021||---||‘Shift stir’ plea not political: Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, September 14Once again urging the farmers to discontinue their protests in Punjab, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said it was unfortunate that the farmers’ leaders had given a political twist to his remarks on the issue.Also read: Punjab Chief Minister fears poll losses, claim SKM leadersReacting to Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s criticism of his call to protest in Delhi and not Punjab, the CM lamented that despite his government’s unequivocal support to their cause, the farmers had misinterpreted his appeal and tried to link it with the upcoming state Assembly polls.EC sets the ball rolling for Punjab pollGearing up for the state poll, the EC said it would increase the number of polling booths to 24,689 against 23,211 earlierAmid Covid, the number of voters per booth would be reduced from 1,400 to 1,200, Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju saidHe said Punjab had always stood with the farmers on the issue and it was sad that its people were suffering due to continued protests by the farming community across the state. The CM asserted that there was no question of trying to split the farmers of Punjab and Haryana, all of whom “are equal victims of the apathy of the Centre and in the neighbouring state”.“My government had even brought Bills to mitigate the farm laws’ adverse impact,” he pointed out, adding that those Bills had, unfortunately, not been forwarded by the Governor to the President for assent.Continued protests in Punjab would push industry out of the state, which would have a severe impact on the economy. The situation was already becoming serious on the grain storage and procurement front, with lifting of stocks getting obstructed, he said.“If things continue in this manner, we will lose out on investment, revenue and employment opportunities,” the CM warned. He rejected the SKM’s claims that there was no paralysis of the state government due to the protests, pointing out that it was not the Adanis or Ambanis whose interests were being hurt by such protests, but the common people and economy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/shift-stir-plea-not-political-punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-311217
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Government hikes allowance for gallantry awardees||The Punjab Government on Tuesday announced an increase in the monthly allowance of gallantry and distinguished service awardees, their widows and the widows of posthumous awardees or the next of the kin by 80 per cent.A spokesperson for the Defence Services Welfare Department said out of 2,044 winners of gallantry and distinguished awards, the allowance for the winners of the Param Vir Chakra has been increased from existing Rs 23,100 to Rs 41,580.Likewise, six Ashok Chakra awardees would now get enhanced an allowance of Rs 33,264 in place of Rs 18,480, while the 11 Maha Vir Chakra awardees would receive Rs 31,601 instead of Rs 17,556.The monthly allowance of the 24 Kirti Chakra winners has also been increased from Rs 13,860 to Rs 24,948.The 127 Vir Chakra awardees would now get Rs 18,295 from Rs 10,164. Similarly, 165 Shaurya Chakra winners would receive the hiked allowance from Rs 6,480 to Rs 11,664. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-hikes-allowance-for-gallantry-awardees-311087
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Political twist by farmers to my appeal to call off protests in Punjab is unfortunate: Capt Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said it was unfortunate that the farmers agitating against the black farm laws had given a political twist to his remarks instead of understanding the pain and misery caused to the people on account of their protests in the state, which were quite uncalled for, given his government’s continued support to them.Reacting to Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s criticism of the remarks he had made yesterday on the issue, the chief minister lamented that despite his government’s unequivocal support to their cause, the farmers had misinterpreted his appeal and had, instead, tried to link it with the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab.His government, as well as the people of Punjab, had always stood with the farmers on the issue of the farm laws, and it was sad that they were now suffering due to the continued protests of the farming community across the state, he added.The chief minister asserted that there was no question of trying to split the farmers of Punjab and Haryana, all of whom were equal victims of the apathy of the BJP-led governments at the Centre and in the neighbouring state.“My government, in contrast, has not only firmly supported the farmers’ fight against the farm laws but had even brought in amendment Bills in the Vidhan Sabha to mitigate their adverse impact,” he pointed out, adding that those Bills had, unfortunately, not been forwarded by the Governor to the President for assent.Pointing out that the farmers’ fight was against the BJP, which was solely responsible for thrusting the anti-farmer legislations on Punjab and other states, Capt Amarinder said inconveniencing the people of Punjab was not justified in the circumstances.He rejected the Morcha’s claims that there was no paralysis of the government in Punjab due to the farmers’ protests, pointing out that it was not the Adanis or the Ambanis whose interests were being hurt by such protests but the common people of the state, as well as its economy.The Adanis’ assets in Punjab were a miniscule 0.8% of their total assets, and the presence of the Reliance Group stood at a nominal 0.1%, the chief minister observed, adding that the losses caused to these industries due to the farmers’ unrest in the state were too minor to be of any serious concern to them.“It is the people of Punjab who are suffering due to the disruption of services as a result of the protests,” he said.Continued protests in Punjab will push industry out of the state, which would have a severe impact on the economy, which his government was still trying to revive from the crisis into which the previous SAD-BJP government had pushed it, said the chief minister.Already, the situation was becoming serious on the grain storage and procurement front due to the agitation, with lifting of the stocks by the FCI and state agencies getting obstructed, he said.With the wheat stocks having already completed four years of storage, the unused capacity was getting ruined, while also resulting in financial burden on the public exchequer due to payment of guaranteed charges to the silo owners as per agreements of hiring, said Capt Amarinder, disclosing that the stocks lying in the FCI Adani silio at Moga alone was worth Rs 480 crore.All the movement of wheat stocks from FCI Adani silo, Moga and FCI silo, Kotkapura is halted due to the on-going farmers protest against the farm laws, whereas, 1,60,855 MT of wheat stocks of previous crop years stored in the Adani silo, Moga by FCI needs to be liquidated on priority, as deterioration of these stocks may lead to losses to the public exchequer. The value of stocks in Moga Adani silos is approximately Rs 480 crores.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/political-twist-by-farmers-to-my-appeal-to-call-off-protests-in-punjab-is-unfortunate-capt-amarinder-311050
15-09-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||West Indies cricketer Chris Gayle turns 'Punjabi daddy'. Read to know why||Chris Gayle is no stranger to music.The West Indies cricketer began his music career with ‘We come out to party', and the swashbuckling cricketer will now be seen sporting a turban in his new song ‘Punjabi Daddy”.Gayle announced his music video with a tweet that said, “Loading…”, and a poster of the song.Gayle has his own music label 'Triple Century Records'. He had previously collaborated with Indian rapper Emiway Bantai for ‘Jamaica India’, a song which so far has got 39 million views.Loading… pic.twitter.com/lUgU9bF2ju||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/west-indies-cricketer-chris-gayle-turns-punjabi-daddy-read-to-know-why-310982
