16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Food Commission asks food dept to give detailed report on wheat scam||The Punjab State Food Commission on Thursday sought a detailed report on the alleged wheat scam, which surfaced last month, within a fortnight.The report has been sought from the state’s food and civil supplies department.During physical verification of crop, more than 87,000 quintals of wheat valued at Rs 20 crore was found missing from the godowns of Jandiala Guru in Amritsar last month.Commission chairman DP Reddy, in a statement here, said it has come to the notice of the commission through some media reports that Inspector Food Supplies Department Jasdev Singh, who is the main accused in the wheat scam, allegedly siphoned off crore of rupees given as minimum support price on wheat that was neither brought to mandis nor purchased. “Fake entries for the purchase of 87,100 quintals of wheat valued at Rs 20 crore were made and it was shown to have been transported to godowns in Jandiala Guru,” he said.Reddy said Jasdev, who is believed to have escaped to Dubai, was allegedly in cahoots with an Amritsar-based trader.The commission has taken a serious note of the matter and issued a notice to the department to send a detailed report within a fortnight.It also asked the Food Supplies Department to take strict disciplinary action against delinquent officials and recover the loss caused to the state exchequer. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-food-commission-asks-food-dept-to-give-detailed-report-on-wheat-scam-312107
16-09-2021||New Delhi||ED seizes Rs 4-crore worth of cash, bullion after raids on north India hawala operators||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday said it seized over Rs 4 crore worth of Indian and foreign currency and bullion in recent multi-city raids against Hawala operators based in north India.The searches were carried out under provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act against directors and associates of Paul Merchants Ltd, Quick Forex Ltd, Supama Forex Pvt Ltd and Curo India Pvt Ltd in Chandigarh, Panchkula, Mohali, Jalandhar and Delhi, the agency said in a statement.These “entities sent outward remittances of over Rs 475 crore to Singapore, Hong Kong and the UAE on behalf of shell or dummy entities like Triple Streak Dream Holidays, Wangester Travels Pvt Ltd, Peripatizo Travels Pvt Ltd, Himalaya Tourism, Ezax Holidays, and Great Journey Tours etc”, it said.These shell entities, the ED alleged, used “fake IDs of various persons for making outward remittances in guise of purported travel transactions which resulted into generation of unauthorised (Hawala) money”.It claimed that this “illegal money has been invested in real estate and other businesses of their associated companies/entities”.The action resulted in the seizure of Rs 3.88 crore worth Indian and foreign currency and bullion of Rs 24.2 lakh.“The ED has also seized incriminating documents, laptops, mobile phones and property documents,” it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ed-seizes-rs-4-crore-worth-of-cash-bullion-after-raids-on-north-india-hawala-operators-312058
16-09-2021||Washington||US lawmakers remember Balbir Singh Sodhi, first victim of hate crime post-9/11 attacks||Top American lawmakers paid rich tributes as they remembered Balbir Singh Sodhi, a Sikh American, who was the first victim of hate crime following the 9/11 terror attacks in which nearly 3,000 people from over 90 countries were killed.Four days after 9/11, Balbir was killed outside the Arizona gas station he owned. He was the first person in the US to be killed in a supposed act of retaliation for the attacks in 2001.“Today marks 20 Years Since Balbir Singh Sodhi, a Sikh man, was killed in a hate crime in retribution for the 9/11 attacks. We honor his memory and the memories of all those lost to hate in the two decades since,” Senator Robert Menendez said in a tweet.“Twenty years ago, Sikh American Balbir Singh Sodhi was murdered in the first post 9/11 hate crime. He was shot to death while planting flowers outside his gas station in Mesa, Arizona, by a man who said he wanted to “go out and shoot some towel-heads,” said Senator Dick Durbin.Congresswomen Lois Frankel said days after 9/11, Balbir, a Sikh man, was killed in ‘retribution’ for the attacks.“Today, we honor Balbir’s memory—and celebrate 20 years of solidarity and advocacy among the communities that continue to persevere against hate and discrimination,” she said.Senator Sherrod Brown said 20 years ago today, Balbir, a Sikh American, was murdered for his appearance.“His death marked the first deadly post-9/11 hate crime. Today and every day, let’s stand united with our Sikh community in Ohio and reject hate and discrimination,” he tweeted.“Days after 9/11, Sikh American Balbir Singh Sodhi was killed in the apparent first ‘retribution’ hate crime following the attacks. Today, we honor his memory & remain united in our efforts to fend off all forms of hate & discrimination,” tweeted Senator Richard Blumenthal.“Balbir Singh Sodhi, a turbaned Sikh man, was killed in a hate crime in retribution for the 9/11 attacks 20 years ago today. I stand in solidarity with New Jersey’s Sikh community as we honor his memory & the memories of all those lost to hate in the two decades since,” said Congressman Donald Norcross.Balbir’s killer Frank Roque is serving life in prison.As the world marked the 20th anniversary of the September 11 terror attacks recently, Balbir’s brother Rana Singh Sodhi said: “We all humans are equal - colour, creed and gender. To honour my brother, if you love your neighbours, if you respect people with different colour, creed and gender, it will be a big honour to my brother”. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/us-lawmakers-remember-balbir-singh-sodhi-first-victim-of-hate-crime-post-9-11-attacks-312008
16-09-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Heritage status - Amritsar's Qila Ahluwalia: Original architecture missing, but colonial structures intact||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 15In 1762, when Afghan invader Ahmad Shah Abdali (Durani) attacked the Golden Temple and demolished the main building, the Misl sardars recaptured the city soon and secured the shrines and residential areas with military prospective. They constructed gates and military posts to secure the shrine and localities.Sardar Jassa Singh Ahluwalia (1718-1783), one of the prominent leaders of Sikh Misls in 1763, had constructed the military fortress to protect the Golden Temple.A major portion of the historic Qila Ahluwalia, has faced demolition in the past. Now, only two of its gates and a small portion of the fort remains.Some other buildings in the historic qila were tampered with during the British era and later. Fortunately, a few more than one-and-a-half a century old buildings along with the wooden façades and frescos are intact. The decorated wooden balconies attract visitors. The original architecture of the qila is missing, but the colonial structures are in good condition.The Centre conduced restoration of these remaining buildings, gates and outer facade of Qila Ahluwalia under the National Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY) in 2020.The decedents of Sardar Jassa Singh Ahluwalia of Kapurthala state used to stay in the qila till the death of Fateh Singh Ahluwalia in 1836. Later, during the regime of Maharaja Ranjit Singh (1780-1839), he invited Marwari businessmen from Sikar district of Rajasthan and settled them in Katra Aluwalia, a locality around the qila. During the initial years of the 20th century, the British government auctioned Qila Ahluwalia. The Marwari businessmen bought it and converted into houses and shops.“A major portion of the old structure of fort was demolished and new buildings were constructed. These buildings of colonial architecture have decorated shades and balconies. The frescos on the ceiling are still visible. The government has restored the frescos recently,” said Dr Balwinder Singh, ex head, Guru Ramdas School of planning, GNDU.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/heritage-status-amritsars-qila-ahluwalia-original-architecture-missing-but-colonial-structures-intact-311967
16-09-2021||---||Jallianwala Bagh tampered with under a well-thought-out conspiracy: AAP||Amritsar, September 15The Centre has been facing flak from historians, residents and families of martyrs regarding renovation of the Jallianwala Bagh.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) took out a candlelight march on Wednesday and slammed the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led NDA in the Centre.Also read: Naujawan Bharat Sabha to launch Morcha on September 28Restore ‘distorted’ Jallianwala Bagh to its original form, demands PSUThe Jallianwala Bagh makeoverJallianwala Bagh: Kin of 1919 martyrs hold candle march, want original character restoredJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampJivanjot Kaur, urban district chief, AAP, said the beautification of Jallianwala Bagh has been ‘tampered with’. “It is an attack on the history and heritage of Punjab by Bharatiya Janata Party, under a well-thought-out conspiracy. A society that does not knows its history is like a man who has lost his memory.” She said the Central Government has made a historic mistake by spending Rs 200 crore on something that has hurt the feelings of people, including families of the martyrs.AAP leader Prabhbir Singh Brar said a pistol in the hand of the statue of Shaheed Udham Singh inside the Jallianwala Bagh was a symbol of courage and bravery. “Now, it has been removed in the name of renovation,” he said.Dr Inderbir Singh Nijjar, in charge, AAP south constituency, said changes made at the entrance of the Jallianwala Bagh has changed the entire experience. “The light and sound show that has been started now doesn’t seem to gel with the sentiment the Jallianwala Bagh invokes. It is a memorial not an amusement park,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jallianwala-bagh-tampered-with-under-a-well-thought-out-conspiracy-aap-311964
16-09-2021||---||‘Kala Chashma’ fame Amrik Singh Shera making waves||Jalandhar, September 15‘Kala Chashma’ fame Amrik Singh Shera (47), a head constable in the Punjab Police, has been basking in the limelight these days. He recently appeared in a show hosted by cricketer Harbhajan Singh.While sharing his interview experience, Shera said he got a call from the team of the show and was asked to reply to every question with a song composed by him.Whenever I see anything wrong prevailing in the society, I write about it and will keep on doing so in the future as well, whether these songs get released or not. That is why I have now decided to release a book with inspirational songs. Amrik Singh Shera, Head constable“In one of the questions, I was asked to reply to a situation where I am in a meeting with a senior official and my wife calls me up. How will I react? So, I replied: ‘Kidda chakka tera phone, ni munda duty vich fasseya peya, chale meeting ni ajj vadde saab di, ni main vardi ch kasseya peya,” Shera shared.“Then I got a selection call. It was an amazing moment for me. I met several people and developed contacts,” he said. Shera is writing several new songs and one of his songs is set to get released soon.One of the other projects in the pipeline is the release of his book ‘Virsa Punjab Da’, in which he has penned 150 songs on various issues concerning the society. “Whenever I see anything wrong prevailing in the society, I write about it and will keep on doing so in the future as well, whether these songs get released or not. That is why I have now decided to release a book with inspirational songs,” he said.Shera said he started writing at the age of 14. “Since then, I have written several songs defining the culture of the state, highlighting environmental problems, water shortage, etc, which are completely different from the songs that get released in the present days,” he said.Shera thanked his seniors in the Punjab Police for motivating him and encouraging him towards his passion. He had also received a permission letter from the DGP around three years ago, allowing him to perform anywhere.He has also penned a song on the Punjab Police: “Sari duniya to disdi alag bai, khaki vardi nal banni lal pagg bai’ (I stand out from the rest of the world in a khaki uniform and red turban).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kala-chashma-fame-amrik-singh-shera-making-waves-311769
16-09-2021||---||Jalandhar: Stunning performances by Suryakiran jets in the skies||Jalandhar, September 15The Suryakiran Aerobatic Team of the Indian Air Force on Wednesday mesmerised the residents of the district during their morning practice session ahead of the scheduled air show on September 17 and 18 here.As soon as the earsplitting sound of the planes was heard a little past 9 am, residents of the city could be seen standing on rooftops. They watched in awe nine fighter jets skimming overhead in different directions and then coming together as they formed a diamond shape pattern in the sky. The residents were quick to capture the aerobatic performance of the jets on their cell phones and cameras and uploaded them on social media.The IAF team consists of 17 officers, 200 technicians and packs a powerful punch. Formed in 1996, the team has been personifying the motto of the Indian Air Force “Touch the sky with glory” ever since. The team, which has grown into a global phenomenon, has the distinction of being among nine aircraft formation aerobatic teams in the world.This year on the occasion of Swarnim Vijay Varsh or 50 years of the war of 1971, the team, whose motto is “Always the Best” will be undertaking low-level aerobatic displays over Jalandhar on September 17 and 18, in Chandigarh on September 22, in Srinagar on September 26, the Hindon Air Force Station on Air Force Day on October 8 and Pune on October 16.The team will also be carrying out fly pasts in Amritsar, Ludhiana, Pathankot, Batala and Shimla. Later in the year, they will be operating over central and eastern India.The most professional air forces have a formation aerobatic unit, which undertakes the extremely challenging role of doing aerobatic manoeuvres close to the ground, in large formations, to not only showcase their capabilities but also to motivate the youth to join the esteemed defence forces.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-stunning-performances-by-suryakiran-jets-in-the-skies-311770
16-09-2021||Mohali||Border farmers protest against Punjab Govt||Members of the Punjab Border Area Kissan Welfare Society today staged a protest against the state government for delaying Rs 10,000-per acre compensation to the farmers whose crops were destroyed by stray animals across the India-Pakistan border.Society leader Raghubir Singh Baghala said farmers of six districts, Pathankot, Batala, Fazilka, Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran, have not been paid compensation by the state government since 2017. He alleged that the Centre had sanctioned Rs5,000 per acre for farmers but the state government had not contributed its Rs5,000 per acre share and withheld the entire amount due to them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/border-farmers-protest-against-punjab-govt-311918
16-09-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Soon an NGO in Mann Kaur’s name||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 15Octogenarian Gurdev Singh, son of veteran athlete Mann Kaur who died in July at the age of 105, has decided to register an NGO in the name of her mother to fulfil her dream of nurturing the region’s young talent.Gurdev Singh has prepared the final draft for the NGO – Sardarni Mann Kaur Sachiar Sports and Vocational Training Society – and will get it registered in Chandigarh.“The main objective of the NGO will be to promote sports and wellness, not only physical wellness but also mental and spiritual, among youth, including the underprivileged and school dropouts,” said the 84-year-old.“Due to Covid, Biji (Mann) wasn’t able to pursue her dream. I, along with some likeminded people, have now decided to carry it forward. I was staying at Patiala and many youngsters were getting trained with us. After Biji’s death, I had to relocate, but we will continue to encourage kids,” said Singh.He said the NGO would also make children aware about the importance of proper diet.“We used to take special diet, prepared using various machines. I have decided to use these machines in order to provide young players a proper and pure diet,” he said.Mann, a world renowned runner, died on July 31 after battling with gall bladder and liver cancer.Mann started her athletics career at the age of 93 and went on to receive the Nari Shakti Puraskar from the President at the age of 103.In 2016, she was declared the fastest centenarian at a competition in the American Masters Games.In 2019, she won four events — shot put, 60m sprint, 200m race and javelin throw — in her age category at the World Masters Athletics Championships in Poland.She won more than 25 medals at the veteran athletics championship.“She lived her life to the fullest. She was a role model for many athletes and with the formation of this NGO, I just want to make sure that she remains an icon and inspiration for generations to come,” said Singh.“I have been approached by filmmakers and other people, but I don’t want people to remember her passion for running only for a few hours,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/soon-an-ngo-in-mann-kaurs-name-311916
16-09-2021||---||BJP workers burn Capt Amarinder Singh’s effigy in Karnal||Karnal, September 15Workers and leaders of the BJP today protested against Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh over his statement on shifting the farmers protest from Punjab to Haryana or Delhi.They burnt an effigy of the Punjab CM at Committee Chowk here and demanded his resignation over the remark.Yogender Rana, district BJP president, said the Punjab CM had exposed that the Congress was behind the protest. He wanted to disturb peace in Haryana and neighbouring states.He highlighted the initiatives of the Centre and the state government for the benefits of farmers.Former district president Jagmohan Anand also criticised the Congress for “playing divisive politics” in society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-workers-burn-capt-amarinder-singhs-effigy-in-karnal-311747
16-09-2021||Jhajjar||Farmers to hold kabaddi league to attract crowds to Tikri and Singhu stir sites||A five-day kabaddi league will be organised by protesting farmers at Tikri and Singhu from September 22 to attract a crowd on the borders.Teams from various parts of Haryana and Punjab are likely to participate in the league, offering a cash reward of Rs 3 lakh to the winning team and Rs 2 lakh to the runner-up team.Sources said the move was aimed at raising the number of protesters at the borders ahead of the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on September 27 as farmers were returning to Punjab to tend to paddy crop before harvesting.“Preparations for the mega event have begun. Banners and posters will be put up in Haryana and Punjab while it will widely publicised through social media,” said Pragat Singh, a senior leader of BKU (Rajewal).Purushottam Singh Gill, a senior leader of BKU (Lakhowal), said since farmers had been sitting at the borders for a long time now, holding events regularly was necessary to keep the momentum going.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-to-hold-kabaddi-league-to-attract-crowds-to-tikri-and-singhu-stir-sites-311748
16-09-2021||Fazilka||PAU introduces chemical-free foodgrain||The Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) introduced a Safe Food Project to offer chemical residue-free foodgrain, particularly rice, for residents of the state during a seminar here recently.Dr Manmohan Dhkal, Plant Pathologist, School of Organic Farming, PAU, said under the project, chemical residue-free foodgrain would be provided to the state residents for their good health. As per the proposal, two types of foodgrain would be offered to consumers. One would be pesticides-free and the other would be chemical residue-free. Both qualities shall not harm the health of consumers in any manner and they would get rid of the chemical and poisonous food which was being offered to them presently.According to experts, organic farming is different from this scheme. An organic product is totally free of pesticides and fertilisers, but the practice is expensive and not affordable for the common man. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pau-introduces-chemical-free-foodgrain-311664
16-09-2021||Abohar/Sriganganagar||Partner booked as financier ends life||Health director Dr Kang assumes chargeChandigarh: Dr Andesh Kang on Wednesday assumed charge as the Health and Family Welfare Director. The postings of the three directors were changed. Giving details, spokesperson of the department said Dr Om Prakash Gojra assumed the charge of Health Services (Family Welfare) Director and Dr Gurinderbir Singh joined as the Health Services (ESI) Director. TnsBattery-operated tricycles distributed to disabledFerozepur: Congress MLA Parminder Singh Pinki on Wednesday distributed battery operated tricycles to differently-abled persons belonging to the border district. “People must show sympathy and respect the differently-abled persons,” said Pinki. OCNeed to strengthen communal harmony: BittaAbohar/Sriganganagar: Maninder Jit Singh Bitta, All India Anti-Terrorist Front president and a former chief of the Indian Youth Congress, gave a call to strengthen communal harmony in the country. “Terrorism in various states in India and abroad had killed thousands of people, but political terrorism is more dangerous than militancy/terrorism,” he said. OCAmeer Singh is PSGPC chief Amritsar: The Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) unanimously elected Ameer Singh as its new president today after Satwant Singh resigned a year before his term was to be completed, citing personal reasons. Vikas Singh was elected as the PSGPC secretary general for a one-year term. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/partner-booked-as-financier-ends-life-311665
16-09-2021||Faridkot||Three trespass on house of sacrilege accused, booked||Five days after three suspicious persons visited the residence of Bargari sacrilege accused and Dera Sacha Sauda follower Shakti Singh in Daggo Romana village here, the police have registered a criminal case against the trio for the alleged offence of trespassing and attempt to steal.While nobody has been arrested, the police have nominated two persons by name in the FIR. The accused belong to Jiwan Wala village of Faridkot. Singh is one of the eight dera followers arrested in three sacrilege cases this year. Currently, he is out on bail. The visit of three suspected persons is being seen as a threat to his life as some banned outfits have threatened to kill sacrilege accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-trespass-on-house-of-sacrilege-accused-booked-311657
16-09-2021||Amritsar||Respect hands that feed us: Raj Babbar||Actor and Congress leader Raj Babbar on Wednesday paid obeisance at the Golden Temple. Refraining from giving any political statement, Babbar did respond to questions regarding the farmers’ agitation on farm laws.He said he stands in solidarity with the farmers and said whatever was being done to them should not have happened. “If the farmers of the whole country are saying a thing, then they cannot be wrong. They are our annadata (food providers) and one must respect the hand that feeds us. The government needs to understand their point of view.” He condemned the lathicharge on farmers in Haryana. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/respect-hands-that-feed-us-raj-babbar-311646
16-09-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||NDPS cases fall, but state at 2nd spot: NCRB||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 15Despite a 40 per cent reduction in number as compared to the last year, Punjab continues to be second in the country regarding registration of cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act in 2020, said the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report-2020 released today.As many as 4,039 cases were registered for carrying drugs for trafficking than for consumption (2,870 cases), said the report. Punjab is categorised as a major transit point for drugs.Several cases are often reported where drugs from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Jammu and Kahsmir, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan reach the state and are subsequently smuggled to metropolitan cities and even abroad.Uttar Pradesh tops the country with 10,852 cases registered under the NDPS Act. In 2019 also, Punjab had ranked second in the NCRB report.In 2019, 11,536 cases under NDPS Act were registered in Punjab. Out of these 5,609 were registered for possession of drugs for personal use or consumption and 5,927 for possession of drugs for trafficking.However, the drastic reduction in the cases to 40 per cent this year may bring a sigh of relief for the incumbent Congress government.Being 16th position population-wise in the country, Punjab faces a major drug problem and the government had set up a Special Task Force in 2017 against the menace. It remains a burning political issue as well. Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had taken an oath during campaigning of 2017 Assembly elections to wipe off the menace from the state.Punjab ranks third in cases registered for inciting hate against the country. Though only seven cases were registered, the third rank in the country is worrisome. Uttar Pradesh tops the category with 82 cases while Assam is second with 58 cases.Maximum for trafficking4,039 cases registered for drug trafficking and 2,870 for consumption, second to Uttar Pradesh (10,852 cases)40% reduction in cases, as per NCRB, may come in as relief for govt||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ndps-cases-fall-but-state-at-2nd-spot-ncrb-311647
16-09-2021||Patiala||After 5 years, PSPCL records Rs 1,446 cr profit||After a gap of almost five years, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has earned a profit of Rs 1,446 crore for the year 2020-21 against the loss of Rs 1,158 crore in the year 2019-20. The annual accounts of the PSPCL for 2020-21 were approved today in a closed-door board meeting.PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad said the main reasons for the profit were reduction in the cost of Rs 1,306 crore due to Ujwal DISCOM Assurance Yojana scheme, increase in carrying cost of Rs 577 crore for delayed payment of subsidy, increase in grant by Rs 570 crore on account of loss in funding of previous years and increase in delayed payment surcharge of Rs 156 crore from consumers.Besides, total borrowings have decreased by four per cent over previous years and financial cost has also reduced significantly due to restructuring of loans. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-5-years-pspcl-records-rs-1-446-cr-profit-311648
16-09-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Paddy to hit market in 2 weeks, farmers wary||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 15Paddy procurement in the Rabi Marketing Season (RMS) may well be the most challenging ever for the agrarian state of Punjab. As the state readies to procure 170 lakh metric tonne paddy, the threat of the government purchase shrinking in wake of the mandatory submission of land records (fard) by farmers and compliance of new proposed Minimum Threshold Parameters looms large.Market arrival of paddy is expected to start within two weeks. Though the official date for starting paddy procurement is yet to be announced, it is expected to start in the last week of September.New central rules cause for concernThe Centre has made it mandatory for all farmers to submit the fard of their land for its mandatory integration with the state’s land record portal, for foodgrain procurement. Though the state government has managed to integrate the land records for almost 60 per cent of farmers, integrating records for lessee farmers/ tenant farmers is a challenge for the state government, both logistically and because of its widespread opposition by farmers, including the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, which is already on the warpath with the Centre over the three farm laws.The other major threat of the Centre changing the Minimum Threshold Parameters for paddy purchase, which the state government has vociferously objected to, if implemented, will cast its shadow on the total paddy procured by government agencies in the state. The Centre is proposing reduction in the acceptable moisture content, damaged and discolored grains amongst others, which may leave out a large quantity of paddy brought to mandis as ineligible for government purchase.This year, Punjab is expecting its paddy production to go up to 173.92 lakh metric tonne (lmt). While the Centre has fixed a target to purchase 170 lmt paddy, the state government is making arrangements to purchase 191 lmt, based on the high yield of paddy obtained last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/paddy-to-hit-market-in-2-weeks-farmers-wary-311649
16-09-2021||---||Abetment to suicide: Moga cop dismissed||Moga, September 15Moga SSP Dharuman H Nimbale terminated Sub-Inspector Karamjit Singh from the service after two criminal cases of abetment to suicide were registered against him.The dismissed cop, who has served as an SHO at various police stations in the district, was also allegedly corrupt, said a senior police officer. The Moga police on August 25, had registered an FIR against Karamjit and three other cops — ASI Jaswant Singh, constable Pawan Kumar and a woman cop — under Section 342 of the IPC.It was alleged that they detained a couple under illegal custody for four days and later registered a case of abetment to suicide against them. The elderly couple was identified as Shinda Singh and his wife Paramjit Kaur, residents of Rania village. On August 20, the HC had directed the SSP to register a case against the alleged accused. Earlier, the HC had directed the District and Sessions Judge of Moga to conduct an inquiry into the incident. The judge had found the cops guilty, following which the case was registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/abetment-to-suicide-moga-cop-dismissed-311651
16-09-2021||---||Tramadol seizure: Months on, cops yet to trace main supplier||Jalandhar, September 15Months after the first arrest in May this year, the Punjab Police have been unable to trace the roots of the supply chain of the pharma circulation of anti-depressant tramadol, which is used by addicts.The address of the main supplier, PP Pharma (Mumbai), that propped up repeatedly during raids, turned out to be fake. While the company has been found non-existent on the ground, the police have not yet found the correct address from the arrested suspects of illegal supplies in Punjab.From May 20 till August 26, the name of PP Pharma came up during various seizures of over 12 lakh tramadol tablets in Jalandhar, Amritsar and Ghaziabad. The police had arrested at least 10 persons. “Why have the police been unable to get the real address of the suppliers from those arrested?” said a senior official.Investigations by the Amritsar police had led them to two HP-based manufacturers. Abhimanyu Rana, Assistant Superintendent of Police, Majitha (Amritsar), who is probing the Amritsar case, said, “Manufacturing units in Punjab and HP are using non-existent companies like PP Pharma as a cover to sell tramadol. We know about at least two HP-based firms, Orison Pharma and Unique Formulations, who have been manufacturing tramadol under the cover of PP Pharma.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tramadol-seizure-months-on-cops-yet-to-trace-main-supplier-311652
16-09-2021||Muktsar||Youth, paramour die by suicide||A youth and a married woman allegedly died by suicide by consuming a poisonous substance at Bhundar village here. The deceased were reportedly having an affair. Their bodies were recovered this morning from the fields. An empty bottle of pesticide and a motorcycle were recovered from them.They have been identified as 24-year-old Sukhpreet Singh and 26-year-old Charanjit Kaur of Langeana village in Moga district. The police said the duo was missing since last morning. They had tried to end their lives by jumping into a canal a few days ago, the police said. An investigation is under way. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/youth-paramour-die-by-suicide-311660
16-09-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee reaches out to Sikh community in Bhabanipur||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Wednesday sought to reach out to the sizeable Sikh community in the Bhabanipur constituency, from where she is contesting a bypoll later this month, saying she has supported the farmers’ movement and iterated her demand for withdrawal of the three farm laws adopted by the NDA.Banerjee, who is contesting the September 30 bypoll to retain her post, paid a sudden visit to a gurdwara in the area and interacted with the locals.Wearing a scarf, the TMC boss offered her prayers and spoke to devotees and the priest. “I share an excellent bonding with the brothers and sisters of the Sikh community. Even members of my family are regular visitors here. “I have already extended my support to the farmers’ movement. We (TMC) have already demanded that these three farm laws be withdrawn. We won’t tolerate any injustice on farmers,” she said.A metropolitan constituency with around two lakh voters, Bhabanipur is home to a large number of Gujaratis and Sikhs living alongside Bengalis. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mamata-banerjee-reaches-out-to-sikh-community-in-bhabanipur-311696
16-09-2021||---||Punjab Govt forms SIT in Simarjeet Singh Bains case||Chandigarh, September 15Less than a fortnight after the Punjab and Haryana High Court asserted the state of Punjab was at liberty to appoint a “more competent investigating officer” if the probe in the rape case against MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains was not proceeding further in the right earnest, the state has constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT). The High Court has also been assured about the completion of probe within four weeks.As the matter came up for resumed hearing before the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh, Punjab Additional Advocate-General SPS Tinna placed before the court an affidavit by Inspector-General of Police, Bureau of Investigation, Gursharan Singh Sandhu.He submitted that the state, pursuant to order dated September 3, had decided to have a more competent investigating agency. As a result, it had constituted a SIT headed by ADCP (Investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti.Responding to the submissions, the “victim’s” counsel CM Munjal alleged that the accused was intimidating the witnesses by getting cases registered against them outside Punjab on one allegation or the other. “On instructions from Rupinder Kaur Bhatti, AAG Tinna submits that this matter shall also be looked into,” the Bench added.Alleging police inaction in the case, the “victim” had earlier moved the High Court. She was seeking directions to be made a party in the ongoing suo motu case on “monitoring the progress of matters pending against the MP/MLAs”.Appearing before the Bench, Munjal had submitted that complete list of cases pending against sitting MLA from the Atam Nagar Assembly constituency, Simarjeet Singh Bains, had not been furnished by the state. This apart, he submitted that investigation had hardly made progress in any of the cases pending against him.To be headed by ADCP (Investigation)As the matter came up for resumed hearing before the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh, Punjab Additional Advocate-General SPS Tinna submitted the state, pursuant to order dated September 3, had decided to have a more competent investigating agency. As a result, it had constituted an SIT headed by ADCP (Investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-forms-sit-in-simarjeet-singh-bains-case-311658
16-09-2021||Anandpur Sahib||Tension in Anandpur Sahib over ‘violation’ of sanctity||Tension prevailed in the town on the third day today after a Ludhiana resident was nabbed while smoking inside Takht Kesgarh Sahib on Monday. Following this, some Nihangs thrashed a migrant labourer who had gone to the gurdwara for langar yesterday.The Nihangs also roughed up policemen, who came to rescue of the victim. Following this, the police took out a flag march in the town.According to information, a migrant labourer after having langar was entering the gurdwara when some Nihangs recovered a tobacco packet from his pocket and thrashed him. The police deployed in the area rushed to the rescue of the labourer. A few of them, including the Deputy Superintendent of Police, also suffered minor injuries during the incident.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur, who reached the Takht in the morning, demanded that the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act should be slapped against the accused. The Aam Aadmi Party also condemned the incident of desecration that occurred at Takht Kesgarh Sahib. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tension-in-anandpur-sahib-over-violation-of-sanctity-311659
16-09-2021||Amritsar||Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya visits Golden Temple||Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya along with his family today paid obeisance at the Golden Temple.After his visit, Dattatreya said, “The Golden Temple is a spiritual centre for the mankind, from where the Sikh Gurus have conveyed the message of universal communion. The sacred atmosphere here gives peace.” Praising the Sikhs on the occasion, Dattatreya said, “The community has made a great contribution to the defence of the country which can never be forgotten.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/haryana-governor-bandaru-dattatreya-visits-golden-temple-311661
16-09-2021||Moga||Maternal & child care wing opens at Moga hospital||Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today inaugurated the new building of Mai Daultan Maternal and Child Care Wing constructed on the premises of the District Hospital here.Sidhu said the new wing, having a capacity of 50 beds, had been constructed at a cost of Rs 5.48 crore. He said 29 such facilities had been provided across the state while construction work was going on at eight more locations. At least, seven more such facilities at various locations in the state would be commissioned this year, he said.He said health and wellness centres were also being set up at various places to provide quality healthcare facilities to the people of the state. The number of these centres would increase to 3,000 before March 31, 2022, so that people can get facilities at their nearest place, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/maternal-child-care-wing-opens-at-moga-hospital-311662
16-09-2021||---||‘Pressured’ to improve survey ranking, teachers take to streets||Bathinda, September 15Members of the Joint Teachers’ Front burnt an effigy of the Education Department Secretary, accusing the latter of laying emphasis on improving Punjab’s ranking in the NAS (National Achievement Survey) while “compromising academics of students in the process”.The union representatives also alleged that since Assembly elections were due next year, the department officials were implementing decisions at the behest of their political masters. Members of the joint front gathered near the Ambedkar Park area and raised slogans against the department before burning an effigy of the department Secretary. Notably, to mark their protest against the policies of the department, the front had given a call to stage a protest and burn the Education Secretary’s effigy in which ever district he visits.Won’t allow privatisationDepartment officials are taking decisions which will give the control of academics in the hands of corporate houses in future. Such decisions will not be tolerated. —Resham Singh Khemuana, Teachers’ front presidentDemocratic Teachers’ Front president Resham Singh Khemuana said: “The department and its officials are taking decisions which will give the control in the hands of corporate houses in future. We have unanimously decided that such dictatorial approach and decisions of the department will not be tolerated at all.”Vikas Garg, another leader, said: “We demand that the pay commission’s amended report be implemented at the earliest, services of contractual employees be regularised, old pension scheme be restarted and vacant posts are filled by recruiting teachers on a regular basis.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pressured-to-improve-survey-ranking-teachers-take-to-streets-311663
16-09-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Bathinda boy Pulkit Goyal tops JEE Main||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 15Pulkit Goyal from the city topped the country by scoring 100 percentile in the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Main, the results of which were declared on Wednesday morning.Born in 2003, Pulkit has been an ace student throughout. He scored 94.8% in his Class XII at Sanawar School and 98.6% in Class X at St Joseph Convent School, Bathinda. His father Vijay Kumar Goyal is a businessman, while his mother Neelam Goyal is a homemaker. He got relocated to Kota to prepare for the exam.Another city lad secures AIR 84A maths enthusiast, Pulkit loves to solve problems and believes in understanding the concept. With All India Rank 1 in bag, he is all set to take on the challenge of JEE Advanced, 2021.“I used to study for 7-8 hours a day. For recreation, I spent time with my family. I aim to crack JEE Advanced and pursue engineering in computer science from IIT, Bombay,” he said. Pulkit’s first goal was to crack JEE Mains, 2021. He did it in his first attempt. He scored 99.88 percentile in the February session. Though the score was enough to get him through to JEE Advanced, he was not satisfied.He appeared in the March session and improved his score to 99.92. In the third attempt, it improved to 99.99 percentile but he was still not satisfied. “In session 4, I scored 100 percentile with perfect 300 score. My dedication, hard work and perseverance paid off,” he said.“We are happy that he achieved what he wanted to, but there is still a long way to go. Pulkit will be preparing for JEE Advanced now,” his father said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-boy-pulkit-goyal-tops-jee-main-311653
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Gurdas Maan gets anticipatory bail||Just about a week after an Additional Sessions Judge dismissed Gurdas Maan’s plea in a case registered against him on August 26 for hurting religious feelings of the Sikh community, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today granted interim anticipatory bail to the singer. He has been asked to join the investigation within a week.Justice Avneesh Jhingan asserted: “The basic foundation of democracy is secularism and freedom of expression. However, with advancement of technology, whatever positive social media might have provided, but one thing is ensured that each and every act or conduct spreads like a wild fire.”Justice Jhingan asserted no recovery was to be made as the case was set up on a viral video. The issue whether the words used by petitioner during stage performance were deliberate/ malicious so as to invoke Section 295-A of the IPC would be a subject matter of investigation.Justice Jhingan also made it clear that an artiste while performing on stage has the inclination to take the crowd along. The petitioner was a renowned singer and was not a personality who would be able to hide or abscond.Among other things, Maan had contended the “Sessions Judge was apparently influenced by the show of public outcry, generated by some sections through a sustained campaign”. His counsel had added that the settled principles regulating the question of bail were overlooked in an atmosphere projected as surcharged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurdas-maan-gets-anticipatory-bail-311654
16-09-2021||Manav Mander||Amid pandemic, work from home becomes pain in the neck, literally||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 15With work from home becoming the new normal amid the Covid pandemic, many people have started complaining of neck and backache due to improper sitting posture while working for long hours. Pain in shoulders and spine-related issues too have started emerging as the prominent side-effects of remote working.According to medical experts, without proper care around 20 per cent people with acute low-back pain will have persistent symptoms for more than a year. Dr Harpreet S Gill, Director, Advanced Orthopaedic Institute, Aykai hospital, said people were facing ortho-related problems as physical activity had decreased and majority of people were working from home. Number of patients coming these days has increased by 10-25 per cent as compared to pre-Covid times. “Due to limited outdoor activity, the deficiency of Vitamin-D is increasing, leading to ortho-related problems. Spine issues, which were earlier reported only in elderly persons, are now prominent in youths too,” he said.POOR POSTURE, LONG SITTING HRS TO BLAMEDr Shubhang Aggarwal, orthopaedic and robotic joint replacement surgeon and Director, NHS Hospital, said despite downtrend, cases of new or worsening back, neck, leg and shoulder pain had emerged among the youths.“Remote working has led to many spine-related issues in young adults in Punjab. Poor sitting ergonomics, such as leaning, slouching, or using a workstation that is too high or too low, can lead to muscle and joint pains. The incidence of spine-related issues, especially in the IT professionals, reception and desk workers have surprisingly increased and needs sharp observation to diagnose. Once suspected, aggressive behavioural modification with exercises should help. Then even when actual physical offices start, the posture changes that we had adapted our bodies to during work from home, need to be tackled,” he said.“Many patients are surprised when I tell them their bedroom or couch seating arrangement is contributing to their pain. Fluffy furniture is comfy. However, slouching over your laptop or lying down while typing is hard on the body. Choose a chair that delivers both support and comfort to your lower back and hips,” Dr Aggarwal advised.“Use a four-inch foot stool under the desk if lower back hurts. Stretch properly. Have an arm support,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-pandemic-work-from-home-becomes-pain-in-the-neck-literally-311655
16-09-2021||---||4 terror suspects held, Punjab on high alert||Chandigarh, September 15Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has ordered high alert in the state following the arrest of four more members of an ISI-backed terrorist module involved in a bid to blow up an oil tanker with an IED tiffin bomb last month, making it the fourth case of a Pakistani terror module being busted in the state in the past 40 days.Two Pakistan-based terrorists, including a Pakistani intelligence officer, have also been identified and nominated in the case in which one person was arrested earlier, DGP Dinkar Gupta said on Wednesday.Offered Rs2L to carry out attack: DGPTaking a serious note of the increased attempts by terror groups to disturb the state’s peace, the Chief Minister has directed the police to be on high alert, particularly in view of schools and educational institutions reopening, as well as the festival season and the Assembly polls ahead. The Chief Minister has asked the DGP to ensure high level of security arrangements to be put in place, especially in busy places, such as markets, etc, as well as at sensitive installations across the state.The DGP identified Pak-based International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF) chief Lakhbir Singh Rode, alias Baba, and Qasim, a resident of Pakistan, as those behind the terror module. Those arrested yesterday have been identified as Rubal Singh, Vicky Bhutti, Malkeet Singh, and Gurpreet Singh. Their fifth accomplice Gurmukh Brar was arrested by the Kapurthala police in August.The DGP said the Pakistani intelligence officer, identified as Qasim, and Rode had promised to transfer over Rs 2 lakh to the terrorist module for carrying out the blast. Rubal and Vicky Bhutti were in touch with Qasim, who was working in close collaboration with Rode. Rode and Qasim had reportedly tasked the four members of the terrorist module to blast an oil tanker for causing maximum damage to people and property.The terror attempt was made on August 8 when at 11:30 pm the Ajnala police received information that an oil tanker parked at Sharma Filling Station, Ajnala, located on the Amritsar-Ajnala road, near Bhakha Tara Singh village, had caught fire. Analysis of the CCTV footage at the filling station showed that four unidentified persons had come near the petrol pump at 11 pm and had stayed there for a few minutes before going towards the Amritsar side. The suspects returned at 11:19 pm and placed some suspicious material on the fuel tank of the oil tanker before fleeing. Then, at 11:29 pm, two of the suspects again returned, and within a minute, there was an explosion and the fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-terror-suspects-held-punjab-on-high-alert-311650
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Badals architect of agri laws, says Navjot Sidhu||Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu today accused the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) of being what he called “the main architects” of the three central farm laws.Going all out against SAD patron Parkash Singh Bal and his son Sukhbir at his first press conference after taking over as PCC chief, Sidhu on Wednesday said it was the blue print of the Punjab Contract Farming Act 2013 — passed by then SAD-BJP government in the Vidhan Sabha — that formed the basis of the controversial central farm laws.Both laws Aimed at ending apmc actMost clauses in the central farm laws have their genesis in the Punjab Contract Farming Act. Laws have been copied or provided to the BJP by the SAD as it was part of the NDA. Both laws are aimed at ending the APMC Act. —Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC chiefHe alleged a deep connection between the Punjab Contract Farming Act and the central farm laws proved an understanding between the two former alliance partners. “First the anti-farmer Bill was passed in the state Assembly before bringing its exact replicas in Parliament and getting these passed in 2020. This is the true face of the Badals.”After stiff opposition, the state did not enforce the Punjab Contract Farming Act.Giving clause-by-clause details of the contract farming law and how the NDA government photocopied the clauses with minor changes to give it the shape of three central farm laws, Sidhu said: “The BJP and SAD are two sides of the same coin. They were one and they will be one once again after the elections.”Sidhu, accompanied by his four working presidents, played pre-recorded videos of Badal, Sukhbir and Harsimrat first praising and later opposing the same agriculture laws under public pressure.Otherwise critical of the CM Capt Amarinder Singh over poll promises, Sidhu ducked questions over his appeal to farmers to call off protest in Punjab. He repeatedly said “no comments”.He also praised the state government’s farm loan and debt waiver but without naming the CM. He did not take any other political questions other than those on the farm laws. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/badals-architect-of-agri-laws-says-navjot-sidhu-311639
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Captain Amarinder takes on Harsimrat Badal, says SAD diverting attention||Reacting to former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s allegations against him with reference to his statement on the impact of the farmers’ stir on the state’s economy, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said no Akali leader had the moral right to speak on the crisis triggered by the farm laws as they when they were part of the Centre and party to its decisions.Slamming Harsimrat’s suggestion that the farmers should protest in Punjab while their fight was against the BJP-led government at the Centre, the Chief Minister quipped “it’s like asking someone to go to the western front to fight an enemy that is standing at the eastern border.” He alleged Akalis were trying to divert the farmers’ attention from the Centre to the state, with an eye on the Assembly polls, unmindful of the harm this would cause to the state and to the farmers themselves.Many Jobs lostMany have lost jobs due the stir… are you saying that as CM, I have no responsibility to these people? —Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief ministerHe’s rattledHis rant against me proves how badly he has been rattled by being told not to demonise the peaceful farmer of Punjab. —Harsimrat Badal, SAD leaderTrashing Harsimrat’s allegation that he had failed to fulfil his responsibilities to the people, the Chief Minister pointed out that already many had lost their jobs and many more were likely to be rendered jobless as a result of the continued stir. “Even members of PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry and FICCI have warned that the continued stir would have a long-term ‘deleterious impact’ on Punjab’s industry and commerce. Are you saying that as Chief Minister, I have no responsibility to all these people?” he asked Harsimrat. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/captain-amarinder-takes-on-harsimrat-badal-says-sad-diverting-attention-311640
16-09-2021||---||Punjab Congress's policy group meet put off for 3rd time||Chandigarh, September 15The game of one-upmanship between Capt Amarinder Singh and PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu is far from over, if the postponement of the first meeting of the ‘strategic policy group’ for the third consecutive time on Wednesday is any indication.The committee was constituted after the CM and PCC chief agreed on the strategic group for better coordination between the state party unit and government.The meeting was scheduled for September 16, after being postponed on September 2 and September 9. Officially, unavailability of the members is said to be the reason and it could be held next week, but there is more to this than what meets the eye.Against initially 10-member group, comprising ministers Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Badal and Aruna Chaudhary, the PCC chief and four working presidents Sangat Singh Gilzian, Kuljit Nagra, Sukhwinder Danny and Pawan Goel besides Pargat Singh, and ministers OP Soni, Balbir Sidhu and Bharat Bhushan Ashu have been added.While CM is chairman of the committee, Sidhu, by virtue of being the PCC chief, should have been made the co -chairman. But he has been placed at the eight place in the list of invitees. A senior party leader said: “Given the seniority of the CM and status of the state unit president, the government must bring them on the same page. Sidhu wanted the issues to be settled ahead of the meeting. So far, the coordination is effectively missing.”CM holds manifesto committee meetingCM Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday held a meeting of the six-member committee formed to implement the party manifesto. Issues that are yet to be addressed were raised in the meeting. The role and powers of the committee members however are yet not clear.May visit dera sachkhand BallanThe CM is likely to visit Dera Sachkhand Ballan in Jalandhar, a prominent placed revered by the Scheduled Caste community, in a few days. Navjot Singh Sidhu along with some MLAs had visited the dera recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congresss-policy-group-meet-put-off-for-3rd-time-311641
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Repeal changes to APMC Act, SAD asks PCC chief||Reacting to PCC president Navjot Sidhu’s attack on its leadership on the central farm laws, the SAD has asked him to repeal the amendments made to the APMC Act by the Congress government in 2017, if he was really serious about helping the farming community.SAD spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema alleged, “We ask Sidhu to stop behaving like a rabble-rouser. His utterances indicate that he is just keen to play a game of one-upmanship with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and has no intention of doing anything to ensure repeal of the three farm laws.” He said Sidhu was raking up old issues instead of showing solidarity with farmers on the ground.Cheema asked why was Sidhu silent on the Congress’ stand to abolish APMC mandis as well as do away with the Essential Commodities Act. He said why was Sidhu not speaking up against the amendments made to the APMC Act by his government in 2017 which contained the same provisions as in the three central farm laws. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/repeal-changes-to-apmc-act-sad-asks-pcc-chief-311642
16-09-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Don’t make false poll promises: Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa||Minister for Co-operation and Jails Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa today cautioned political leaders to stop making false promises before elections as it not only tarnishes their image but also leads to loss of public trust.When asked whether he was targeting the CM, Randhawa said he was talking of all politicians.Interacting with the media, he endorsed the statement of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh that the farmers should agitate in Delhi and Haryana as the fight of the farmers was against the union government. They should take their protest to the Delhi borders instead of agitating in the state as the government was supporting them wholeheartedly, he said.Randhawa had come here to preside over a state-level function of disbursement of loans organised by Punjab State Cooperative Agricultural Development Bank (PADB). He also honoured those persons who were depositing instalments in time. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dont-make-false-poll-promises-sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-311643
16-09-2021||Jalandhar/Chandigarh||Farmers activists stage sit-in at BJP spokesperson Harinder Singh Kahlon's house in Jalandhar||Protesting against the recent remarks of BJP spokesperson Harinder Singh Kahlon, farmers on Wednesday gheraoed his residence at Dakoha near Jalandhar Cantonment. They demanded a written apology from him.Also read: Harinder Singh Kahlon's speech puts BJP in spotAgitating farmers even threw dung on the outer walls of his house and uprooted a signboard which mentioned his professional details as the lawyer.In a damage-control move, the BJP disassociated itself from the statement of Kahlon who had advocated use of “harsh” measures against the protesting farmers.Addressing a meeting in Jalandhar, Kahlon, who was appointed spokesperson of party’s state unit last week only, had said Modi was a kind soul. “Had I been at helm I would have taught a lesson to the farmers.”The statement had put BJP’s state leadership, which is already facing ire of farmers, in an awkward position. Reacting to the statement, president of BJP’s state unit Ashwani Sharma said the party does not endorse Kahlon’s views. “I am with Modi’s idea of restraint. The government did not use force even after January 26 incident. So there is no question of using force against farmers,” he said. He said they would sensitise the spokespersons about their limits. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-activists-stage-sit-in-at-bjp-spokesperson-harinder-singh-kahlons-house-in-jalandhar-311644
16-09-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||In Gurdaspur dist, SAD scouts for candidates||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, September 15The Shiromani Akali Dal is busy trying to tie up loose ends, which are many, before finalising its candidates on six of the district’s seven Assembly seats even as it has put its final stamp of approval on ex-MLA Gurbachan Singh Babbehali for the Gurdaspur seat.On some seats, the party is facing a political vacuum while on others it is balancing various permutations and combinations before deciding candidates.In Qadian, the party used to bank on Sewa Singh Sekhwan. His absence now means it is now being forced to explore new possibilities.Sucha Singh Langah, who was the candidate from Dera Baba Nanak in 2017, stands expelled from the party after a controversial video of his went viral. He is regularly holding rallies but these will remain an exercise in futility if he does not get a reprieve from Akal Takht.Sucha Singh Chottepur remains the X-factor. He is being wooed by the Akalis and if everything falls into place he may well be asked to contest. Being a former SAD leader and a Jat Sikh, he ticks all the right boxes.In Batala, there is bound to be a void if sitting MLA Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal’s obstinacy to contest from the neighbouring seat of Fatehgarh Churian is not checked. The party is not in a position to ignore the claims of youth leader Ravi Karan Kahlon as he has been working assiduously in the area for the last four years. His work during Covid is being spoken of highly by his constituents. “There is talk that Kahlon may be shifted to Dera Baba Nanak but that will be akin to fitting a square peg in a round hole as he wields considerable influence in Fatehgarh Churian and will be a misfit in Dera Baba Nanak,” said an MLA.The leadership is also scouting for a new face in the reserved constituency of Sri Hargobindpur. Last time, a rank outsider Manjit Singh Manna was unsuccessfully made to contest. Manna had his pockets of influence in Khadoor Sahib and Baba Bakala and the decision to shift him raised many an eyebrow. In Dinanagar, the party is trying to find a Hindu face.Kairons get going in native villageTarn Taran: SAD ex-minister Adesh Partap Singh Kairon, who has been fielded by the party from his native Patti constituency, and his family have reached Kairon village in Tarn Taran to strategise for the Assembly elections. Gurmukh Singh Ghulla, PA to Kairon, said the party workers were forming a 15-member committee at the booth level in all 109 villages of the constituency. He said Kairon would soon begin meeting residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-gurdaspur-dist-sad-scouts-for-candidates-311645
16-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||23 years gone, farmers not paid for acquisition: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 15Amid the agitation over the contentious farm laws when the Punjab Government is projecting itself as the champion of farmers’ rights, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that the “mighty state was required to be sensitive” towards the rights of poor farmers.The admonition came after the state was caught sitting over the land of farmers for the last 23 years “without paying a penny as compensation”.Rapping it for resorting to dilatory tactics, Justice Ajay Kshetarpal directed the state to pay costs of Rs 8 lakh to the petitioner-farmers. Directions were also issued to the state to pay for land utilisation at the current collector’s rate for the chunk acquired within three weeks.Justice Kshetarpal made it clear that the petitioners would be entitled to take back the possession, even if it resulted in inconvenience to the public due to closure of the road, in case of default. The state was also directed to initiate and complete the acquisition of utilised land within a year.Justice Kshetarpal added the amount assessed by the Land Acquisition Collector would be paid within 15 days from the date of award on the completion of the acquisition. Taking up four petitions filed by Sarabjit Singh Bassi and other farmers through counsel Rakesh Gupta, Munish Gupta and Karan Gupta, Justice Kshetarpal observed notifications under Section 4 and 6 of the Land Acquisition Act were issued in 1997-98, but were allowed to lapse due to paucity of funds.The possession of the land in Patiala district was, however, taken away and a metalled road was laid. The petitioners made efforts to get compensation, but to no avail.Justice Kshetarpal asserted it was clearly evident that the executive was taking “contradictory” stand. The executive’s real intention, as gathered from “irresponsible conduct, was to defer compensation payment due to the petitioners for more than two decades”, the court observed.Slaps Rs8-lakh costs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/23-years-gone-farmers-not-paid-for-acquisition-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-311712
16-09-2021||---||JEE-Main: Punjab’s Pulkit Goyal, Chandigarh’s Guramrit Singh among 18 first-rank holders; 44 score 100 percentile||New Delhi, September 15As many as 44 candidates scored a perfect 100 percentile in the engineering entrance exam JEE-Main this year while 18 candidates shared the top rank as per the tie-breaker rule, Education Ministry officials said todayAccording to the results declared at midnight, the first-rank holders include Pulkit Goyal from Punjab and Guramrit Singh from Chandigarh.The others at number one are Gaurab Das (Karnataka), Vaibhav Vishal (Bihar), Duggineni Venkata Paneesh (Andhra Pradesh), Siddhant Mukherjee, Anshul Verma and Mridul Agarwal (Rajasthan), Ruchir Bansal and Kavya Chopra (Delhi), Amaiya Singhal and Pal Agarwal (Uttar Pradesh), Komma Sharanya and Joysula Venkata Aditya (Telangana), Pasala Veera Siva, Karnam Lokesh and Kanchanapalli Rahul Naidu, (Andhra Pradesh) and Atharva Abhijit Tambat (Maharashtra).Those in the top 44 with a 100 percentile also have Pratham Garg (Punjab) at rank 25, Anmol (Haryana) at 26 and Harsh (Haryana) at 43.State-wise toppers in BE/BTech (Paper 1) include Himkant Sharma (Himachal Pradesh) with a score of 99.946 percentile and Lohitaksh Mahajan (J&K) with 99.988. Among girls, state-wise toppers are Deepasha (Chandigarh) with a 99.981 percentile, Ojasvi Bansal (Haryana) 99.986, M Bhavya (Punjab) 99.958, Varnika Mongra (HP) 99.821, Pooja Mahajan (J&K) 99.639 and Sediqa Batool (Ladakh) 83.739. As many as 9,39,008 appeared in four editions of JEE-Main out of the 10,48,012 registered candidates. Among those who appeared, 2,80,067 were female candidates, 6,58,939 male and 2 transgender candidates.Starting this year, Joint Entrance Exam (JEE)-Main was conducted four times to offer flexibility to students and a chance to improve their scores. The first phase was held in February and the second in March. The next phases were scheduled for April and May but had to be postponed in view of the second wave of the pandemic.The third edition was held in July and the fourth from August 26 to September 2.The ranks of the candidates have been released taking into consideration the best of the four NTA (national testing agency) scores in accordance with the policy already made.Examination was conducted in 13 languages: English, Hindi, Gujarati, Assamese, Bengali, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, Odia, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu. The NTA score for Paper-2A (B.Arch) and Paper-2B (B Planning) will be declared later, according to the official statement.Other toppers from regionExam conducted 4 times this year9.39L appeared in four editions of JEE-Main6.58L male candidates took the exam2.80L females & 2 transgenders appeared13 is number of languages in which exam was held||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jee-main-punjabs-pulkit-goyal-chandigarhs-guramrit-singh-among-18-first-rank-holders-44-score-100-percentile-311711
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Kundli-Singhu blockade: Haryana forms panel to talk to farmers following SC orders||The Haryana government on Wednesday formed a high-powered committee to talk to farmers for removing the National Highway-44 blockade at the Kundli-Singhu border due to the farmers’ sit-in there against the three central farm laws.It comes a day after Sonepat Deputy Commissioner Lalit Siwach held a meeting with farmers’ representatives over the blockade.An official statement on Tuesday had said while taking up a writ petition, the Supreme Court has asked the Sonepat district administration to provide a way to the common people in the public interest.In compliance with these orders, Deputy Commissioner Lalit Siwach held a meeting with farmers’ representatives in Sonepat.On Wednesday evening, a high-level meeting was held under the chairmanship of Chief Minister M L Khattar here, which, Home Minister Anil Vij said, had been convened in the wake of the apex court’s orders last month.“To comply with the apex court’s orders, a state-level high-powered panel has been formed under the chairmanship of Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajeev Arora.“Keeping in view the Supreme Court orders and the fact that common people are facing inconvenience due to the blockade, the committee will hold talks with Samyukt Kisan Morcha on the opening of the way,” Vij, who was also present in the meeting, told reporters later.The Committee will have DGP, ADGP (Law and Order) amongst its members.On Tuesday, Sonepat DC had told farmers that while taking up a writ petition filed by Noida resident Monica Agarwal, the Supreme Court has ordered that the farmers protesting on the Kundli-Singhu border in Sonipat district on National Highway-44 should give way to common people and shift to one side of the road.Siwach, as per the official statement, had said the cooperation of the farmers is expected so as to comply with the Supreme Court directions.The Supreme Court had last month said the Centre and Delhi’s neighbouring states should find a solution to the road blockades on the national capital’s borders.The farmers are protesting against the passage of three laws—Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kundli-singhu-blockade-haryana-forms-panel-to-talk-to-farmers-following-sc-orders-311629
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Farm laws row: Ask your government to repeal APMC amendments 2017, SAD tells Sidhu||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) asked Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu why he did not object to the 2013 legislation on contract farming when he was still a minister in the current Congress establishment.Countering Sidhu’s allegations that the Akalis’ contract farming act of the 2013 formed the basis of the Centre’s controversial agriculture law on contract farming, SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema asked in a press release why he’d never objected to the law when his government was voted to power in 2017, and continued to remain silent even after he’d resigned from the government.“It is only now with elections months away that you are taking up this issue to cover up your failures,” Cheema said.Sidhu calls SAD 'main architects of farm laws'Sidhu’s remarks, said Cheema, showed he was keen to “play a game of one-upmanship with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and has no intention of doing anything to ensure repeal of the three agriculture acts”.“Capt Amarinder Singh woke up and realised the damage the three black laws were doing to Punjab two days back, nearly one year after they were passed by parliament. Now Sidhu has also woken up from his slumber and wants to project himself as a sympathiser of the Kisan cause even though he has done nothing to support this cause since the last one year,” Cheema said.He also reminded Sidhu that his wife, Navjot Kaur Sidhu, was chief parliamentary secretary under the SAD-BJP government when the legislation on contract farming was first proposed.Both Sidhu and his wife were previously members of the Bharatiya Janata Party— Navjot Kaur Sidhu even became a BJP legislator in the Punjab Assembly Elections of 2012, which brought back the SAD-BJP government to power. Both resigned from the party in 2016 and switched over to the Congress when their relationship with the saffron party soured.Cheema asked Sidhu why he was silent over the controversial APMC act amendments that his own Congress government had brought about in 2017, which he claimed had provisions similar to some in the Centre’s controversial agriculture laws.“The amendments allow for the creation of private mandis, direct purchase from farmers, a uniform licensing system and establishment of an e-trading platform. You are yet to raise your voice against this even as you indulge in empty theatrics and mischievous allegations,” he said, andHe also wanted to know why he was silent over the Congress party’s 2019 General Election promise to abolish APMC mandis as well as do away with the Essential Commodities Act.“This was contained in the Congress party’s election manifesto also in 2019 however Sidhu has never spoken out against this anti-farmer stand. This only goes on to show his true colours besides proving how subservient he is to the Gandhi family,” he asked.He suggested Sidhu should lead an all-party delegation to hold a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to demand that the Centre do away with the controversial agriculture laws.“It is initiatives like these which can take farmers out of the crutches of corporates. Not misguided potshots without meaning or sense. Take note and correct yourself in the interest of the 'annadaata',” Cheema said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farm-laws-row-ask-your-government-to-repeal-apmc-amendments-2017-sad-tells-sidhu-311602
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu calls SAD ‘main architects' of farm laws||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has accused the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) of being what he called “the main architects of the three central farm laws”.Addressing his first press conference after taking over the PPCC chief on Wednesday, Sidhu focused his attack on the Akali and consciously avoided targeting his own government. He said the three central farm laws were almost exact replicas of the contract farming law introduced in 2013 by the previous SAD-BJP government in Punjab Vidhan sabha.After stiff opposition, the law was put on hold.Farm laws row: Ask your government to repeal APMC amendments 2017, SAD tells SidhuGiving clause-by-clause details of the Punjab contract farming law and how the BJP-led NDA government photocopied the clauses with minor changes to give it the shape of three central farm laws, Sidhu said: “The BJP and SAD are two sides of the same coin. The breakup of the alliance was a smokescreen. They were one and they will be one once again after the elections”.Sidhu, who accompanied by his four working presidents, played pre-recorded videos of Parkash Singh Badal, Sukhbir Singh Badal, and Harsimrat Singh Badal first praising and later opposing the same agriculture laws. “Be it the dispute over settlement, farm services, sale of agriculture produce, the jurisdiction of settlement between buyer and farmer, imposing penalties, most of the clauses in the central farm,” Sidhu said. “Laws have been copied or provided to the BJP by SAD as it was part of the NDA.”Sidhu also praised the state government’s farm loan waiver and loan debt waiver but without naming the chief minister, Capt Amarinder Singh, but avoided most other questions about the functioning of the Congress government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-calls-sad-main-architects-of-farm-laws-311574
16-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||High Court grants anticipatory bail to Punjabi singer Gurdas Maan||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 15Just about a week after an Additional Sessions Judge dismissed Gurdas Maan’s plea in a case registered against him on August 26 for hurting religious feelings of the Sikh community, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Wednesday granted interim anticipatory bail to the Punjabi singer. He has been asked to join the investigation within a week.Also read:Gurdas Maan booked for hurting religious sentiments of Sikh communityGurdas Maan posts video on social media offering apology over recent controversyDera Murad Shah devotees block Jalandhar-Nakodar highwayRaja Warring backs Gurdas MaanJustice Avneesh Jhingan made it clear that his custody was not required as nothing is to be recovered. The issue whether the words used by petitioner during stage performance were deliberate/malicious so as to invoke section 295-A of the IPC would be a subject matter of investigation.Justice Jhingan also made it clear that an artist while performing on stage has the inclination to involve and take the crowd along. The petitioner was a renowned singer and was not a personality who would be able to hide or abscond.  Also, no recovery was to be made from him.Among other things, Maan in his petition had contended the “Sessions Judge was apparently influenced by the show of public outcry, generated by some sections through a sustained campaign”.  His counsel, senior advocate R.S. Cheema with Arshdeep Singh Cheema and Tarannum Cheema had added that the settled principles regulating the question of bail were overlooked in an atmosphere projected as surcharged. The statutory parameters and the settled norms through precedents were relegated to the background. “The Judge did not even pause to consider as to whether the investigating agency had asked for custodial interrogation and further made a valid case for the same”.It was added that the petitioner had deep roots in the society and nothing in his previous conduct during the inquiry would show that he was likely to abscond. Moreover, the alleged objectionable material was already in public domain and nothing was required to be recovered from the petitioner warranting his custodial interrogation.“Moreover, as a humble Sikh and the sensitive citizen, the petitioner made a widely circulated public apology…. His words ought to be interpreted in the total background of his lifelong devotion to venerable Sikh Gurus and to the principles of Sikhism,” it was added.Also read: Gurdas Maan criticised for supporting ‘one nation, one language’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/high-court-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-punjabi-singer-gurdas-maan-311545
