19-09-2021||New Delhi||Congress leaders hail appointment of Dalit leader Channi as Punjab CM||Congress leaders on Sunday hailed the election of Charanjit Singh Channi to be the first Dalit chief minister of Punjab and hoped the decision will fortify social justice and open new doors of empowerment for the community and other disadvantaged sections.After Channi was elected the Congress Legislature Party leader, Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “Congratulations to Shri Charanjit Singh Channi Ji for the new responsibility. We must continue to fulfill the promises made to the people of Punjab. Their trust is of paramount importance.”       Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, “The Congress creates a new history by appointing Punjab’s first Dalit CM in Sardar Charanjit Channi.”“Let times record that this decision will singularly fortify social justice and open new doors of empowerment for our Dalit, Backward and disadvantaged brothers and sisters across India,” he said on Twitter.Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu tweeted, “Historic !! Punjab’s first Dalit CM-Designate … Will be written with Golden letters in History. A tribute to the spirit of the Constitution and the Congress.”     Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh also gave his best wishes to Channi and said, “I hope he’s able to keep the border state of Punjab safe and protect our people from the growing security threat from across the border.”Congress chief whip in Lok Sabha Manickam Tagore congratulated Channi.“May you continue to serve the people of Punjab with dedication and integrity and champion the ideologies of the Congress. New Chapter begins. He will be the only Dalit CM of the country after taking oath. There are BJP government in 12 states, not a single Dalit CM has been made,” he said on Twitter.He thanked Congress president Sonia Gandhiji and his leader Rahul Gandhi for giving the voice to the last row.The Congress SC department hailed Channi’s appointment and said Punjab—the state with the highest Dalit population—will see its first Dalit chief minister.Channi, 49, becomes chief minister with less than six month to go before the assembly polls in Punjab. He will take oath Monday morning.An estimated 30 per cent of the state’s population, counting both Sikhs and Hindus, is from that community.The opposition BJP had earlier announced that if voted to power in Punjab, it will make a Dalit the chief minister, while the Shiromani Akali Dal—which is fighting the polls in alliance with the BSP—had said its deputy CM would be from that community. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-leaders-hail-appointment-of-dalit-leader-channi-as-punjab-cm-313401
19-09-2021||---||Charanjit Channi to be first Chief Minister of Punjab from ‘puad’ region||Ropar, September 19With the elevation of Chamkaur Sahib MLA Charanjit Singh Channi the ‘puad’ area has got the top post on state Cabinet for the first time.The ‘puad’ is considered to be area between Ghaggar and Sutlej rivers including Mohali, Ropar and Samrala.Though Giani Zail Singh after winning from Anandpur Sahib-Ropar assembly constituency also sworn in as chief minister in 1972, but he originally belonged to Faridkot district.Anandpur Sahib MLA and Punjab Speaker Rana KP Singh and senior BJP minister and former Cabinet minister Madan Mohan Mittal have welcomed the elevation of Channi as chief minister.Rana said Channi was like his younger brother and he was feeling proud that a local from the area became Punjab chief minister. Mittal said with Channi reaching to the post of chief minister the residents of region were expecting the fast pace of development in ‘puad’.Manmohan Singh, the elder brother of Channi, said they have a joint family of four brothers staying at Kharar. After completing his schooling at Kharar, he got admission in Guru Gobind Singh Khalsa College in Chandigarh where he was elected as general secretary of student union.Later, in Panjab University along with studies and student politics he participated in national level competitions in handball.Channi’s first tryst with state politics started 29 years ago in 1992 when he got elected as municipal councillor at Kharar and later became chief of the civic body before entering in the fray as independent candidate in 2007 assembly elections from Chamkaur Sahib and defeating SAD stalwart Satwant Kaur Sandhu.In 2012, contesting as Congress nominee Channi defeated Sandhu’s daughter-in-law Jagmeet Kaur. In 2017, when he was CLP he scored a hat-trick by defeating AAP nominee Dr Charanjit Singh in assembly elections following which he was inducted as Cabinet minister in Congress the government led by Capt Amarinder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/charanjit-channi-to-be-first-chief-minister-of-punjab-from-puad-region-313397
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sad at not being able to hand over job letters to next of kin of 150 deceased farmers personally, says Capt Amarinder||A day after he quit as chief minister after being “humiliated” by the party amid the Punjab Congress crisis, Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday expressed sorrow at having to cancel the scheduled disbursement of appointment letters to families of 150 farmers who had lost their lives in the ongoing agitation against the farm laws.The former chief minister said that with the new CM-designate already announced, he would unfortunately not be able to personally hand over job letters to the next of kin of the deceased farmers even though his council of ministers had already accorded approval to the proposal.He hoped the new chief minister would carry out the task at the earliest to provide relief to the affected families.Capt Amarinder urged the CM-designate, Charanjit Singh Channi, to ensure that the state government continues to stand with the beleaguered farmers of Punjab “who have sacrificed their lives in our collective fight for justice”.The former chief minister made it clear that he would continue to support the farmers in their battle for survival and justice.“Every Punjabi, in fact every Indian, is morally bound to stand with the farmers in their hour of despair,” he said, asserting that even though he was no longer holding the state’s reins, his heart remained with the farmers and their families and he would do everything in his power to ensure that they get their due.Capt Amarinder, whose government had also released Rs 14,85,50,000 in compensation to the next of kin of the 298 deceased farmers, said he would not allow the sacrifices of India’s ‘annadaatas’ to go waste.It was the responsibility of every government and political dispensation, be it in Punjab or any other state, as well as the Centre, to ensure that the farmers get their due. He said that cases of 51 more families were under process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-at-not-being-able-to-hand-over-job-letters-to-next-of-kin-of-150-deceased-farmers-personally-says-capt-amarinder-313387
19-09-2021||---||All-India strike of Scheme Workers on September 24 which could affect vaccination drive||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 19The Central Trade Unions (CTUs) have decided to jointly stage an all-India strike of “Scheme Workers” on September 24 which could adversely affect the health services, especially the ongoing drive of Covid vaccination.The strike is to press for acceptance of workers’ long pending demands of safety, risk allowance, insurance coverage and regularisation, minimum wages and pension. The Unions are INTUC, ATUC, HMS AIUTUC,TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU , LPF, UTUC, and CITU. Nearly one crore scheme workers including the Anganwadi, ASHA and Mid Day Meal workers are presently engaged to deliver the basic services of nutrition and health to the majority of the people, risking their lives during the pandemic.  They are the link between the government and the people.About 10 lakh ASHA workers and facilitators conduct door-to-door surveys on diseases, report cases and get tests done, etc. in addition to the vaccination duties every day. Nearly 26 lakh anganwadi workers and helpers under ICDS who are also performing similar duties along with ASHA workers and also distributing the ration door to door to the beneficiaries.Nearly 27 lakh Midday Meal workers supply ration door to door to the school going children and perform duties in community centres and quarantine centres. Many other workers under the National Health Mission (NHM) including the 108 Ambulance workers are also performing their duty in the fight against Covid-19.Workers under schemes like NCLP, NRLM work at the grassroots-level among the community.A Union leader said on Sunday that these workers are not provided with any safety equipment, including masks or sanitisers. They are also not entitled to any risk allowance or compensation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/all-india-strike-of-scheme-workers-on-september-24-which-could-affect-vaccination-drive-313361
19-09-2021||New Delhi||AAP’s CM candidate for Punjab will be pride of state, says Raghav Chadha||The Aam Aadmi Party’s Punjab chief ministerial candidate will hail from the state and will be somebody who can be called the pride of the state, party leader Raghav Chadha said.With assembly polls in Punjab set for early next year, the AAP is going all out to win the battle and has already promised free 300 units of power to the people of the state if it forms the next government.Chadha, the AAP’s Punjab co-in charge, told PTI in an interview that people of the state want to give the Arvind Kejriwal led party a chance in the next polls as the Akali Dal has become “irrelevant”, while the Congress has been the most “nikami sarkar” (useless government) ever in the history of electoral politics of Punjab.He said the chief ministerial candidate of the party for Punjab will be decided by the political affairs committee in due course of time.On chances of AAP MP and Party’s Punjab unit president Bhagwant Mann being chosen, he said at this point and time, “I can only say three characteristics of the CM candidate of AAP. One is that he will hail from the state of Punjab, he will be from the 2.8 crore population of Punjab and third, he will be somebody who can be called the ‘aan baan shaan’ (pride) of Punjab”.Delhi Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal in June had said that the party’s chief ministerial face for the 2022 Punjab assembly polls would be from the Sikh community.Over reports that Mann’s supporters want that he should be named as the CM candidate, Chadha said, “All are supporters of Kejriwal and of the Kejriwal model of governance. I don’t wish to comment on individuals but the vote is for Jhaadu (party’s sign) and for Kejriwal”.Several AAP volunteers in Sangrur and Barnala districts are holding meetings to press the party leadership to choose Mann as the chief ministerial face, sources in the party said.Talking about the political situation of Punjab, Chadha claimed that the Akali Dal is slowly becoming “irrelevant” because people have “utmost hatred” for the party of Badals and want it to be defeated.As far as the Congress is concerned, it is on a “suicide mission and on self destruction mode” and they do not need an opposition. They are their own opposition and people are just waiting for the AAP and for elections to happen, he said.On Amarinder Singh’s resignation from the chief minister’s post on Saturday, Chadha has said that governance in Punjab has been the biggest casualty in the Congress party’s ‘Game of Thrones’.“The people of Punjab are yearning for a change. They feel they have tried everyone and now only AAP is their hope and they wish to try AAP, they wish to vote for AAP and are banking heavily on the Kejriwal model of governance in Delhi that was showcased in the last six years,” he said.Chadha said when he asks people of the state who they will vote for in the next polls, they reply that this time they want to give a chance to AAP.On the impact of the ongoing farmer’s protest on the polls, Chadha alleged that all three parties— BJP, Congress and Akali Dal—have “betrayed” the Indian farmers and “backstabbed” them.“I don’t look at the farmers protest through the prism of politics and it would be unfair for anyone to do that but I can most certainly say that the BJP is not even a player in Punjab because of enacting these three laws. Akali Dal is hated because they were the people who brought this law as Harsimrat Kaur Badal being the minister in the Union Cabinet proposed this legislation and Captain (Amarinder Singh) is also hated because he was part of the drafting committee of these laws,” he said. “The AAP and its leader Arvind Kejriwal have stood with the farmers throughout and have been rock solid behind them and will work for the welfare of the farming community and their uplift,” he said.Asked if the AAP will be benefited by the vote bank of Akali Dal, he claimed that everyone will be voting for the AAP not just those who are traditionally Akali Dal or Congress voters. “This time all these divisions and classifications are not going to work. Just like when elections happen in, Delhi people from all caste, creed and religion vote for Arvind Kejriwal. Similarly, they will vote for Kejriwal in Punjab,” he said.Talking about the party’s vision for Punjab, Chadha said reforms that have been carried out in the national capital will also be carried out in Punjab. “With utmost sincerity and dedication we will work towards making Punjab ‘khush haal’ (happy) and achieving our dream of ‘rangla Punjab’ (vibrant and colourful) by solving the problem of unemployment, debt trap of the state, uplift farmers and giving them their due, working for the landless labourers, ease of doing business for the business community and the traders, reforming completely the electricity and the water sector,” he said.The party will also strive to bring to Punjab world class education in primary and secondary schools as well as an affordable and accessible healthcare system.In 2017, the AAP had emerged as the main opposition party in the state after winning 20 out of the 117 assembly seats. The Congress had won 77 while an alliance of Shiromani Akali Dal and BJP won 18 seats.Assembly polls in Punjab are due early 2022. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aaps-cm-candidate-for-punjab-will-be-pride-of-state-says-raghav-chadha-313357
19-09-2021||New Delhi||‘Punjab Chief Minister must be Sikh leader’, Ambika Soni rejects offer to head state||Congress veteran and a long time Rajya Sabha MP from Punjab Ambika Soni on Sunday said she had declined the offer of being Punjab chief minister and believed that the state should be led by a Sikh.“This is a matter of conviction for me, not just today but for five decades since the reorganisation process that Punjab should have a Sikh chief minister. This is the only state where a Sikh has traditionally led. I have declined to be the CM,” Soni told The Tribune.It’s learnt that Soni was offered the CM ship two months ago also when the process of Punjab Congress overhaul was underway and she had refused even that time.“There are some convictions that we live by and my conviction is that a Sikh should lead Punjab,” Soni said.It’s learnt that the Congress was mulling all probable choices for the post of the CM, conscious also of the attack Capt Amarinder Singh mounted against PCC chief Navjot Sidhu calling him an anti national, and pledging to oppose his candidature as Punjab CM tooth and nail.Capt Amarinder has conveyed to the AICC leadership that Sidhu as CM was unacceptable.“What Capt will do next will depend on what we do today,” a Congress functionary said.Soni said the party exercise was underway to decide on the next CM.“The parleys are ongoing in Chandigarh where the AICC general secretary is present along with two observers who are meeting all the MLAs and asking them for their opinion. There’s no tussle in the party,” Soni said.Importantly Capt Amarinder Singh had called on Soni when he had come to New Delhi last to meet Congress chief Sonia Gandhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-chief-minister-must-be-sikh-leader-ambika-soni-rejects-offer-to-head-state-313345
19-09-2021||New Delhi||Hope Captain won’t act against party interest: Congress anxiety speaks through Ashok Gehlot||In first signs of anxiety over the exit of Capt Amarinder Singh as Punjab chief minister, Congress veteran Ashok Gehlot said on Sunday he hoped the outgoing chief minister would “heed his conscience” and won’t act against party interest.Gehlot, the chief minister of Rajasthan, tweeted a message after Capt resigned on Saturday saying he won’t retire yet and would strike back at his time.“I am a soldier. I will shake the hand that comes towards me but if a fist is shown I will give that back,” Amarinder Singh said on Saturday citing his humiliation by the Congress.Gehlot, considered close to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, on Sunday took to Twitter to appeal to Capt Amarinder to keep Congress interests in mind when deciding his future.“Capt Amarinder is a respected Congress leader and I hope he will continue to work with party interest in mind. I am hopeful Capt Amarinder will not take any step that will hurt the Congress. Capt Singh himself said the party made him CM for 9.5 years and he worked to the best of his ability to serve the party.”“The high command sometimes has to take decisions in party interests based on feedback of MLAs and the people,” he saidSeeking to justify the actions of Gandhis in Congress President always takes opposition of potential CM contenders in mind when finalising a CM.“But then the same CMs start terming high command’s decision wrong when they are replaced.In such moments leaders should heed their conscience,” Gehlot advised Capt asking him to worry about the rise of fascist forces in India and “think in the party’s and national interest.”Amarinder Singh has said all his options were open.The former CM has also said he was in no mood to retire and was in fact ready for a battle.All eyes are now on Capt’s next moves and whether he would cosy-up to the BJP which has always backed his nationalist credentials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hope-captain-wont-act-against-party-interest-congress-anxiety-speaks-through-ashok-gehlot-313343
19-09-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM’s OSD Lokesh Sharma resigns hours after tweet ‘criticises’ Punjab developments||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s OSD Lokesh Sharma submitted his resignation on Saturday night, hours after he posted a tweet which was seen as an indirect criticism of the Congress over the change of leadership in Punjab.The tweet appeared to refer to a strong person being made helpless and a mediocre person being elevated.The officer on special duty to the Rajasthan chief minister submitted his resignation on Saturday night seeking an apology for his tweet.Sharma has been associated with Gehlot for over a decade now and he has been looking after his social media. He was made the OSD after Gehlot came to power in December 2018.मजबूत को मजबूर, मामूली को मग़रूर किया जाए...बाड़ ही खेत को खाए, उस फसल को कौन बचाए !!  “Majboot ko majboor, mamuli ko magroor kiya jaye... baad hi khet ko khaay, uss fasal ko kaun bachaye!” Sharma had tweeted after Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh resigned on Saturday.‘Humiliated’, Captain quits, says keeping options openIn the resignation letter, the OSD said he has been active on Twitter since 2010 and has not tweeted beyond party lines.Sharma said he never posted any political tweet after being given the responsibility of OSD by Gehlot.Punjab Congress awaits final nod from Sonia Gandhi on Capt Amarinder’s successorHowever, he sought an apology if his tweet hurt the party high command and the state government in any way. Delhi Police had registered a case against Sharma in March on Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat’s complaint.During the political crisis in Rajasthan due to rebellion by deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other MLAs last year, purported audio clips of conversations between Shekhawat, BJP leader Sanjay Jain, and Congress MLAs Bhanwarlal and Vishvendra Singh were leaked. They were allegedly discussing a plan to topple the Congress government in the state.It was alleged that Sharma had circulated the audio clips, a charge denied by him. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rajasthan-cms-osd-lokesh-sharma-resigns-hours-after-tweet-criticises-punjab-developments-313327
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Advocate General Atul Nanda resigns||Punjab Advocate-General Atul Nanda on Sunday sent a mail to his team saying he has tendered his resignation as his appointment as was co-terminus with the chief minister’s appointment.Nanda also cited constitutional convention.Nanda said he wanted to take this opportunity to express how proud he was of each law officer. Nanda added his team was probably been one of the best the AG office has had in recent times. The younger ones among them have been like his children and he saw them grow, both as counsel as well as human beings. The senior law officers have always been his support and strength in every which way.He also said special thanks to Diya Sodhi, Malvika Singh, Amanat Chahal and Martand Singh in his camp office who toiled long late hours, weekends and holidays, often at personal cost for case preparation and so that the office could shine in Court. His Delhi team comprising Karan Bharioke, Uttara Babbar, Anusha Nagrajan, Ranjeeta Rohatgi, Jaspreet Gogia and Zehra Khan had been his infallible pillars for Supreme Court and other matters.Nanda added he could not list all the names, but thanked all from the bottom of his heart for all of their work, efforts, good wishes, support and strength.“In case, I have fallen short of your expectations or I have faltered at any time, please forgive me,” his letter said. “I would also like to thank the members of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar,who though I was thought to be an outsider, welcomed me as a friend and made a member of their family and their lives.”“This is no farewell message. I am always there for each and every one of you. I cannot and will not forget these years. They will be a precious part of me forever. Always.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-advocate-general-atul-nanda-resigns-313326
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Sidhu’s strategic adviser wades in; threatens to ‘expose’ Amarinder Singh||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s strategic adviser has threatened to “expose” former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh—a development that comes less than a full day before the now-former chief minister said he would do everything in his power to ensure that his arch-rival Sidhu did not get the top position.Mohammed Mustafa said in a series of tweets he had a “mountain” of what he called irrefutable proof of Amarinder Singh’s "wrongdoings", and even targeted the chief minister’s personal life.“Raaz ko Raaz rehne do, Capt sir,” he said ominously.This comes after Amarinder Singh accused Sidhu, who’s been long involved in a power tussle with the chief minister, of being a security threat because of his connections with Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan and military chief Qamar Javed Bajwa. Capt Amarinder’s remarks came hours after he claimed he’d resigned from the chief minister’s position in humiliation.  RAAZ KO RAAZ REHNO DO CAPT SIR pic.twitter.com/LY1Evzj3EZ||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sidhus-strategic-adviser-wades-in-threatens-to-expose-amarinder-singh-313325
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||70 pc files destroyed in blaze at Punjab Planning Dept building in Chandigarh||A fire broke out on the first floor of the building of the Department of Planning, Punjab, housing the establishment branch in Sector 33 this morning.According to fire officials, almost all items kept on the first floor hall were destroyed. There were different chambers/rooms in the hall. Iron almirahs, computer, AC units, fans, window glasses and official documents were burnt.“Our 70 per cent of the total files kept in the Yojna building were burnt in the fire,” said an official of the Planning Department.Firemen said they got a fire call around 6 pm. Several fire engines were pressed into service from the fire stations of Sectors 32, 17, Ram Darbar and Industrial Area. It took about five hours to control the fire.An official of the department said it seemed a short-circuit caused the fire. However, the fire officials said they were yet to ascertain the cause of fire. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/70-pc-files-destroyed-in-blaze-at-punjab-planning-dept-building-in-chandigarh-313149
19-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Two seniormost Punjab & Haryana High Court judges cleared for transfer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 18Two seniormost judges of the Punjab and Haryana High Court are among the 28 judges recommended to be transferred by the Supreme Court (SC) after its collegium meeting. Once the transfers come into force, the High Court Collegium comprising the Chief Justice and two senior judges will be reconstituted.Available information suggests the Supreme Court Collegium has recommended the transfer of Justice Rajan Gupta to the Patna High Court. He is likely to take over as Chief Justice. Justice Jaswant Singh has been shifted to Odisha. This is in addition to Justice Sudip Ahluwalia’s transfer to Calcutta. Another recommendation is to transfer senior Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge Justice Sabina to the Himachal Pradesh High Court. She is currently a judge in the Rajasthan High Court after being transferred from the Punjab and Haryana High Court.As a result of the transfers, Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Augustine George Masih will replace Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Rajan Gupta in the High Court Collegium. The last time the collegium recommended names of advocates for elevation as HC judges was more than a year ago. The names of judicial officers, on the other hand, were recommended for elevation as High Court judges more than two years ago.Justice Gupta likely to be Patna CJCase pendency reaches 4.5 lakhThe process of appointing judges is lengthy and time-consuming. Once cleared by the states and the Governors, the file containing the names with Intelligence Bureau reports is placed before the Supreme Court when it meets. The names cleared for elevation are then sent to the Union Law Ministry before their warrants of appointment are signed by the President. The process can take several months if not taken up on a priority basis. The SC Collegium has already cleared four of the five names sent by the HC Collegium from the advocates’ category. The names were finalised and forwarded by the High Court Collegium in August last year. These were further forwarded to the SC in April this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-seniormost-punjab-haryana-high-court-judges-cleared-for-transfer-313219
19-09-2021||Rajmeet Singh||‘Humiliated’, Captain quits, says keeping options open||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 18Minutes before the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh tendered his resignation to Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Saturday. Accepting his resignation and that of his Council of Ministers, the Governor asked him to continue in office for transaction of business, till alternative arrangements were made.Speaking to the media outside Punjab Raj Bhavan, Captain said: “I feel humiliated. In the past few months, the party high command has thrice called a meeting of Punjab MLAs. It seems that the Congress president has no faith in me. The party high command is free to pick anybody as CM”.In a subtle message to the leadership, Capt Amarinder said: “I still have a future in politics. I will decide the next course after discussions with colleagues and close aides”, even as he asserted that he was still a member of the Congress.Till noon, the embattled CM seemed reluctant to resign until he reportedly received a phone call from Sonia Gandhi, clearly asking him to make way for the election of a successor. Senior party leaders spent anxious moments as the CM proceeded to Raj Bhavan to tender his resignation. Sources said efforts to oust the CM began in May this year with the formation of a three-member Kharge panel to hear the grievances of party MLAs. “There was resentment against the CM for not keeping his word to the voters and his over-dependence on the bureaucracy but things did not pan out the way the leadership desired with the CM’s camp managing to hang on,” explained a senior leader.Therefore, the leadership this time decided to take the CM by surprise, sending a message about the proposed CLP meeting late Friday night, in response to a letter by a section of MLAs seeking CM’s ouster. Calls were made to ministers and MLAs on Saturday morning to convey the high command’s wish for a change of guard.Four ministers — Brahm Mohindra, Rana Sodhi, Vijay Inder Singla and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot — and legislators Ramanjit Singh Sikki, SS Bhalaipur, Raj Kumar Chabbewal, Fateh Jung Bajwa, Tarsem Singh DC, Yoginder Pal, Rakesh Pandey, Ajaib Singh Bhatti, HS Ajnala and Rajinder Singh were with the Chief Minister at his residence here before he left for the Governor’s house.CLP leader to be named todayA decision on new CLP leader by AICC-appointed observers will be made at a CLP meeting in Chandigarh on Sunday.Jakhar, Randhawa among probablesThe probables are Sunil Jakhar, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Charanjit S Channi and Tript Rajinder Bajwa, besides Sidhu.BJP steers clear of criticising CaptThe BJP slammed the Congress as a “complete failure on all fronts”, but steered clear of criticising Capt Amarinder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/humiliated-captain-quits-says-keeping-options-open-313127
19-09-2021||Stepping down as CM||Capt Amarinder: ‘He is incompetent, will oppose any move to make Navjot Sidhu CM’||Why do you call Navjot Sidhu a security threat?He is incompetent and a friend of Pakistan PM Imran Khan and army chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa. We saw them in an embrace at the opening of the Kartarpur corridor. I will not compromise on national security, never. I will fight any move to make him CM.I will choose from among the options available. I am an Army man. I will not quit politics, and will be active in the upcoming polls. What is your future course of action?I will talk to friends I have made during 52 years of my political career and decide the future course. Politics is not static. It’s a moving game. Give me time. I will choose from among the options available. I have not decided as yet. I am an Army man. I will not quit politics and will be active in the upcoming polls.You seem to have lost the MLAs’ trust. Your comment?How is that possible? Just a week ago, I had forwarded a list to Sonia Gandhi with the signatures of 63 MLAs in my support. It is not wise to replace a CM months ahead of the elections. The results will show that. I was not informed of the CLP meeting, an indicator they were all set to remove me. I feel sad that my government’s welfare measures, particularly on the drugs front, have not been duly recognised.Do you feel let down by the leadership?I am not happy with the way party president Sonia Gandhi has handled the situation.My association with Rajiv Gandhi goes back to school days. I am peeved at the baseless political chorus against me. We have fulfilled 92 per cent promises made in our election manifesto. We have done much more than promised, for example in the healthcare sector, providing the best facilities to the poor. The 18-point agenda is only a small part of the poll manifesto. Desperate stepReplacing the CM is a panic reaction of the Congress high command to salvage the party situation after it failed to deliver in over 4 years. —Ashwani Sharma, Punjab BJP chiefAdmission of failureThe resignation is a self-admission on part of the Congress as well as its high command that the party has failed to deliver. —Sukhbir Badal, SAD chiefLack of governanceThe governance in Punjab has been the biggest casualty in the Congress party’s ‘Game of Thrones’. —Raghav Chadha, AAP leader||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-he-is-incompetent-will-oppose-any-move-to-make-navjot-sidhu-cm-313128
19-09-2021||Aditi Tandon||Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi stamp writ large||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 18The sudden and unceremonious exit of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh signals the pre-eminence of the Gandhi siblings in the decision-making structure of the Congress and holds lessons for party veterans going forward.“The message in the story is — anything is possible,” said a Congress insider describing the midnight decision of the AICC to convene a Punjab CLP meeting on Saturday as a “surgical strike” on Capt Amarinder whom, sources said, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra increasingly viewed as “inaccessible, close to SAD and low-performing”.The trigger & course correctionThe trigger for Singh’s resignation was a recent letter nearly 60 party MLAs (out of 80) wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi seeking CM’s replacement to offset “anti incumbency” and saying in no uncertain terms that they will not be able to work with him anymore.“With the majority MLAs against the CM, there was no option but to replace him,” said a Congress functionary explaining that the party gave Amarinder Singh ample time to set the house in order.While Sonia Gandhi, known to have backed Amarinder Singh against graver rebellions specially the one by Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, gave the CM a long rope, Rahul and Priyanka are learnt to have pressed for something “drastic” specially after the BJP overhauled the entire Gujarat cabinet.Among issues that weighed against Singh were – he was not meeting MLAs regularly enough and the distance had led to alienation among lawmakers and party workers; he addressed few public functions in Punjab; thirdly, even ministers did not have direct access to him.“Inaccessibility remained a major challenge with Amarinder Singh and continued to be repeatedly raised finding traction with Rahul and Priyanka,” said a source.Matters worsened due to constant public acrimony between Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu and Singh, with the party’s electoral prospects visibly hit. “This demanded immediate course correction,” said an AICC source.The majority of Punjab leaders had hoped the Congress leadership would replace the CM when they appointed Sidhu as state chief, to avoid parallel power centres. Two months on (Sidhu was named Punjab chief on July 18), the two were still at loggerheads, with Rahul and Priyanka worried what would happen at the time of candidate selection if both continued with their bitterness.“The calculation earlier was that the party needs both the CM and Sidhu to win but over these past two months, the bickering caused visible damages to the Congress, as AICC surveys reflected. A need was felt to course correct. After the majority MLAs expressed no confidence in the CM through a letter, scales tilted against him,” said a party insider adding that the CM’s position became untenable after Sonia Gandhi directed that a CLP meet be called. Veterans are however cross with Rahul and Priyanka over the way Singh’s ouster was handled with MLAs learnt to be in touch with Priyanka.This development, they said, would have repercussions in Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh where infighting is deep. “Now Sachin Pilot can demand his pound of flesh against CM Ashok Gehlot and Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singhdeo can remind Rahul Gandhi of his 2018 promise to rotate the CM’s post. Pandora's Box has been opened,” said a source adding that Singh, a known Sonia loyalist, deserved a better exit plan.Sources added that public humiliation of Singh – as the outgoing CM himself claimed today after resigning – was totally avoidable and "harmed the Congress."“Congress President could have easily called CM and Sidhu and resolved matters rather than have MLAs speak against the CM on a platform offered by the AICC. This exercise of calling MLAs to Delhi in the name of resolving the Punjab crisis bore the stamp of Rahul Gandhi. This is not Sonia Gandhi’s style,” said a veteran.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rahul-gandhi-priyanka-gandhi-stamp-writ-large-313129
19-09-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||11th Punjab CM who couldn’t complete term||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 18Since Punjab’s reorganisation in 1966, Capt Amarinder Singh is the 11th Chief Minister who has failed to complete the full term in office.Giani Gurmukh Singh Musafir of the Congress had remained the CM for 127 days from November 1, 1966, to March 8, 1967.His successor Gurnam Singh of the Akali Dal-Sant Fateh Singh group was the CM for 262 days. The next CM, Lachhman Singh Gill of the Punjab Janta Party, was in saddle for 272 days. His resignation led to the President’s rule in the state.Gurnam Singh returned as CM on February 17, 1969, and held the high office for one year and 38 days. He had to leave due to rebellion in the SAD. On March 27, 1970,Parkash Singh Badal took over from him, but remained the CM for one year and 79 days only. He reportedly resigned due to party’s poor performance in the Lok Sabha polls. The President’s rule that followed lasted for 277 days.The next CM, Giani Zail Singh of the Congress who later became the President, lasted for full term, but his successor Parkash Singh Badal occupied the post for two years and 242 days.The state again came under the President’s rule for 110 days after which Congress CM Darbara Singh lasted three years and 122 days. After another President’s rule for one year and 358 days, Surjit Singh Barnala of the SAD took over as the CM. But he couldn’t continue for more than one year and 255 days.The next CM Beant Singh of the Congress was assassinated. His tenure lasted for three years and 187 days. His successor Harcharan Singh Brar was the CM for one year and 82 days. After he resigned, the first woman CM of the state Rajinder Kaur Bhattal of the Congress assumed charge. She could retain the post for 82 days.Bringing stability for the next two decades, Parkash Singh Badal completed three full terms from 1997-2002 and 2007-17. Later, Capt Amarinder also completed one full term (2002-07). With his resignation today, his tenure ended after four years and 185 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/11th-punjab-cm-who-couldnt-complete-term-313130
19-09-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Unblocking NH-44: Punjab farm unions to boycott panel meet today||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, September 18A day ahead of the talks with the high-powered government committee at Murthal, leaders of 32 farmers’ unions of Punjab on Saturday decided to boycott the meeting.The decision was taken at a meeting of the unions held at Singhu. Bhog Singh Mansa, a farmer leader, said the Sonepat administration had sent an invite for the meeting, but they had decided not to attend it.Earlier while taking up a writ petition, the SC had ordered the farmers protesting on the Kundli-Singhu border on the NH-44 to give one-way passage to the commuters. Following this, the Haryana Government formed a high-powered committee headed by Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajeev Arora. Sonepat DC Lalit Siwach had fixed a meeting for talks with farmers over the matter and invited 43 SKM members.Say SC directions only for govt, not themMansa said the SC had not given any directions to them and no farmer was party to the matter. “The SC has only directed the Centre and states to give passage to the common man,” he said.The leaders said they wanted to go to Delhi, but the Centre and state government stopped them at the borders. “The roads have not been blocked by us, but by the Delhi Police by placing concrete barriers,” Mansa claimed. The unions, meanwhile, decided to intensify their protest ahead of the Bharat Bandh on September 27.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unblocking-nh-44-punjab-farm-unions-to-boycott-panel-meet-today-313138
19-09-2021||New Delhi||Gurdwara Bangla Sahib asked to close over Covid-19 norm violation; Manjinder Singh Sirsa fumes||The Chanakyapuri district administration’s order for the closure of Gurdwara Bangla Sahib here for alleged violation of Covid-19 norms has angered the Sikh community.Citing the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) guidelines according to which religious places are allowed to open, but not for visitors, Chanakyapuri SDM Geeta Grover has asked the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) to follow the norms.Shrines can open sans visitors: admnThe order stated a report by executive magistrate found that the management “allowed visitors/prayers inside the gurdwara” in violation of DDMA directions.DSGMC chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa tweeted, “We condemn the action and demand @ArvindKejriwal ji to take strict action against the DC and SDM concerned.”He said the gurdwara had helped thousands during the second Covid wave. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurdwara-bangla-sahib-asked-to-close-over-covid-19-norm-violation-manjinder-singh-sirsa-fumes-313141
19-09-2021||Abohar||Wanted peddler nabbed||Sarpanch opens fire, 1 hurtFazilka: Harjinder Singh of Bakhushah village of Fazilka was injured when the sarpanch of the village opened fire over a minor dispute on Friday. Sources in the police said Harjinder was trying to drain out accumulated rainwater from his fields and the sarpanch prevented him from doing so, leading to a dispute. OCPupils back anganwari workersAbohar: Schoolchildren have started participating in anti-government protests organised by anganwari workers in various urban colonies and villages. An effigy of the state government was burnt in Rajiv Nagar here by the workers, who have been staging protests for the past few days in support of their various demands. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/wanted-peddler-nabbed-313050
19-09-2021||Amritsar||Kesgarh Sahib violation: SGPC seeks narco test of accused||SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur has sought brain mapping and narco-analysis test of Paramjeet Singh of Ludhiana, who was recently held for violating the Sikh ‘rehat maryada’ by smoking on the premises of Takht Kesgarh Sahib.Addressing mediapersons here today, she expressed apprehension that the government may try to brush the matter under the carpet. She recalled that justice was not delivered in the sacrilege incidents that had taken place at Jauriyan and Fatehgarh Sahib in the past. “In both cases, the excuse was given that the accused were mentally upset,” she said. However, this time, the accused was totally fit as he gave all details regarding his father being a member of a committee constituted by the Dera Sacha Sauda, she claimed. She said there was a conspiracy behind his reprehensible move which needed to be unearthed to trace the persons behind the desecration. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kesgarh-sahib-violation-sgpc-seeks-narco-test-of-accused-313051
19-09-2021||---||Rajnath Singh launches Dr Prabhleen Singh's book on Sikh youth||New Delhi, September 18Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has released a book titled ‘Shining Sikh Youth of India’, authored by Dr Prabhleen Singh, administrative officer at the Punjabi University, Patiala.The book is part of the commemoration of the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur, the ninth Guru of Sikhs. The function was held in the national capital on Friday evening. The book covers 100 inspirational and motivational success stories of Sikh youth in India who have done exemplary work in their respective fields.Dr Prabhleen Singh has earlier written two books, namely ‘Prominent Sikhs of India’ which was released by Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu and was published by Panjab University, Chandigarh, and ‘Prominent Sikhs of USA’. which was released at the Capitol Hill jointly by 15 Congressmen, three senators and the Lieutenant Governor of California.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rajnath-singh-launches-dr-prabhleen-singhs-book-on-sikh-youth-313052
19-09-2021||---||Head constable recruitment exam cancelled, aspirants fume||Ludhiana, September 18The Punjab Police cancelled the exam for the recruitment of head constables at the eleventh hour. The exam was scheduled to be conducted at the Trade Centre in Ludhiana today.Candidates from across the state and neighbouring states such as Rajasthan, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, etc, had reached the centre and were shocked to know that their exam was already cancelled. Sandeep Singh, a candidate from Rajasthan, while talking to The Tribune, said the department sent an email late night regarding the change in exam centre and date.He said they should have been informed about the cancellation of exam in advance so that time of candidates like him, who had to come from far-off places, could be saved from the harassment.According to the email sent to the aspirants, the exam had been cancelled due to a technical glitch and the candidates would be allocated a new test centre. The revised exam date would also be communicated shortly, stated the email received by the candidate at 11 pm on Friday.The recruitment helpline desk said the candidates were informed about the change via email and those who did not see the email reached the exam centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/head-constable-recruitment-exam-cancelled-aspirants-fume-313053
19-09-2021||Karam Prakash||Doing office duty, Patiala doctor promoted as teacher||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 18A senior resident doctor of Government Medical College (GMC), Patiala, doing office work as a nodal officer (office work) at the office of the Director Research and Medical Education (DRME) in Mohali since her joining, has already been promoted to assistant professor rank.GMC doctorDid nothing wrongThe selection committee made the decision. I didn’t do anything wrong. I can’t be discriminated against for being the wife of an IAS officer.The assistant professor is a teaching job and as per the Punjab Medical Education Service rules, a candidate will be eligible for the post only after having got a minimum teaching experience of two years as a senior resident, which she allegedly does not possess. However, the doctor claimed she used to work at the GMC twice a week, and the rest of the days she worked at the DRME office. The doctor further admitted she was full-time deployed at the DRME office for Covid preparations. The promoted doctor happens to be the wife of an IAS officer in Punjab. Though she had been working as a nodal officer at the DRME office, her original department was the paediatric unit.Dr Baljinder Kaur, head of the Paediatric Department of Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital, wherein the promoted doctor was supposed to work to gain experience, said, “Since my joining as the head of department in 2019, the promoted doctor did not show up in the department because she was posted at the DRME office as a nodal officer.”A senior professor of the pediatric department said, “She (the promoted doctor) never did duties in the paediatric ward. Besides, no teaching class was taken by her.” However, the promoted doctor, while talking to The Tribune, said, “I had applied for the assistant professor job and the selection committee made the decision. I didn’t do anything wrong. Therefore, I can’t be discriminated against for being the wife of an IAS officer.” She said she had taken classes before she was posted at the DRME office.Dr Akashdeep, joint DRME, said, “I am not aware of the promotion. However, I will look into the issue.” Dr Sujata Sharma, DRME, was not available for comments despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doing-office-duty-patiala-doctor-promoted-as-teacher-313054
19-09-2021||Vijay Mohan||Climate change: PAU study warns of hotter, drier days in region||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 18Projecting that the climate in Punjab may become hotter and drier during the 21st century, a new study by the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, has said in order to maintain sustainability of crop production and food supply, the state must evolve suitable crop contingency planning in view of the climatic changes.“A comparison of maximum and minimum temperatures revealed that the rise in minimum temperature is more than that of in maximum temperature. This implies that the diurnal range of temperature would decrease, which is not favourable for enhancing crop production,” the study states.During the mid-century period of 2020-2049, the maximum temperature annually is projected to increase from the baseline period by up to 1.5 degree Celsius while during the kharif and rabi seasons, it is projected to increase between 0.3 to 1.5 degree Celsius and 0 to 1.6 degree Celsius, respectively, the researchers said.On the other hand, annual decrease in rain is projected to decrease between 33 to 554 mm from the baseline period. During the kharif and rabi seasons, the decrease is expected to be between 20 to 443 mm and 20 to 110 mm, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/climate-change-pau-study-warns-of-hotter-drier-days-in-region-313055
19-09-2021||Sangrur||Dalits take possession of land in Sangrur||Dalit residents of Bakhshiwala village on Saturday under the banner of Zameen Prapti Sanghrash Committee (ZPSC) forcibly took possession of 6-acre land reserved for them from the village panchayat land. They alleged that some upper caste men of village had taken the land under the name of a dummy Dalit.The land had been lying vacant for the past six months as auction of the same was cancelled five times due to opposition by village Dalits, who had been demanding its allotment jointly to all of them.“The Panchayat Department officers, under the pressure of some Congress leaders, had allotted the reserved land to a dummy bidder,” said Mukesh Malaud, ZPSC zonal president. Village panchayat secretary Kewal Singh said: “We had allotted the land to Gamdoor Singh for Rs 1.85 lakh, as per norms, but the ZPSC members took the possession of land forcibly. Senior members will conduct an inquiry on Monday.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dalits-take-possession-of-land-in-sangrur-313056
19-09-2021||---||Parties using farm stir for electoral gains: BKU||Bathinda, September 18The SAD’s ‘black day’ protest in Delhi seeking repeal of the three agricultural laws was merely a political rally to gain mileage ahead of the Assembly elections in the state while other parties had adversely impacted the farmers’ agitation for their own gains, said Jagjit Singh Dallewal, state president of the BKU Ekta Sidhupur, during a meeting held in Bathinda on Saturday.The union leaders also distributed cheques of Rs 5 lakh each to four families of farmers who died during the agitation. The cheques were provided by the district administration to farm union leaders, to be distributed among families of the deceased farmers.Dallewal said, “It has become a compulsion for political parties to portray themselves as a supporter of farmers and their agitation against the three laws. All major political parties have their contribution in bringing these laws, but fearing the wrath of farmers, most of them are opposing the laws now.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/parties-using-farm-stir-for-electoral-gains-bku-313057
19-09-2021||Moga/Amritsar||9 smugglers held in Moga, heroin recovered||The Moga police on Saturday arrested nine drug smugglers, including six from Daulewala village, known as the “drug hub” of Punjab.The police seized 100-gm heroin from Amritpal Singh, 50-gm from Baaj Singh, alias Baaji, and 300-gm heroin was seized from Gurdev Singh of Daulewala village. A woman resident of the same village, identified as Gurdeep Kaur, was also arrested by the police with 25-gm heroin. Similarly, other accused included Angrej Singh with 280-gm heroin and Hoshiar Singh with 30-gm heroin.Meanwhile, acting on a tip off, the Amritsar rural police today seized 3.2-kg heroin from Angrej Singh of Daoke border village. The contraband was concealed in a tyre tube and a plastic bottle. Amritsar SSP (rural) Gulneet Singh Khuranna said the seizure was made following an input that the accused was involved in cross-border drug trafficking and had concealed a consignment, smuggled from Pakistan, recently. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/9-smugglers-held-in-moga-heroin-recovered-313058
19-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||German citizen told to pay Rs 50K to father||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 18A person, who had filed a habeas corpus petition before the Punjab and Haryana High Court for his 80-year-old father’s release from his brothers’ custody, will end up paying Rs 50,000 costs to him. Justice Amol Rattan Singh imposed the costs on the person, a German citizen, for unnecessarily troubling his father to come to the court.The petitioner had moved the court seeking a warrant officer’s appointment to produce his father before handing over his custody to him for “medical treatment and safety of life”. The petition was filed on a ground that the father had been illegally detained by his other two sons.As the case came up for resumed hearing, Justice Singh observed the alleged detainee had been produced in the court. He appeared to be a “very old man”. Responding to a query, the elderly person stated he lived in Moga with his sons “wholly voluntary”.Justice Singh observed the petitioner was admittedly living abroad. In response to another query whether he wished to live abroad with the petitioner, the father emphatically said no. The query was put to him through state counsel Ramdeep Partap Singh.The Bench also referred to an affidavit by Moga SSP. Among other things, he stated the father’s statement was recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC. The alleged detainee categorically stated he had three sons, with the petitioner residing abroad for the past about 40 years. He had never provided daily necessities to him during the period.The SSP added the statement of some persons in the locality made it clear that the alleged detainee was residing with one of his sons on his own accord and had never been detained as alleged in the petition. “Consequently, this petition is dismissed with costs of Rs 50,000 to be paid by the petitioner to the alleged ‘detainee’, who was unnecessarily troubled to come to the court, for no reason whatsoever,” the Bench concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/german-citizen-told-to-pay-rs-50k-to-father-313059
19-09-2021||Bathinda||Man held for spying at Bathinda Cantt||The counter-intelligence wing of the police arrested a man allegedly involved in espionage near the Army Cantonment area late last night.Gurbinder Singh was nabbed by a police team outside the boundary wall of the Cantonment area. As per information, the suspect was employed as a peon in the Cantonment and residing in the Bibi Wala colony area. The suspect was allegedly honey-trapped by a Pakistan-based ISI operative, who befriended him on a social networking site over a month ago, said sources.The police have booked Gurbinder, a native of Haryana, under Sections 124 A (Sedition) of the IPC and 3, 4, 5 and of Official Secret Act 1923 at Cantt Police station.Preliminary investigation suggested Gurbinder shared sensitive information of the Indian Army to the PIO (Pakistan intelligence operative) through social media platforms and messaging applications. The suspect was in police custody and the counter-intelligence wing was further investigating the matter.Desh Raj, AIG, Counter-Intelligence, Bathinda, said: “After getting intel inputs, we have rounded up a man suspected to have links with intelligence agencies in Pakistan. The accused was working as a peon at the MES under multitasking staff wing at Bathinda Cantonment. He was honey-trapped by Pakistan-based ISI operative Khushbir Kaur (as told to him), who through him got entry into official WhatsApp groups of Army and subsequently accessed secret documents and other vital information regarding Army activities.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-held-for-spying-at-bathinda-cantt-313060
19-09-2021||---||Jalalabad blast case cracked, suspect held||Chandigarh, September 18Three days after a motorcycle blast in Jalalabad, the Fazilka police on Saturday cracked the case with the arrest of suspect Parveen Kumar, who revealed the motorcycle carrying explosive material was to be placed in some crowded area in Jalalabad city.Notably, Balwinder Singh, alias Bindu of Jhugge Nihanga Wale village, died in the blast in Jalalabad town around 8 pm on September 15. He had a criminal background. Following up on an input given by a farmer coupled with disclosures by Parveen, the police also recovered a tiffin bomb concealed in fields in his native village Dharmupura, which is just 3 km away from the Indo-Pak border. Pertinently, this is the fourth such tiffin bomb IED fabricated in a ‘Made in Pakistan’ children’s tiffin box— all bearing pictures of cartoon characters, recovered from the border state during the past 40 days.Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ferozepur Range, Jatinder Singh Aulakh said after finding the role of the suspect in hatching the conspiracy to blow up the motorcycle in a crowded area, the Fazilka police launched a probe into available clues and arrested Parveen on Saturday. He said during investigations, Parveen revealed the blast which happened on the motorcycle was being driven by Binder, and it was supposed to be parked in some crowded area.Parveen also revealed the conspiracy to commit the act of terror was hatched at the house of Sukhwinder Singh, alias Sukha, of Chandi Wala village in Ferozepur on September 14, 2021. He said Gurpreet Singh of Lakhmir Ke Hitthar village in Mamdot was also part of the conspiracy. SSP Deepak Hilori said the police had booked all the four accused and efforts were on to arrest Sukhwinder and Gurpreet.Planned explosion in crowded area: IGIGP, Ferozepur Range, Jatinder Singh Aulakh said after finding the role of the suspect in hatching the conspiracy to blow up the motorcycle in a crowded area, the Fazilka police launched a probe into available clues and arrested Parveen Kumar on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalalabad-blast-case-cracked-suspect-held-313061
19-09-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Sunil Jakhar may be 1st Hindu CM of Punjab since reorganisation||Tribune News ServicePathankot, September 18On May 11, 2019, Capt Amarinder Singh had prophesied that then Gurdaspur MP Sunil Jakhar would one day go on to become the Chief Minister because of his “political farsightedness and vision”.Capt Amarinder was addressing a rally in Sarna in favour of Jakhar, who was the Congress candidate for the Gurdaspur parliamentary seat. Jakhar was locked in a stiff contest with BJP’s Sunny Deol. Residents claim Capt Amarinder’s premonition had come as a bolt from the blue for many in the 5,000-strong gathering.If the prediction comes true, Jakhar may become the first-ever Hindu CM after states were reorganised in 1966. His father Balram Jakhar remained Speaker of Parliament twice from 1980 till 1989.Pathankot councillor Nitin Laddi Mahajan said he remembered Amarinder’s 20-minute extempore. “After calling Deol a failed actor, Amarinder said Jakhar was the future CM,” Mahajan said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunil-jakhar-may-be-1st-hindu-cm-of-punjab-since-reorganisation-313062
19-09-2021||Vibha Sharma||BJP slams Congress, steers clear of criticising Capt Amarinder Singh||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 18Capt Amarinder Singh’s resignation today opened prospects for the BJP in the poll-bound state where its stake and chances are limited and where its leaders are facing widespread protests over farm laws.Observers say only “his age and the three contentious laws stand between the two (BJP and Amarinder) because Capt’s nationalist image works well for both the party and its ideological fountainhead RSS”. Soon after he resigned, Capt accused Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu of having “ties with Pakistan” and warned that “his elevation as CM will be a threat to national security”.However, the BJP, which slammed the Congress as a “complete failure on all fronts”, steered clear of criticising Capt Amarinder. “The mafia raj of the Congress in Punjab will prove to be the last nail in its coffin in Punjab,” national general secretary Tarun Chugh said, adding that “replacing the CM is a panic reaction of the Congress high command to salvage the party situation after it failed to deliver in the last more than four-and-a-half years”.At 79, Amarinder Singh is beyond the BJP’s unofficial cut-off age for a CM. Whether he is looking for the job or is open to the idea remains to be seen. However, for a party looking for a credible face to support, even if it is from outside, age is an issue that can be easily overlooked. “Punjab is a border state and needs political stability. The (75-year) rule is not cast in stone. Besides, there are always opportunities in politics,” said a BJP leader.Of age bar rule||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-slams-congress-steers-clear-of-criticising-capt-amarinder-singh-313063
19-09-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Chief Principal Secretary Suresh Kumar goes, administration overhaul on cards||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 18The resignation by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today has led to widespread speculation regarding a complete overhaul in the state’s administration.With Suresh Kumar, the Chief Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, too, hanging up his boots — his term was co-terminus with the CM — the corridors of power are abuzz with imminent change in the administrative guard as the political power changes hands.Political adviser to CM Capt Sandeep Sandhu, too, put in his papers today.Kumar, who had retired in 2016, was handpicked by the outgoing Chief Minister to head the administration in his government. Though Kumar, troubled by the legal challenge to his appointment, had threatened to resign several times, the Chief Minister prevailed upon him each time to continue. His term being co-terminus with the Chief Minister, Kumar now goes as the CPS. The new Chief Minister, as and when chosen, will pick his key officers. There is anticipation of a complete makeover in the Chief Minister’s Office, in the administration as well as in the state police.The seniority list as well as the “political clout” of each officer at the top of the list is now being discussed so that the necessary changes can be effected. In Punjab, a change in political guard has generally led to a complete administrative shakeup. One of the rare exceptions was the continuation of the Director General of Police (DGP), when the Captain Amarinder government took over from the Akali-BJP regime in 2017, and Suresh Arora continued as the DGP till his superannuation. But all other departmental heads, including the Chief Secretary, were changed. The change in the administration is also apparent as the Captain Amarinder government was often targeted for “leaving government in the hands of his officers”.Almost all officers at the helm, including those in the Advocate General’s office, have been at the receiving end of rebel ministers, PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and many MLAs.“Thus a massive change is on the anvil, as the Congress looks to make a fresh start in the government,” a senior officer in the government. The only issue, he points out, is the officers do not know who to lobby with for the top posts as the name of the next Chief Minister is not clear.Top posts that may see changeChief SecretaryPrincipal Secretary to CMPosts in CM’s officeDirector General of PoliceAdvocate General||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chief-principal-secretary-suresh-kumar-goes-administration-overhaul-on-cards-313064
19-09-2021||Aman Sood||Protesters may shift to ‘new’ CM’s district||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 18After CM Capt Amarinder Singh resigned, protesters squatting in Patiala for the past six months are now thinking of shifting base to some other district. They said they would wait for the new CM and “take a call on it soon”.Contract employees holding permanent blockade near Theekri Wala Chowk here say they have called a meeting tomorrow to take a decision. “Once the new CM is announced, we will shift our protest to his hometown till our demands are met,” said Ravinder Singh. Several protests by government teachers, farmers, doctors, patwaris and contract employees have adversely affected normal life in Patiala. A number of unions have been protesting and demanding a meeting with Capt Amarinder Singh or threatening to march towards his official residence, troubling common residents.While the CM has rarely visited his hometown in the past six months, hundreds of agitations have troubled residents of his constituency umpteen number of times.According to the data collected by The Tribune, 1,153 dharnas were held in Patiala from March 1-August 31. Of these, 57 were state-level dharnas, for which the district administration had to call additional force from other districts and even reserve battalions. Several cops and agitators have been injured many times, some jumped into canal or climbed mobile towers. On an average, the district police and locals have been troubled by around 200 agitations per month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesters-may-shift-to-new-cms-district-313065
19-09-2021||Aditi Tandon||Political equations bound to change as Captain Amarinder Singh keeps ‘all options open’||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 18The exit of Capt Amarinder Singh as Punjab chief minister could pose a fresh set of challenges to the Congress and the border state, already on the edge after the rise of the Taliban in Afghanistan.Moments after Singh resigned citing "humiliation by the party", a senior Congressman said the development should be seen as a pause in the 52 year long political career of the former soldier and not as a full stop. Singh later himself said he was not one to retreat and was not hanging his boots yet.If the outgoing CM’s “all options are open” remark translates into a new political outfit or an overture, Punjab’s political equations in 2022 elections could vastly change leading to a multi cornered contest.Nationally, while the BJP remains in wait and watch mode over Capt’s moves, National Conference vice president Omar Abdullah today rued Congress’ inability to retain Singh and keep its Punjab house in order."I guess it’s too much to expect the Congress to take the fight to the BJP when its state leaders are too busy fighting amongst themselves. Ordinarily I wouldn’t give a toss about the fratricide in the Congress party - their party, their business. However, what the Congress does has a direct fallout for every political party outside the NDA orbit because almost 200 Lok Sabha seats see a direct BJP and Congress fight," Abdullah said signaling national consequences of the exit of Singh, who defeated BJP stalwart Arun Jaitley with a margin of over one lakh votes from Amritsar in 2014 LS polls and led the Congress to a landslide in 2017 state elections, defying the Narendra Modi wave on both the occasions.“Humiliating someone like Amarinder Singh will have consequences for the Congress not just in Punjab but nationally and internally. Today for the first time we saw an outgoing CM defy Congress’ convention of authorizing the party president to decide on the CLP leader. He did not even attend which should worry Sonia Gandhi,” said a veteran Congress leader.The Tribune has reliably learnt that Singh has received feelers from a section of G 23 leaders who have been seeking internal reform in the Congress.As G 23 mull their future course, Singh could add value to the camp being a mass leader and could provide the group a foothold in electoral politics starting with Punjab in 2022, a source said.Politics apart, the outgoing CM today flagged concerns about Punjab’s border security noting that Pakistan has been sending in weapons and drugs through drones.Only recently Singh met Home Minister Amit Shah on the issue.After resigning today, Singh cited concerns over Punjab’s security – an issue that will remain relevant considering a new CM would take time to settle down and also to get space off from raging internal factionalism in Punjab Congress which is far from over.Capt has resigned as CM, but not from the party, which means his shadow will loom.“The new CM would have an onerous task ahead of him of hitting the ground running, managing farmers’ agitation and Congress infighting,” said a Congress leader.As the party mulls Singh’s replacement, many insiders are watching with curiosity as to what Singh’s parting comments today could mean. “I am a soldier. When someone shoots one bullet, we shoot 50 back,” the outgoing CM said today.Party in a fix||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/political-equations-bound-to-change-as-captain-amarinder-singh-keeps-all-options-open-313035
19-09-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Selecting Punjab CM’s face tough call for Congress; Here are the probables||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 18Taking a decision on the next CLP leader of the Punjab Congress will not be an easy task for the party high command. Underlining the situation, party observers did not decide on any name today and instead chose to leave it to party president Sonia Gandhi to take the final call.The prominent names doing the rounds as the potential chief ministerial candidates included former PCC president Sunil Jakhar, Dalit face Charanjit Channi, Sikh leader Sukhjinder Randhawa and senior leader Tript Rajinder Bajwa. The name of Navjot Singh Sidhu, who was elevated to the post of PCC chief recently, hasn’t been ruled out either.The name of Jakhar has been doing the rounds as the CLP leader for quite some time, ever since Sidhu started giving sleepless nights to the Captain Amarinder camp after becoming the PCC chief.A dependent leader with good knowledge of the state statistics and understanding of the political reality, Jakhar faces slight opposition with the traditional lordship.With more than 30 per cent Dalit population in Punjab, political parties are attempting to woo them. The SAD has already announced that a Dalit will be the Deputy CM, while AAP’s special appeal to Dalits is well known. In the same light, Charanjit Channi’s name is doing the rounds for the top job. Senior leaders, however, deny this saying he may be considered for the post of a deputy.Tript Rajinder Bajwa is a senior leader and was among the prominent faces who held Captain Amarinder responsible for failing on the promises made to voters in the last elections. Sukhjinder Randhawa, who held his ground against the Akalis both in the House and outside, is also among the probable candidates. Besides being vocal, he is known to be a tough task master.With a very potent outburst of Captain Amarinder against Sidhu, questioning his proximity to Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan and army chiefs, experts feel there was an outside chance of him being picked as the next CLP leader. “Otherwise, where was the need for Captain Amarinder to speak against Sidhu, and only him, when he had already stepped down,” a senior leader pointed out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/selecting-punjab-cms-face-tough-call-for-congress-here-are-the-probables-313039
19-09-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab Congress awaits final nod from Sonia Gandhi on Capt Amarinder’s successor||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 19The suspense over the successor to Capt Amarinder Singh just got a little longer with the CLP awaiting the final nod from Congress president Sonia Gandhi.Sources said tentatively the new CLP leader is scheduled to take oath on Sunday around 4 pm. Earlier, reports from the CLP meeting had suggested that another meeting would be re-convened on Sunday at 11 am to choose the successor. However, sources now tell The Tribune that instead of a full-fledged meeting, the final name from high command would be intimated to the legislators and subsequently the Governor called on.Yesterday amid reports of AICC general secretary and Rajya Sabha MP Ambika Soni’s reluctance to accept the responsibility of the new Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader, AICC-appointed observers Harish Chaudhary and Ajay Maken, and Punjab affairs incharge Harish Rawat had deferred the decision on announcement of the new leader.Top brass keen on Hindu faceWith Hindu face as the CM, the party may appoint a Jat leader and a Dalit face as Deputy Chief Ministers to balance the caste equation. — A senior Congress leaderWithin hours of Capt Amarinder Singh resigning as the Chief Minister, 78 party MLAs unanimously passed a resolution authorising party president Sonia Gandhi to decide on the new leader of the CLP. The other front-runners for the post are former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar and MLA Sukhjinder Randhawa.The resolution was moved by senior party leader Brahm Mohindra. Another resolution moved by observer Maken appreciated the work done by Capt Amarinder Singh during his four-and-a-half-year tenure. Capt Amarinder stayed away from the meeting. Both resolutions have been forwarded to the party chief for a final call.Efforts were still on to pursue Soni to accept the responsibility as she was the only consensus candidate. Senior leader such as Partap Bajwa and Sidhu are learnt to have reservations over Jakhar's candidature. Contenders such as Sukhjinder Randhawa and Charanjit Channi may agree to Soni's name, given her seniority. Sources said the top brass was keen on putting up a Hindu face as the CLP leader. “With Hindu face as the CM, the party may appoint a Jat leader and a Dalit face as Deputy Chief Ministers to balance the caste equation. Apart from Jakhar, senior leader Brahm Mohindra is another Hindu face,” said a senior party leader.Sources said as the meeting started and the resolution was signed by the legislators, party leaders on the sidelines took up with Rawat whether to name a Hindu face as the CLP leader or the Sikh leaders who “waged the war” against Capt Amarinder.TUSSLE WITHINApril 9: Rebellion comes out in the open after HC quashes SIT report in the Kotkapura firing caseApril 27: Then PCC chief Sunil Jakhar & Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Randhawa offer to quit on the issueMay 5: Rebel ministers join hands with Navjot Sidhu, other party leaders against Capt Amarinder SinghMay 7: Sidhu gets support of more MLAs, prompting party chief Sonia Gandhi to form a committee to look into squabblingMay 29: Panel headed by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge formed to listen to the grievancesJune 11: Panel in report recommends keeping Capt in command, accommodating Sidhu by giving him a role in state unitJuly 19: Sidhu takes charge as PCC chief, Capt opposes move. Four MLAs appointed his deputy, paving way for revamp in organisational structureAug 25: Rebels Sukhjinder Randhawa, Tript Bajwa, Sukbinder Sarkaria, Charanjit Channi and some MLAs call meeting of 40 MLAs seeking Capt’s ousterAug 28: CM resists campaign by rebels; pitches rebels’ adversaries such as Partap Bajwa against themSept 1: Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat meets Sidhu and Captain separately to defuse tensionSept 17: AICC sends observers to conduct CLP meeting and oust Capt Amarinder Singh as CMSept 18: Capt Amarinder Singh submits resignation to Punjab Governor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-awaits-final-nod-from-sonia-gandhi-on-capt-amarinders-successor-313044
19-09-2021||New Delhi||Gurdwara Bangla Sahib asked to close over Covid-19 norm violation; DSGMC chief fumes||The Chanakyapuri district administration has ordered the closure of Gurdwara Bangla Sahib here for alleged violation of Covid-19 norms, prompting outgoing Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa to demand action against the officials concerned.The order by the Chanakyapuri sub divisional magistrate (SDM) was issued on September 16.The order stated that a report submitted by executive magistrate (Chanakyapuri) found that the management of Bangla Sahib Gurudwara “allowed visitors/prayers inside the Gurdwara” in violation of DDMA directions.The order asked the management of Bangla Sahib Gurdwara, one of the most prominent Sikh shrines in the national capital, to be closed for visitors with immediate effect.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had earlier ordered reopening of religious places, but visitors were not allowed to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus infection.Meanwhile, SAD leader and outgoing Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa fumed at the Chanakyapuri SDM order and demanded action from Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal against the district officials.In a video message on Twitter, he said, “Cheap action by SDM Chanakyapuri by passing this order to close Gurdwara Sri Bangla Sahib for Covid Violations! We condemn this sick mentality of Delhi Govt & demand @ArvindKejriwal Ji to take strictest action against concerned DC & SDM Geeta Grover.”Sirsa added that the order was issued to close the gurdwara which has helped many people during the Covid-19 second wave and lockdown by organising ‘langar’ (free food service) and setting up beds for patients.The Chanakyapuri SDM office, however, said whatever has happened is according to the DDMA order, and refused to comment further. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurdwara-bangla-sahib-asked-to-close-over-covid-19-norm-violation-dsgmc-chief-fumes-313017
19-09-2021||---||Navjot Sidhu anti-national, will fight any move to make him Punjab CM: Capt Amarinder||Chandigarh, September 18Dubbing Navjot Sidhu as anti-national, dangerous, unstable, incompetent and a security threat to the state and the country, Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday said he will fight any move to make the Punjab Congress president the chief minister of Punjab “tooth and nail”.Making it clear that he had no intention of quitting politics, Amarinder said there was no question of supporting Sidhu, who was clearly mixed up with Pakistan and a danger, as well as a disaster, for Punjab and the country. Read also“I cannot allow such a man to destroy us, I will continue to fight the issues that are bad for his state and its people,” said the outgoing Chief Minister, lashing out at Sidhu for his close alliance with the leadership across the border.“We have all seen Sidhu hugging Imran Khan and General Bajwa, and singing praises for the Pakistan Prime Minister at the opening of the Kartarpur Corridor while our soldiers were being killed at the borders every day,” he said, pointing out that the ex-cricketer had attended Imran’s swearing-in even after he (Capt Amarinder) categorically told him not to. “The government of Punjab means the security of India, and if Sidhu is made the face of the Congress for chief ministership, I will fight him at every step,” he added.In a series of media interviews, Amarinder, who has been asked by the Governor to continue in office as Chief Minister till alternative arrangements are made, said Sidhu could never be a good leader for Punjab. “How can a man who could not handle a ministry handle the state?” he asked, adding that there was no question of backing an incompetent man whom he had removed from his cabinet. As Local Government minister, Sidhu failed to clear files for seven months, he disclosed.Amarinder ruled out leaving politics and said as an Army man, he has a lot of will and will remain active in the upcoming Assembly elections in Punjab. “I am not hanging my boots,” he said, reiterating that he will decide on his future course of action after talking to people close to him, including MLAs of the Congress, which Sidhu had divided just months ahead of the polls.He revealed that he had himself asked MLAs who were supporting him to attend the CLP meet, and the presence of the large number of legislators at the meeting did not mean they were supporting Sidhu. Rejecting claims by the Congress leadership that he had lost the confidence of the MLAs, Capt Amarinder termed it a lame excuse. “Just a week ago, I had sent to Sonia Gandhi a list of 63 MLAs who were supporting me,” he said, adding that MLAs usually respond to what they think Delhi wants, which was the case at the CLP meeting too. In any case, it is not possible to make all MLAs happy, he added.Expressing pain and shock at the way he was humiliated into quitting, Captain Amarinder said, “Even today, I was not informed about the CLP meeting even though I was the leader. The way everyone was called in the night and informed about the meeting, it was clear they wanted to remove me as CM,” he added. Amarinder said even after the leadership change in Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, he had not expected to be humiliated in this manner “perhaps because of my association with Sonia Gandhi and her children”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-anti-national-will-fight-any-move-to-make-him-punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-313011
19-09-2021||Tribune Web Desk||CLP authorises Sonia Gandhi to decide on next Punjab Chief Minister||Chandigarh, September 18The Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting that was to choose the successor to Capt Amarinder Singh has ended with the MLAs passing a resolution authorising Congress president, Sonia Gandhi to take a decision.Senior Congress leader Ajay Maken, who was one of the two central observers deputed by the party, told reporters that 78 of 80 party MLAs were present in the meeting.Punjab Congress MLAs has authorised party president Sonia Gandhi to pick new CLP leader, Maken said. He said another resolution praising and thanking Amarinder Singh for his contribution towards Punjab and the Congress was also unanimously passed at the meeting."We expect that the party will continue to get guidance of Amarinder Singh," he said.Read also"Resolution praising Amarinder Singh's contribution towards Punjab and Cong unanimously passed at CLP meeting," Maken said.Though Capt Amarinder skipped the CLP meeting, it was attended by almost all the legislators who unanimously passed the resolution. Now, the decision for the next Chief Minister of Punjab will be taken by Sonia Gandhi.Among the names doing the rounds include former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar, who has emerged as the frontrunner for the post. Also in reckoning are Sukhjinder Randhawa, a prominent Jat leader and also Charanjit Channi, a Dalit leader.Also, the name of MP Partap Bajwa is doing the rounds.Earlier, Capt Amarinder Singh submitted his resignation to the Governor ahead of the CLP meeting. With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/clp-authorises-sonia-gandhi-to-decide-on-next-punjab-chief-minister-312998
19-09-2021||Aditi Tandon||‘Feel humiliated’: Amarinder resigns as Punjab CM, to decide future course after talking to supporters||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 18Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday resigned citing humiliation by the party and said he had conveyed his lament to Congress president Sonia Gandhi in a phone call.“I called Sonia Gandhi and told her I am resigning. The thing is—this is the third time in a few months that they called the MLAs. You have any element of doubt in me. I feel humiliated the way things were handled,” said Singh whose tenure as CM lasted nine and a half years.Singh made it clear that he had resigned as CM but not from the party.Also readHe said he would decide the future course of action in consultation with friends and supporters.“In two months, the party had called MLAs thrice. I decided to quit and now they can name as CM anyone they want,” said Singh flanked by supporters, including son Raninder Singh, outside the Punjab Raj Bhawan.Singh said future politics is always an option.“I will now work with my friends and supporters, talk to them and decide the future course of action,” he said, announcing a pause but not a full stop to his 52-year-long political career.Amarinder will not attend the 5 pm CLP meeting at Punjab Congress office where AICC observers Ajay Maken and Harish Chowdhry will oversee the election of a new leader.Moments after Amarinder quit, National Conference vice president Omar Abdullah tweeted, “I guess it’s too much to expect the Congress to take the fight to the BJP when its state leaders are too busy fighting amongst themselves.”Governor acceptsPunjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit Saturday accepted the resignation but asked Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and his council of ministers to continue in office for the transaction of routine business till alternative arrangements are made, according to an official statement."Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit accepted his (Amarinder) resignation and that of his council of ministers," said the statement.--- With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/feel-humiliated-amarinder-resigns-as-punjab-cm-to-decide-future-course-after-talking-to-supporters-312989
19-09-2021||Toronto||Canada elections: It is Punjabi versus Punjabi in many constituencies around Toronto and Vancouver||As many as 49 Indian-origin candidates are in the fray as Canadians will go to the polls on September 20 to elect a new Parliament.In the last elections in 2019, 20 Indo-Canadians, including 19 Punjabis, were elected as MPs and four of them became Cabinet ministers.Also read:Jagmeet Singh-led NDP may again play kingmakerPunjab-origin nominees in Canada poll fray face racist slogans, attacks47 Punjab-origin candidates in fray for Canada pollsAmong the 49 Indo-Canadian candidates this time, 16 are from the Conservative Party, 15 from Trudeau's Liberal Party, 12 from Jagmeet Singh's New Democratic Party (NDP) and six from the far right-wing People's Party of Canada.Three Cabinet ministers  Harjit Sajjan, Bardish Chagger and Anita Anand  are among the Indo-Canadian candidates.As in the past, it is the Punjabi versus Punjabi in many constituencies around Toronto and Vancouver.In four out of the five constituencies in Punjabi-dominated Brampton city outside Toronto, outgoing MPs Maninder Sidhu, Ruby Sahota, Sonia Sidhu and Kamal Khera are pitted against fellow Indo-Canadians Naval Bajaj, Medha Joshi, Ramandeep Brar and Gurprit Gill, respectively.In Alberta, the Calgary Skyview constituency is also witnessing a multi-cornered fight among Jag Sahota (Conservative Party), Gurinder Gill (NDP) and George Chahal (Liberal Party).The Punjabi-dominated city of Surrey near Vancouver is also witnessing multi-cornered fights among Indo-Canadians in the Surrey Centre and Surrey-Newton constituencies.Incumbent Defence Minister Harjit Singh Sajjan (Liberal) faces fellow Punjabi Sukhbir Gill (Conservative Party) in Vancouver-South.NDP leader Jagmeet Singh is also seeking re-election from Burnaby South in the Vancouver area.Interestingly, six Indo-Canadians are also contesting for the extreme right-wing People's Party of Canada which has become the fourth largest party in terms of national support.Prime Minister Justin Trudeau called a snap election last month to seek a majority in the 338-member House of Commons as his Liberal Party was 13 short of the majority mark of 170.The latest opinion polls put Trudeau's Liberal Party and the opposition Conservative Party almost neck and neck, raising the possibility of yet another minority government.The Jagmeet Singh-led NDP is placed third in opinion polls and is likely to improve on its current tally of 24 MPs.The Maverick Party, the Marijuana Party and the Animal Protection Party of Canada are other fringe parties in the fray.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/canada-elections-it-is-punjabi-versus-punjabi-in-many-constituencies-around-toronto-and-vancouver-312973
19-09-2021||Aditi Tandon||Sunil Jakhar frontrunner to replace Capt Amarinder Singh||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 18The crisis in Punjab Congress is brewing with the All India Congress Committee (AICC) sources not ruling out pressure for replacement of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh after nearly 50 MLAs have written to the high command in this respect.Also readCongress high command mulls change of guard in PunjabPunjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh ‘angry’ at ‘humiliation’ by party leadership: SourcesMPs, MLAs close to Amarinder meet ahead of CLP meetTop AICC sources said a joint letter signed by 50 MLAs has been received by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi to replace the CM.“Anything can happen, the situation is very serious,” said an AICC source when asked if the CM could be replaced.Party sources said the CM could be replaced as soon as Saturday but did not comment on who the replacement would be.Meanwhile, Sunil Jakhar is the frontrunner in case there is a change, sources say.The CM, meanwhile, is learnt to have called up Sonia Gandhi expressing deep hurt over his “continuing public humiliation”.A dark horse is likely to replace the CM.State ministers close to Navjot Sidhu, including Sukhjinder Randhawa and Tript Bajwa, have been openly raising a banner of revolt against the CM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunil-jakhar-frontrunner-to-replace-capt-amarinder-singh-312966
