20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Chief Minister Channi directs govt officers and employees to reach office by 9 am||In order to bring discipline in the government offices, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday directed all the government officers and employees at state, district, tehsil and block level to reach at their concerned offices by 9 am and remain available for the public till the office hours in the evening.The chief minister, while stressing on the need of bringing transparency in the government offices also directed all the officers and employees to deal with all the grievances of people on priority basis.“To ensure the availability of all the government officers and employees in the offices during official hours, administrative secretaries and department heads to conduct surprise checks twice a week to keep vigil on the employees working under them,” said CM Charanjit Channi.Meanwhile, the chief minister also asked administrative secretaries/department heads to keep a close watch on the activities and records at their concerned offices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-chief-minister-channi-directs-govt-officers-and-employees-to-reach-office-by-9-am-313831
20-09-2021||Vibha Sharma||BJP in touch with Congress’ ‘unhappy’ lot in Punjab?||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 20While former Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh is playing close to chest, leaving observers guessing over his next political move—whether he will favour the BJP or float his own party or stay in the Congress or act like a spoiler in the upcoming elections, sources say the BJP is “in touch with those affected/unhappy with latest political developments in the ruling party in Punjab, including the appointment of Charanjit Singh Channi as the new CM”.Politics is a game of possibilities and all possibilities are open till the last move, they say, pointing to the “continuing infighting” in the ruling party even after the departure of Amarinder Singh from the Punjab CMO.The BJP, which is contesting the Punjab elections on its own (so far) for the first time after the Akali Dal left the NDA alliance, is looking for strong candidates to contest and perhaps also lead as its Chief Ministerial candidate in the state.Observers, too, believe it can benefit from association of any form with someone like Amarinder Singh with strong nationalist credentials, the main issue of the BJP and ideological fountainhead RSS.With only the three farm legislations standing between him and the BJP, the observers say the saffron outfit may stand a good chance in Punjab if it decides to take a step back on the contentious issue or enacts a stringent law on the MSP, which Sangh affiliate Bharatiya Kisan Sangh is also demanding.The BJP is keeping a close watch on developments in Punjab and intends to keep up the pressure on the new CM. Saffron leaders, who claim that “it will not be easy for the Congress to handle the change with Assembly elections barely a couple of months away”, intend to keep up the pressure against the new CM.As they renewed the “MeToo” campaign against Channi, observers said Channi is “way too close to Navjot Singh Sidhu” and the elections “far too near” for him to “have an easy way in the run-up”.Meanwhile, some in the saffron camp also believe the President’s Rule and early elections as among the possibilities for Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-in-touch-with-congress-unhappy-lot-in-punjab-313812
20-09-2021||New Delhi||Dalits are mere political pawns in Congress’ devious politics, says BJP on Channi’s appointment as Punjab CM||The BJP on Monday accused the Congress of using “Dalits like pawns” and indulging in “dikhawe ka Dalit prem”, challenging it to “guarantee” that the chief minister of “six months” Charanjit Singh Channi will “not be dropped” in favour of someone else after elections.With the Dalit politics gaining steam ahead of crucial elections next year, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, who is facing a tough challenge in his state that polls along with Punjab, also tweeted a series of messages, highlighting the importance the community has in the BJP and their contribution towards nation building.Meanwhile, BJP IT cell in charge Amit Malviya called Dalits “mere political pawns in Congress’ devious politics. In Punjab, they claim to have made a Dalit CM, only to be posted as a night watchman, till Gandhi family loyalist (Navjot Singh) Sidhu takes over, but maintains deafening silence over lynching of a Dalit youth in Rajasthan”.“This completely undermines the Dalit empowerment narrative being peddled by the Congress. Shame,” said Malviya, while Kaushambhi MP Vinod Sonkar accused the ruling party in Punjab of indulging in “dikhawa ka Dalit-prem”.Listing leaders from the Dalit community it “ditched” and “ill-treated” in the past, Sonkar said: “The Congress may have forgotten how it treated Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar or stopped Babu Jagjivan Ram from becoming the Prime Minister, people have not.“This is not the first time they have shown false Dalit-prem for the sake of political gains. In Maharashtra (2003-04) they appointed Sushil Kumar Shinde the CM before the elections and dropped him in favour of Vilasrao Deshmukh after winning. The party gave a similar treatment to Jagannath Pahadia in Rajasthan in 1980. They contested under him but appointed Shivcharan Mathur after elections. If their intentions are clean, they should guarantee that they will not drop Channi after elections,” said Sonkar.As the BJP also raked up “Me Too” allegations against the new CM while National Commission for Women chairperson Rekha Sharma termed him “threat to women”, observers said Channi is “way too close to Navjot Singh Sidhu” and the elections “far too near” for him to be “ignored” by any party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dalits-are-mere-political-pawns-in-congress-devious-politics-says-bjp-on-channis-appointment-as-punjab-cm-313811
20-09-2021||New Delhi||NCW chief seeks Punjab CM’s Channi’s resignation over #MeToo allegations||National Commission for Women (NCW) Chairperson Rekha Sharma has sought the resignation of newly-appointed Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi over the “#MeToo allegations” levelled against him.In a statement, Sharma said it was “shameful” that such a person was appointed the chief minister of Punjab.“This is shameful and highly objectionable that such a person has been appointed as the CM of Punjab. We do not want another woman to go through the same experience and endure the same harassment that the IAS officer would have faced. Channi needs to be held accountable and should resign from the post of CM,” she said.Sharma said the Punjab State Commission for Women had taken cognisance of the incident yet the state government did not take any action against him.“I am shocked and utterly disappointed to find that Charanjit Singh Channi, a MeToo accused who had allegedly sent an inappropriate text message to a female IAS officer in 2018, has been appointed as the chief minister of Punjab,” Sharma said.“One can only imagine what would be the state of women safety in the state given the one at the helm of affairs is himself accused of threatening women security. If an IAS officer has been denied justice in the state, how can the Congress ensure that the common women of Punjab would be safe? Despite being a woman herself, the Congress chief did not consider the MeToo allegations made against Channi and appointed him the CM,” she said.The issue had resurfaced in May this year when the Punjab women panel chief threatened to go on a hunger strike if the state government failed to apprise her within a week of its stand on the “inappropriate text” message allegedly sent by Channi, who was then a minister in the Amarinder Singh government.Punjab Women Commission chairperson Manisha Gulati had said she had written to the chief secretary seeking the government’s action taken report. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ncw-chief-seeks-punjab-cms-channis-resignation-over-metoo-allegations-313780
20-09-2021||Dera Baba Nanak||Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa overcomes a roller-coaster ride to become Deputy CM||Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has successfully managed to manoeuver innumerable tight turns, steep slopes and political reversals in what has been a roller-coaster ride for the Dera Baba Nanak MLA in his three-decade long career.He commenced his electoral career in 1997 with a loss but with political insight and wisdom over the years he has withered many a storm to become the Deputy CM.In 2017, immediately after becoming an MLA for the third time, he stepped on the gas-pedal. He started consolidating his position inch by inch by ushering in developmental initiatives.The Kartarpur corridor, built in 2018-19, actually acted as a catalyst in elevating his political stature. In the wake of its construction, Randhawa quietly brought in developmental works amounting to Rs 172 crore in his assembly seat.He played a key role in its planning and execution and often camped at the site for days working jointly with NHAI officials. He was the one who reigned in the mining mafia after it started selling sand at exorbitant rates. And when farmers refused to let their lands get acquired, he donned the role of a negotiator.Randhawa was made the Cooperation and Jails minister when CM Capt Amarinder Singh expanded his Cabinet six months after winning the polls.Considered to be a no-nonsense politician, his hold over his department’s bureaucrats was such that nobody dared ask him any questions even if they were convenient ones.On many an occasion, Randhawa has proved that he was not the one to be brow-beaten.In November 2018 when Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu laid the foundation stone of the Kartarpur corridor in his assembly seat, he created a flutter. Harsimrat Kaur Badal, in her speech, started driving home the political agenda of the Akalis.By doing so she had virtually dared to take on Randhawa. Seething with anger and breaking protocol, he walked up to the Vice President. Without mincing any words he told him, “Mr Vice President, this is not a political stage. Please ask Mrs Badal to stop her diatribe or else I will be forced to stop her.”It was Sunil Jakhar who placated ruffled feathers otherwise things would have gone off in a tangent.    As Cooperation minister, he did what none of his predecessors could do. He took several fiscal measures to pull Markfed out of the red. The Rs 809.85 crore debt, accrued over the last 60 years, was reduced by 50 per cent.“A large amount of money was lying in Income Tax refunds. I fail to understand why my predecessors failed to see a fortune lying with the IT,” he said.His ‘Man Friday’ in his constituency is Kamaljeet Singh Tony, a progressive vegetable farmer. He is Randhawa’s go-to man.“Kalanaur is a SAD dominated area. The politically suave Randhawa has now vertically split the Akali vote by bringing in developmental works including a government college and a sugarcane research institute,” admitted a SAD leader.The brashness and brazenness which earlier were central to his personality are now relics. “His conduct has now undergone a sea change. Earlier, the man was feared. Now he is respected,” said a Cabinet colleague.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-overcomes-a-roller-coaster-ride-to-become-deputy-cm-313775
20-09-2021||Ravi S Singh||Congress appointing Charanjit Channi as Punjab CM is a poll gimmick, says Mayawati||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 20BSP chief Mayawati, an ally of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in Punjab, on Monday slammed the Congress for its "poll gimmick" in installing Charanjit Singh Channi, a Dalit Sikh, as the new chief minister of Punjab.She also congratulated Channi for his appointment to the post.Sources said Mayawati lashed out at the Congress following her telephonic conversation with SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday evening after Channi's name was cleared for the top post. After Channi took oath as chief minister, Mayawati reacted saying it would have been better had Channi been made the chief minister earlier. “Channi’s appointment as the CM months before the Punjab Assembly elections appears to be a poll gimmick,” Mayawati was quoted as saying to a news agency.She took a dig at the Congress’s announcement that the Assembly election would be led by its state president Navjot Singh Siddhu and not by Channi.   “I have also come to know through media that the next Punjab Assembly election will be fought under a non-Dalit. This means the Congress still does not trust the Dalits. The Congress is also scared of the SAD-BSP alliance in Punjab,” the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said.Sources said during the conversation with Badal, the two took stock of the political situation and exchanged notes. Badal told her that the appointment of Channi was the Congress’s desperate move and last roll of the dice to salvage itself before the Assembly election following the feud among its leaders.The SAD’s perception is that the Congress dropped the idea of replacing Amarinder Singh with a Jat Sikh at the eleventh hour to prevent further infighting among Jat Sikh leaders in the party.Mayawati and Badal were of view that the SAD-BSP should not be distracted from its own proactive moves, as the Dalit community would not be taken in by the Congress’s moves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-appointing-charanjit-channi-as-punjab-cm-is-a-poll-gimmick-says-mayawati-313771
20-09-2021||GS Paul||Amritsar Central MLA OP Soni was a surprise pick as deputy CM||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 20Amritsar Central MLA OP Soni was a surprise pick for the Congress as Deputy Chief Minister. Soni was nowhere in the picture till the eleventh hour when his name emerged for the post.A close confidante of former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, Soni, despite being a five-time MLA, had to wait for a year before becoming part of the Amarinder cabinet as the education minister in April 2018.Soon, during the cabinet reshuffle he was divested of his portfolio, to which he had revolted ‘silently’. After two weeks, he accepted the charge of medical education and research in June 2019, but not before speaking out on record that he was punished instead of being rewarded as the school education standards had shown improvement and the Congress had performed well in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from his constituency.Later, he consoled himself saying it was ‘the CM’s prerogative’.Soni seldom shared cordial ties with the then BJP parliamentary polls nominee Navjot Singh Sidhu against whom he lost his life’s only election in 2009.Soni challenged the result and filed two cases - a defamation case in the court of the Civil Judge (Senior Division) in Amritsar against Sidhu for his alleged remarks that Soni was embroiled in drug peddling and another case filed in the Punjab and Haryana High Court on June 29, 2009, where Soni challenged the Lok Sabha election result. Sidhu had defeated Soni by 6,858 votes then. As the trial in the High Court was under way, Sidhu challenged it in the Supreme Court.However, with the change of political equations when Sidhu joined the Congress in 2017, the Congress leadership asked Soni to reach a compromise with Sidhu and he withdrew both the cases as Sidhu had to contest the Amritsar East seat on a Congress ticket.Yet, the sweet-sour relation between them continued and both maintained distance from each other. During the course of friction between Amarinder and Sidhu, Soni sided with the former.Soni was also conspicuous by his absence when Sidhu, after getting appointed as PPCC chief, visited Amritsar and, along with his supporting MLAs, paid obeisance at the Golden Temple.Nonetheless, Amritsar’s first mayor Soni (1991-1996) remained popular among the residents of the holy city and was still fondly referred to as ‘Mayor Saheb’. He was elected to the Punjab Vidhan Sabha four times independently in 1997, 2002, 2007 and 2012, before contesting successfully again in 2017 on a Congress ticket. His USP is his ‘easy accessibility’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-central-mla-op-soni-was-a-surprise-pick-as-deputy-cm-313760
20-09-2021||---||Kiratpur Sahib jeweller robbed of 3 kg of gold, Rs 8 lakh in cash||Ropar, September 20Four armed men looted around 3 kg of gold and Rs 8 lakh in cash from a jeweller at gun point at Kiratpur Sahib in this district on Sunday night.Jeweller Rajinder Soni said his son Ankit was injured in the attack by the men.Rajinder said he runs a jewellery shop in the Kiratpur Sahib market where he lives at the back of the shop with his son and his family. On Sunday night when he was not at home, four men with their faces covered entered their house and tried to tie the hands of Ankit, his wife Nancy and their two daughters, aged seven and four. On this, Nancy and both the girls started crying following which the robbers locked them in a room and took Ankit to the jewellery chest, he said.DSP Raminder Singh Kahlon said the men before taking jewellery and cash hit Soni with a sharp-edged weapon injuring him seriously in the head and thigh. Soni also fired at the men from his revolver but three of them managed to escape while one of them was found lying unconscious on the spot, who later was declared brought dead at the local hospital, said Kahlon.The deceased was identified to be a resident of Himachal Pradesh and police teams had been sent to trace the other accused, the DSP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kiratpur-sahib-jeweller-robbed-of-3-kg-of-gold-rs-8-lakh-in-cash-313757
20-09-2021||---||Hussan Lal appointed new Principal Secretary and Rahul Tiwari new Special Principal Secretary to Punjab CM||Chandigarh, September 20Hussan Lal on Monday was appointed the new Principal Secretary to CM and Rahul Tiwari the new Special Principal Secretary to CM.Earlier, Charanjit Singh Channi took oath as the CM. Sukhjinder Randhawa and OP Soni were also sworn in.Governor Banwarilal Purohit administered the oath of office to the three.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hussan-lal-appointed-new-principal-secretary-and-rahul-tiwari-new-special-principal-secretary-to-punjab-cm-313754
20-09-2021||Aditi Tandon & Rajmeet Singh||How OP Soni outpaced Brahm Mohindra in race to Punjab deputy CM's post||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi/Chandigarh, September 20Last-minute deliberations on the need to balance internal and caste equations in the sensitive poll-bound state of Punjab resulted in OP Soni outpacing Brahm Mohindra in the race to deputy chief ministership.Phones worked through the night to understand the implications of the final decision and ultimately Congress president Sonia Gandhi settled for Soni, a five-term MLA from Amritsar Central over Mohindra, a six-term legislator currently representing Patiala Rural.With Soni’s appointment the Congress has balanced internal power equations in the party and in Amritsar, PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s stronghold.“OP Soni is someone who used to defend the Congress most staunchly when Navjot Singh Sidhu would attack us while being in the BJP. Soni’s appointment balances the power equations within the Congress and signals to cadres that the party stands with its loyalists even as it trusts recent joiners. It’s also an effective balance to Sidhu,” said a Congress leader who had a direct role in proposing Soni’s nomination over Mohindra’s.Even on caste equation within the Hindu segment which the Congress seeks to reach out to through the appointment of a deputy chief minister from the community, a powerful segment in AICC batted for the nomination of a Hindu Khatri as caste factors were discussed to achieve the right mix of social engineering.Finally what helped was that within the Punjab power circles, Soni is known for his proximity to former prime minister Manmohan Singh, who had intervened to propose Soni’s name as a minister in the Punjab government in 2017.Soni who was left out of the state cabinet in the first go in 2017 was eventually included a year later.Incidentally, both Mohindra and Soni had been siding with Capt Amarinder singh during the current crisis. Mohindra held important portfolio of Local bodies. Sources said Sidhu played an important role in the selection of the deputy CMs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/how-op-soni-outpaced-brahm-mohindra-in-race-to-punjab-deputy-cms-post-313747
20-09-2021||Our Correspondent||19-year-old son of vegetable arhtiya kidnapped in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, September 20Unidentified men kidnapped the 19-year-old son of a vegetable arhtiya from Sabji Mandi on Phagwara Road here around 5 am on Monday.Rajan, son of Jaipal, had reached their shop in his car. As soon as he parked the car outside the shop, kidnappers came in a Verna car and pushed him into their car and fled. One of the kidnappers drove Rajan's car.After an hour, Rajan's father received a call and the kidnappers asked for a huge amount as ransom.SSP Amneet Kondal with police officials reached the spot and started an investigation.In CCTV footage of the camera installed at their shop, it could be seen that as soon as Rajan stepped out of his car, parking it before their shop, kidnappers came in a car from behind and pushed him into their car and fled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/19-year-old-son-of-vegetable-arhtiya-kidnapped-in-hoshiarpur-313741
20-09-2021||---||Ahead of taking oath, Punjab’s CM-designate Channi visits Katalgarh Sahib gurdwara at Chamkaur Sahib||Chandigarh, September 20Ahead of his oath-taking ceremony, Charanjit Singh Channi, Punjab chief minister-designate on Monday morning paid obeisance at Gurdwara Katalgarh Sahib in Chamkaur Sahib.Channi arrived at the gurdwara around 7 am. He was accompanied by his family. After paying obeisance, he sat in the hall to attend shabad kirtan. Channi, along with Sukhjinder Randhawa, also visited dera of Sant Baba Ram Singh Ji Ganduanwale at Dufehra Sahib and sought his blessings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ahead-of-taking-oath-punjabs-cm-designate-channi-visits-katalgarh-sahib-gurdwara-at-chamkaur-sahib-313715
20-09-2021||---||Farmer leaders hint at taking political plunge||Jalandhar, September 19Thousands of farmers and labourers, under the banner of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), organised a sit-in at Kala Bakra village in Bhogpur on Sunday. Senior leader of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), Haryana, Gurnam Singh Chaduni, Lakha Sadana and others remained present at the SKM meet. The dharna began at 12 noon and was lifted at 5 pm.Senior farm leaders, including the youth wing of the farm unions, associated with the SKM, decided the plan of action ahead of the first anniversary of the farmers’ protest at Delhi borders. During the protest today, the agitators also framed new action report to be adopted ahead of the upcoming Assembly elections.Notably, the farmer leaders also hinted at contesting elections and forming a new party. “While we are not sure of forming a new party, considering the support by the farmer groups, daily wage workers, villagers and supporters of the farmers’ protest, we can think of forming a ‘near party’, for the farmers, by the farmers. Besides, everyone was asked to exercise his or her voting right to elect the right candidate, added, Gurpreet Atwal, a BKU Doaba member.He further said, currently the ruling governments had failed to take any action in support of the farmers. People across the state have been participating in the protest, for the past 10 months, just to raise one concern — to abolish the three contentious farm laws — but nothing has been done so far. Over 600 farmers, including the young boys, have lost their lives in the farmers’ stir, hence we wouldn’t let their sacrifice go waste. In the five-hour long protest-cum-meet, the farmer leaders also motivated the masses to keep on participating in the protest, till their demands were met.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-leaders-hint-at-taking-political-plunge-313705
20-09-2021||Sonepat||Protesting farmer from Samrala dies at Singhu||A 74-year-old farmer, Jai Singh, of Dhinsa village of Samrala in Punjab was found dead in his tent under suspicious circumstances at the Singhu border this morning.Heart attack was suspected to be the reason behind the death. The farmer was an active member of the BKU (Lakhowal) and had come to participate in the farmers’ protest at here around six months ago and was staying in the tent. He reportedly had an acre of land.Jai Singh did not get up in the morning when his fellow farmers approached him. They called a doctor, who declared him dead. The body was sent for post-mortem, said inspector Ravi Kumar, SHO, Kundli. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protesting-farmer-from-samrala-dies-at-singhu-313583
20-09-2021||Deepender Deswal||Stir not hit by Punjab’s change of guard: Farmers||Tribune News ServiceHisar, September 19The change of guard in Punjab is unlikely to have any bearing on the farmers’ agitation that has been going strong for the past many months at the Singhu and Tikri borders along the national capital.Haryana farmers, who are standing shoulder-to-shoulder with their Punjab counterparts in the agitation, see in Capt Amarinder Singh a champion of farmers who supported the stir in his state.The farmers from Punjab stated that it is the political compulsion of the Congress government in Punjab to support the farmers’ agitation. “The farmers issue will play a major role in the upcoming elections in Punjab. The new Chief Minister, Charanjit Singh Channi, too had expressed support to the agitation when he was a minister the Amarinder Singh Cabinet,” said Jasbir Kaur, a farmer activist from Punjab, adding that Captain Amarinder had failed to fulfil pre-poll promises in Punjab.Labh Singh, a farmer activist from Tohana in Haryana, said the state farmers see Capt Amarinder Singh as a leader who was backing the Punjab farmers with all kinds of support from the beginning of the agitation.“Captain Amarinder has gained much support from Haryana farmers on the issue of the farmers’ agitation. He is being seen as a strong leader who is standing with the farmers in Punjab,” he said.Ramkumar, a political expert, maintained that the new Chief Minister would have to be more vocal than Amarinder in supporting the farmers. “He has very little time with him as the elections are just six months away. There is a possibility that Channi will be more supportive of farmers,” he added.Ravi Azad, a Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader from Bhiwani, said that farmer leaders are not concerned about political changes. “We are going strong on our issues and want rollback of the three agriculture laws. Though attendance at the dharna sites is slightly low nowadays, we expect that the people from Punjab will start returning to dharna sites after completing their agricultural works of the kharif season soon,” he said.A routine process: Hry Cong inchargeKarnal: State Cong affairs incharge Vivek Bansal on Sunday said the change of guard in Punjab was a routine process. It was the result of the feelings of the MLAs. “The BJP changed six CMs recently,” Bansal told the media at the residence of AICC secretary Virender Rathore in Sector 13. On being asked about the stir, Bansal said the farmers were in a do-or-die situation and the govt should listen to their issues positively by keeping aside its “ego”. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stir-not-hit-by-punjabs-change-of-guard-farmers-313584
20-09-2021||Ludhiana||Protective clothing can enhance quality of  farmer’s life, says expert||The Department of Apparel and Textile Science of Punjab Agricultural University has been asking farmers to adopt protective clothing while doing farm operations.“Many occupational hazards are encountered by farmers and workers during farm activities. These include hazards of farm machinery, biological and chemical, social and environmental stresses. Reorganisation of these hazards and their remedial measures will help farmers and their families,” said Rajdeep Kaur, scientist from the Department of Apparel and Textile Science.“The sustainable use of protective clothing will enhance quality of life,” she added.“We have developed protective clothing for most problems. The research conducted by scientists is being disseminated among beneficiaries. Moreover, protective clothing was available at kisan melas and kisan clubs meetings before the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Manisha Sethi, research fellow, Department of Apparel and Textile Science.Protective two and three layered cotton masks, gloves for okra and sugarcane harvesters, kurta with hood for wheat harvesters, kurta pyjama for ber fruit harvesters and scarf/cap with masks are available from experiential unit of the apparel and textile science under College of Community Science and seed shop at gate No 1.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protective-clothing-can-enhance-quality-of-farmers-life-says-expert-313637
20-09-2021||Nitin Jain||Urban-rural divide emerges in Covid-19 cases in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 19In what appears to be a new trend, an urban-rural divide has emerged wide and open in Covid cases reported in the state during the past 14 days, the government has confirmed.Highs & LowsWhile eight districts recorded more infections in towns, 13 districts saw higher count in villages, the official figures have revealed.The analysis of region-wise positive patients conducted by the Health and Family Welfare Department, a copy of which is with The Tribune, showed that Ludhiana recorded five virus cases from urban areas while 15 from villages during the past 14 days.While Mohali topped the state with the maximum count of 42 infections from urban areas, Ferozepur reported the maximum of 23 fresh cases from the villages.The district-wise comparison indicated that Mohali reported 42 cases from urban and 10 from rural areas, Jalandhar 32 urban and 12 rural, Bathinda 29 urban 11 rural, Amritsar 28 urban 21 rural, Ferozepur 13 urban 23 rural, Pathankot 23 urban six rural, Hoshiarpur 13 urban 22 rural, Muktsar three urban 19 rural, Patiala 17 urban 13 rural, Gurdaspur eight urban 16 rural, Faridkot nine urban 15 rural, Ludhiana five urban 15 rural, Fazilka five urban 13 rural, Ropar eight urban two rural, Tarn Taran three urban seven rural, Fatehgarh Sahib six urban five rural, Kapurthala five urban six rural, Nawanshahr one urban five rural, Moga one urban four rural, Barnala two urban three rural and Mansa recorded one case from urban areas and three from rural areas in the past fortnight.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/urban-rural-divide-emerges-in-covid-19-cases-in-punjab-313622
20-09-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Neighbours in Kharar elated at Charanjit Singh Channi’s elevation||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 19Relatives and supporters thronged the residence of Charanjit Singh Channi at Kharar this evening as soon as the news broke that the Chamkaur Sahib MLA will be the new Chief Minister of Punjab.They distributed sweets among visitors and danced to the beats of dhol.Even as Channi was at the Raj Bhawan, neighbours said they would wait for him till late in the evening.Channi’s house had already been decorated with colourful lights and shamiana as his son Navjeet Singh is set to get married on October 10 and the family had organised akhand path today.Talking to Chandigarh Tribune, Channi’s immediate neighbour Kuldeep Singh, a Sugarfed employee, said they were happy that Channi would be the new Chief Minister of the state.“He is a down-to-earth man,” said Kuldeep Singh. “Whether as a Cabinet Minister or a councillor, he has always remained approachable.” “No barricades have ever been erected on the road leading to Channi’s house,” he added.Kuldeep hoped that even after becoming the Chief Minister, no barricades would be erected on the road.All family members of Channi are highly educated, said Kuldeep, adding that despite facing some tough moments, the newly elected Chief Minister could always be seen in high spirits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/neighbours-in-kharar-elated-at-charanjit-singh-channis-elevation-313632
20-09-2021||Patiala||Following Capt’s resignation, protesters turn to Navjot Singh Sidhu’s house in Patiala||After the resignation of Capt Amarinder Singh from the post of Chief Minister, contractual employees working on small honorarium in various government departments on Sunday turned to Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu and gheraoed his residence. Today was the concluding day of the three-day protest of the employees in Patiala.The protesters, after holding a march from the PUDA ground to the residence of the PPCC president, staged a sit-in there and raised slogans against the Congress. The protesters had earlier announced to gherao the residence of Capt Amarinder Singh. However, they changed the venue after his resignation yesterday. The protesters said though the Congress had removed Capt Amarinder Singh from the Chief Minister’s post to hide the government’s “failures”, they would continue their protest until their demands were met. The protesters are demanding minimum wages for workers, who have been working on a small honorarium for years. Besides, the protesters are also demanding regularisation of services of the contractual employees.Vikram Dev, a union leader, said, “Now, Capt Amarinder Singh is not the Chief Minister. Therefore, we decided to hold a protest outside the residence of PPCC president Navjot Singh. The Congress thinks it can divert focus from issues of the state by merely changing the Chief Minister. There is resentment among contractual employees against the Congress and it will reflect in the coming Assembly poll if the government doesn’t fulfil their demands.”Meanwhile, earlier in the day at the PUDA ground, women protesters, as a mark of protest, mourned the alleged “political death” of Capt Amarinder Singh after his resignation.The protesters called off the sit-in outside the residence of PPCC president after a written assurance of a meeting with Sidhu on September 24. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/following-capts-resignation-protesters-turn-to-navjot-singh-sidhus-house-in-patiala-313597
20-09-2021||New Delhi||Probe outgoing CM’s charge against Navjot Singh Sidhu, demands BJP||Seizing on the remarks made by outgoing Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh against PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu over his alleged links with the establishment in Pakistan, the BJP has asked the Congress high command whether they would take cognisance of the allegations and take action.BJP leader Prakash Javadekar said, “Capt has called Sindhu anti-national. This is a very serious allegation. BJP is asking only one question to Congress that why Sonia Gandhi, Rahul and Priyanka are silent?” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/probe-outgoing-cms-charge-against-navjot-singh-sidhu-demands-bjp-313514
20-09-2021||Sanjeev Singh Bariana||Unkept promises challenge for Charanjit Singh Channi||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 19With chief ministerial tenure of less than six months before Punjab goes to the polls early next year, it will not be easy going for Congress leader Charanjit Channi for he wears a crown of thorns of unfulfilled promises and inner-party wranglings.Discontent evidentIf the youth got employment then the dissatisfaction wouldn’t have been so publicly visible. The common man knows the reality and the results will show. A senior Congress leaderWhile his predecessor Capt Amarinder Singh has issued a long list of achievements on poll promises during his tenure, the public perception on ground presents a different picture.His hometown Patiala has remained the hub of protests by employees from different segments, including linesmen, transport department and school teachers, during his tenure. For the past over three years, employee unions, mainly teachers, have been protesting in front of the Education Minister’s residence. Captain Amarinder also faced strong reaction from farmers recently, when he asked them to clear their protests from all 113 places in Punjab and instead shift to Haryana and Delhi.People are also not too happy with the tall government claims of providing more than 19 lakh jobs under the “ghar ghar rozgar” scheme.A senior Congress leader said the common man was aware of the reality that most of the jobs in this category were only on paper. “If the youth of the state got so much of employment then the dissatisfaction wouldn’t have been so publicly visible. The common man knows the reality and the results will show,” he says.The government has been making claims of filing 10 challans, charge-sheeting 24, suspending 15 police personnel and arresting 10 civilians in connection with the sacrilege incidents. However, there are no clear answers to getting the ‘real culprit’ to book or how the incidents were orchestrated. Underlining that the state government cannot cancel all power purchase agreements (PPAs) merely on public outcry, the government, however, hasn’t been able to satisfy the public outcry against alleged massive payments to power plants during the season when these were not in use. Elevation of Channi to the post of the CLP leader is not going to end the rumblings within the dissatisfied Congress cadre, feel senior leaders.Satisfying voters with results on unfulfilled promises is not going to be easy for Channi before the next elections are announced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/unkept-promises-challenge-for-charanjit-singh-channi-313433
20-09-2021||Arun Sharma||From being Kharar councillor to first Dalit CM, Charanjit Singh Channi has come a long way||Tribune News ServiceRopar, September 19From being a councillor in the Kharar Municipal Council to becoming the first Dalit Chief Minister of Punjab, Charanjit Singh Channi has come a long way in his political career spanning 29 years.Also read:Charanjit Singh Channi takes oath as Punjab CMNeighbours in Kharar elated at Charanjit Singh Channi’s elevationAhead of taking oath, Punjab’s CM-designate Channi visits Katalgarh Sahib gurdwara at Chamkaur SahibWith the elevation, the Chamkaur Sahib MLA has become the first politician from the ‘Puadh’ area to get the top post in the state government. ‘Puadh’ is the area between the Ghaggar and Sutlej, including Mohali, Ropar and Samrala.While Giani Zail Singh, after winning election from the Anandpur Sahib-Ropar Assembly constituency, was also sworn in as the state Chief Minister in 1972, he originally belonged to Faridkot district.Channi’s elder brother Manmohan Singh said they had a joint family of four brothers staying at Kharar. After completing his schooling at Kharar, Channi got enrolled into Guru Gobind Singh Khalsa College, Chandigarh, where he was elected as the general secretary of the student union. Channi’s wife Kamaljit Kaur is a government doctor.During his education at Panjab University he participated in national-level competitions in handball. He forayed into politics in 1992 when he got elected as a Kharar councillor and later became chief of the civic body. Channi entered the state Assembly by defeating SAD stalwart Bibi Satwant Kaur Sandhu from Chamkaur Sahib in the 2007 elections.He again registered wins in the 2012 and 2017 elections, following which he was inducted as a Cabinet minister. In 2015, Channi was elected as the Leader of Opposition, replacing Sunil Jakhar.In 2018, his name cropped up in a #MeToo case for allegedly sending an inappropriate text to a woman IAS officer. Captain later said the issue was “resolved”. But the case resurfaced recently with the women’s panel seeking state’s reply on the charge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/from-being-kharar-councillor-to-first-dalit-cm-charanjit-singh-channi-has-come-a-long-way-313434
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Brahm Mohindra, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa ‘chosen’ Deputy CMs||With Dalit leader Charanjit Channi being made the Chief Minister, the party high command in an effort to balance the caste equation is learnt to have decided on offering the post of Deputy CM to Brahm Mohindra, a Hindu face, and Sukhjinder Randhawa, a Jat.A tweet by AICC treasurer Pawan Kumar Bansal congratulating Mohindra and Randhwa for the elevation pointed to the party's decision.Their names were discussed at today's CPC meeting. Sunil Jakhar is also learnt to have been offered the post, but he refused. The adjustment of an OBC leader is, however, not clear.In the outgoing Congress government, Mohindra, a confidant of Capt Amarinder Singh, was the senior-most minister. On the other hand, Randhawa, once close to Captain, had parted ways after differences over fulfilling of poll promises. With this, the party high command has tried to accommodate leaders close to Captain Amarinder. The approach might reflect in the selection of the Cabinet.Earlier, without taking names, Punjab affairs in charge Harish Rawat said: "Our mutual feeling is there should be two Deputy CMs. Soon we will take a call on it, besides selecting the Council of Ministers. Some names have been discussed but it is the CM's prerogative, who after discussions with party high command, takes the call." — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/brahm-mohindra-sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-chosen-deputy-cms-313435
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||In parting letter to Sonia Gandhi, Capt Amarinder Singh lists achievements||Hours before his decision to demit office, outgoing Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, saying “people of Punjab are looking up to the party for its mature and effective public policies, which not only reflect upon good politics, but also address the concerns of the common man that are specific to this border state”.Govt report cardCaptain Amarinder also apprehended instability in Punjab as a result of the political developments in the party state unit. He said the Congress had fulfilled 89.2 per cent of the promises made during the last elections and work was in progress on the remaining commitments.“It gives me great satisfaction that Punjab is the only state that has decided to provide universal health insurance cover at its own cost in keeping with our manifesto commitment. Nearly 55 lakh families are now eligible for free cashless treatment in the State,” he said.On the issue of sacrilege and the subsequent police action of 2015, Captain Amarinder said his government had established a judicial commission of enquiry headed by Justice Ranjit Singh (retd), whose report was received on August 16, 2018. The report was accepted and full legal action was taken. He pointed out his government had succeeded in filing 10 challans, while 24 persons had been charge-sheeted, 15 police personnel suspended, and 10 civilians arrested. Criminal proceedings in these cases were under way. With regard to the controversial power purchase agreements signed by the previous government for purchase of expensive electricity to ensure affordable supply to state population, Captain Amarinder said his government had invested Rs 3,709 crore in electricity transmission and distribution infrastructure from 2017-21 and released around Rs 11,000 crore per annum to the benefit of 22 lakh SC/BC consumers. Further, the review of the PPAs is currently under way.”Talking about the farmers, the government had provided a debt relief of Rs 4,624 crore to 5.64 lakh farmers and Rs 526 crore to 2.68 lakh farm workers. The special task force (STF) arrested 62,744 offenders and established 202 outpatient opioid assisted treatment clinics.Under the “ghar ghar rozgar” scheme, 22 district bureaus of employment and enterprise facilitated jobs to 19.29 lakh people. He said debt relief had been given to 10,151 SC and 4,702 BC beneficiaries under the special scheme. He said Punjab was ranked No. 1 by the HRD Ministry in school education as a result of consistent investments. — TNSleaderspeakMust continue to fulfil promisesCongratulations to Charanjit Singh Channi for the new responsibility. We must continue to fulfil the promises made to the people of Punjab. Their trust is of paramount importance. Rahul Gandhi, CongressDon’t expect much from himIt is good that Channi will be the first leader from Ropar to occupy the chair. But the way Congress govt has pushed the state towards bankruptcy, we don’t expect much from this CM too. Madan Mohan Mittal, BJPHope he keeps border state safeMy best wishes to Charanjit Singh Channi. I hope he's able to keep the border state of Punjab safe and protect our people from the growing security threat from across the border. Capt Amarinder Singh, ex-CMWas a difficult decisionThe decision to replace Capt Amarinder Singh was a difficult one. His stature as a veteran Congress man has been officially recognised in the AICC resolution. Ashwani Kumar, CongressDid nothing as ministerChanni is inconsequential for the state as he was in the Cabinet for four years but did not nothing to fulfil any demand of Dalits. Also, he has a taint on his character due to #MeToo case. Jasvir Singh Garhi , BSP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-parting-letter-to-sonia-gandhi-capt-amarinder-singh-lists-achievements-313437
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Will fight on, says Capt Amarinder Singh||Having referred to Navjot Singh Sidhu as “like my son” while addressing the first press conference together before the last Assembly polls, outgoing CM Capt Amarinder Singh today said “back in 2017, I did not know a person like Sidhu, who’s clearly mixed up with the Pakistan leadership, could ever be considered to lead the state and pose a danger to Punjab’s and India’s peace”.He was replying to a query by The Tribune about the announcement he had made during the last polls that ‘it would be his last’. In a tweet to the people of the state, he had said: “This is my last election and I am committed to bringing back smiles on your faces”.He said: “When I contested the 2017 elections, I didn’t know the extent of mess left behind by the previous govt. Soon after I took over, I discovered how bad the situation was and had indicated then itself that I will not leave my people till I’ve wiped out their tears. This is even more important now, given the threat to Punjab’s security.”His message also read: “Punjab suffered enough bloodshed in the 1980s. I will not let that happen again and will continue to fight till I’m sure it’s in safe hands.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-fight-on-says-capt-amarinder-singh-313438
20-09-2021||Vishav Bharti||80 years on, Dalit picked for top post||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 19Despite having the largest population of Dalits in the country, it took over eight decades for a member of the community to be named for the Chief Minister’s post in Punjab.Constitute 33% of state’s populationSince the 1937’s Unionist Party’s government to Congress government of 2017, no Dalit leader ever came close in the race to head the state where politics was first dominated by urban Sikhs and later by Jats after the Green Revolution. The exclusion of Dalits continued despite the fact that they constitute 33 per cent of Punjab’s population.Scholars following the Dalit movement, see the development as a historical event. “Congress leadership has not only shown immense courage, but they have also pricked the bubble of Jat Sikh dominance in Punjab. This bubble was created by Partap Singh Kairon,” says Amanpreet Singh Gill, author of “Non-Congress Politics in Punjab” and an associate professor of political science at Delhi University.Prof Manjeet Singh, a former professor of sociology and former director of Panjab University’s Ambedkar Centre, says, “a historical blot has been removed of ignoring Dalits. It was painful that the land of Guru Nanak and Bhagat Singh, who vouched for equality, failed to get a Dalit on the top post till now.”He has a word of caution also that Channi should not be a stopgap CM. The Congress high command should ensure that all ministers cooperate and support him.Prof Ashutosh Kumar, who heads political science department, PU, too calls it a historical moment for a state like Punjab, where social power base is too narrow. “In agrarian states, power comes from land. Jats own 96 per cent of land and Dalits just a little more than two per cent. In post Green Revolution era, Jats have been dominating Punjab politics. Amid such social dynamics, it is nothing less than a miracle to get a Dalit CM.”He agrees that though Channi appears to be a stopgap arrangement, but he says, sometimes the events do not unfold the way one plans. “You never know, he may be the future leader.” Channi’s appointment is also being seen as a counter to the SAD-BSP alliance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/80-years-on-dalit-picked-for-top-post-313442
20-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Crisis in AG’s office as Nanda, 20 law officers quit||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 19The Punjab Advocate-General’s office today plunged into crisis with the resignation of 20 law officers along with Advocate-General Atul Nanda soon after Capt Amarinder Singh’s decision to step down as the Chief Minister.Cites constitutional conventionCiting constitutional convention as one of the reasons for his decision, Nanda said appointment was co-terminus with that of Capt Amarinder Singh. The announcement on the appointment of the top law officer is expected to be made soonAvailable information suggests the law officers, putting in their papers, were from Nanda’s Delhi team as well. They were representing the state before the Supreme Court and in other matters. The number of law officers stepping down from the posts is expected to go up in the next couple of days.Citing constitutional convention as one of the reasons behind his decision, Nanda added his appointment as the Advocate-General was co-terminus with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s. As such, he too had tendered his resignation. Nanda was among the first ones to be appointed by Captain Amarinder soon after assuming power in 2017. A senior advocate in the Supreme Court, Nanda had defended him in criminal cases registered during Parkash Singh Badal’s tenure as CM.In a message to his team, Nanda said he wanted to express how proud he was of each law officer. His “team-AG family” was probably one of the best the AG office had in recent times. The younger ones were like his children and he had seen them grow, both as counsel and human beings, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/crisis-in-ags-office-as-nanda-20-law-officers-quit-313443
20-09-2021||---||Farmers mark 1 yr of anti-farm law stir||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 19Through thick and thin, the 32 kisan unions that came together exactly a year ago on this day have remained united in their fight against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre last year.Global attentionOur biggest achievement is that we have managed to take the debate of corporatisation of agriculture and its financial implications on farmers to an international level. The way farmers across the country are now gearing up to continue the fight gives us immense satisfaction, even as we keep away from politics. Balbir Singh Rajewal, BKU (Rajewal)The journey of this unity has passed various tests and is now being hailed as an example of civil rights movement across the globe. As the farm unions celebrated the completion of one year of a united fight against the Centre, they are now looking at taking their movement across India by forming state-level units of Samyukt Kisan Morcha.“These state-level units will take up all state-specific, region-specific and national issues concerning farmers. These issues will then be brought in public domain for discussion and action will be planned accordingly. We are looking at having state units of SKM at Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra soon,” said Dr Darshan Pal of Krantikari Kisan Union, who played a pivotal role in threading 32 farmer unions of Punjab on a common platform to resist implementation of the three farm laws.He says their struggle is one to protect the federal structure of the country, as the three farm laws have been enacted by the Centre by usurping powers of the states.Last year, initially the farm unions in Punjab had formed two groups. It was at the instance of Dr Darshan Pal, Balbir Singh Rajewal and Jagmohan Singh Patiala that they decided to bury their decades-old differences and come together. Barring the January 26 incident, the unions have so far been united in leading a peaceful protest.“Our biggest achievement is that we have managed to take the debate of corporatisation of agriculture and its financial implications on farmers to an international level. The way farmers across the country are now gearing up to continue the fight gives us immense satisfaction, even as we keep away from the politics,” adds Balbir Singh Rajewal of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal).Over 600 farmers have already died during the course of the struggle. The farmer union leaders say that as they revel at being able to work in tandem, without letting egos come in between, they also renew their promise to continue the fight till the farm laws are withdrawn. “We owe it to those who died fighting and to all social, religious and cultural organisations that have continued to render unconditional support to our struggle,” Rajewal adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-mark-1-yr-of-anti-farm-law-stir-313444
20-09-2021||---||Protest ‘apolitical, immune’ to fast-changing equations||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, September 19Punjab politics remained the central point of discussion at almost all protest sites of farmers on Sunday. Amid the fast-changing political landscape, farmers said it would have no bearing on their protest as it was non-political.Capt supported usDespite the pressure from the Centre, Capt Amarinder did not create any problems for us. In fact, he openly announced support to farmers. — Parminder Singh, A Farmer“The Congress high command should have done it earlier had they any plans to change Capt Amarinder Singh. The new CM and his team will take time to understand the working of officers. Elections, too, are approaching fast,” said Surjan Singh, 75, while protesting at Sangrur.Another farmer, Kirpal Singh, was of the opinion that the lack of arrest of any big fish in drug cases led to the criticism of former CM and also earned bad name for the Congress. “Though the Congress has arrested many drug smugglers, there are allegations that big fish are still roaming free. In the last elections, the drug smuggling was a big issue, but the Congress has forgotten it now,” he said.Many praised ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh for his support to their agitation. “Despite the pressure from the Centre, Capt Amarinder did not create any problems for us. In fact, he openly announced support to farmers,” said Parminder Singh, another farmer.Many even advised him. “We have heard that he may join BJP, but it would be suicidal for him. We will never accept him as BJP leader. Our protest against BJP will continue until the farm laws are repealed,” said Jaswinder Singh, another farmer. Sangrur BKU Ugrahan block president Gobinder Singh said the change of CM and ministers would not have any impact on their protest, since it was non-political.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protest-apolitical-immune-to-fast-changing-equations-313445
20-09-2021||---||Another suspect nabbed  in Jalalabad blast case||Our CorrespondentAbohar, September 19In a joint search operation, the Punjab and Rajasthan Police have reportedly arrested Sukhwinder Singh Sukha of Ferozepur who was hiding in a village near Raisinghnagar in Sriganganagar.Joint operation with Rajasthan policeThe Punjab Police had on Saturday arrested Parveen Kumar, who revealed the motorcycle in which the blast occurred was being driven by Balwinder Singh Binder of Jhugge Nihanga Wale village, who died in the explosion. Binder was supposed to park the bike with an explosives-filled tiffin in some crowded area. Parveen had told the police the conspiracy was hatched at the house of Sukhwinder Singh, alias Sukha, of Chandi Wala village in Ferozepur on September 14. Gurpreet Singh of Lakhmir Ke Hithar village in Mamdot was also part of the conspiracy.The Punjab Police had reportedly informed the Sriganganagar cops that Sukhwinder and Gurpreet may be hiding in the border district as per the locations of their phones. Photos of both were uploaded on social media. Inputs from publicand local police reportedly indicated that Sukhwinder had taken shelter near the Bajuwala-Salempura road. An operation was carried out and Sukhwinder was arrested today, sources in the Sriganganagar police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/another-suspect-nabbed-in-jalalabad-blast-case-313447
20-09-2021||---||YAD protests job to Kangar’s kin||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 19Demanding cancellation of the Cabinet decision to provide job to the son-in-law of outgoing Cabinet minister Gurpreet Kangar on compassionate grounds, Youth Akali Dal leaders and workers staged a protest and burnt his effigy here.Gathering near the Fire Brigade Chowk here, the party workers raised slogans against the government and termed the decision as “betrayal” to thousands of unemployed youth in the state.Harpal Singh Dhillon, president, YAD (Bathinda urban), said, “The Congress that promised ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ has been reduced to merely providing jobs to kin of party leaders while well-qualified unemployed candidates seeking jobs are protesting. Staff salaries and pensions are not being paid by the government. Contractual workers rendering their services in different government departments have been protesting to seek regularisation of services but to no avail.”Dhillon added, “The Congress government has failed to honour its pre-poll promises even as over four years have passed since it came to power in the state. Capt Amarinder Singh’s unceremonious ouster points towards the failure of the party on the governance front. People of the state now want Akali Dal-led government which will usher in development and growth of the state as the party did in its previous two consecutive terms. Once in power, the party will also reverse all wrong decisions and policies of the Congress-led government.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/yad-protests-job-to-kangars-kin-313448
20-09-2021||Balwant Garg||Rs15-cr Kotkapura sewage plants gather dust||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, September 19Constructed a year ago at a cost of over Rs 15.50 crore in Kotkapura, two sewage treatment plants are now gathering dust.The Water Supply and Sanitation Board (WSSB) is waiting for power connections to make these plants functional, but the PSPCL has refused to supply power to these plants as WSSB is a defaulter to the tune of over Rs 5.5 crore.While local residents are suffering the agony of overflowing sewage in the streets this monsoon, the WSSB said the Municipal Council was responsible for the payment of electricity arrears. “The non-payment of these arrears is the reason that these sewage plants have not started functioning yet,” said Parul Goyal, executive engineer, WSSB.On August 31, a four-member team formed by National Green Tribunal (NGT) had visited Kotkapura to inspect these plants and expressed anguish over non-functioning.MC president Bhupinder Singh Saggu said he was making all efforts to make these plants operational. “To get power supply connection for these plants, we are in process of clearing the PSPCL’s arrears. The power supply to the plants will be started soon,” he said.Kotkapura, which once used to have one of the biggest cotton markets in Asia, is now financially so impoverished that its civic body is unable to pay salaries of its employees for months together.Earlier, many MC employees approached the Punjab and Haryana HC, which directed the authorities to stop spending on development works and fuel for official vehicles until arrears of the staff were paid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rs15-cr-kotkapura-sewage-plants-gather-dust-313449
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||HC stays withdrawal of time scale to ex-registrars||Two months after the Punjab and Haryana HC ordered the withdrawal of time scale to two of its former registrars, a Bench has stayed the order.The stay came on two petitions filed by Gopal Krishan Khanna and another petitioner against the HC. Another petition in the matter has also been filed by former registrar Ashok Kumar Arora. Khanna had contended that the time scale granted to the petitioner, as admissible to the members of the Superior Judicial Service, from October 23, 2008, had been withdrawn. It was submitted that a notice was not issued to the petitioner before the order was passed. As such, the principles of natural justice had been violated. “It is contended that as per the registrar, HC of Punjab & Haryana (Appointment & Conditions of Service) Rules, if the Registrar is not a member of service, he is entitled to same pay as admissible to the member of Punjab/ Haryana Superior Judicial Services and the benefit had rightly been granted,” Justice GS Sandhawalia said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-stays-withdrawal-of-time-scale-to-ex-registrars-313450
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Dalits’ posers to leaders a step in right direction: AAP||Hailing the campaign of Dalits questioning politicians, the AAP said just like farmers’ protest, this, too, was an awareness campaign.It said parties would no longer be able to mislead the poor, Dalits and farmers with false promises. In a joint statement today, AAP senior leader and Deputy Leader of Opposition Saravjit Kaur Manuke, MLAs Principal Budh Ram, Rupinder Kaur Ruby, Master Baldev Singh, Kulwant Singh Pandori, Manjit Singh Bilaspur and Jagtar Singh Hissowal said the ruling Congress, like the previous Badal-BJP government, betrayed the poor and the Dalit community and used them as a vote bank.Manuke said the farmers’ movement had awakened the Dalits as well. “This awareness campaign started from 114 villages of Sangrur and should be spread across the state,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dalits-posers-to-leaders-a-step-in-right-direction-aap-313451
20-09-2021||---||Drug traffickers rope in women couriers||Raj SadoshAbohar, September 19Women were made to run illicit liquor business in the past, but interrogation of a dozen peddlers arrested during the past four days has indicated that drug traffickers are nowadays using them as couriers/peddlers. This has happened as most of the peddlers are facing financial difficulties due to the tough situation created by Covid-19.A police team today seized 15-kg poppy husk from Bholi, Raj Rani (both from Gidderbaha) and Mukhtiar Kaur (from the Lambi area) in Muktsar district. As many as 1,570 intoxicating pills and 4-kg poppy husk were seized from Kirandeep Kaur of Bajakhana, Surjit Singh of Talwandi Sabo and Gagandeep Singh of Muktsar. The recoveries were made from them when they were on their way back from Rajasthan. As many as 26,400 sedative tablets were seized by intercepting Harinder Wadhwa, alias Happy, of Fazilka and Jaskaran Singh of Dabwala Kalan. Their interrogation reportedly indicated that the duo had taken a marriage palace on contract, but were facing losses due to Covid-19. They were allegedly selling medicinal drugs from Sriganganagar.In another incident, 300 intoxicating pills were recovered from Pawan Kumar of Mehrana village. One kg of opium was seized from Gurmail Singh Kharlian, Lakhwinder Singh Lakha and Gurmeet Singh Meeta of Lambi, Muktsar.In Sriganganagar, two couples were arrested under the NDPS Act last month while trying to sell heroin. They claimed they had arranged drugs from a Ferozepur-based trafficker and were able to sell these as the police did not suspect them due to the presence of women.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drug-traffickers-rope-in-women-couriers-313452
20-09-2021||Archit Watts||No counsellor, Rs4.5-cr rehab centre remains ‘non-functional’||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, September 19Failing to serve any purpose in the past six years, the 50-bed rehabilitation centre at Thehri village here is proving to be a white elephant for the Health Department.Notably, the centre was built on a 3.5-acre plot by spending nearly Rs 4.5 crore in 2015. However, just about 500 drug addicts have been brought here for rehabilitation since its inauguration and only a few of them have completed the treatment course.Surprisingly, the centre has nursing and other staff, but no counsellor. “The rehabilitation centre plays an important role in properly treating the addicts. Initially, the patients are given medicines for detoxification at de-addiction centres. In the rehabilitation centres, they are engaged in some tasks and given counselling. However, when the post of counsellor is lying vacant, the purpose of the centre is defeated,” said some health officials.Sources in the department said the centre had a gymnasium and other facilities, but doctors rarely referred the addicts to the centre. Dr Rashmi Chawla, Senior Medical Officer, Civil Hospital, Malout, said, “Three drug addicts were admitted to the rehabilitation centre recently, but they left the centre midway during their course. The rehabilitation is free of cost, but usually addicts don’t stay here for three months. Either they are unable to stay away from their families for such a long period or they can’t skip their jobs due to poor financial condition.” She said earlier middle-aged people, who were addicted to poppy husk, were mostly coming to the outpatient opioid assisted treatment clinic for treatment, but now, youth were being affected more.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-counsellor-rs4-5-cr-rehab-centre-remains-non-functional-313453
20-09-2021||Abohar||4 killed as car, truck collide near Abohar||Four youths, three of them cousins, were killed when the i-20 car they were using on a learning drive reportedly collided with a truck near Rawatsar on theHanumangarh mega highway around 4 am today.The police identified the deceased as Hemant (18), Neeraj (17), Rajat (20) and Rudraksh (17). The police had a tough time in pulling out the bodies with the help of locals. All the youths were students. They were reportedly learning to drive for the past four days by using a relative’s car. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-killed-as-car-truck-collide-near-abohar-313454
20-09-2021||GS Paul||Devotee to present Rs 1.73-cr ‘kalgi’ at Sri Hazur Sahib||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 19A Sikh devotee, Dr Gurwinder Singh Samra, who runs Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital at Kartarpur (near Jalandhar), will present a diamond-studded gold ‘kalgi’ (an ornament usually worn on the front of the turban and consists of a single feather or a cluster of feathers) at Takht Sri Hazur Sahib in Nanded (Maharashtra).Takht jathedar may attend event in PakistanAkal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh may attend the ‘Jyoti Jot’ diwas of Guru Nanak in Pakistan. The three-day event from September 20 to 22 has been scheduled at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur (Pakistan).Costing around Rs 1.73 crore, the ‘kalgi’ and ‘chandoa’ (special decorative fabric hung above the Guru Granth Sahib) will be presented to the Jathedar of Takht Sri Hazur Sahib at the gurdwara tomorrow. Sikh scholars Giani Jaswinder Singh Dardi and Jagjit Singh Jaggi will be present on the occasion.Talking to The Tribune, Dr Samra said the ‘kalgi’ was made of about 2.5 kg of gold, in which a large number of gems including ruby, topaz and sapphire have been studded.“Its crust has been inlayed with about 2,000 pieces of diamonds by Delhi-based jewellers. Artisans from Ahmedabad, Surat and Jaipur were engaged for the task and it took them a year’s span to complete the task,” he said.The Samra family reached the shrine today with the ‘kalgi’ that would be kept for sangat darshan. A special canopy, too, has been made at a cost of Rs 7 lakh. Earlier too, the Samra family had presented a ‘kalgi’ worth Rs 1.3 crore to Takht Sri Patna Sahib and another one at the Golden Temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/devotee-to-present-rs-1-73-cr-kalgi-at-sri-hazur-sahib-313455
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Expose culprits behind ‘maryada’ violation: Akalis||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today asked the Congress government why it was not exposing the conspirators of the recent sacrilege at Takht Kesgarh Sahib and taking them to task.In a statement here, the SAD president said it was condemnable that the conspirators behind this heinous crime were not being brought to book. “No attempt is being made to investigate the antecedents of the culprit and find out whether he was instigated to commit this ghastly act to spoil the peace of the state.”Badal said earlier also the peace and communal harmony of Punjab was destroyed by committing acts of sacrilege at gurdwaras and temples. “Like then, this time also the Congress government is failing to prevent these planned incidents of sacrilege,” Sukhbir added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/expose-culprits-behind-maryada-violation-akalis-313456
20-09-2021||Sangrur||Stir till demands met, say jobless||More than 24 hours after Capt Amarinder Singh, along with the Council of Ministers, resigned, members of seven unions refused to end indefinite protests in Sangrur.Members of five unions have made arrangements to shift base to the constituency of new Education Minister after the formation of the Council of Ministers. “We will end our protest. We have decided to shift our protests to the constituency of new minister,” said Sukhwinder Dhilwan, president, BEd and TET pass union. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stir-till-demands-met-say-jobless-313457
20-09-2021||Sangrur||Retd cop held for wife’s murder||A retired head constable allegedly murdered his wife last night in Sangrur city. The police have arrested the accused. “Malkiat Singh, who retired as a head constable, murdered his wife Harpal Kaur last night with a sharp-edged weapon. He suspected that his wife was having an affair. We have arrested him and conducting probe,” said SHO Pritpal Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/retd-cop-held-for-wifes-murder-313458
20-09-2021||Gurdaspur||Quartet’s gambit fails||Disappearing actAbohar: Hours before CM Capt Amarinder Singh decided to quit, billboards carrying his pictures disappeared abruptly from crossings and highways here. About two dozen boards were affixed over the past few weeks highlighting his government’s achievements. Interestingly, similar billboards were affixed in Fazilka, but none in Jalalabad, represented by SAD chief Sukhbir Badal in the past. Earlier, Navjot Singh Sidhu’s supporters had affixed billboards across Fazilka district when he was elevated as the PCC chief. The fact about removal of billboards came to the fore only after the news of resignation broke. Who was behind the move could not be ascertained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/quartets-gambit-fails-313460
20-09-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Charanjit Channi takes oath as Punjab chief minister||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 20Congress leader Charanjit Singh Channi was on Monday sworn in as chief minister of Punjab, making him the first Dalit to hold the top post in the state.Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni were also sworn in. They will be designated as deputy chief ministers.Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit administered the oath to the 58-year-old Channi at a ceremony held at the Raj Bhawan here.Channi took oath in Punjabi.Prominent among those who were present at the oath-taking ceremony were Rahul Gandhi and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Amarinder Singh, who resigned as chief minister two days back, was conspicuous by his absence.Edit: Congress Fiasco Also read: Cong plays SC card to checkmate AAP, SADHope Capt won’t harm party interests: Ashok GehlotEarlier, announcing Channi’s appointment, AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat had said: “Charanjit Singh Channi has been unanimously elected as leader of the Congress Legislature Party of Punjab.”Also read: From being Kharar councillor to first Dalit CM, Charanjit Singh Channi has come a long wayNeighbours in Kharar elated at Charanjit Singh Channi’s elevationFlanked by Rawat, PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and AICC-appointed observers Harish Chaudhary and Ajay Maken, Channi met Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit in the evening to stake claim to form a government. With PTIWill continue to work with Punjab govt: ModiNew Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday congratulated Charanjit Singh Channi on being sworn in as Punjab chief minister, and said the Centre would continue to work with his government for the betterment of the people of the state.Modi tweeted, "Congratulations to Shri Charanjit Singh Channi Ji on being sworn-in as Punjab's Chief Minister. Will continue to work with the Punjab government for the betterment of the people of Punjab." PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/charanjit-channi-takes-oath-as-punjab-chief-minister-313431
20-09-2021||Aditi Tandon||Congress plays SC card to checkmate AAP,  SAD||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 19The Congress on Sunday sprang a surprise in Punjab, giving the state its first Dalit CM and seeking to checkmate the Akali Dal and Aam Aadmi Party, who have announced appointment of Dalits as Deputy CM, if voted to power. Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi decided to gamble on Channi in the state with a 32.2 per cent Scheduled Caste population.Also readCharanjit Singh Channi to be Punjab’s first Dalit CMHope Capt won’t harm party interests: Ashok GehlotThe appointment is a signal to the SCs who backed Congress wholeheartedly in 2017. Of the total 80 Congress MLAs, 23 were SCs and 32 Jat Sikhs. Two factors aided Channi’s selection — social engineering and acceptance of a Dalit face across Punjab Congress factions. The gamble paid off with even Capt Amarinder Singh and his loyalist Manish Tewari welcoming Channi’s election as CLP leader.Discussions veered towards Dera Baba Nanak MLA Sukhjinder Randhawa until PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, sources said, expressed apprehensions. Sidhu backed Channi. “Although Sidhu’s calculation may have been to support a non-Jat Sikh CM until the elections (Punjab Assembly term expires on March 27, 2022) and remain in contention for the CM’s post for the polls, it will be impossible to unseat a Dalit CM if the Congress is re-elected,” observed a Congress veteran.The Congress leadership now faces the challenge of adjusting Hindu and OBC leaders. Also, it will also have to ensure the representation of OBC leaders in the new Cabinet. The OBCs in Punjab comprise 31 per cent of the total vote share. Three-time MLA Sangat Singh Gilzian is a strong claimant for a Cabinet berth. So is senior party leader Anish Sidana, said sources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-plays-sc-card-to-checkmate-aap-sad-313432
20-09-2021||---||Brahm Mohindra, Sukhjinder Randhawa appointed Punjab Deputy CMs||Chandigarh, September 19With Dalit leader Charanjit Channi being made the Chief Minister, the party high command in an effort to balance the caste combination late Sunday night announced appointment of senior ministers Brahm Mohindra and Sukhjinder Randhawa as Deputy CMs .AICC treasurer and senior Congress leader Pawan Kumar Bansal tweeted about the appointment of the two.Heartiest congratulations to @Charnjit_channi for elevation as #PunjabCM and @BrahmMohindra & @Sukhjinder_INC as Dy CMs. Best wishes for their grand success in the service of Punjab under the leadership of Smt.Sonia Gandhi and Sh.@RahulGandhi.  In the outgoing Congress government, Brahm Mohindra, a confidant of Capt Amarinder Singh was the senior-most minister. On the other hand, Sukhjinder Randhawa, who was once very close to Capt Amarinder Singh, had parted ways with the former CM after differences over fulfilling poll promises.Choice of two Deputy CMs shows that in the new Cabinet the party high command was also trying to adjust leaders close to Capt Amarinder Singh. The same approach could reflect in choice of other Cabinet ministers.EarlierWithout taking the names, Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat said, “Our mutual feeling is that there should be two Deputy CMs. Soon we will take a call on it along with names of Council of Ministers. Some names have been discussed but it is the CM’s prerogative who discusses it with party high command and finally takes a call.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/brahm-mohindra-sukhjinder-randhawa-appointed-punjab-deputy-cms-313404
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Who is Charanjit Singh Channi, Punjab’s next Chief Minister||From being elected president to a municipal council to being handpicked as first Dalit chief minister of Punjab, Charanjit Singh Channi has seen a meteoric rise in the last two decades.The 58-year-old three-time legislator from Chamkaur Sahib assembly constituency in Rupnagar district had joined the Congress in 2012 and was holding the portfolios of Technical Education, Industrial Training, Employment Generation and Tourism and Cultural Affairs in the outgoing Amarinder Singh-led cabinet.He had along with three other ministers rebelled against Amarinder Singh while choosing to side with the camp of state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.Read also:With barely five months left for the assembly polls, the announcement of a Dalit face as chief minister by the Congress assumes significance as Dalits constitute nearly 32 per cent of the state’s population. The Doaba region -- Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, SBS Nagar and Kapurthala districts -- has the highest population of Dalits.The Shiromani Akali Dal, which has joined hands with the BSP, has already announced that the deputy chief minister post will be given to a Dalit if it wins the assembly polls, while the Aam Aadmi Party too is sensing a victory as its rivals remain in disarray.Though Channi appears to be a surprise choice, it can be a calculated gamble by the party which is hoping that there might not be public opposition from leaders in the faction-ridden party to the naming of a Dalit for the post and it may contain the damage from the unsavoury exit of Amarinder Singh.Channi along with three other ministers -- Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria -- and a section of MLAs had last month raised a banner of revolt against Amarinder Singh, saying they have no faith in his ability to honour the unfulfilled promises.He has been a vocal critic of the government on the issues related to Dalits like representation of Scheduled Caste in senior government posts.His political journey began with being elected as the president of the Kharar municipal council in 2002. He first contested as an Independent in 2007 and won from Chamkaur Sahib Assembly constituency.He joined the Congress in 2012 and was again elected as legislator from the same seat.During his ministerial tenure, Channi was at the centre of a row after a woman IAS officer had accused him of sending an “inappropriate text” message in 2018.Thereafter, the Punjab Women Commission had taken suo motu cognisance of the matter and had sought the government’s stand.At that time, the then Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had asked Channi to tender an apology to the woman officer and had also said he believed the matter had been “resolved” to her satisfaction.But the issue again came to haunt Channi in May this year when the women panel chief threatened to go on a hunger strike if the state government failed to apprise her within a week of its stand on an “inappropriate text” message issue.But Sidhu’s camp had alleged that it was an attempt by Amarinder Singh to target his detractors.In 2018, Channi again courted controversy when he was purportedly caught on camera flipping a coin to decide between two candidates for the post of lecturer in a polytechnic institute, leaving the Amarinder Singh government red-faced.A lecturer from Nabha and another from Patiala had both wanted to be posted at a government polytechnic institute in Patiala.Channi had once got a road constructed outside his official residence to have east-facing entry to his house and it was later razed by the Chandigarh administration.He was the leader of opposition in the Punjab Assembly during the previous SAD-BJP regime. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/who-is-charanjit-singh-channi-punjabs-next-chief-minister-313398
20-09-2021||New Delhi||BJP takes swipe at Congress over Channi’s election as new Punjab Chief Minister||The BJP on Sunday took a swipe at the Congress over its Punjab chief ministerial pick Charanjit Singh Channi, citing reported allegations that he had sent an inappropriate text to an IAS officer in 2018.BJP leader Amit Malviya, who is its IT department head, tweeted, “Congress’s CM pick Charanjit Channi faces action in a 3-year-old MeToo case. He had allegedly sent an inappropriate text to a woman IAS officer in 2018. It was covered up but the case resurfaced when Punjab Women’s Commission sent notice. Well done, Rahul.”Read alsoThe issue had resurfaced in May this year when Punjab women panel chief threatened to go on a hunger strike if the state government failed to apprise her within a week of its stand on the “inappropriate text” message allegedly sent by Channi, who was then a minister in the Amarinder Singh government.Punjab Women Commission chairperson Manisha Gulati had said she had written to the chief secretary seeking the government’s action taken report.Malviya also posted a story reported in May this year that said that outgoing chief minister Amarinder Singh’s rivals within the party had accused him of “hounding” them with old cases.Following the 2018 allegation, the Punjab Women Commission had taken suo motu cognisance of the matter and had sought the government’s stand even then.At that time, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had asked Channi to tender an apology to the woman officer and had said he believed the matter has been “resolved” to her satisfaction.Channi was elected the leader of the Congress Legislature Party in Punjab on Sunday and will be the next chief minister, succeeding Amarinder Singh who resigned a day ago following a bitter power tussle in the state unit. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-takes-swipe-at-congress-over-channis-election-as-new-punjab-chief-minister-313384
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Charanjit Singh Channi to take over as Punjab Chief Minister today||The All India Congress Committee cleared the name of Dalit leader Charanjit Singh Channi as the new Chief Minister of Punjab—a development that comes after a day of hectic political activity that saw pulls and pressures from several claimants.Channi said he will take oath as Punjab Chief Minister at 11 am on Monday. Historic !! Punjab’s first Dalit CM-Designate … Will be written with Golden letters in History. A tribute to the spirit of the Constitution and the Congress !! Congratulations @CHARANJITCHANNI Bai pic.twitter.com/WavudGTPok  Channi will become the first Dalit Sikh leader to become the chief minister, although his term would be short given that the state would vote for a new assembly early next year. He was the leader of the opposition from 2015 until 2017 when Congress was voted to power. ???????? ?? ??? ??? ?????? - ?? ???? ????, ????? ?????? ????? ?? ????? ?? ??????????? ??? ?? ???? ???? ?? ?????????? ?? ???? ?????????? ? ?? ????????????? ???? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?????? ????? ? ??? ?? ?? ????? ?? ????? ???? ?? ??? ?????? ?? ?? ???? ????? ?? ?? ??????? ??????? pic.twitter.com/Nm8xi3DBfe  Harish Rawat, the AICC General Secretary in charge of Punjab, made a formal announcement on Sunday evening.“It gives me immense pleasure to announce that Sh. Charanjit Singh Channi has been unanimously elected as the Leader of the Congress Legislature Party of Punjab,” Punjab Congress in-charge Harish Rawat said.Punjab CM-designate Charanjit Singh Channi reached Governor's house with AICC observers. Governor Banwarilal Purohit had called senior Congress leaders, including Channi and Rawat, to meet him. Channi's family also reached Punjab Raj Bhavan.Outgoing Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh greeted Charanjit Singh Channi.‘My best wishes to Charanjit Singh Channi. I hope he’s able to keep the border state of Punjab safe and protect our people from the growing security threat from across the border’: @capt_amarinder pic.twitter.com/oO2F6JUZ6J  Capt Amarinder Singh said, "My best wishes to Charanjit Singh Channi. I hope he’s able to keep the border state of Punjab safe and protect our people from the growing security threat from across the border."The appointment of a Dalit face in the otherwise in the Jat-dominated Punjab politics would change the dynamics of the state politics in the run-up to the 2022 Assembly elections. Dalits have 33 per cent vote share in the state.Channi’s appointment came through after Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Singh Sidhu objected to Sukhjinder Randhawa, whose name the AICC appointed observers had previously zeroed in on for the position.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also congratulated Charanjit Singh Channi. Congratulations to Shri Charanjit Singh Channi Ji for the new responsibility. We must continue to fulfill the promises made to the people of Punjab. Their trust is of paramount importance.  "We must continue to fulfill the promises made to the people of Punjab. Their trust is of paramount importance," he added.It gives me immense pleasure to announce that Sh. #CharanjitSinghChanni has been unanimously elected as the Leader of the Congress Legislature Party of Punjab.@INCIndia @RahulGandhi @INCPunjab pic.twitter.com/iboTOvavPd  Sh. Harish Rawat and senior leaders of Punjab, including newly elected CLP leader, have been called by Hon'ble Governor at 6:30 PM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/charanjit-singh-channi-to-take-over-as-punjab-chief-minister-today-313371
20-09-2021||---||Hours before quitting as CM, Capt Amarinder writes stinging letter to Sonia Gandhi, raises key concerns||Chandigarh, September 19Hours before he formally submitted his resignation to the Governor, outgoing Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had on Saturday written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi apprising her of his decision while expressing anguish at the political events of the last about five months.The events, he said, were clearly “not based on full understanding of the national imperatives of Punjab and its key concerns".“Notwithstanding my personal anguish, I hope this will not cause any damage to the hard-earned peace and development in the state, and that the efforts I have been focusing during the last few years, would continue unabated, ensuring justice to one and all,” Captain Amarinder wrote in his letter, indicating his apprehension of instability in Punjab as a result of the political developments in the state unit of the Congress.At the same time, Captain Amarinder expressed his personal satisfaction at having done his best for the people as chief minister of Punjab, which, as a border state, “has many geo-political and other internal security concerns, which I tried to handle effectively without any compromise.” He said he was happy that the state remained fully peaceful, and there was complete communal harmony with no ill-will towards anyone.While she (Sonia) herself may be personally aware of some of the things achieved in the last four and a half years, “the people of Punjab are looking up to Congress for its mature and effective public policies, which not only reflect upon good politics, but also address the concerns of the common man that are specific to this border State,” wrote Captain Amarinder, while informing the Congress president about his decision to demit the office of the Chief Minister, Punjab, after completing nine-and-half years as such from 2002 to 2007 and 2017 to September 2021.In these nine-and-a-half years, Captain Amarinder said he had worked wholeheartedly for the welfare of the people of Punjab - the State he loves from the core of his heart. “This was extremely satisfying for me because not only I established the rule of law, and ensured transparent governance, but maintained ethical conduct even in management of political affairs, winning 8 out of 13 seats in the Parliament Elections in 2019 and the PRI and ULB Elections decisively.”Referring to the numerous challenges faced by him over the last four-and-half years in fulfilling the promises made by the Punjab Congress in the Punjab Elections 2017, he pointed out that these notwithstanding, of the total promises made, his government had fulfilled 89.2 per cent, while work was in progress on the remaining commitments.Citing the challenges posed by the pandemic Covid-19, he said his government faced the same in an effective and well-coordinated manner, ensuring minimum loss of public lives. “The state is today nearly free from the pandemic, and persistent efforts are continuing not only to improve health infrastructure, but also to provide due care to the deserving people free of cost to prevent the much anticipated third wave,” he said, adding that Punjab was fully geared to meet the future challenges. “It gives me great satisfaction that Punjab is the only state, which has decided to provide universal health insurance cover at its own cost in keeping with our manifesto commitment. Nearly 55 lakh families are now eligible for free cashless treatment in the state,” he said.On the issue of the sacrilege cases and the subsequent police action of 2015, Captain Amarinder said his government, which was committed to ensuring justice in the matter, had established a Judicial Commission of Enquiry headed by Justice (Retd) Ranjit Singh, whose report was received on August 16, 2018. The report was accepted and full legal action was taken thereon, he said, sharing details of the same.He pointed out that despite legal hurdles and refusal of CBI to return the cases, which were transferred to them by the SAD-BJP Government, his government had succeeded in filing 10 challans, while 24 persons had been charge-sheeted, 15 Police personnel suspended, and 10 civilians arrested. “Talking about the farmers, whom he described as the backbone of Punjab’s economy, Captain Amarinder wrote that in line with its commitment to provide debt relief and repeal statutory provisions of attaching their properties, his government had given debt relief of Rs.4,624 crore to 5.64 lakh farmers and Rs.526 crore to 2.68 lakh farm workers. “In addition, we have repealed Section 67-A of the Punjab State Cooperative Societies Act, 1961, and also amended the Civil Procedure Code, disallowing attachment of agricultural land upto 2.5 acres,” he added.Referring to his personal promise to the people of Punjab to break the back of drug peddlers and smugglers in the State, he said he had done so relentlessly by establishing a Special Task Force (STF) in this regard. Pointing to his government’s 3-pronged strategy titled EDP – Enforcement, De-addiction and Prevention, he said as a result, 62,744 persons had been arrested, 202 OOAT clinics established, 6,28,083 Drug Abuse Prevention Officers (DAPOs)  registered and 9,51,202 Buddy Groups formed.He noted that with the revamp of the Mining Policy of the State in 2017, the State’s revenue had increased from Rs 35 crore per annum to Rs 300 crore per annum.Captain Amarinder further shared details of the success of Ghar Ghar Rozgar scheme, for which his government had set up 22 District Bureau of Employment and Enterprise, which facilitated jobs to 19.29 lakh people. These include 62,748 government jobs, 7,37,963 jobs in private sector and 10,93,000 self-employment, he said, adding that rozgar melas had been held regularly since 2017 and the last of these was scheduled to end on September 23 at Kapurthala.Captain Amarinder drew Sonia’s attention to the fact that Punjab had been ranked Number One by the Ministry of Human Resource Development in School Education as a result of consistent efforts and investments in this sector. Of 19,000 schools in the State, 14,000 had been developed as smart schools, whereas the work was under progress in the remaining 5000 schools. “We have also started 8 new universities in private and public sector, established 19 new Government Colleges, and 25 new ITIs,” he further disclosed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hours-before-quitting-as-cm-capt-amarinder-writes-stinging-letter-to-sonia-gandhi-raises-key-concerns-313348
