21-09-2021||Amritsar||SGPC urges Centre to act early on mercy plea of Rajoana||The SGPC on Tuesday urged the Centre to take an early decision on the mercy plea of Balwant Singh Rajoana who was awarded the death penalty in former Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh’s assassination case.Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur said Rajoana’s sister Kamaldeep Kaur met her and asked her to approach the Centre in this matter.Rajoana, a former Punjab Police constable, was convicted for his involvement in an explosion outside the Punjab civil secretariat that killed Congress leader Beant Singh and 16 others in 1995.The Centre in February this year had told the Supreme Court that President Ram Nath Kovind was seized of the matter pertaining to Rajoana’s plea seeking commutation of the death penalty awarded to him in Beant Singh’s assassination case, and a decision would be taken on it. The SGPC chief assured Kamaldeep Kaur that she would write a letter to the Union Home Ministry in this regard.She appealed to the Centre to take an early decision in the matter of Rajoana’s mercy plea.SGPC is the apex religious body of the Sikhs. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-urges-centre-to-act-early-on-mercy-plea-of-rajoana-314265
21-09-2021||---||Police commissioners of Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar changed||Chandigarh, September 21In the first reshuffle of police in the field, Punjab government has swapped Commissioners of Police of Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar.Naunihal Singh is CP Jalandhar, Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill is CP Amritsar and Gurpreet Singh Bhullar is CP Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/police-commissioners-of-ludhiana-jalandhar-and-amritsar-changed-314264
21-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana HC to get three more Judges||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 21The Punjab and Haryana High Court will get three more Judges, including two from Himachal Pradesh High Court, following Supreme Court recommendations on their transfers.Two Punjab and Haryana High Court’s senior Judges will, on the other hand, be transferred out.Once the transfers come into force, the High Court will have 46 Judges against the current strength of 45. The sanctioned strength of the High Court, otherwise, is 85.Available information suggests Justice Sureshwar Thakur and Justice Anoop Chitkara have been recommended for transfer by the Supreme Court collegium from the Himachal Pradesh High Court to the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Justice M.S.S. Ramachandra Rao’s transfer has also been recommended from the Telangana High Court to the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Justice Rao is currently the Acting Chief Justice there.The Supreme Court collegium has already cleared the name of Justice Rajesh Bindal for elevation as the Chief Justice of the Allahabad High Court — one of the oldest high courts to be established in India. Justice Bindal is the senior-most Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and is currently the Acting Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court.The Supreme Court collegium has further recommended the transfer of Punjab and Haryana High Court Judges, Justice Rajan Gupta to Patna and Justice Jaswant Singh to Orissa. Another recommendation is to transfer of senior Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge, Justice Sabina, to Himachal Pradesh High Court. She is currently a Judge of the Rajasthan High Court after being transferred from the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Justice Thakur, to be transferred to Chandigarh, was born on May 18, 1963, at Shimla. His father, Justice (late) Hira Singh Thakur was a Judge of the Himachal Pradesh High Court, while his mother Nirmala Thakur “is highly educated and is a renowned English poetess”.In 2001, he was selected as an Additional District and Sessions Judge. He was elevated as an Additional Judge of the Himachal Pradesh High Court and assumed office on May 5, 2014.Justice Chitkara was born on April 29, 1966, at Shimla and has been serving as a Judge at the High Court of Himachal Pradesh since May 30, 2019. His grandfather Tek Chand Chitkara was a senior advocate, while his father Madan Gopal Chitkara was former Advocate-General of Himachal Pradesh. He remained as Vice-Chairman of Himachal Pradesh State Administrative Tribunal and authored more than 50 books.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-hc-to-get-three-more-judges-314262
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab SC Commission issues instructions to refrain from using ‘Dalit’ word||Taking note of the use of the word ‘Dalit’ for new Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi by the media, the state’s Scheduled Caste Commission on Tuesday ordered against using the word for the members of the SC community.Commission chairperson Tejinder Kaur said the nomenclature ‘Dalit’ does not find mention in the Constitution or any statute.Moreover, the Union Ministry of Social Justice and empowerment, of India has already directed chief secretaries of all the states and Union Territories regarding the same, she said in a statement.She also referred to a 2018 order of the Madhya Pradesh High court that directed the central and state governments and their functionaries to refrain from using the ‘Dalit’ word for the members belonging to the SC and ST communities.The high court had sought to ban the use of the word because the same does not figure anywhere in the Constitution or any statute, she pointed out.Kaur added that following the high court direction, the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment had also directed all the states and Union Territories to use the word “Scheduled Caste” instead of “Dalit” for the persons belonging to Schedule Castes.Channi was sworn in as the Punjab chief minister on Monday. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sc-commission-issues-instructions-to-refrain-from-using-dalit-word-314245
21-09-2021||New Delhi||Gurdwara body urges Delhi govt to stop painting Golden Temple on walls of underpass||Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Tuesday wrote to PWD minister Satyendar Jain requesting him to stop the painting of Golden Temple on the walls on an under-construction underpass at Ashram Chowk here.Sirsa also termed the act as “disrespectful” to their religion according to the Sikh code of conduct.“We would like to draw your kind attention to the painting work of Sri Harmandir Sahib (Golden Temple) that is being carried out by the PWD on the side walls of an underpass being constructed at Ashram Chowk, New Delhi.“For your kind information, as per the Sikh code of conduct, it is not permissible and considered as disrespectful to our religion. Delhi Sikh Sangat is taking serious objection to it,” the letter read.“You are requested to kindly issue the necessary orders for immediate stopping of the painting work,” it added.Sirsa also shared the letter in a Twitter post.“Painting Darbar Sahib on the walls of Underpass at Ashram Chowk is highly objectionable. We urge @SatyendarJain Ji to immediately pass the order of stopping this painting work.“As per the Sikh code of conduct, such a painting is considered disrespectful,” he wrote. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/gurdwara-body-urges-delhi-govt-to-stop-painting-golden-temple-on-walls-of-underpass-314225
21-09-2021||---||9 IAS, 2 PCS officers transferred on second day of Chief Minister Channi assuming office||Chandigarh, September 21Nine IAS and two PCS officers were transferred in the second administrative reshuffle on the second day of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi assuming office.Isha, a 2009 batch IAS officer, currently posted as Director General, School Education and Secretary, Punjab School Education Board, will take over the charge of Mohali Deputy Commissioner from Girish Dayalan. The transfers affected today are mainly to fill in the vacancies in departments where the new officers in the Chief Minister's Office (PS to CM Hussan Lal and Special PS to CM Rahul Tiwari) were posted initially.The exception is the transfer of Mohali DC Girish Dayalan, who was a handpicked officer of former CPS Suresh Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/9-ias-2-pcs-officers-transferred-on-second-day-of-chief-minister-channi-assuming-office-314190
21-09-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||‘Caste play’ at work as Congress high command mulls over new Punjab DGP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 21The appointment of the new Punjab DGP awaits approval of the Congress high command.A  marathon meeting took place on Monday night between Chief Minister Charanjit Channi and other senior Congress leaders over selection of the new DGP and a rejig in police and administration.They shortlisted the eligible officers but the final nod would be given by Rahul Gandhi, sources said.Punjab likely to get new DGPThough the new CM favours Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, sources say caste equations in the new dispensation may affect his chances. Sahota belongs to the Scheduled Caste community. Already the Dalit CM has appointed IAS Hussan Lal, an SC official, as his principal secretary. Sources said the Congress high command wanted a balance in the caste equation.The names of 1986 batch IPS officer Sidharth Chattopadhyaya, 1987 batch officer VK Bhawra and 1988 batch officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota are doing the rounds. All these officers have more than six months of service left making them eligible for the post.Chattopadhyaya met Channi on Tuesday, sources said. The government may take a decision by Tuesday night or Wednesday. Sources say Chattopadhyaya has a close proximity with the new political group of the Congress but Sahota is a strong candidate due to less opposition against him within the new Congress group in power. He has 11 months of service left and has largely remained non-controversial.Bhawra and Rohit Chaudhary, who have nine and seven months of service left respectively, too can emerge as the final choice.The CM office is also looking at procedural and legal clarity on the appointment of the DGP - whether it can change the DGP on its own immediately or has to go through the Union Public Service Commission. The Punjab government is trying to take a leaf from the West Bengal government that appointed acting DGP Madan Malviya till the UPSC clears the panel of officers.The Supreme Court in 2018 had laid down the procedure for the appointment of the DGP of a state. It said a state government had to send a panel of five or more officers to the UPSC three months before the retirement of the incumbent DGP. The UPSC was authorised to form a panel of three officers based on the candidate’s length of service, record and range of service. The apex court in March 2019 revised the orders saying officers with six months of service could be empanelled. Earlier, it was two years of service left.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/caste-play-at-work-as-congress-high-command-mulls-over-new-punjab-dgp-314184
21-09-2021||New Delhi||31 more die of Covid in Punjab as national active cases lowest in 6 months||India added 26,115 new cases of coronavirus  infection in a single day taking the total tally to 3,35,04,534, while the active cases declined to 3,09,575, the lowest in 184 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday.The death toll climbed to 4,45,385 with 252 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am.The active cases comprise 0.92 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, the ministry said, adding that the national Covid recovery rate was recorded at 97.75 per cent.A reduction of 8,606 cases has been recorded in the active Covid caseload in a span of 24 hours.     As many as 14,13,951 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far to 55,50,35,717.The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.85 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 22 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.08 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 88 days, it said.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,27,49,574, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent.The cumulative doses administered in the country so far has exceeded 81.85 crore with 96.46 lakh doses being given on Monday.The 252 fresh fatalities include 92 from Kerala, 31 from Punjab and 28 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,45,385 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,546 from Maharashtra, 37,627 From Karnataka, 35,360  from Tamil Nadu,  25,085 from Delhi, 23,683 from Kerala, 22,887 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,664 from West Bengal. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/31-more-die-of-covid-in-punjab-as-national-active-cases-lowest-in-6-months-314183
21-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Kidnapped Hoshiarpur youth reunited with family following brief encounter with kidnappers||Hoshiarpur, September 21The Hoshiarpur police have traced the 19-year-old youth kidnapped from Sabzi Mandi on Monday morning following a brief encounter with the kidnappers on the Tanda-Batala road on Monday night.A police party left Rajan, son of a vegetable arhtiya, at his house in the wee hours of Tuesday.Unidentified men had kidnapped the youth as soon as he had reached their shop in the vegetable market. After kidnapping of the youth, there was a demand for a ransom.According to sources, one of the kidnappers was injured in the encounter and has been arrested.SSP Amneet Kondal confirmed the successful operation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kidnapped-hoshiarpur-youth-reunited-with-family-following-brief-encounter-with-kidnappers-314182
21-09-2021||Toronto||Trudeau’s party wins Canada vote but fails to get majority||Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s Liberal Party secured victory in parliamentary elections but failed to get the majority he wanted in a vote that focused on the coronavirus pandemic but that many Canadians saw as unnecessary.Trudeau entered Monday’s election leading a stable minority government that wasn’t under threat of being toppled — but he was hoping Canadians would reward him with a majority for navigating the pandemic better than many other leaders. Still, Trudeau struggled to justify why he called the election early given the virus, and the opposition was relentless in accusing him of holding the vote two years before the deadline for his own personal ambition.In the end, the gamble did not pay off, and the results nearly mirrored those of two years ago. The Liberal Party was leading or elected in 158 seats — one more than they won 2019, and 12 short of the 170 needed for a majority in the House of Commons.The Conservatives were leading or elected in 119 seats, two less than they won in 2019. Also read: Jagmeet Singh will again be a kingmaker as Trudeau fails to win majorityPunjabi-origin candidates leading on all five seats in Brampton; Jagmeet Singh leads from Burnaby SouthThe leftist New Democrats were leading or elected in 25, while the Bloc Québécois were leading or elected in 34 and the Greens were down to two.“You are sending us back to work with a clear mandate to get Canada through this pandemic,” Trudeau said. “I hear you when you say you just want to get back to the things you love and not worry about this pandemic or an election.” ‘Bittersweet victory’Hours after the results came in, Trudeau greeted commuters and posed for pictures at a subway stop in his district in Montreal on Tuesday morning — a post-election tradition for the prime minister.But experts noted that it was not the victory Trudeau had hoped for.“Trudeau lost his gamble to get a majority so I would say this is a bittersweet victory for him,” said Daniel Béland, a political science professor at McGill University in Montreal.“Basically we are back to square one, as the new minority parliament will look like the previous one. Trudeau and the Liberals saved their skin and will stay in power, but many Canadians who didn’t want this late summer, pandemic election are probably not amused about the whole situation,” he said.Trudeau bet Canadians didn’t want a Conservative government during a pandemic, playing up his own party’s successes. Canada has one of the highest vaccination rates in the world, and Trudeau’s government spent hundreds of billions of dollars to prop up the economy amid lockdowns. Trudeau argued that the Conservatives’ approach, which has been skeptical of lockdowns and vaccine mandates, would be dangerous. Trudeau supports making vaccines mandatory for Canadians to travel by air or rail, something the Conservatives oppose.And he has pointed out that Alberta, run by a Conservative provincial government, is in crisis. Alberta Premier Jason Kenney said the province might run out of beds and staff for intensive care units within days. Kenney apologised for the dire situation and is now reluctantly introducing a vaccine passport and imposing a mandatory work-from-home order two months after lifting nearly all restrictions.Conservative leader Erin O’Toole, meanwhile, didn’t require his party’s candidates to be vaccinated and would not say how many were not. O’Toole described vaccination as a personal health decision, but a growing number of vaccinated Canadians are increasingly upset with those who refuse to get the shot.“The debate on vaccination and Trudeau taking on the anti-vaccination crowd helped the Liberals to salvage a campaign that didn’t start well for the party,” Béland said. Nelson Wiseman, a political science professor at the University of Toronto, said the Conservatives were hurt by the situation in Alberta. “The explosion of the pandemic in Alberta in the past 10 days undermined O’Toole’s compliments of the Alberta Conservatives on how they had handled the pandemic and reinforced Trudeau’s argument for mandatory vaccinations,” he said.The 49-year-old Trudeau channeled the star power of his father, the Liberal icon and late Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau, when he first won election in 2015 and has led his party to the top finish in two elections since. A Conservative win would have represented a rebuke of Trudeau by a politician with a fraction of his name recognition. O’Toole, 47, is a military veteran, former lawyer and a member of Parliament for nine years. “Canadians did not give Mr Trudeau the majority mandate he wanted,” O’Toole said. Conservative campaign co-chair Walied Soliman earlier said holding Trudeau to a minority government would be a win. O’Toole said he was more determined than ever to continue but his party might dump him as it did the previous leader who failed to beat Trudeau in 2019. O’Toole advertised himself a year ago as a “true-blue Conservative.” He became Conservative Party leader with a pledge to “take back Canada,” but immediately started working to push the party toward the political center. O’Toole’s strategy, which included disavowing positions held dear by his party’s base on issues such as climate change, guns and balanced budgets, was designed to appeal to a broader cross section of voters in a country that tends to be far more liberal than its southern neighbour. Whether moderate Canadians believed O’Toole is the progressive conservative he claims to be and whether he alienated traditional Conservatives became central questions of the campaign.Regina Adshade, a 28-year-old Vancouver software developer, said she was bothered that an election was called early, during a pandemic and with wildfires burning in British Columbia. But it didn’t stop her from voting Liberal because the party represents her values. “I don’t love there was an election right now, but it wasn’t going to change my vote,” she said.Trudeau’s legacy includes embracing immigration at a time when the US and other countries closed their doors. He also legalised cannabis nationwide and brought in a carbon tax to fight climate change. And he preserved free trade deal with the US and Mexico amid threats by former US President Donald Trump to scrap the agreement. AP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/trudeaus-party-wins-canada-vote-but-fails-to-get-majority-314172
21-09-2021||---||5 fresh faces likely in Charanjit Channi cabinet||Chandigarh, September 21With the new Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi taking over reins of the state, wait is on for the cabinet formation.Sources said that PCC chief Navjot Singh is reportedly keen on getting Ghanaur MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur into the Cabinet. As per the discussions so far, at least five new faces are to be inducted.Also read: Punjab Deputy CM: Last-minute switch bears Navjot Sidhu’s markRoller-coaster for Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh RandhawaWith two Deputy CMs, Majha region takes the pieChange of guard on top shifts political gears in Doaba regionThe Channi government is looking to induct at least five fresh faces in the new Cabinet. Those in the running include MLAs Amrinder Raja Warring, Gurkirat Kotli, Madan Lal Jalalpur and Dr Raj Kumar Verka. Two former women ministers Razia Sultana and Aruna Chaudhary are also among the probables. PCC chief Navjot Sidhu is reportedly keen on getting Ghanaur MLA Jalalpur into the Cabinet.Meanwhile, in the presence of Rahul Gandhi and state affairs incharge Harish Rawat, senior OBC party leader and PCC working president Sangat Singh Gilzian raised the issue of non-representation of OBC MLAs in Cabinet. MLAs from the OBC community were eyeing one of the Deputy CM posts, which have gone to a Hindu and Jat face.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/5-fresh-faces-likely-in-charanjit-channi-cabinet-314155
21-09-2021||---||Fresh expenses await new govt in Punjab, but state coffers ‘empty’||Jalandhar, September 20Sudden changes at the helm of affairs towards the fag end of the Congress tenure would certainly lead to unplanned expenditure, especially with regards to the publicity part.Almost all cities across the state have numerous hoardings of the state government, publicising its various schemes and portraying Capt Amarinder Singh as the Chief Minister.Also read: After change of guard, Capt Amarinder’s ads removed from LudhianaThe new group that has come to power would obviously want to make such changes in the public domain which make its presence felt. The former CM’s bold photos would have to be replaced with those of new Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, his team of Deputy CMs and the new ministers from the departments concerned, besides other party leaders, including PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu.An insider from the Public Relations (PR) Department said, “All these changes will take a few weeks. Once the portfolios are announced and oath-taking is done, the new posters will be designed, ordered and put up. Since Assembly polls could be just four months away, everything will be done at a war-footing.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fresh-expenses-await-new-govt-in-punjab-but-state-coffers-empty-314123
21-09-2021||---||Change of guard on top shifts political gears in Doaba region||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 20Changes in the Congress top brass in the past couple of days have suddenly shifted the political dynamics of Doaba region. Former minister Mahinder Singh Kaypee, who had been lying low since he lost the last Assembly elections, has become very active. Having wedded his daughter to the nephew of the new Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi, he was among the 40 special invitees for the swearing-in ceremony at the Raj Bhawan today. His photograph hugging Channi soon after the ceremony has been doing the rounds.Kaypee’s supporters were quick to comment, “It will now be our leader’s choice as to which seat he wants, Jalandhar West, from where he had been contesting till the recent years, or Adampur, from where he contested in 2017 but was not lucky enough.” Though Jalandhar West MLA Sushil Rinku is very comfortably placed, but the fact remains that he owes a strong allegiance to former CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s camp and the sudden change of power has not gone in his interest.As far as immediate gains are concerned, Pargat Singh seems to be quite a certain pick for a ministerial post. As he hosted a lunch at his official residence in Chandigarh for Channi shortly after his oath ceremony, Pargat’s wife Brinder Preet Kaur welcomed the CM and offered him ladoos. Navjot Singh Sidhu and Pargat’s brother-in-law and Shahkot MLA Hardev S Laddi Sherowalia were also present at the luncheon.Another frontrunner for the ministerial post from Doaba is first-time MLA Bawa Henry. Sidhu has visited Henry twice at his place since his recent elevation in the party. Both Pargat and Henry are Jatt Sikhs, even though it has been the Dalits from the Doaba region who have been a common pick for the party. But now, since the CM himself is a Dalit, the old theory may not work, Henry’s aides said, adding that Jatts could be a more feasible choice.If the party has to strike some balance by adding in MLAs of certain disillusioned groups of the party, then Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Cheema could be the pick from Capt Amarinder Singh camp and Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri from among ex-PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar’s favourites.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/change-of-guard-on-top-shifts-political-gears-in-doaba-region-314124
21-09-2021||---||Punjab University releases project report on ‘Phulkari’||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 20The Womens’ Studies Centre, Punjabi University, here on Monday released a project report on “Phulkari : Reviving and sustaining the traditional handicraft of Punjab”.The project was sponsored by the Centre for Women Development Studies, New Delhi, and completed by the Director, Women Studies Centre, Prof Dr Ritu Lehal, and other teaching faculty.Officials said they went to a number of villages and discussed issues and problems faced by artisans. The team has also given recommendations for the survival and sustenance of ‘Phulkari’. During release ceremony, centre officials also shared past major projects and plays in recorded form.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-university-releases-project-report-on-phulkari-313979
21-09-2021||---||After change of guard, Capt Amarinder’s ads removed from Ludhiana||Ludhiana, September 20After Charanjeet Singh Channi took oath as Punjab Chief Minister on Monday, the advertisements of former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, highlighting the Punjab Government’s achievements, have been removed from the unipoles and other sources in the city.Related story: Fresh expenses await new govt in Punjab, but state coffers ‘empty’Ahead of the Assembly elections to be held in early 2022, the advertisements of Capt Amarinder Singh were displayed at various prime locations in the city. These advertisements were paid and sites for advertisements were booked through the Ludhiana MC, as per the information.Now, new advertisements are likely to be displayed as per the instructions of the government department concerned, sources said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/after-change-of-guard-capt-amarinders-ads-removed-from-ludhiana-314052
21-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Free speech doesn’t entitle person to make derogatory remarks: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 20Freedom of speech does not entitle a person to make or post derogatory remarks against any community or gender, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted in a case where an accused allegedly used indecent and caste-based words against the Scheduled Castes on his Facebook account.The assertion by Justice Alka Sarin came during the hearing of a second anticipatory bail petition in an FIR registered on June 6, 2020, for forgery and other offences under Sections 469, 509 and 153A of the IPC, besides the provisions of the IT Act and the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act at Mehtiana police station in Hoshiarpur.The Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that the indecent and caste-based words used by the petitioner on his Facebook account subsequently went viral. Justice Sarin, after hearing the contentions, observed Hoshiarpur Additional Sessions Judge in his order dated June 22, 2020, noticed that a copy of a compromise dated May 8, 2020, placed on the police record showed the applicant/accused had admitted committing a major mistake by using abusive language and hurting the religious feelings of a sect on his Facebook account under another name.He also undertook not to repeat the same mistake in future. “The court is refraining from reproducing the content of the Facebook post made by the petitioner. Suffice to say that freedom of speech will not entitle a person to make derogatory remarks/posts against any community or gender,” Justice Sarin asserted.Dismissing the plea, Justice Sarin observed this was the second petition. The reliance by his counsel on a coordinate Bench decision in another case was wholly misplaced. In that case, it was specifically noticed that the accused joined the probe after the first petition’s rejection and the police did not find it necessary to take him into actual custody. Material changes since the filing of the first petition were also noticed as the probe was complete and challan presented.Justice Sarin added the state counsel, in the present case, specifically stated that the petitioner was absconding. Despite numerous raids, he was not been arrested. As such, the court did not find it to be a fit case for the grant of anticipatory bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/free-speech-doesnt-entitle-person-to-make-derogatory-remarks-hc-313834
21-09-2021||Faridkot||7 months after booking MLA Raja Warring’s kin, cops file cancellation report||Over seven months after booking the brother-in-law of Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Raja Warring in an abetment to suicide case, the Faridkot police have filed a cancellation report in the Chief Judicial Magistrate court here.After receiving the cancellation report, the court has summoned the complainant, Ankit Kataria, brother of deceased Karan Kataria.On February 6, 35-year-old private contractor Karan had allegedly killed his two children and injured his wife before shooting himself at Narain Nagar here.On a complaint by Ankit, the Faridkot police booked Warring’s brother-in-law Amit, alias Dampi Vinayak, under Section 306, IPC. While registering the FIR, the police had mainly relied upon a five-page suicide note left by Karan.Ankit alleged that his brother had some lifting contracts in Gidderbaha and Vinayak was interfering in the work due to Warring’s influence.Ankit said Vinayak was demanding money from his brother, which he had already paid to the accused. “After extorting Rs 1.22 crore from my brother last season, Vinayak was demanding more money in lieu of contract works of PSPCL,” Ankit had alleged.“Two days before his death, my brother had approached Vinayak, demanding that he return some money out of the Rs 1.22 crore, which he refused and told Karan to commit suicide,” he said in the FIR. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/7-months-after-booking-mla-raja-warrings-kin-cops-file-cancellation-report-313835
21-09-2021||---||Bathinda: Cotton growers protest over pest attack||Bathinda, September 20Irked over the growing problem of pink bollworm infestation in the Malwa region, hundreds of farmers, led by BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leader Jagdev Singh Jogewala, protested outside the office of the District Agriculture Officer here on Monday.They also brought the destroyed cotton crop with them. Farmers claimed that 80 to 90 per cent of the cotton crop had been destroyed by the pink bollworm, but the Agriculture Department was still in deep slumber.Jogewala said there was a widespread attack of pink bollworm in Bathinda and Mansa districts. He said it was similar to the 2015 whitefly attack, when most of the cotton crop was destroyed. He alleged that the Agriculture Department was underestimating the damage done by the pink bollworm to hide its failure.Meanwhile, farmer leaders Kulwinder Singh Giana and Kulwant Sharma alleged that this time, the growers had been supplied fake Bt cotton seeds, which had led to the pink bollworm attack. They said this had been done by big companies and the government under an agreement reached with corporate houses. “It’s a step to grab our lands.”Protesters said they would be forced to plough their cotton crop in coming days and demanded a high-level inquiry into the matter of Bt seeds.Farmers further said after Bathinda and Mansa, the pest attack had started in other districts as well. They said the farmers had sprayed pesticides three to four times so far, but the pink bollworm was still present. The leaders demanded that the Punjab Government should pay a special compensation of Rs 60,000 per acre to the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-cotton-growers-protest-over-pest-attack-313836
21-09-2021||Moga||8 nabbed for illegal mining in Moga||The police have arrested eight persons and busted an illegal mining scam on the Sutlej bed adjoining Sherpur Taiba village in the district’s Dharamkot subdivision, senior officials said here today.The accused — Karnail Singh, Sukhwinder Singh, Surjan Singh, Malkit Singh, Jaspreet Singh, Rajanpreet Singh, Sahib Singh and Surinder Singh — have been booked under Sections 379 and 411, IPC, and Section 21 (3) of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act at Dharamkot police station.The police said they had impounded eight heavy vehicles, including five tractor-trailers and tippers loaded with sand, one JCB and two poclain machines. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/8-nabbed-for-illegal-mining-in-moga-313837
21-09-2021||Ropar||3-kg gold, Rs 8L robbed from jeweller’s house in Kiratpur Sahib||Four robbers allegedly decamped with around 3-kg gold and Rs 8 lakh from the house of a jeweller at gunpoint in Kiratpur Sahib on Sunday. The victim, Rajinder Kumar, said his son Ankit Soni was injured in the incident.On Sunday night, when Kumar was outside, four masked persons entered his house and attacked Ankit, his wife Nancy and their two daughters.DSP Raminder Singh Kahlon said the robbers, hit Soni with a sharp-edged weapon and Soni too opened fire on them from his revolver but the three fled while one of them fell unconscious on hitting a door and was declared brought dead after being taken to a hospital, said Kahlon.The deceased accused has been identified as Raj Kumar of Himachal Pradesh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-kg-gold-rs-8l-robbed-from-jewellers-house-in-kiratpur-sahib-313838
21-09-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Power, water bills taken up at first Cabinet meet||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 20The populist decisions to be taken by the newly appointed Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi may be difficult to implement, considering the precarious financial position of the state.The three-member Cabinet, including Deputy Chief Ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and OP Soni, that met on Monday night, discussed various issues, which not only counter the narrative of the Opposition looking to woo voters with sops, but are also likely to bring several categories of voters to the Congress fold.It has been decided to allow free access of sand to the owners of land and the system of contracts for sand mining will be abolished. The decision is to be implemented from October 2 and will be finally passed by the Cabinet next week, after instructions to frame a policy and bring it to the next meeting was taken tonight. Though move is populist and likely to bring down the price of sand, the state government will lose about Rs 300 crore it earns from auctioning of quarries.The decision to give additional 100 units of free power to already subsidised consumers (from SC/BC/BPL domestic categories), by October 2, will actually raise the power subsidy bill of the state government by Rs 800 crore. These categories are already getting 200 units of free power. The Additional Chief Secretary, Power, was instructed to extend the scheme for power consumers and get it approved in the next Cabinet meeting, scheduled for September 29.Already, the annual power subsidy bill of the state is Rs 10,668 crore, which the state finds difficult to bear. Each year, the subsidy due in the previous year is carried forward. This fiscal, too, the unpaid subsidy that has been carried forward from 2020-21 is Rs 6,000 crore.Increasing the subsidy bill of the state further may hit the financial health of the state power utilities, which after several years have come out of the red.The directions given to officers to frame a policy to waive the water bills of domestic rural consumers and giving them free supply, besides subsidised supply to urban domestic consumers will cost the state over over Rs 100 crore. In 2017, when the Congress government took over, the total pending water bills of consumers were about Rs 650 crore. Since then two One-Time Settlement (OTS) Schemes were announced and total bills, including penalty and surcharge, worth Rs 460 crore have been waived. Since August 2018, the water bills are again pending.A complete waiver of water bills now will only cement this belief that bills need not be paid. As on July 31, the state government was facing a revenue deficit of Rs 3,099 crore. The state's revenue receipts are Rs 20,539. 83 crore, against the annual estimated receipts of Rs 95,257.60 crore. The expenditure comparatively is Rs 23,639.66 crore.Hussan Lal picked Principal Secy to CMChandigarh: After the oath ceremony, the CM announced Hussan Lal as his Principal Secretary and Rahul Tiwari as Special Principal Secretary. They replace Tejveer Singh and Gurkirat Kirpal, respectively, who are yet to be given a posting. Both Lal and Tiwari have worked with Channi. There is speculation over administrative overhaul in Punjab in a day or so, with officers in districts too being transferred.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/power-water-bills-taken-up-at-first-cabinet-meet-313839
21-09-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||Amid political turmoil, Punjab may get new DGP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 20With the change of guard, the state may have a new Director General of Police (DGP).The names of 1986 batch IPS officer Sidharth Chattopadhyaya, 1987 batch VK Bhawra and 1988 batch Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota are doing the rounds. All these officers have more than six months of residual service, making them eligible for the post. Chattopadhyaya met CM Charanjit Channi today, sources said. The government may take a decision late at night today or tomorrow.Sources said Chattopadhyaya was close to the new leadership in power, but Sahota was a strong candidate due to less opposition against him in the new group. With 11 months of service left, he has largely remained non-controversial.Bhawra and Rohit Chaudhary, who have nine and seven months of service left, too, can emerge as the final choice. Discussions were on till the filing of this report.The CM office is also looking at procedural and legal clarity on the appointment of the DGP — whether it can change the DGP on its own immediately or has to go through the Union Public Service Commission.The government is trying to take a leaf from the West Bengal government, which has appointed acting DGP Madan Malviya till the UPSC clears the panel of officers. It has also moved the Supreme Court, seeking revision of its order of involving the UPSC in the process of appointing the DGP.Gupta on way outDinkar Gupta has completed 2 years and seven months as DGP; his retirement is due in 2024||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-political-turmoil-punjab-may-get-new-dgp-313840
21-09-2021||Chamkaur Sahib||Punjab CM’s constituency Chamkaur Sahib gets Rs 50 cr for facelift||CM Charanjit Singh Channi today announced Rs 50 crore for beautification of Chamkaur Sahib town. Addressing a thanksgiving meeting in his Assembly constituency after taking oath as the CM, he also announced that a theme park built in memory of two elder Sahibzadas of Guru Gobind Singh would be inaugurated on November 6.Senior Congress leader Manpreet Singh Badal accompanied him to the event. Paying rich tributes to elder Sahibzadas, he said it was due to their blessings that he had become CM despite belonging to a poor family. He also thanked residents of Chamkaur Sahib for supporting him. The CM said justice would be done soon in the Bargari sacrilege case as he was a devout Sikh and could not tolerate that culprits were roaming freely. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cms-constituency-chamkaur-sahib-gets-rs-50-cr-for-facelift-313841
21-09-2021||Former ministers Vijay Inder Singla||Team Capt Amarinder in a huddle||Also read: After change of guard, Capt Amarinder’s ads removed from LudhianaPosters congratulating Mohindra dot PatialaSoon after news of Brahm Mohindra’s reported elevation to the post of the Deputy CM appeared, flex boards congratulating him came up in his hometown Patiala. But, the last-minute change in the Congress high command’s decision to pick OP Soni in his place left party leaders in a fix.CM, Sidhu in Delhi todayCM Charanjit Singh Channi, along with PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, will meet top leaders on Tuesday. Sources say the issue of Cabinet expansion, apart from other matters, is on the agendaCapt-Channi meet deferredThe proposed meeting of CM Charanjit Singh Channi with Capt Amarinder Singh could not happen due to prior engagement of the former. Earlier in the day, Channi had announced to meet Capt Amarinder as a courtesy call.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/team-capt-amarinder-in-a-huddle-313842
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||15% pay hike for Punjab employees||CM Channi's house to be gheraoedSangrur: Members of BEd and TET Pass Union, who have been sitting on an indefinite protest here since December 31, 2020, have announced to gherao the house of new CM Charnjit Channi on September 24. “After a meeting, we decided to gherao his house,” said Sukhwinder Dhilwan, union president. TNSArhtiya’s son abductedHoshiarpur: A group of masked men allegedly kidnapped a local arhtiya’s son, Rajan, from the sabzi mandi on Phagwara road at 4.45 am on Monday. Rajan’s father Jaspal later received a WhatsApp call from a foreign number, seeking ransom (unconfirmed amount Rs 2 crore). A case has been registered. OCTwo bodies recoveredAbohar: Bodies of two construction workers, Shivdayal (25) and Deendayal (24), who got buried while digging a well in Neolakhi village in Hanumangarh five days ago, have been recovered, said officials on Monday. OC2 held with stolen vehiclesSangrur: The Malerkotla police have arrested two persons, Lavpreet Singh and Rachpal Singh, allegedly involved in the theft of vehicles and seized one Scorpio and a Fortuner. “They had forged the papers of both the vehicles,” the police said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/15-pay-hike-for-punjab-employees-313843
21-09-2021||---||Punjab Deputy CM: Last-minute switch bears Navjot Sidhu’s mark||Chandigarh/New Delhi, Sept 20A strong footprint of Navjot Singh Sidhu in running the affairs of the Punjab Congress and state government is clearly visible, if the last-minute replacement of six-time MLA from Patiala rural Brahm Mohindra with five-time Amritsar Central MLA OP Soni as one of the Deputy Chief Ministers is any indication.Soni along with Sukhjinder Randhawa took oath as the Deputy CM during the swearing-in ceremony here today.The development affirms growing hold of Sidhu in running the affairs of the Channi-led Congress government. While Randhawa had Sidhu’s stamp of approval, the latter played a key role in replacing Mohindra with Soni. Both Deputy CMs belong to the Majha region.Sources said the PCC chief had a direct conflict with Mohindra, who took over as the Local Government Minister after Sidhu resigned from the Cabinet in 2019. Mohindra had been strongly supporting Capt Amarinder Singh against Sidhu.Till last night, Mohindra, a Hindu face, had been sounded that he would be the Deputy CM. Merely one-and-a-half hour before the swearing-in ceremony, he was replaced with Soni at Sidhu’s bidding. Of late, Soni had been supporting Capt Amarinder Singh. The appointment of Soni indicates the high command wants to placate Captain Amarinder loyalists.Another factor going in Soni’s favour was his little-known proximity to former PM Manmohan Singh who, sources said, had intervened to propose Soni’s name as a minister in the Punjab Government after the party won in 2017. Soni, initially left out of the Cabinet, was eventually included a year later.“Soni is someone who would defend the Congress vociferously when Sidhu, as a BJP representative, mounted political offensives on the party. Soni is seen as a staunch loyalist. His appointment balances power equations within the party,” said a Congress leader privy to the development.In the changing political equations after Captain Amarinder resigned to make way for Channi, the corridors of power are rife with reports that suggest the PCC chief pulled out all the stops to ensure a Dalit Sikh leader became the Chief Minister. It suited the aspirants of the CM post in the next Assembly elections.Sidhu was reported to have been vehemently opposed to the consideration of Randhawa as the CM candidate and had instead batted for a Dalit Sikh to be given the coveted post. Sidhu finally prevailed upon the party leadership to get Channi as the CM.LeaderspeakCong’s political cardIt’s unfortunate that even before Channi was sworn in, the Congress put shackles on his feet. Channi’s appointment is a political card to woo Dalit voters. —Parminder Singh Dhindsa, SAD (sanyukt)Probe scam for dalitsChanni should now order a thorough probe into the SC scholarship scam and punish the guilty. This way, he will do great service to Dalit youths. —Prem Singh Chandumajra, SADBook DharamsotCapt Amarinder didn’t act against Dharamsot even after a principal secy-level officer found him guilty. Now, we expect Channi to take action against him. —Harpal Singh Cheema, AAPLeft with no optionIt seems Channi was chosen as the Congress was left with no option. If the party is not confident about his leadership, why did they make him the CM for four months just before polls? —Ashwani Sharma, BJPHuge insult to scsIt’s an insult to Dalits if Channi is holding the seat for Sidhu, a staunch Gandhi loyalist. This undermines the Dalit empowerment narrative being peddled by Congress. Shame. —Amit Malviya, BJP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-deputy-cm-last-minute-switch-bears-navjot-sidhus-mark-313845
21-09-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Manpreet Badal emerges taller in Punjab Congress churn||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 20With the change of the guard, former Finance Minister and Bathinda Urban MLA Manpreet Singh Badal has emerged stronger, even as his former Cabinet colleague Gurpreet Singh Kangar, close to former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, may not make the cut in the new Cabinet.Pushed for Channi as CMParty sources say Manpreet had some role to play in the last-minute change in the choice of Chief Minister. Manpreet apparently whispered Charanjit Singh Channi’s name as a Dalit face. He is also learnt to have impressed upon the party high command to consider a Dalit CM, considering the ground situation in the state with various parties announcing posts for SCs ahead of the Assembly elections. After visiting the Governor along with Harish Rawat to stake the claim as the next Chief Minister, Channi had called on Manpreet, a neighbour in Chandigarh. Manpreet, who maintained silence during the Captain-Sidhu tussle, seems to have succeeded in playing his cards well. The fact that Manpreet has a good rapport with Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra, there is likelihood that he may be part of the new ministry, retaining the Finance portfolio.The newly elected Chief Minister may look to induct young faces in his Council of Ministers and Congress’ Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring is a likely candidate.Sources in the party also indicate Channi may not retain some ministers from the Captain Amarinder Cabinet. They include former Revenue Minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar and former Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, both considered close to the former CM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/manpreet-badal-emerges-taller-in-punjab-congress-churn-313853
21-09-2021||GS Paul||OP Soni once took on Navjot Sidhu||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 20Amritsar Central MLA OP Soni was a surprise pick for the Congress as Deputy CM. Soni was nowhere in the picture till the eleventh hour when his name emerged for the post.Soni, 64, is the second MLA from Amritsar after Balramji Das Tandon, who occupied the seat of Deputy CM in the state government. Tandon, the founding member of Jan Sangh and a legislator from Amritsar for five times from 1960-77, had served on the same position during the Justice Gurnam Singh (retd) Akali Dal-Jan Sangh ministry in 1969-70. Interestingly, both represented Amritsar Central as a lawmaker.Soni, the five- time MLA, never tasted defeat, except for once in the 2009 LS polls against then BJP candidate Navjot Sidhu, who had won by 6,858 votes. During the course of friction between Capt Amarinder and Sidhu, he had backed the former.Despite his flourishing career, Soni had to wait for a year before finally becoming the part of Capt Amarinder’s Cabinet as the Education Minister in April 2018. During the reshuffle, he was divested of his portfolio, to which he had revolted “silently”. After two weeks, he accepted the charge of medical education and research in June 2019 but not before speaking out on record that he was punished instead of being rewarded as the school education had shown improvement and the party had done well in the 2019 LS polls from his constituency. Amritsar’s first mayor, Soni (1991-1996) remained popular among residents and was still fondly referred to as “Mayor Saheb”. His USP is his “easy accessibility”.Lost once in 30 yrsAmritsar’s first mayor Soni (1991-1996) never tasted defeat in politics, except for once in the 2009 Lok Sabha polls against then BJP candidate Navjot Singh Sidhu, who had won by 6,858 votesStood by Ex-CMThroughout the fiasco between ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh and Navjot Sidhu, Soni was seen standing tall beside the former. He was also conspicuous by his absence when Sidhu, after being appointed PCC chief, visited the Golden Temple||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/op-soni-once-took-on-navjot-sidhu-313854
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Congress firefights Harish Rawat’s 'polls under Navjot Sidhu' remark||A remark by Harish Rawat, AICC general secretary in charge of Punjab, that the forthcoming elections will be fought under the leadership of PCC chief Navjot Sidhu kicked up a political row with former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar, a front-runner to replace Capt Amarinder Singh, calling it “baffling”.Sidhu to lead campaignGiven circumstances, elections will be fought with CM’s Cabinet under PCC headed by Sidhu. He is very popular. —Harish Rawat, Punjab affairs inchargeUndermines authorityRawat’s statement is baffling. It may undermine CM’s authority and negate the very ‘raison d’être’ of his selection for the post. —Sunil Jakhar, Ex-PCC chiefThe AICC had to step in to clarify the elections would be fought “jointly” under Sidhu and CM Charanjit Singh Channi. Defending Sidhu, Rawat had said: “It (party face for upcoming state polls) will be decided by the Congress president, but given the circumstances, elections will be fought with CM’s Cabinet under PCC, whose chief is Navjot Sidhu. He is very popular.” Hours before the oath-taking ceremony of Channi, Jakhar tweeted: “‘Elections to be fought under Sidhu’is baffling.” He wrote: “On the swearing-in day of @Charnjit_channi as CM, Rawat’s statement that ‘elections will be fought under Sidhu’, is baffling. It’s likely to undermine CM’s authority and also negate the very ‘raison d’être’ of his selection for this position.”Clearing the air, AICC communication department head Randeep Surjewala said: “Our CM is Channi. Our state Congress president is Sidhu… so Sidhu is heading the organisation and Channi is the face of the government. They will fight the elections jointly.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-firefights-harish-rawats-polls-under-navjot-sidhu-remark-313863
21-09-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Roller-coaster for Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa||Tribune News ServiceDera Baba Nanak, September 20Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has successfully managed to manoeuvre innumerable tight turns, steep slopes and political reversals in what has been a roller-coaster ride for the Dera Baba Nanak MLA in his three-decade-long career.He commenced his electoral career in 1997 with a loss but with political insight and wisdom over the years, he weathered many a storm to become the Deputy CM.In 2017, after becoming an MLA for the third time, he stepped on the gas-pedal. He started consolidating his position by ushering in developmental initiatives.The Kartarpur Corridor, built in 2018-19, acted as a catalyst in elevating his stature. In the wake of its construction, Randhawa quietly brought in developmental works amounting to Rs 172 crore to his Assembly seat. He played a key role in its planning and execution and often camped at the site for days. He was made the Cooperation and Jails Minister when ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh expanded his Cabinet six months after winning the polls. Considered to be a no-nonsense politician, his hold over his department’s bureaucrats was such that nobody dared to ask him any questions even if those were convenient ones.His ‘Man Friday’ in his constituency is Kamaljeet Singh Tony, a progressive vegetable farmer. He is Randhawa’s go-to man. The brashness and brazenness which earlier were central to his personality are now relics.“Earlier, the man was feared. Now he is revered,” said a Cabinet colleagueReined in mining mafiaRandhawa was the one who reined in the mining mafia after it started selling sand at exorbitant rates and when farmers refused acquisition of their land, he donned the role of a negotiatorSaved MarkfedAs Cooperation Minister, Randhawa did what none of his predecessors could do. He took several fiscal measures to pull Markfed out of the red. The Rs809.85-crore debt, accrued over the past 60 years, was reduced by almost 50%||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/roller-coaster-for-deputy-cm-sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-313866
21-09-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Not like ‘Icarus’, Sukhjinder Randhawa says he will work within his limitations||Tribune News ServiceDera Baba Nanak , Sept 20Whenever newly elected Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa is with his near and dear ones, he often recounts the legend of Greek mythological creature Icarus — the one who flew too close to the sun and burnt his wings.Unlike Icarus, I always work within my limitations. At times, I have been short of funds, but nevertheless, I have not let development suffer in my area. I have now brought in two mega projects in Kalanaur, which is part of my Assembly seat. These are a government college and the Rs45 crore state-of-the-art Guru Nanak Dev Sugarcane Research and Development Institute. Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, newly appointed Dy CM“Unlike Icarus, I always work within my limitations. At times, I have been short of funds, but nevertheless, I have not let development suffer in my area. I have now brought in two mega projects in Kalanaur, which is part of my Assembly seat. These are a government college and the Rs45 crore state-of-the-art Guru Nanak Dev Sugarcane Research and Development Institute (GNDSRDI). It has been modelled on the lines of one of Asia’s premier sugarcane institute —Pune-based Vasantdada Sugarcane Institute (VSI). I personally went to Pune with my team of officials last year to study its working. This venture will give employment to hundreds of youth hailing from my area,” he said.Once funds were allocated, difficulties arose on identifying land for the prestigious sugarcane project. Randhawa says he managed to convince the Kalanaur Panchayat to earmark 100 acres out of the 1,600 acres lying vacant with it.“Not many eyebrows were raised as the venture was seen as a major developmental initiative that will provide employment opportunities through allied units,” he said.Observers recall how during the construction of the Kartarpur Corridor, farmers refused to let the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) acquire their agricultural land and how Randhawa played the role of a negotiator.“He took up the farmers’ cause with the NHAI through the local SDM. In one instance, he even managed to convince a farmer whose land holdings were located just close to where the Integrated Check Post (ICP) was to come up to give his land for free. He brought a truce between farmers and the NHAI. Had he not intervened, the Corridor project could not have taken off,” said Rachpal Singh, an agriculturist.Supporters led by Kamaljeet Singh Tony of Talwandi Rama village are planning a massive celebration, when the Deputy CM arrives at his native village of Dharowali this Saturday. Tony is a long-time loyalist of Randhawa family and manages all their affairs — political and social — in the area. He said he had also brought in several developmental initiatives for Dera Baba Nanak town in the wake of the construction of Kartarpur Corridor.“The state government sanctioned Rs172 crore to beautify the town. A new 500-metre long heritage street was established on the lines of one near Golden temple,” he said.Political inningsRandhawa started his political career with a loss in the 1997 Assembly elections from the Fatehgarh Churian seat. In 2002, he defeated Nirmal Singh Kahlon to make his debut in the Vidhan Sabha. In 2007, he lost the seat to Kahlon. Later, after the delimitation exercise, a new seat of Dera Baba Nanak was carved out. Dharowali falls in this seat. He won the 2012 and 2017 elections on both occasions defeating Akali strongman Sucha Singh Langah.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/not-like-icarus-sukhjinder-randhawa-says-he-will-work-within-his-limitations-313909
21-09-2021||Neeraj Bagga||With two Deputy CMs, Majha region takes the pie||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 20Supporters of five-time MLA OP Soni erupted in joy as he took oath of office as the Deputy Chief Minister on Monday. His residence here was abuzz with celebrations as he took the oath of office in Chandigarh.Dholis played Punjabi numbers, while his supporters danced to the beats. His nephew Vikas Soni was attending visitors coming to greet the family over the elevation of Soni’s residence in posh Rani Ka Bagh locality.Wazir Chand, Soni’s neighbour, said: “Soni’s work speaks for itself. He is holy city’s first Mayor who brought about visible changes in the city.” He hoped that the long-pending demands of the business fraternity will be addressed with his elevation as he resolved several issues concerning the community during his four-and-a-half year rule as the Cabinet minister.Soni has taken up various matters of the business community in the Cabinet in the past and we hope he will put in similar efforts in future as well Piara Lal Seth, president of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar MandalManmohan Chauhan, another neighbour, said: “Soni has already made Rani Ka Bagh a paradise and city’s model locality. Its parks, roads, civic amenities and others are up to the mark.” He said he would bring more positive changes to the locality. “Soni is a popular leader who efficiently handled the Covid-induced lockdown and oversaw the vaccination drive,” he said.Congress workers celebrate at newly appointed Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni’s residence in Amritsar on Monday. Photo Vishal Kumar Neeraj BaggaPiara Lal Seth, president of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM), while welcoming the elevation of Soni as deputy chief minister, congratulated Chief Minister SS Channy and Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa.He recalled that Soni had taken up various matters of the business community in the Cabinet in the past and hoped that he would put in similar efforts in future as well. He said the proposed meeting of the PPBM with the CM on September 21 has been cancelled with the change of guard in the state. He anticipated that Soni would re-arrange the meeting and will help in resolving all pending matters of the entrepreneurs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/with-two-deputy-cms-majha-region-takes-the-pie-313905
21-09-2021||---||NCW chief seeks newly appointed Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi’s resignation||New Delhi, September 20National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma has sought the resignation of newly appointed Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi over the #MeToo allegations levelled against him.Also read: From being Kharar councillor to first Dalit CM, Charanjit Singh Channi has come a long way“It is shameful and highly objectionable that such a person has been appointed as the Punjab CM. We do not want another woman to go through the same experience and endure the same harassment that the IAS officer had faced. Channi needs to be held accountable and should resign from the CM’s post,” she said.Sharma said the Punjab State Commission for Women had taken cognisance of the incident, but the state government did not take action against him. “I am shocked and disappointed to find that Channi, a #MeToo accused who had allegedly sent an inappropriate text message to a woman IAS officer in 2018, has been appointed as the Punjab CM,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ncw-chief-seeks-newly-appointed-punjab-cm-charanjit-singh-channis-resignation-313937
21-09-2021||Vibha Sharma||BJP in touch with Punjab Congress’s unhappy lot?||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 20Former Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh is playing his cards close to his chest, leaving observers guessing over his next move — whether he will favour the BJP or float his own party or stay in the Congress and play a spoilsport in the upcoming elections — while sources say the BJP is “in touch with those unhappy with the latest political developments in the ruling party in Punjab”.Also read:Charanjit Singh Channi, Navjot Singh Sidhu both party’s poll face in Punjab: CongressHope Captain won’t act against party interest: Congress anxiety speaks through Ashok GehlotAll possibilities are open till the last move, they say, pointing to the “continuing infighting” in the ruling party even after the resignation of Capt Amarinder from the CM’s post.The BJP, which is contesting the Punjab elections on its own (so far) for the first time after the Akali Dal left the NDA alliance, is looking for strong candidates to contest and perhaps be its chief ministerial candidate in the state.Editorial: Congress fiasco: Captain’s exit as CM leaves party on sticky wicket in PunjabObservers, too, believe the BJP can benefit from an association of any form with someone like Capt Amarinder with strong nationalist credentials, the main issue of the BJP.With only the three farm legislations standing between him and the BJP, the observers say the saffron outfit may stand a good chance in Punjab if it decides to take a step back on the contentious matter or enacts a stringent law on the MSP, which Sangh affiliate — the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh — is also demanding.The BJP is keeping a close watch on the developments in Punjab and intends to keep up the pressure on new CM Charanjit Singh Channi.Meanwhile, the BJP today accused the Congress of using “Dalits like pawns”, challenging it to “guarantee” that the CM for “six months” Channi will “not be dropped” in favour of someone else after the elections.The BJP IT cell in charge, Amit Malviya, called Dalits “mere political pawns in Congress’ devious politics. In Punjab, they claim to have made the CM from the Scheduled Caste community, only to be posted as a night watchman, till Gandhi family loyalist (Navjot Singh) Sidhu takes over, but maintain deafening silence over lynching of a Dalit youth in Rajasthan”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-in-touch-with-punjab-congresss-unhappy-lot-313936
21-09-2021||---||Charanjit Singh Channi, Navjot Singh Sidhu both party’s poll face in Punjab: Congress||New Delhi, September 20The Congress on Monday said it would fight the 2022 Punjab elections under the leadership of both CM Charanjit Singh Channi and PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu even as rivals accused the party of appointing the state’s first Dalit CM as a “mere tokenism”.Also read: Congress firefights Harish Rawat’s 'polls under Navjot Sidhu' remarkBJP in touch with Punjab Cong’s unhappy lot?Five fresh faces likely in Charanjit Channi cabinetHours after the BJP, SAD, BSP and AAP accused the Congress of paying lip service to the Dalit cause in the light of AICC general secretary Harish Rawat’s remark that elections would be fought under Sidhu, the party went into crisis management with media chief Randeep Surjewala saying Channi as CM would be the face of the party in the next polls along with Sidhu. “Our face will be Channi and Sidhu as also ordinary Congress workers and leaders who will be supporting them. Let there be no misgivings about our Punjab Chief Minister,” Surjewala said after Rawat’s remark gave ammunition to the rival parties.BSP chief Mayawati said, “The appointment a few months before elections looks like a poll gimmick.” SAD leaders asked if Channi was just a “night watchman”, while BJP’s Amit Malviya termed Rawat’s remark a huge insult to Dalits.“If Channi has been made the CM only to hold the seat for Sidhu, it completely undermines the Dalit empowerment narrative peddled by the Congress,” said Malviya.Hitting back, Surjewala asked the BJP why it had not named a single Dalit leader as CM in the states ruled by it. “The Congress has taken a historic decision in Punjab. A Dalit, who proudly engaged in manual labour with his father, has today become the CM,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/charanjit-singh-channi-navjot-singh-sidhu-both-partys-poll-face-in-punjab-congress-313935
21-09-2021||---||New CM Channi promises thinner power bills, free water in election-bound Punjab||Chandigarh, September 20New Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who is the first Dalit leader to head the state, today invoked his humble beginnings to connect with the aam aadmi in the run-up to the 2022 Assembly elections early next year.Editorial: Congress’ Dalit cardEye on the vote bank, the new CM played his aam aadmi card, saying that the Congress had catapulted a common man like him from the underprivileged section of society to the top post in Punjab.Also read:Charanjit Singh Channi, Navjot Singh Sidhu both party’s poll face in Punjab: CongressFive fresh faces likely in Charanjit Channi cabinetNCW chief seeks newly appointed Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi’s resignationPunjab CM’s constituency Chamkaur Sahib gets Rs 50 cr for faceliftEarlier in the day, the 58-year-old Channi was sworn in as the 16th Chief Minister of Punjab, along with his two deputies Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni, both from Majha, by Governor Banwarilal Purohit. The swearing-in, held at Punjab Raj Bhavan here, was attended by former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu among others. Capt Amarinder Singh, who resigned as Chief Minister two days back, was conspicuous by his absence.PM assures all helpWill continue to work with Punjab for betterment of people. — Narendra Modi, PMThe ceremony brought in an element of surprise as the name of Brahm Mohindra as Deputy Chief Minister was replaced with OP Soni’s just one and a half hours before the oath-taking. The decision of the party leadership to replace Mohindra, a senior Hindu leader, with another Hindu face, reportedly came after an objection by Sidhu, said sources.In his first interaction with the media after taking over as Chief Minister, Channi, flanked by Sidhu and AICC Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat, in an emotional speech, said “I am aam aadmi… this is the actual aam aadmi sarkar”, taking a swipe at the Aam Aadmi Party.In the same breath, he asked the Centre to withdraw the three contentious farm laws, as he reiterated his government’s commitment to support the farmers against the central legislations.Getting down to business on Monday soon after the swearing-in, Channi gave a stern warning to mafia, especially those involved in sand mining, thus addressing one of the core issues in the five-point agenda handed out by the PPCC chief to Capt Amarinder Singh government. The other issues include action on the 2015 desecration of Guru Granth Sahib and the police firing on protesters, arrest of the big fish in drug rackets, cancellation of power purchase agreements and rejection of the Centre’s new farm laws.“I am a representative of the common man, the farmer and anyone who is oppressed. I am not a representative of the rich. Those who are into sand mining and other illegal activities, shouldn’t come to me.I am not their representative,” said the new CM. In a conciliatory gesture, he mentioned his predecessor in the thanksgiving note: “Captain Amarinder Singh did a lot of good work for the people of Punjab. I will complete his unfinished work.”Maintaining that the “government of the poor, for the poor and with the poor” would run in a transparent manner, the CM promised free water supply to smaller homes in rural and urban areas and reduction in power tariff. He also assured that the pending dues for water would be waived for the poor. Claiming that he would end corruption in government offices, Channi said: “Either corrupt officers will stay or I will stay.”Cabinet mulls...Why caste factor now, asks JakharPCC ex-chief Sunil Jakhar, in a veiled attack on those who scuttled the move to elect him as CM, said: “Why caste and religion were not considered when I was made the PCC chief?”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-cm-channi-promises-thinner-power-bills-free-water-in-election-bound-punjab-313934
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab likely to get new DGP||With the change of guard in Punjab, the state may have a new Director-General of Police.The names of 1986-batch IPS officer Sidharth Chattopadhyaya, 1987-batch VK Bhawra and 1988-batch Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota are doing the rounds.All these officers have more than six months of residual service making them eligible for the post of DGP, Punjab.Chattopadhyaya met CM Charanjit Channi today, informed sources.The government may take a decision today late at night or tomorrow. Sources said that Chattopadhyaya has close proximity with the new political group of Congress in power but Sahota is a strong candidate due to less opposition against him within the new Congress group in power.He has 11 months of service left. He has largely remained non-controversial. Bhawra and Rohit Chaudhary, who have nine and seven months of service too can emerge as the final choice.Sources said discussions were on regarding the issue till the filing of this report.The chief minister’s office is also looking at procedural and legal clarity on the appointment of the DGP.On whether it can change the DGP on its own immediately or has to go through the Union Public Service Commission.The Punjab government is trying to take a leaf from the West Bengal government, which has appointed an acting DGP, Madan Malviya, till the UPSC clears the panel of officers. It has also moved the Supreme Court seeking revision of its order of involving the UPSC in the process of appointing of the DGP.The Supreme Court had in 2018 laid down the procedure of the appointment of the DGP of the state. It said a state government has to send a panel of five or more officers to the UPSC three months before the retirement of the incumbent DGP.The UPSC was authorised to form a panel of three officers based on the candidate’s length of service, record and range of service. The SC had in March 2019 revised the orders saying officers with six months of service can be empanelled. Earlier, it was two years of residual service.It also ordered the DGP will have a minimum of two years of tenure. Gupta has completed two years and seven months as DGP. His retirement is due in 2024.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-likely-to-get-new-dgp-313822
21-09-2021||Aditi Tandon||Channi, Sidhu both will be faces of Congress in Punjab polls, says party||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 20Hours after rivals BJP, Shiromani Akali Dal and BSP accused the Congress of appointing a Dalit CM in Punjab as a gimmick, the grand old party came out firmly in support of Charanjit Singh Channi and said it would fight state elections under both the CM and state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.Read also:“Our face will be Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu as also ordinary Congress workers and important leaders who will be supporting them. Let there be no misgivings about our Punjab CM. Mr Channi as CM will be the face of the Congress in Punjab elections and PCC chief will also be the Congress face,” Congress media head Randeep Surjewala said today, seeking to control the damage done by AICC general secretary Punjab Harish Rawat’s remarks that the Punjab election would be fought under Sidhu.The remark triggered political reactions with BJP, Mayawati and Akali Dal questioning Congress intentions behind naming a Dalit CM.“This is just a political gimmick,” said Mayawati while BJP’s Amit Malviya said Channi was a night watchman for cricketer Sidhu and would hold the CM seat for Sidhu till latter takes charge.Surjewala attacked the rival BJP asking why it had not nominated any Dalit CM in 12 odd states where they rule with allies.The Congress media chief also said the appointment of a Dalit CM in Punjab was a historic step and would go a long way in the political empowerment of disadvantaged sections.He hailed Channi for announcing pro-people decisions after taking oath today and said more historic decisions would follow.Former Punjab congress chief Sunil Jakhar had questioned Rawat’s statements this morning.Surjewala clarified later, “If anybody says one or the other will be face it’s being misinterpreted by media. Channi and Sidhu will both be faces,” Surjewala reiterated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-sidhu-both-will-be-faces-of-congress-in-punjab-polls-says-party-313786
21-09-2021||---||'I am aam aadmi..this is aam aadmi sarkar': Punjab CM Charanjit Channi's swipe at AAP||Chandigarh, September 20Promising to put an immediate end to the mafia raj, new Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday announced waiving the domestic water and sewerage bills, besides reducing the power tariff, of the poor in rural and urban areas.The Cabinet on Monday itself will decide on containing the sand mafia.Maintaining that the "government of the poor, for the poor and with the poor" would run in a transparent manner, Channi said the poor and the needy would not be harassed in any government office.Addressing the media after taking over as the CM, Channi broke down as he thanked the Congress leadership for choosing “an aam aadmi (common man)” for the top post.Claiming that he would end corruption in government offices, Channi said "either corrupt officers would stay or I would stay".“I am the aam aadmi sitting here while other parties keep talking about aam aadmi. This is the aam aadmi sarkar. It has to take many decisions for Punjab,” said Channi, flanked by Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and AICC Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat.“My father used to fix tents," he said, his voice choking.Channi included his predecessor Capt Amarinder Singh in his thanks-giving note.Channi is the first Dalit Sikh to become the Chief Minister of Punjab. He has two deputies, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Om Prakash Soni.Senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attended the oath ceremony, owning his decision to change the leadership in Punjab amid criticism from several quarters.“I am a representative of the common man, the farmer and anyone who is oppressed. I am not a representative of the rich. Those who are into sand mining and other illegal activities, don't come to me. I am not your representative,” the new Chief Minister said. Promising to exempt the poor from water bills, Channi said, “I will complete all of Captain's (Amarinder Singh's) unfinished work.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/i-am-aam-aadmi-this-is-aam-aadmi-sarkar-punjab-cm-charanjit-channis-swipe-at-aap-313752
21-09-2021||Tribune Web Desk||‘Elections in Punjab to be fought under Navjot Sidhu...baffling', Sunil Jakhar on Rawat's statement||Chandigarh, September 20The crisis and infighting in the Punjab Congress continues even as Capt Amarinder Singh stepped down from chief ministership and Charanjit Singh Channi took over as the leader of the Congress Legislature Party.Also readCharanjit Singh Channi takes oath as Punjab CMChanni, Sidhu both will be faces of Cong in Punjab polls: CongressSunil Jakhar, who was a frontrunner to replace Capt Amarinder Singh, hours before the swearing-in of Channi, tweeted: “Elections to be fought under Sidhu”, is baffling.”Editorial: Congress fiasco: Captain’s exit as CM leaves party on sticky wicket in PunjabHe wrote: “On the swearing-in day of Sh @Charnjit_channi as Chief Minister, Mr Rawat’s statement that “elections will be fought under Sidhu”, is baffling. It’s likely to undermine CM’s authority but also negate the very ‘raison d’être’ of his selection for this position.”On the swearing-in day of Sh @Charnjit_channi as Chief Minister, Mr Rawats’s statement that “elections will be fought under Sidhu”, is baffling. It’s likely to undermine CM’s authority but also negate the very ‘raison d’être’ of his selection for this position.  Defending Sidhu, Congress leader Harish Rawat speaking to media, said: It (party face for upcoming state polls) will be decided by Congress president, but given the circumstances, elections will be fought with CM's cabinet under Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, whose chief is Navjot Singh Sidhu. He is very popular.”Reacting to Jakhar’s tweets, the BJP, too, took a dig at Harish Rawat.BJP IT Cell head Amit Malviya said: “This is a huge insult to the entire Dalit community if Charanjit Singh Channi has been made the CM, only to hold the seat for Navjot Singh Sidhu, the chosen Gandhi family loyalist. This completely undermines the Dalit empowerment narrative being peddled by the Congress. Shame.”This is a huge insult to the entire Dalit community if Charanjit Singh Channi has been made the CM, only to hold the seat for Navjot Singh Sidhu, the chosen Gandhi family loyalist.This completely undermines the Dalit empowerment narrative being peddled by the Congress. Shame. https://t.co/8zkPmiq9cq  Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management committee, said “Entire Dalit leadership of @INCIndia should protest this dictatorial and discriminatory order/statement of @harishrawatcmuk & Gandhi Family. They have insulted the Dalits and CM-stature grossly!”Entire Dalit leadership of @INCIndia should protest this dictatorial and discriminatory order/statement of @harishrawatcmuk & Gandhi FamilyThey have insulted the Dalits and CM-stature grossly!@ANI @republic @thetribunechd @punjabkesari @TimesNow @htTweets @ZeeNews https://t.co/O5yva2VDtx  Former state Congress chief Sunil Kumar Jakhar, who was in the reckoning for chief minister’s post, on Sunday is said to have refused to be appointed as a deputy CM. Former Union minister Ambika Soni held late night meetings with party chief Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi at least twice on Sunday and has some role in the appointment of the new Chief Minister. It was her statement in favour of a Sikh chief minister that went against the top choice, Sunil Jakhar.In July, Navjot Singh Sidhu was appointed Punjab Congress chief amid escalating tension where he replaced Jakhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/elections-in-punjab-to-be-fought-under-navjot-sidhu-baffling-sunil-jakhar-on-rawats-statement-313737
