23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM performs Bhangra with varsity students in Kapurthala||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi was spotted performing Bhangra at an event in Kapurthala’s IK Gujral Punjab Technical University on Thursday. In a brief but eye-catching performance, Channi danced along with students on a song, “Nachde Punjabi Kinne Sohne Lagde”. Channi was wearing a white “kurta-pyjama” and a yellow turban and appeared to be enjoying the state’s folk dance along with the students, who were in traditional attires.   A video of Channi went viral on social media.After the performance, the chief minister hugged the students, who touched his feet.Earlier, the CM laid the foundation stone of BR Ambedkar Museum at the university and handed over job letters to the youth in a state-level mega job fair.Channi was sworn-in as the Punjab CM following an unceremonious exit of Amarinder Singh. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-performs-bhangra-with-varsity-students-in-kapurthala-315204
23-09-2021||Kapurthala (Punjab)||BR Ambedkar Museum will act as beacon to perpetuate his legacy: Punjab CM Charanjit Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday said the upcoming state-of-the-art BR Ambedkar museum will act as a beacon for perpetuating the glorious legacy of Baba Saheb amongst coming generations.Addressing the gathering after laying the foundation stone of the museum and handing over job letters to youth in a state-level mega job fair here at IK Gujral Punjab Technical University, the CM said the state government will spend Rs 150 crore on this prestigious project which will be a humble but befitting tribute to the iconic leader.He said this memorial will go a long way in perpetuating the life and philosophy of this great leader who played a great role in the welfare of the poorest of poor, according to an official statement.Channi said this project will be a unique amalgamation of facts in the subjects pertaining to the life, work and philosophy of Ambedkar, a Dalit icon and one of the principal architects of the Indian Constitution.On this occasion, Channi also performed ‘bhangra’ with a group of youths on a stage.The CM further said this aesthetically designed museum will be spread over an area of 25 acres and will come up with an investment of about Rs 150 crore.He said the museum will be divided into five zones with galleries showcasing life, philosophy, work, personal life and socio-economic impact of Baba Sahib’s philosophy.Paying rich tributes to Ambedkar, Channi described him as a great scholar, jurist, economist, social reformer and a statesman.Complementing the newly employed youngsters, he said it is good for them that they have got these jobs but this shall not be their final destination and they have to strive hard for achieving more success in future.He asked the youngsters to take inspiration from Baba Sahib for excelling in life.Channi assured fulsome support and cooperation to youngsters for carving out a new and vibrant Punjab.He said his only aim is to make Punjab a prosperous and progressive state for which he will make strenuous efforts.Soliciting support of youth for making Punjab a corruption free state, Channi said the state government will adopt zero tolerance policy towards corruption for which youth needs to play a proactive role.He said education is the only key to uplift the living standard of weaker and underprivileged sections due to which the government is laying major thrust on strengthening education infrastructure in the state.He said the state government will soon set up Dr BR Ambedkar Institute of Management in collaboration with IIM, Amritsar at Kapurthala.Likewise, he said, the School of Ambedkar Thoughts and Baba Sahib Ambedkar centre for Research in Inequality and Research will also be set up in Doaba region. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/br-ambedkar-museum-will-act-as-beacon-to-perpetuate-his-legacy-punjab-cm-charanjit-channi-315202
23-09-2021||---||Amid Punjab challenges, Harish Rawat meets Sunil Jakhar||New Delhi, September 23Congress' Punjab affairs in-charge and AICC General Secretary Harish Rawat on Wednesday called on former state unit president Sunil Jakhar to seek his cooperation for Punjab amid intense factional wars between former CM Amarinder Singh and PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and progressively escalating challenges.Jakhar, one of the chief ministerial frontrunners, had recently taken on Rawat for “undermining CM Charanjit Singh Channi by saying that the state elections will be fought under Navjot Singh Sidhu.”Rawat’s visit was also seen in the light of Jakhar’s unease over the former’s public statement that had “undermined” CM Channi.Rawat is learnt to have urged Jakhar to continue to provide guidance to party workers.The visit was seen as the Congress high command’s attempt to placate senior state leaders and keep them by their side at a time of an open rebellion by Capt Amarinder Singh.Jakhar, whose name was actively being deliberated for CM’s post in Punjab, is known to be a Rahul Gandhi confidante but caste equations in Punjab led the party to nominate a Dalit leader as CM.Jakhar’s open questioning of Rawat about the latter’s comments had triggered massive political reactions across other parties with Congress insiders saying what Jakhar said was “justified”.The AICC clarified after Jakhar’s comments that Punjab polls will be fought both under CM Channi and Sidhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-punjab-challenges-harish-rawat-meets-sunil-jakhar-315193
23-09-2021||Chandigarh/Tarn Taran||Another KTF militant module busted in Punjab; 3 held with tiffin bombs, hand grenades and pistols||Punjab Police have busted another militant module backed by Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) with the arrest of its three activists from Bhagwanpur village in Bhikhiwind area of Tarn Taran.The police have also recovered two boxes packed in foam (appear to be tiffin bombs), two hand grenades (86P) and three 9mm pistols from their possession. This is the sixth tiffin bomb recovered from border state Punjab in one-and-a-half months.Those arrested have been identified as Kanwarpal Singh, Kulwinder Singh and Kamalpreet Singh, all residents of Moga. Kanwarpal disclosed that he had returned from Canada two weeks back.The development came four months after the Punjab Police had arrested three activists of the KTF, involved in several heinous crimes, including the murder of a Dera follower and firing on a priest. The trio had been found acting on the directions of KTF’s Canada-based chief Hardeep Singh Nijjar.Sharing details, Additional Director General of Police (ADGP) Internal Security RN Dhoke said that during a police checking, Tarn Taran police teams intercepted the Swift car bearing registration number PB29AD6808 at a barricade near Bhagwanpur village in Bhikhiwind and arrested the trio.Preliminary investigations have revealed that the module members had reached Tarn Taran to retrieve the dumped militant hardware consignment, on the directions of Canada-based Arshdeep Dalla, who is a close aide of Hardeep Nijjar.ADGP Dhoke said that, during investigation, accused persons revealed that after retrieving the consignments, they were awaiting further instructions from Arshdeep Dalla. Notably, Kamaljit and Lovepreet, who were earlier arrested in Moga, had introduced the accused persons to Arshdeep.Meanwhile, an FIR has been registered under Section 307 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Section 475 of the Explosives Substance Amendment Act, Sections 13/18/20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and Sections 25/54/59 of the Arms Act at police station Bhikhiwind.Earlier, on August 8, 2021, the Amritsar Rural police had recovered five hand grenades along with a tiffin bomb from village Daleke in Lopoke.Similarly, Kapurthala police had also recovered a consignment consisting of two live hand grenades, one live tiffin bomb and other explosive material from Phagwara on August 20, while, the third tiffin was used to blow off an oil tanker in Ajnala on August 8.The fourth tiffin bomb was recovered from fields in village Dharmpura of Fazilka on September 18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/another-ktf-militant-module-busted-in-punjab-3-held-with-tiffin-bombs-hand-grenades-and-pistols-315173
23-09-2021||---||Punjab Police all set to conduct exam to recruit 4,358 constables||Chandigarh, September 23With over 4.71 lakh candidates expected to appear for the written examination for the post of constable in District and Armed Cadre, Punjab Police is all set to facilitate seamless conduct of the examination process under this mammoth recruitment drive.Gurpreet Kaur Deo, ADGP-cum-Chairperson of Central Recruitment Board for Constables, said admit cards had been issued to as many as 4,71,007 candidates, who had applied for the 4,358 posts of constable in District and Armed Cadre. The written test, to be held on September 25 and 26, is being conducted in two shifts -- 10am to noon, and 3pm to 5pm, she added.“To ensure smooth and hassle-free conduct of examination, 187 examination centres have been earmarked across the state and elaborate security arrangements made by the districts concerned,” said ADGP Gurpreet Kaur Deo.She said the candidates who would clear the written test would be called by the board to appear for the physical trial and documents verification.To ensure that all the examinations are being held in a fair and transparent manner, Punjab Police have appointed a renowned IT consultancy firm to conduct these exams, said ADGP Gurpreet Kaur Deo.She made it clear that candidates must bring their admit cards, one passport-size colour photo, original ID proof such as Aadhar Card, Passport, PAN Card, driving licence or Voter ID card to appear for the examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-police-all-set-to-conduct-exam-to-recruit-4-358-constables-315151
23-09-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||ADGP Harpreet Sidhu tipped to be new Punjab Vigilance Bureau chief||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 23ADGP Harpreet Singh Sidhu is tipped to take over as the new chief of the Punjab Vigilance Bureau.Sidhu is currently the head of the Special Task Force against drugs.He will replace DGP Vigilance BK Uppal.The name of the new Punjab DGP is also expected to be announced anytime on Thursday.VK Bhawra, Sidharth Chattopadhyay and IPS Sahota are in contention for the top post.Sources say Chattopadhyaya is the frontrunner for the post, but the state government needs a legal clearance for his appointment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/adgp-harpreet-sidhu-tipped-to-be-new-punjab-vigilance-bureau-chief-315132
23-09-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Anirudh Tiwari is new Punjab Chief Secretary||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 23The new political dispensation in Punjab, headed by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, has chosen Anirudh Tiwari as the new Chief Secretary of the state. He is currently serving as Additional Chief Secretary, Development.He replaces Vini Mahajan, who had been serving as Chief Secretary since June last year, and was handpicked by former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Though the names of three other officers -- seniormost after Mahajan -- Ravneet Kaur, Sanjay Kumar and VK Singh were also doing the rounds as contenders for the top post, Tiwari, who is junior to them and is a 1990 batch officer, was finally picked by the Channi-Sidhu team.His stellar role in the agriculture department, finance department, power department and personnel department worked in his favour.Since Tiwari has superseded four officers - Ravneet Kaur, Sanjay Kumar, VK Janjua and Kripa Shankar Saroj - all four have been re-designated as Special Chief Secretary to Government of Punjab. Vini Mahajan, too, has been re-designated as Special Chief Secretary.Tiwari, who hails from Patiala, was instrumental in putting Punjab on the national map for promoting renewable energy generation in the state.Former Mohali Deputy Commissioner Varun Roojam will hold charge as Special Principal Secretary to Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa.The name of the new Punjab DGP is also expected to be announced anytime on Thursday.VK Bhawra, Sidharth Chattopadhyay and IPS Sahota are in contention for the top post.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anirudh-tiwari-is-new-punjab-chief-secretary-315115
23-09-2021||---||North American Punjabi Association seeks NRI affairs portfolio for Pargat Singh||Jalandhar, September 22US-based NRI body North American Punjabi Association (NAPA) has demanded NRI Affairs portfolio in the new Cabinet for hockey Olympian Pargat Singh, who had won from the Jalandhar Cantt constituency by a big margin of votes.In a letter sent to PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu and Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, NAPA executive director Satnam Singh Chahal said a majority of the Punjabi diaspora was from the Doaba region. “So, the NRI Affairs Minister should be from this region and Pargat Singh was the best choice for the job,” he said.Chahal said there were many issues and concerns of the Punjabi diaspora that needed to be addressed by the government.He demanded that there should be more fast-track courts in the Doaba region to decide the disputes of the Punjabi diaspora at their homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/north-american-punjabi-association-seeks-nri-affairs-portfolio-for-pargat-singh-315063
23-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Treat parents as God, says Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 22Mindful of the plight of the hapless parents thrown at the mercy of destiny, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today quoted Guru Granth Sahib to ask the children to treat them as God.Dealing with the legal issues on the rights of senior citizens, Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill also made it clear that a son and daughter-in-law could not maintain their claim on the parents’ house on the grounds of contributing towards its renovation.Helpless stateParents became helpless from all sides and then began the unfortunate tale of their moving from one forum to another for the redress of their grievances. — Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill, Punjab & Haryana High CourtIn his detailed order, Justice Gill asserted that Sri Guru Ram Dass had written in the holy script of Sri Guru Granth Sahib “kaahay poot jhagrat ha-o sang baap/ jin kay janay badeeray tum ha-o tin sio jhagrat papp”. Interpreting the couplet, Justice Gill said it meant: “O son, why do you argue with your father? It is a sin to argue with the one who fathered you and raised you.”Justice Gill added the parents became helpless from all sides and then began the unfortunate tale of their moving from one forum to another for the redress of their grievances. Referring to the facts of the case in hand, Justice Gill asserted it was a classic example where petitioner son and daughter-in-law were seeking equities, entirely forgetting that their old and aged parents had to seek their eviction to buy back peace and freedom because of their conduct. Equity means a set of remedies and associated procedures involved with civil law.Justice Gill observed the father’s case was that the house was his self-acquired property, and not joint Hindu family property. Acting on the basis of a Sub Divisional Magistrate’s report saying that father was the house owner as per the sale deed, Kurukshetra District Magistrate ordered the petitioners’ ejectment.Dismissing the petition, Justice Gill added that the petitioners had not filed any document to show the father had gifted the house. “Even in the cases, where a gift deed was executed by the parents in favour of the children, it was held that irrespective of any condition regardingproviding to the transferor the basic amenities, the transferee would be bound to maintain the transferor,” Justice Gill concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/treat-parents-as-god-says-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-315002
23-09-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar farmer establishes agro brand||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 22Yadwinder Singh of Tarsika block has established his own agro brand ‘Majha Foods’ at Chogawan Sadhpur village in the last 10 years.Responding to the call of Punjab Agricultural University and Agriculture Department for diversification of crops, Yadwinder had sown turmeric in 2008 instead of wheat and paddy.“We had good yield first time, but I got disappointed, when there was no buyer in the market. So, I decided to set up my own processing unit to make turmeric powder. We got good response for organic turmeric powder as products available in the market were not able to compete with our turmeric. People started visiting directly on our doorstep to get turmeric powder.”In 2010, Yadwinder initiated Kisan Hut on Tarsika link road. “Now, it has become a landmark. Visitors on road stop to buy our products. We also sell gur and honey products. Then we registered our own brand Maja Foods. The turmeric powder of our brand is famous in the region. People use our turmeric as medicine because it is organic,” said Yadwinder.Awarded by various state and the Central Government agencies, Yadwinder has shown a way forward to several farmers as to how they can also make farming a profitable venture. “Marketing is a major challenge for farmers. They often go for diversification of crops on the suggestions of agriculture experts, but when it comes to marketing, they face several problems and challenges. I fought against all odds in these 10 years, and even now believe that every new morning comes with a new challenge. So, it is important that the product is marketed properly,” said Yadwinder.He is using paddy straw instead of mulching paper for weed management and contributing to environment by not burning straw.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-farmer-establishes-agro-brand-314818
23-09-2021||---||A Monumental danger: Kos Minars, a victim of clash between heritage & urbanisation||Amritsar, September 22Two Kos Minars, which are remnants of Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s era and stand right in the middle of GT Road (near railway station), are a classic example of clash between heritage and urbanisation.Kos Minar, were a concept of building milestones by Pashtun emperor Sher Shah Suri, on his journey through the original Grand Trunk Road in north India.Several Kos Minars present in parts of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, were being maintained by the Archaeological Survey of India.The ones in the holy city were built by Maharaja Ranjit Singh and present a bleak picture. Built in the early 18th century as markers from Ajnala to Gobindgarh Fort, only two among several Kos Minars survived the test of time and urbanisation.The administration had never taken up the conservation of Kos Minars. The only work done on the two-heritage structures was carried out around two years ago. It involved building a concrete support structure around the Kos Minars to ensure strength and stability.During the development of the Bus Rapid Transit System corridor, it was decided to remove these minars in order to widen the road. It was only after the protests by conservationists that the decision was taken back.Former head of Sri Guru Ram Das School of Planning at Guru Nanak Dev University, Dr Balwinder Singh, had once shared his views on relocation of the Kos Minars for their preservation. He had said from the heritage point of view, the two Kos Minars of Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s era, were very important.He had suggested that the best option was to relocate these two Kos Minars to the side of the road and install a plaque explaining their importance to make people aware.Meanwhile, the two Kos Minars can be seen defaced by posters. While their history and heritage has been reduced to suit the rapid urbanisation, the Kos Minars still stand tall, with a faded pride and reminder of the glorious past.IN A STATE OF NEGLECT||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/a-monumental-danger-kos-minars-a-victim-of-clash-between-heritage-urbanisation-314814
23-09-2021||---||Will ensure justice in sacrilege cases: Punjab CM||Amritsar, September 22Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday paid obeisance at the Golden Temple here and stated that justice would be done in the sacrilege incidents.Also read: SIT ex-head Prabodh Kumar seeks central deputationBargari-Behbal Kalan firing: Take stern action against accused, says Kunwar Vijay Pratap SinghPunjab CM's surprise halt at Giani Tea Stall in AmritsarFlanked by his deputies Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni, PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu and other colleagues, Channi participated in the early morning rituals of installation of Sri Guru Granth Sahib at the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple.Amid the recital of Gurbani kirtan, Channi and Sidhu gave shoulder to the ‘palki’ carrying the holy saroop from the Akal Takht as per the Sikh ‘rehat maryada’.“I have come to seek the blessings of the Almighty. Religion will be victorious… Raj dharam de anusar chalega… dharam de wich reh ke raj chalaya jayega…har dharam da sube wich satkar hoyega…aapsi pyar mel milap vadaiya jayega,” he said.Referring to the 2015 sacrilege incidents at Bargari, Channi said the government’s priority would be to bring justice. “Guru nu insaaf dwaiya jayega’, he said.Sidhu said the real issues in today’s politics were ignored. “Our CM will bring politics back on real issues. If we cannot solve the people-oriented issues, then we are not real Sikhs. Religion speaks of providing food to hungry, making the crying laugh and providing shelter to those who do not have one. That’s the true religion,” he said.Sidhu said merit will be honoured. “Every Congress worker will fight for the truth, which will be victorious.”A humble CM: Navjot SidhuWhat I have experienced in the past two days with the humble Chief Minister, I have never felt so in the past 17 years of my political career. I feel for the first time that now the Congress can serve people without any distress. — Navjot Singh Sidhu, PCC ChiefThe Chief Minister and other dignitaries received siropa (robe of honour) and a replica of Golden Temple by SGPC general secretary Bhagwant Singh Sialka and manager Gurinder Singh.Later, the Congress leaders visited the Jallianwala Bagh to pay homage to the martyrs of the 1919 massacre. This was followed by a visit to the Durgiana Mandir and Ram Tirath Sthal.They also visited the residences of OP Soni, MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla and MLAs Dr Raj Kumar Verka and Sukhwinder Singh Danny.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-ensure-justice-in-sacrilege-cases-punjab-cm-314772
23-09-2021||Chandigarh/Batala||Navjot Singh Sidhu aide Damandeep Singh Uppal to head Amritsar Improvement Trust||The Charanjit Singh Channi government on Wednesday appointed Damandeep Singh Uppal, a Sidhu loyalist, as Chairman, Amritsar Improvement Trust, replacing Dinesh Bassi, and reinstated Kasturi Lal Seth as Chairman, Batala Improvement Trust, days after he was replaced by Pawan Kumar Pamma.The removal of the political appointees, made by former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, has the stamp of PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu in case of Amritsar and Tript Rajinder Bajwa in case of Batala.Sources said the move hadn’t gone down well with party leaders, with many terming it a witch-hunt. Bassi, a Sidhu baiter, said he would abide by the CM’s orders. Rajya Sabha MP Partap Bajwa had only last month got Pamma appointed as Batala Improvement Trust Chairman after removing Seth.By removing the two political appointees, the new dispensation has hit out at Capt Amarinder Singh and his close associate Bajwa, who recently joined hands with the former CM against Tript Rajinder Bajwa.Capt Amarinder, apparently in an attempt to clip Tript’s wings, had not only appointed Ashwani Sekhri as Chairman of the Punjab Health Systems Corporation, but also gave him a free hand to transfer and post officials. Likewise, Bajwa, too, was given a long rope with officials being ordered to accompany him on his visits to Batala. Recently, he undertook a three-day tour accompanied by the SSP, SDM and Commissioner of the Municipal Corporation (MC). He had made it clear that he was a ticket contender.In Batala, all three senior Congressmen Partap Bajwa, Tript Rajinder Bajwa and Ashwani Sekhri are all in the race for the Assembly ticket. Officials are confused as to whom to follow. In the coming days, the civil administration and police may witness a change, with MLAs, who were part of the coup against Capt Amarinder, getting officers of their choice. — TNSCaptain appointee ousted in BatalaDamandeep Singh Uppal replaces Dinesh Bassi, a Sidhu baiter, as Chairman, Amritsar Improvement Trust. Kasturi Lal Seth has been reinstated as Chairman, Batala Improvement Trust, days after he was replaced by Pawan Kumar Pamma. Tript Rajinder Bajwa is seen behind the Batala move.Sidhu bulldozing Cabinet, alleges BJPThe BJP has said CM Charanjit Singh Channi is being “bulldozed” by PCC president Navjot Sidhu. BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh said the way Sidhu had been guiding the CM and Deputy CMs was a clear indication that he would be calling the shots and the Cabinet would play second fiddle to him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-singh-sidhu-aide-damandeep-singh-uppal-to-head-amritsar-improvement-trust-314773
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Akalis defaming farmers: AAP||Slamming the SAD for its statement against farmers’ organisations, AAP legislator and youth wing state president Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer said at the behest of the Narendra Modi-led government, SAD was running a campaign to defame farmers and said they should answer the questions being asked by people and farmers of Punjab.Hayer said the Badals had again proved that their relationship with the BJP was still intact. “This is the reason why Harsimrat Kaur Badal, as a union minister, signed ordinances and later the Badals publicised the farm laws for three months. Not only this, Parkash Singh Badal also released a video to convince farmers by justifying the laws,” he added.However, when people opposed the party and banned its entry into villages, they did a drama of Harsimrat’s resignation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/akalis-defaming-farmers-aap-314774
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||SIT ex-head Prabodh Kumar seeks central deputation||In the firing line of the new political dispensation in the state, DGP (Provisioning) and former head of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) looking into the Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan police firing cases Prabodh Kumar today sought the central deputation. The 1988-batch IPS officer has requested Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi that he should be named in the state government offer list of officers willing for a central deputation.Kumar is the first police officer to seek posting outside the state as he and several officials are on the radar of the new political dispensation. Newly appointed Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa had sought action against Kumar for allegedly failing as the head of the Kotkapura SIT to deliver justice and causing trouble for the key investigator IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap.Prabodh, had differences with Kunwar Vijay on several points of the investigation and conduct. He had even written a letter to the DGP, expressing his difference of opinion with the investigation of Kunwar Vijay. He also refused to sign on the investigation papers. The Punjab and Haryana High Court had later quashed the investigation and disbanded the SIT. — TNSDy cm had sought action against himNewly appointed Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa had sought action against Prabodh Kumar for allegedly failing as the head of the Kotkapura SIT to deliver justice and causing trouble for the key investigator IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap.Act in firing case: Kunwar VijayAAP leader and ex-IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh has said if the Channi government does not take action against the accused in the 2017 Bargarhi-Behbal Kalan firing, it will be clear that not only former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, but the Congress High Command is also hand in glove with Akalis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-ex-head-prabodh-kumar-seeks-central-deputation-314775
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Act against tainted ministers: Harpal Singh Cheema||AAP leader and Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema has asked CM Charanjit Singh Channi to file cases against five tainted ministers of Captain’s Cabinet — Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Balbir Singh Sidhu, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Sunder Sham Arora.Cheema said, “Although Capt Amarinder Singh, along with his entire Cabinet and most of the Congress MLAs, looted Punjab, the facts against Cabinet Ministers have become public.”“It is a test for Channi and Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu to decide whether to get FIRs registered against them in the interest of Punjab or forgive them again,” said Cheema. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/act-against-tainted-ministers-harpal-singh-cheema-314776
23-09-2021||Aman Sood||Charanjit Singh Channi to replace Capt Amarinder Singh on posters||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 22The state government has ordered that the posters listing the government’s achievements, schemes and photos of ex-Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on state highways, government buildings and state-owned buses be immediately updated with the new CM’s face.The orders come just four days after Capt Amarinder quit and Charanjit Singh Channi was made the CM.With polls just few months away, the government is in an overdrive. “We hope to replace the photos from almost all buildings and buses by this month-end. Even suwidha centres and government buildings will get new posters,” said a senior Congress MLA privy to the developments. “It is nothing new. We have every right to showcase the face of our government to people,” he added.“Usually, the CM’s photos are printed to remind people of the schemes initiated by the government and it is done at the government expense,” sources said.In a letter, a copy of which is with The Tribune, the Director, Public Relations, has ordered the Punjab Roadways to update the posters. “Since Capt Amarinder has been replaced as the CM by Channi, all general managers be ordered to remove the pictures of Capt Amarinder pasted on all buses,” it read. A visit to the local bus stand today revealed that the buses with Capt Amarinder’s posters were still parked there, two days after the letter was shot to the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/charanjit-singh-channi-to-replace-capt-amarinder-singh-on-posters-314777
23-09-2021||Jalandhar||Punjab CM Channi promises Ravidas Chair at Dera Sachkhand Ballan||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, accompanied by his deputy Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, today paid obeisance at Dera Sachkhand Ballan. He said the Sri Guru Ravidas Chair would be set up adjoining the dera. He said the government would ensure the operation and maintenance of the Chair for 10 years. He said he wanted to set it up like a huge research centre on the life and philosophy of the guru.The CM also said he would lay the foundation stone of a museum dedicated to Dr BR Ambedkar at Kapurthala tomorrow. Likewise, a management college in the name of Dr Ambedkar would also be set up. At this point, Channi said, “Our community does not need free atta and dal. Such schemes are of not much use in present times. We need to empower our coming generations by providing them good education and my government will work for it”.Sant Niranjan Dass honoured the CM with a shawl and siropa. Channi also visited Khatkar Kalan to pay tribute to Bhagat Singh at his ancestral place. — TNSChanni shrugs off jet ride criticismReacting to the criticism over the use a private jet on Tuesday, Channi said, “Tusin eh likh deyo ke je gareeb da munda jahajaan de upar charh gya tan ki takleef hai? (What is the problem if a poor man’s son takes a jet ride?)”. He, however, did not respond when asked about who would foot the bill, even as there were reports that Sidhu had paid the dues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-promises-ravidas-chair-at-dera-sachkhand-ballan-314778
23-09-2021||Bathinda||Ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s photos off Bathinda hoardings||Photographs of former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh have gone off the hoardings put up by Congress workers in Bathinda.The new hoardings, with congratulatory messages for new CM Charanjit Singh Channi, that are coming up across the city are without any pictures of Capt Amarinder.The posters have photographs of PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu and Manpreet Singh Badal. A senior party leader said many leaders are deliberately avoiding putting up photos of the former Chief Minister because it was clear that the Congress is divided into two groups – Capt and Sidhu. Most leaders didn’t want to stand with the outgoing leadership for their personal gains. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-cm-capt-amarinder-singhs-photos-off-bathinda-hoardings-314779
23-09-2021||---||11 held, 2 pistols seized in Sangrur||Sangrur , September 22The Sangrur police claimed to have arrested 11 criminals involved in organised crime and thefts from different locations of the district. Police have started further investigations.“Since all the arrested persons are hardcore criminals, who were involved in heinous crimes , their arrest will help in bringing down the crime in Sangrur district,” said Swapan Sharma, SSP, Sangrur, while addressing mediapersons.Police have also seized a .32 bore pistol with two live cartridges, another pistol of 315 bore with five live cartridges and one scooter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/11-held-2-pistols-seized-in-sangrur-314780
23-09-2021||---||Congress’ Jagdev Singh Boparai joins SAD||Chandigarh, September 22Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today asked the Congress high command to reveal the party’s face for the upcoming polls even as he asserted that it could not hide its failures with a change of the CM.He was addressing a press conference here after welcoming senior Congressman Jagdev Singh Boparai into the SAD fold. Boparai, who joined the SAD along with his entire team belonging to the Payal Assembly constituency, said he had become totally disillusioned with the Congress, which was only interested in looting people.On the Congress face, Sukhbir said: “First the high command announced one name, but when someone objected, it announced two names. Soon there may be three leaders who will be given this assignment. Punjabis want to know who is the real leader because earlier also, during the fight for the top post, the first choice was someone else, but photos of the second choice were released even as the final choice emerged at the end.”He said all this had proved that the fight in the Congress had nothing to do with any public issue, but was a fight for the top post. “While the outgoing leadership looted the state, the incoming one wants to do the same in the next three months.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congress-jagdev-singh-boparai-joins-sad-314781
23-09-2021||Aman Sood||Stubble-burning in Majha, likely to rise after wet spell||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 22Despite over 10,000 officials being posted on the ground, farm fires have started in the Majha belt. As many as 24 cases have been reported in the past few days and more are expected after the rains are over.A majority of cases have been reported in the Majha belt in the past week, as the first phase of harvesting of paddy, primarily basmati varieties, started in the state.Last Thursday, it started from two farm fires in Amritsar and ever since, the number is growing. “The next fortnight is crucial and will determine if awareness drives and warnings have affected farmers,” said officials.Poll impact on government mindExperts warn the worse is yet to come because the state leadership is busy due to the political upheaval and farmers feel no stern action will be taken in the wake of the upcoming poll. “District-level officers are monitoring the situation and creating awareness against farm fires, but the farmers are reluctant to ensure scientific management of paddy straw,” said experts.The Majha belt is considered good for growing basmati and already such varieties have started reaching the grain markets of Amritsar and Tarn Taran. “This year, it was sown early and it needs less days as compared to other varieties,” say officers.Experts say the cases may rise this year as farmers are angry over the farm laws and the government not paying the Supreme Court-ordered financial incentive. “Despite best efforts, Punjab can manage only 50 per cent of the produced stubble, leaving no option but to burn it. Any action against farmers is challenged by unions,” said a top official attached with the anti-stubble burning drive. As per a PPCB report, 24 farm fires have been reported — Amritsar (19), Patiala (3), Tarn Taran and Faridkot (1 each). Karunesh Garg, PPCB member secretary, said: “Only nine of these are confirmed cases of farm fire and spot visits are pending in the rest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stubble-burning-in-majha-likely-to-rise-after-wet-spell-314782
23-09-2021||Moga||2 peddlers held, 2,500 intoxicants seized||The Moga police have arrested two drug peddlers and seized at least 2,500 intoxicating pills from them. A police party of the Baghapurana CIA staff, on a tip-off, seized the intoxicants from the accused when they went to Samalsar village to deliver the consignment. The accused have been identified as Manvir Singh of Bambiha Bhai village and Jaswinder Singh of Sahoke village. The police have registered a case under Sections 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act. Further, investigation is on. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-peddlers-held-2-500-intoxicants-seized-314783
23-09-2021||---||4-fold rise in Bathinda dengue cases||Bathinda, September 22A sudden spike in dengue cases in Bathinda district has put Health Department officials on the toes.As per records, a four-fold increase in dengue cases has been reported in the past two weeks alone in the district. From around 60 cases around two weeks ago, the cases have climbed to 253 till September 22. Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan has also tested positive for dengue. As per department officials, of the 253 cases, only two have been reported from rural areas and the rest are from Bathinda city. After the DC tested positive, a team of health workers reached his residence to carry out sprays and put other safety measures in place.Surveys underwayWe have increased the manpower and a number of teams are conducting field surveys. —Dr Tejwant Singh Dhillon, Civil surgeonA report carried in this newspaper had highlighted that there was stagnant water at many residential as well as commercial areas, including in posh areas, and even outside the residences of senior administrative and police officials in the city.Health officials claimed that apart from spreading awareness among residents, they had been undertaking all measures to prevent breeding of dengue larvae. But they also admitted that current climatic conditions around this time of every year were quite conducive to the breeding of dengue larvae. Municipal Corporation teams have also been carrying out fogging in city areas regularly.Civil Surgeon Dr Tejwant Singh Dhillon said: "Cases have started increasing in the past 8-10 days and they do pick up around this time of the year. We have increased the manpower and also number of teams of health workers who have been carrying out field surveys intensively.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-fold-rise-in-bathinda-dengue-cases-314784
23-09-2021||Vishav Bharti||Use of ‘Dalit’ not derogatory: Experts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 22Though the Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission has issued instructions to refrain from using the word ‘Dalit’ for identifying any person belonging to the SC, experts of Dalit studies and legal luminaries say it is a term chosen by the Dalits for themselves and there is no offence in using this for the oppressed classes.Taking notice of the word being used for Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, commission chairperson Tejinder Kaur on Tuesday issued instructions to not use ‘Dalit’ to mark the identity of any person belonging to the SC. The government is widely using the term in its official communication. The government even has a Dalit Welfare Board.Prof Ronki Ram, an expert on Dalit studies and professor of political science at Panjab University, says since ancient times, Dalits have been called with various derogatory names. Like in the medieval times, they were called ‘achhoot’, in modern times, they were given the name of ‘Harijan’. If ‘achhoot’ was a derogatory term, ‘Harjian’ conveyed pity. “None of the two were chosen by them. But Dalit is the only term which they chose for themselves,” he says. Prof Manjeet Singh, former director of Panjab University’s Ambedkar Centre, says, SC can’t be a replacement for the Dalit. Scheduled is a constitutional term but the Dalit has historical, political and social connotations. The Dalit unites all oppressed castes whereas scheduled still makes differences in castes. The moment you are out of it, you are not part of that schedule.”“Now ‘elite classes’, including bureaucrats among the Dalits, who have reaped the harvest of reservation, are feeling problem with the term but the real Dalits are fine with that,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/use-of-dalit-not-derogatory-experts-314785
23-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Fill 21 posts in Jalandhar chemical lab before poll code: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 22In a significant direction liable to expedite the testing of liquor and other samples, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the Punjab Home Secretary, the Punjab Public Service Commission and the Punjab Subordinate Service Selection Board to fill 21 posts in the Regional Chemical Laboratory at Jalandhar prior to the implementation of the model code of conduct.The direction came after Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan observed the Assembly elections in Punjab were due in February 2022. The direction is significant as criminal trials in drugs and liquor cases are known to get delayed in the absence of the chemical examination report.Justice Sangwan has already asserted that a year’s wait in some cases was not uncommon. “It is a matter of fact that the trials before the courts, either under the NDPS Act or Excise Act, are delayed on account of awaiting the FSL report for a long time and in some cases, it takes about a year in receipt of a report.”Justice Sangwan took note of the submission that the new laboratory at Jalandhar would be under the chemical examiner laboratory at Kharar. As many as 21 posts had been sanctioned. The analysts were being hired on an outsource basis.Justice Sangwan also took on record an affidavit filed by the Punjab Principal Secretary, Department of Home Affairs and Justice, stating that 21 posts by the Home Department and eight by the Department of General Administration had been sanctioned. The service rules of the newly created posts at Regional Chemical Laboratory, Jalandhar, too, had been notified.It was further stated that the process of filling 21 posts had been initiated and a demand letter dated September 16 was sent to the Punjab Public Service Commission by the Department of Home Affairs and Justice. Similarly, a demand letter dated September 16 was sent to the Punjab Subordinate Service Selection Board by the laboratory, Kharar, for advertisement and selection on the posts.Curbing delayThe direction is significant as criminal trials in drugs and liquor cases are known to get delayed in the absence of the chemical examination report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fill-21-posts-in-jalandhar-chemical-lab-before-poll-code-hc-314786
23-09-2021||---||Women demand debt waiver; take out protest march in Bathinda||Bathinda, September 22Hundreds of women participated in the ‘Aurat karza mukti rally’ organised under the banner of the Mazdoor Mukti Morcha in Bathinda on Wednesday.Before taking out a protest march in the city, they held a meeting outside the Rose Garden here.Addressing the protesters, Punjab Mazdoor Mukti Morcha state president Bhagwant Singh Samao, state secretary Harwinder Singh Sema and district president Pritpal Singh Rampura said due to the rising unemployment and inflation rates, women from rural and urban landless poor families were living in fear due to debt trap of private finance companies. They said to pay instalments of these loans, working women had to sell their valuables for pennies. They said the state government was anti-women for ignoring poor women in the debt waiver schemes. They said in order to divert attention of people, from their betrayal, the Congress had removed Captain and made Charanjit Singh Channi the Chief Minister. They said the mazdoor morcha would intensify their agitation till the fulfilment of their demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/women-demand-debt-waiver-take-out-protest-march-in-bathinda-314787
23-09-2021||---||Punjab CM directs surprise checks in Mohali, officials found absent||Chandigarh, September 22On the directives of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Vijay Kumar Janjua, Additional Chief Secretary, Animal Husbandry, Fisheries and Dairy Development, on Wednesday conducted a check in the departments at Livestock Complex, Sector 68, Mohali.Directors of all three departments, including Dr HS Kahlon, Director, Animal Husbandry Department, accompanied Janjua during the checking.An official spokesperson of the government said during the checking, a few officers and employees were found absent from duty. Taking a serious note, Janjua issued directions to all to ensure punctuality in their offices and seek explanation from all absentees. He also directed the directors to conduct routine checkings.He also directed the departments to digitise the office record and send official files through e-office.Meanhwile, during a surprise visit at the Nurpur Bedi Block Development and Panchayat Office by Aam Aadmi Party MLA Amarjit Singh Sandoa, a large number of officials, including block development and panchayat officer (BDPO), superintendent and junior engineer, were found absent today. Sandoa alleged the BDPO was a habitual latecomer.The MLA said he reached the office at 9 am only to found that many officials, including BDPO Harvinder Kaur, hadn’t reached the office. Claiming he stayed there for half an hour, Sandoa said the BDPO failed to reach there till he left the office. Harvinder Kaur denied any misconduct on her part, saying she had reached the office before 9 am and after marking her attendance, she went to Khad Bhathlore village where local residents had complained of losses to their homes due to recent rains.Ropar mla inspects bdpo officeDuring a surprise visit at the Nurpur Bedi Block Development and Panchayat Office by Ropar AAP MLA Amarjit Singh Sandoa, a large number of officials, including block development and panchayat officer (BDPO), superintendent and junior engineer, were found “absent” on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-directs-surprise-checks-in-mohali-officials-found-absent-314788
23-09-2021||---||Road in Gidderbaha damaged within hours of construction||Muktsar, September 22A Gurusar-Lundewala village road in Gidderbaha got damaged within hours of construction today. Local residents said the construction work was underway on Tuesday night and it got partially damaged after rain. “The officials concerned must probe the quality of work done,” said Kulwant Singh of Gurusar village.On this, Gidderbaha PWD (B&R) SDO Satwant Narula said: “Some machines developed a snag due to which the work was completed at night. The road is 18-ft wide and the carpeting is being done on 9-ft. Some material that was laid on the sides of the road got damaged. The newly constructed road is in perfect condition.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/road-in-gidderbaha-damaged-within-hours-of-construction-314789
23-09-2021||Bathinda||Punjabi singer Parmish Verma’s fiancé Geet Grewal loses Canada election||Punjabi singer Parmish Verma’s fiancé Geet Grewal has lost the federal election in Canada. She contested on Liberal ticket from Mission-Matsqui-Fraser Canyon.Grewal has been defeated by Conservative Party candidate Brad Vis by around 8,000 votes. Vis got 43.9 per cent votes and Grewal 24.5 per cent.Also read: Jagmeet Singh will again be a kingmaker as Trudeau fails to win majorityBarnala village celebrates Jagmeet Singh’s poll win16 Punjab-origin candidates win federal pollsAnother known Indo-Canadian face to lose the election was Conservative Party sitting MP Bob Saroya. Even Conservative sitting MP Jag Sahota lost to first-timer George Chahal of Liberal Party from Calgary Skyview.As many 47 Punjabis were in the fray on a total of 338 seats in this federal election in Canada, out of which only 17 Indo-Canadian won. As there was Punjabi vs Punjabi contest on many seats in Punjabi-dominated city of Brampton in Ontario, where Maninder Sidhu, Ruby Sahota, Sonia Sidhu and Kamal Khera have won, but they have defeated Punjabis only. On these seats, Naval Bajaj, Medha Joshi, Ramandeep Brar and Gurprit Gill have lost, respectively. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-singer-parmish-vermas-fianc%C3%A9-geet-grewal-loses-canada-election-314790
23-09-2021||Archit Watts||Muktsar anganwari centres get rotten soya chunks||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, September 22The Department of Social Security and Women and Child Development has given rotten soya chunks to some anganwari centres in Muktsar district which are to be distributed among pregnant women and those having kids up to six months.An anganwari worker said, “Our centre has got rotten soya chunks, but fearing departmental action, I can’t speak. I have conveyed it to our employee union leaders.”Chhinderpal Kaur, president, All-Punjab Anganwari Employees’ Union, Muktsar district, said, “Some centres have got rotten soya chunks last month. We came to know it now when we opened the packets to distribute these among women. These are unfit for human consumption. The department should replace these at the earliest.”On this, Rattandeep Kaur, District Programme Officer, Muktsar, said, “After getting the complaints of rotten soya chunks from some anganwari centres, we have sought a report from other centres as well. Besides, we have stopped the distribution and conveyed it to supplying agency Markfed as well. The Markfed officials have assured us of replacing the soya chunks.”In May, the department had distributed wet sugar having lumps to supply among kids of needy families and pregnant women. The sugar was replaced only after The Tribune highlighted the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-anganwari-centres-get-rotten-soya-chunks-314791
23-09-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Garden with trees mentioned in Guru Granth Sahib opened in Moga||Tribune News ServiceMoga, September 22A first-of-its-kind garden — Guru Granth Sahib Bagh — has been set up at historic Patto Hira Singh village of Moga district by a local NGO to highlight the message of Sikh Gurus to connect with nature as conveyed in Guru Granth Sahib, the holy book of Sikhs.The garden has a plantation of more than 58 species, which are mentioned in the holy book. ‘Panj Pyaras’ in the presence of Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans, Akal Takht former Jathedar Prof Manjit Singh, Punjab Arts Council chairman Dr Surjit Patar and others inaugurated the garden on Monday.Addressing a brief function at Gurdwara Gurusar Sahib, the DC expressed happiness over the efforts of many leading organisations in conserving environment. He assured that the district administration would extend all possible support to those who contribute in preserving local biodiversity.Hans said the Niti Aayog had set a target of planting 100 crore saplings in 112 districts of the country, including Moga. The district administration has started planting trees under the project from this monsoon. He said though the target was huge, the district administration was making efforts to achieve it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/garden-with-trees-mentioned-in-guru-granth-sahib-opened-in-moga-314792
23-09-2021||Chandigarh||Speculation as Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka, Jakhar leave for Delhi||Joined by former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar at the Chandigarh airport, Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra left for Delhi on Wednesday evening — a significant development in the wake the impending Cabinet expansion of the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government.Jakhar may be placated with an important position in the party after he declined to accept the position of Deputy CM, say sources. He was reportedly asked to accompany the Gandhis to Delhi. Interestingly, none of the party leaders from Punjab were at the airport. Jakhar is likely to attend a crucial meeting with the Gandhis on Thursday. Meanwhile, the CM met Brahm Mohindra. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/speculation-as-rahul-gandhi-priyanka-jakhar-leave-for-delhi-314794
23-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Arrest warrant against Simarjeet Bains||Abohar, September 22A labourer was buried alive while digging a tube well in Sriganganagar on Tuesday evening.A farmer, Durga Prasad, had reportedly hired Rajesh Nayak and Sahib Ram to dig about 60-ft deep tube well in Chak 6-ML village. While Rajesh was digging and Sahib Ram provided him with support from outside, the sidewall caved. As Sahib raised an alarm, some people rushed in to rescue the labourer but could not save him.ASP Sahi Ram Bishnoi, SDM Ummaid Singh Ratnu and Chunawadh SHO Parmeshwar Suthar monitored the four-hour rescue operation, but rain added to their woes. The deceased is survived by his wife and four children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arrest-warrant-against-simarjeet-bains-314795
23-09-2021||London||3 British Sikhs freed in Rulda Singh murder case in Patiala||A UK court on Wednesday discharged three British Sikhs — Piara Singh Gill, Amritivir Singh Wahiwala and Gursharanvir Singh Wahiwala — held in connection with the 2009 murder of RSS leader Rulda Singh, who was shot in Patiala, due to insufficient evidence. The arrests followed early morning raids on Indian extradition warrants executed by the West Midlands Police in December last year.They were held in connection with the 2009 murder of Rulda Singh, a senior RSS member, who was shot in Patiala and died a week after the attack. District Judge Michael Snow presided over an appeal hearing at Westminster Magistrates' Court in London. He ruled: "The accused have been discharged,” said the UK's Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), which appears in court on behalf of the Indian authorities.Crowds of supporters of the so-called “West Midlands 3” gathered outside the court in support of the accused. An investigation into the case by the West Midlands Police dates back to 2011, with the judge noting that the issue had been a “long running saga” for the three men.Their lawyer described the allegations against them as "wholly unjust". The prosecution conceded that the evidence was "not sufficient to make out a case" against them. Two men, aged 37 and 40, were arrested in Coventry and a 38-year-old man was arrested in Wolverhampton last year. They were granted bail under “strict conditions”. —PTINot enough proofPiara Singh Gill, Amritivir Singh Wahiwala and Gursharanvir Singh Wahiwala — held in connection with the 2009 murder of RSS leader Rulda Singh were — freed due to insufficient evidence||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-british-sikhs-freed-in-rulda-singh-murder-case-in-patiala-314813
23-09-2021||---||In Bhabanipur, minister Hardeep Singh Puri reaches out to Sikh voters||New Delhi, September 22Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri today campaigned in Kolkata’s Bhabanipur Assembly constituency, where BJP’s candidate Priyanka Tibrewal is locked in a contest with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for the September 30 bypoll.Sikhs are a sizeable community in the constituency.“In my conversations with residents of Ram Mohan Dutta Road in the Ray Street area of Bhabanipur, I shared their issues & concerns,” Puri said on Twitter.“But there is clear support for the BJP candidate Smt Priyanka Tibrewal,” he said.Electorate disillusioned with TMCPeople in the Bhabanipur Assembly constituency are disillusioned with the ruling Trinamool Congress. This will be reflected in the results, if people vote freely. — Hardeep Singh Puri, Union Housing and Urban Affairs MinisterThe BJP had managed to take the lead in the segment in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. But Bhabanipur returned TMC candidate Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay in the Assembly elections held earlier this year. One of the reasons for the BJP’s defeat in the seat is said to be Sikh voters’ tilt toward the TMC following the farmers’ agitation in Punjab and Haryana.The seat was vacated by winning MLA Chattopadhyay to make way for his party leader. Banerjee had lost elections in Nandigram by a narrow margin to her former aide Suvendu Adhikari, who is now BJP’s leader in the West Bengal Assembly. The Nandigram election is however subject to an ongoing court challenge Banerjee needs to become an MLA by November 5 to continue as the Chief Minister.Puri, the Narendra Modi Cabinet’s Sikh face, also prayed at a local gurdwara.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-bhabanipur-minister-hardeep-singh-puri-reaches-out-to-sikh-voters-314883
23-09-2021||---||Will put up candidate against Navjot Singh Sidhu: Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, September 22Days after quitting as Punjab CM, Capt Amarinder Singh, on Wednesday said he was determined to put up a candidate against Pradesh Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu in the coming Assembly polls to “ensure his defeat” as he was “dangerous for the state.” The remarks could invite disciplinary action from the party high command as Captain is still a member of the Congress.Also read: Navjot Sidhu anti-national, will fight any move to make him Punjab CM: Capt AmarinderProbe outgoing CM’s charge against Navjot Singh Sidhu, demands BJPAsserting that he would quit politics only on a high note, the former CM said he had offered to resign three weeks ago but was asked by AICC president Sonia Gandhi to continue in office. “If she had called me and asked me to step down, I would have done so.” Captain claimed that “inexperienced” Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were being clearly misguided by their advisers.Ex-CM tears into SidhuIt is sad that Sidhu, who could not handle his own ministry, should be managing the Cabinet. Capt Amarinder Singh, ex-CM, PunjabIn a dig at those who had been accusing him of not taking action against the Badals and Majithia in the sacrilege and drugs cases, he remarked: “Now that they are in power, let them throw the Akali leaders behind bars, if they can.” On Sidhu and his aides charges that he had not reined in ministers with ties with the mining mafia, quipped: “Those very ministers are now with these leaders.”Alleging that the state of Punjab was being run from Delhi, Captain asked: “How can Congress leaders like Venugopal or Ajay Maken or Randeep Surjewala decide who is good for which ministry?”In a swipe at Sidhu, the former Chief Minister said: “I had a very good Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president. I took his advice but he never told me how to run the government.” He said it was sad that Sidhu, “who could not handle his own ministry, should be managing the Cabinet,” adding that under “this drama master’s leadership, it would be a big thing if the Congress managed to reach double digits in the polls.”The former Chief Minister pointed out that while Channi was intelligent and well-educated, he had no experience in managing Home affairs, which was critical for Punjab that shared a 600-km border with Pakistan.Attacks criticsNow that they (his critics) are in power, let them throw the Akali leaders behind bars.Inexperienced Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka are being clearly misguided by their advisers.Channi is well-educated, but he has no experience in managing Home affairs. Capt Amarinder Singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-put-up-candidate-against-navjot-singh-sidhu-capt-amarinder-singh-314877
23-09-2021||Kurukshetra||Farmers protest: Protesters won't budge from Delhi's borders till Centre repeals farm laws, says Charuni after mahapanchayat||Haryana BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni on Wednesday said the farmers sitting at Delhi's borders will not budge till three contentious farm laws of the Centre are repealed.No matter how much pressure may be put by the government, the farmers will not even move an inch on the Haryana-Delhi border till the laws are scrapped, he said."Stop dreaming of opening the borders," Charuni told the government while addressing a ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ at Kurukshetra's Ismailabad, adjoining Punjab's Patiala district.Farmer leader Ravi Azad said the roads of Delhi will not be opened till the three farm laws are scrapped.The Haryana government formed a high-powered committee earlier this month to hold talks with the protesting farm union leaders over the clearing of blockade on National Highway-44 at the Kundli-Singhu border. However, the farm union leaders did not attend the meeting called by the district administration at Sonipat last week.Speaking about the farm union leaders not attending the meeting, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said in Chandigarh that the Supreme Court will be apprised of the development.He said the Union home minister has also been informed about it.Vij said an affidavit has been filed in the apex court regarding the efforts being made by the government as regards the present situation of road blockade.The farmers had earlier said they did not go for the meeting in Sonipat as they were not responsible for the blockades and the government was allegedly misinterpreting the apex court order and dragging the agitating farmers to be a party to the ongoing petition.The Haryana government had formed the committee a week ago, a day after Sonipat Deputy Commissioner Lalit Siwach held a meeting with farmers' representatives over the blockade.An official statement issued last week said while taking up a writ petition, the Supreme Court had asked the Sonepat district administration to provide a way to the common people in public interest.In compliance with these orders, Siwach had held the meeting with the farmers' representatives in Sonepat last Tuesday.The court had last month said the Centre and the neighbouring states of Delhi should find a solution to the road blockades at the borders of the national capital.Meanwhile, the "mahapanchayat" resolved to continue the ongoing peasants' agitation till the three farm laws are repealed.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and elsewhere have been sitting at Delhi's borders for nearly 10 months demanding a repeal of the farm laws.Despite inclement weather, a large number of farmers from the adjoining districts, including Kurukshetra, attended the "mahapanchayat" organised at the grain market of Ismailabad.Addressing the event, Charuni said during the agitation, cases have been registered against a large number of farmers in Haryana.The police are sending summonses to the farmers, he said and asked the farmers not to accept any summons and not even go to the police station when called.The "mahapanchayat" also gave a call to make the "Bharat Bandh" called by the protesting farm unions on September 27 successful. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-protest-protesters-wont-budge-from-delhis-borders-till-centre-repeals-farm-laws-says-charuni-after-mahapanchayat-314747
23-09-2021||---||Ready to make any sacrifice to stop Navjot Sidhu becoming CM: Capt Amarinder||Chandigarh, September 22An unrelenting Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday declared that he would fight Navjot Sidhu’s elevation to Punjab chief ministership tooth and nail, and was ready to make any sacrifice to save the country from such a dangerous man.Even as he reiterated his intention to counter any move to make Sidhu the state’s CM face, Amarinder said he will pit a strong candidate against the PPCC president in the 2022 Assembly polls to ensure his defeat. “He (Sidhu) is dangerous for the state,” said the former Chief Minister in a series of media interviews.Asserting that he will only leave politics on a high, the former Chief Minister said, “I was ready to leave after victory but never after a loss.” He said he had offered his resignation to Sonia Gandhi three weeks earlier but she had asked him to continue. “If she had just called me and asked me to step down, I would have,” he said, adding that “as a soldier, I know how to do my task and leave once I am called back”.He said he had even told Sonia he was ready to hang his boots and allow someone else to take over as CM after leading the Congress to another sweeping win in Punjab. “But that did not happen, so I will fight,” he asserted, taking strong exception to being subjected to humiliation by calling a CLP in a secretive manner, without taking him into confidence.“I would not have taken MLAs on a flight to Goa or some place. That is not how I operate. I don’t do gimmicks, and the Gandhi siblings know that is not my way,” he said, adding, “Priyanka and Rahul (Gandhi siblings) are like my children…this should not have ended like this. I am hurt.”He said the Gandhi children were quite inexperienced and their advisers were clearly misguiding them.Political options openIndicating that he was still keeping his political options open, the former Chief Minister said he was talking to his friends before deciding on his future course of action. “You can be old at 40 and young at 80,” he quipped, making it clear that he did not see his age as a hurdle.On allegations of inaccessibility, Amarinder said he had been elected to the Vidhan Sabha seven times and twice to the Parliament. “There must be something right with me,” he remarked, adding that the Congress leadership had evidently decided on making the change (in Punjab) and were trying to make up a case.Referring to complaints that he was not taking arbitrary action against the Badals and Majithia in the sacrilege and drugs cases, the former Chief Minister said he believed in allowing the law to take its course. “But now these people who were complaining against me are in power, let them throw the Akalis leaders behind bars if they can!” he retorted.Taking a jibe against Sidhu & Co. over allegations of not taking action against ministers involved in the mining mafia, he quipped: “Those very ministers are now with these leaders!”Ridiculing the way Punjab was being run from Delhi now, Amarinder expressed shock at the way things were happening. Pointing out that as CM, he had called the shots and appointed his own ministers, as he knew the capability of each of them, he questioned how Congress leaders like Venugopal or Ajay Maken or Randeep Surjewala could decide who is good for which ministry.“Our religion teaches us that all are equal. I don’t look at people based on their caste, it’s about their efficiency,” he said, in an obvious reference to the caste considerations that had dictated the choice of the new leadership in the state.Taking a dig at Sidhu’s ostensible interference in Charanjit Singh Channi’s domain, the former Chief Minister said the PPCC should just decide on party affairs. “I had a very good PPCC president. I took his advice but he never told me how to run the government,” he added, contrasting it with the way Sidhu was virtually dictating the terms, with Channi simply nodding along.He termed it a sad situation for Punjab that Sidhu, who could not handle his own ministry, should be managing the cabinet. “If Sidhu behaves as the super CM, the party won’t function,” he said, adding that under this “drama master’s leadership”, it would be a big thing if the Congress managed to touch double digits in Punjab polls.While Channi was intelligent and well educated, he, unfortunately, had no experience in managing home affairs, which was critical for Punjab that shares a 600 km border with Pakistan, with things getting more and more serious over the years, said Amarinder.On the new CM’s announcement of waiver of power bills, he said Channi must have discussed it with the former Finance Minister and they must have thought of something. “I hope they don’t bankrupt the state,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ready-to-make-any-sacrifice-to-stop-navjot-sidhu-becoming-cm-capt-amarinder-314732
23-09-2021||Ashok KauraShahkot||Punjab: Ekta Kapoor, actors from ‘Kundali Bhagya’ booked for hurting religious sentiments||Television mogul Ekta Kapoor and four more people from her television show 'Kundali Bhagya' were booked for hurting sentiments of the Valmiki community at Shahkot, police sources said.Besides Kapoor, director Samir Kulkarni and female lead Shraddha Arya were booked under section 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs.) of the Indian Penal Code. Also named in the FIR, which was based on a complaint by an organisation called the Valmiki Karanti Sena, was 'Srishti', the name of the character played actor Anjum Fakih, and Balaji Telefilms.  The complaint said “derogatory and objectionable references” were made towards Maharishi Valmiki in the daily soap.The show airs on Zee TV.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-ekta-kapoor-actors-from-kundali-bhagya-booked-for-hurting-religious-sentiments-314730
23-09-2021||---||Why everyone has a problem if a 'gareeb' man travels in a private jet: CM Channi on Delhi trip controversy||Jalandhar, September 22A day after his jet ride to Delhi evoked sharp criticism from Opposition parties, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday defended the trip.Also read: 'Private jet not an aam aadmi's ride'; SAD takes a dig at Punjab Congress as new CM, Sidhu fly to DelhiAfter visiting Dera Sachkhand Ballan in Amritsar, when questioned, the Chief Minister said: "What is the problem with everyone if a 'gareeb' (poor man) takes a jet ride?"He, however, did not respond when asked about who would foot the bill for the ride.The SAD had taken a jibe at the CM, PCC chief Navjot Sidhu and Deputy CMs for taking a private jet to Delhi to meet the Congress high command.Former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh's media adviser Raveen Thukral had also taken a dig at the new CM. "Wow….what a ‘gareeban di sarkar’! A 16-seater Learjet to ferry 4 people when a 5-seater official chopper was available. I’m now beginning to feel I sleepwalked through the last 4 & a half years, believing Punjab to be in a fiscal mess. My bad (sic)!," he tweeted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/why-everyone-has-a-problem-if-a-gareeb-man-travels-in-a-private-jet-cm-channi-on-delhi-trip-controversy-314699
23-09-2021||---||Sidhu’s close aide Damandeep Singh Uppal replaces Dinesh Bassi as Amritsar Improvement Trust chairman||Chandigarh/Amritsar, September 22Damandeep Singh Uppal has been appointed Amritsar Improvement Trust chairman in place of Dinesh Bassi.Amarinder loyalist Bassi was on Wednesday removed from the post. Bassi reportedly did not have good terms with PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.During his visit to the city, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi replaced Bassi with Sidhu's close aide Damandeep.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhus-close-aide-damandeep-singh-uppal-replaces-dinesh-bassi-as-amritsar-improvement-trust-chairman-314679
