24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 23 new cases in Punjab||Punjab recorded 23 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday that took the infection tally to 6,01,444, according to a medical bulletin.No Covid-related death was reported in the last twenty-four hours. The death toll stands at 16,504. One death case was added to the toll after reconciliation of data, it said.Among the new cases, Pathankot reported eight, followed by four in Mohali and three in Gurdaspur.The number of active cases dropped to 287 from 300 on Thursday, it said.Thirty-four people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,84,653, according to the bulletin.Chandigarh reported three new cases, taking the total Covid count to 65,205, it said.No Covid-related fatality was reported in the last 24 hours and the death toll stands at 819, it said.The number of active cases in the city stands at 41 while the overall recoveries has reached 64,345, the bulletin added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-23-new-cases-in-punjab-315661
24-09-2021||Ghaziabad||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait urges Indians in US to protest during Modi’s September 25 event||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Friday appealed to Indians living in the US to hold a protest during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s programme in New York on Saturday in support of the 10-month-long farmers’ agitation at Delhi’s borders.He also urged US President Joe Biden to focus on concerns of the Indian farmers during his meeting with Modi.Seeking the support of Indians in the US, the national spokesperson of the BKU claimed that over 750 farmers have lost their lives during the stir against the contentious new farm laws, but the Centre is still not willing to reconsider the legislations.ALSO READModi reached the US on Wednesday on an official three-day visit for meetings with Biden and his deputy Kamala Harris, among others. He is scheduled to address the 76th session of the UN General Assembly on Saturday.“We appeal to all Indians living in the US. India’s prime minister will be there on September 25 in New York for a programme. All Indians in the US should place a ‘farmers’ flag on their vehicles and raise banners of ‘No Farmer No Food’ and register your protest in support of farmers,” Tikait said in a video message.“It’s been around 10 months since the protest started and we are all sitting here in Delhi. Over 750 of our farmers have died during the movement and the Indian government is not ready to hold talks. We have sat through winters, summers and rains in the stir,” he added.In his appeal to the US president, Tikait tweeted: “Dear @POTUS, we the Indian farmers are protesting against 3 farm laws brought by PM Modi’s govt. 700 farmers have died in the last 11 months protesting. These black laws should be repealed to save us. Please focus on our concern while meeting PM Modi (sic).”           Hundreds of farmers are encamped on the three border sites of Delhi in Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur since November 2020 under the banner of Samyuka Kisan Morcha (SKM), demanding that the three contentious farm laws should be repealed and a legal guarantee provided to them on minimum support price of crops.Tikait has been leading his BKU at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border.The Centre, which has held 11 rounds of formal dialogues with the farmers, has maintained that the new laws are pro-farmer. — PTIDear @POTUS, we the Indian Farmers are protesting against 3 farm laws brought by PM Modi's govt. 700 farmers have died in the last 11 months protesting. These black laws should be repealed to save us. Please focus on our concern while meeting PM Modi. #Biden_SpeakUp4Farmers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-leader-rakesh-tikait-urges-indians-in-us-to-protest-during-modis-september-25-event-315596
24-09-2021||---||Sunil Jakhar supports Rahul Gandhi’s decision to appoint Charanjit Channi as Punjab CM||Chandigarh, September 24Days after showing annoyance at being left out of the race for the Chief Minister, former PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar has supported the decision of Rahul Gandhi in appointing Charanjit Singh Channi as CM.Names of new Punjab ministers decided as Channi returns from DelhiA day after meeting Rahul, Jakhar tweeted, “What Rahul Gandhi has done by choosing Charanjit Channi as CM is that he has broken the barely perceptible glass ceiling.pic.twitter.com/eC4yxtywcb  “The bold decision, though very much rooted in the ethos of Sikhism, is nevertheless a watershed moment not only for the polity but also for the social fabric of the state,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunil-jakhar-supports-rahul-gandhis-decision-to-appoint-charanjit-channi-as-punjab-cm-315567
24-09-2021||NITIN JAIN||Delta remains most dominant Covid variant as Alpha disappears in Punjab||TRIBUNE NEWS SERVICELUDHIANA, SEPTEMBER 23The government has confirmed that Delta continues to remain the most dominant Covid variant of concern (VoC) and has been spreading fast in Punjab as the United Kingdom’s Alpha variant disappeared after dominating the state till March.A whopping 95.5 per cent of the total Covid samples processed for whole genome sequencing (WGS) in July tested positive for the Indian VoC (B.1.617), which had been christened Delta, the official figures revealed.However, no fresh case of highly-contagious and dreaded new Covid variant Delta Plus (B.1.617.2), which is a mutated form of Delta and is gradually spreading fast to several other countries, claiming many lives, after being first found in India, has been reported in the state.Till now, only two Delta Plus cases, one each in Ludhiana and Patiala districts, were reported in June. The data analysed by the Health and Family Welfare Department, available with The Tribune, showed that a total of 2,863 Covid samples were sent for the WGS from January to July, of which 2,539, accounting for 88.9 per cent, were processed, and 2,284, which accounted for 90 per cent, tested positive for the VoCs.The month-wise break-up of the VoCs suggested that all 90 of the total 108 samples, accounting for 83.3 per cent, processed in July tested positive for the VoCs, of which 86 tested positive for Delta, accounting for 95.5 per cent, while two samples were that of Beta A, 2.2 per cent, and one each sample tested positive for B.1 and B.1.36, which accounted for 1.1 per cent each.In June, 319 samples were processed, of which 288, which accounted for 90.3 per cent, tested positive for the VoCs. Of these, 277 samples, accounting for 96.2 per cent tested positive for the Delta, followed by four for B.1 (1.4 per cent), two each for Alpha (0.7 per cent), Beta A (0.7 per cent), and only one sample tested positive for the Beta B (0.3 per cent each).In May, 617 of the total 652 samples, which accounted for 94.6 per cent, tested positive for the VoCs. Of these, 547 cases, accounting for 88.6 per cent, were of the Delta, followed by 41 cases for the B.1 (6.6 per cent), 23 cases of the Alpha (3.7 per cent), and two cases were of the Delta Plus variant (0.3 per cent).In April, 458 of 493 WGS samples had tested positive for the VoCs, which accounted for 92.9 per cent. Of these, 209 cases, accounting for 45.6 per cent, tested positive for the Delta, 191 cases (41.7 per cent) for the Alpha, and 50 cases (11 per cent) were of the B.1.In March, 715 of 763, which accounted for 93.7 per cent, samples tested positive for the VoCs. Of these, 678 cases, accounting for 94.8 per cent, had tested positive for the Alpha, four cases (0.5 per cent) for the Delta, two cases (0.3 per cent) for the Beta, one case each (0.1 per cent) for the B.1 and B.1.36.In February, all 24 WGS samples had tested positive for the VoCs, which accounted for 100 per cent. Of these, 17 cases, accounting for 70.8 per cent, had tested positive for the Alpha and seven cases (29.2 per cent) for other mutations.In January, 24 of the total 48 samples processed for the WGS tested positive for the VoCs. Of these, seven cases, accounting for 29.2 per cent, were of the B.1, 4 cases (16.7 per cent) of the B.1.36, two cases each (8.3 per cent) of the Alpha and B.1.258.14, and one each (4.2 per cent) of the B, A, B.1.36.19, B.1.36.8, B.1.459, B.1.465, B.1.596, B.1.1, and B.1.216.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/delta-remains-most-dominant-covid-variant-as-alpha-disappears-in-punjab-315512
24-09-2021||Karnal||HSGMC ex-chief Jagdish Singh Jhinda faces farmers’ ire at Karnal gurdwara||High drama was witnessed on the premises of Dera Kar Sewa Gurdwara here as a couple of sewadars and farmers did not allow Jagdish Singh Jhinda, former president of Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (HSGMC) (ad-hoc), to hold a press conference there. The protesters locked the main gate of the gurdwara and raised slogans against Jhinda.Jhinda had played an important role in the formation of separate gurdwara committee for the maintenance of gurdwaras of Haryana in the previous Congress government.The protesters accused Jhinda of defaming farmers’ agitation by commenting against them. However, Jhinda claimed that he supported the farmers and it was due to his intervention that a five-day standoff between farmers and the Karnal district administration had reached a consensus.One of the protesters alleged that Jhinda had recently commented against BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni and farmers. He accused Jhinda of playing at the behest of the BJP. “Jhinda is trying to weaken the farmers’ agitation and we will not allow anyone to speak against farmers from the gurdwara premises,” said a protester.When contacted, Jhinda accused the gurdwara’s head for not allowing him to hold a press meet there and said the ‘guru ghar’ (gurdwara) belonged to all communities, not a particular person. He warned the gurdwara head not to enter his area.He said he was instrumental in resolving the issue between farmers and the government on September 11. “I got the issue between farmers and the government resolved,” said Jhinda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hsgmc-ex-chief-jagdish-singh-jhinda-faces-farmers-ire-at-karnal-gurdwara-315391
24-09-2021||To call Amritsar just a spiritual abode of Sikhism will be an understatement. The holy city is also a treasure trove of street shrines||In pictures: A spiritual voyage through the Holy city of Amritsar||Also read: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in AmritsarSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn TaranDens of belief: Akharas of AmritsarDargah Hazrat Baba Zahra PeerWHILE for many of us, Amritsar is just synonymous to Golden Temple, there is much more that the city offers. At several intersections of the holy city, one is likely to come across the ‘street shrines’ where the reverberating sound of qawwalis transports you to a different era. A visit to these shrines presents a beautiful sight of cultural inclusivity. These sufi hubs have nothing to do with any particular religion. They rather serve as a symbol of brotherhood. Though named as pir di jagah, khangah, dargah and darbar, do not be surprised if you find a picture of lord Shiva hanging besides that of Khwaja Khizr. Untouched by the present-day polarisation; these sacred spaces have their doors open for everyone who visits here to seek relief from distress.Blurring the lines of religious identities, these masjids and maseets were once either shut or converted into temples and gurdwaras as a larger chunk of the Muslim population migrated to Pakistan during the Independence era. Now, the street shrines have flourished more and become popular with time.Many of these shrines have come up more recently at several chowks such as Hussainpura and Celebration Mall. At many places, even the extensions of age-old banyan trees have served as the street shrines.According to the locals, a few such structures as the one at the Hall Gate Chowk existed even prior to 1947; others came up in the post-Sikh militancy era. Many claim that the government took a keen interest in organising melas at these dargahs to promote peace and harmony in the border state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-pictures-a-spiritual-voyage-through-the-holy-city-of-amritsar-315450
24-09-2021||---||BJP Yuva Morcha leader Ashok Sareen records statement before STF||Amritsar, September 23BJP Yuva Morcha Punjab vice-president Ashok Sareen on Thursday appeared before the Special Task Force for investigations into the role of a prominent Punjabi singer and his links with alleged drug peddler Gurdeep Rano.Rano was held by the STF in November last year in connection with an international drug cartel seizing 5.39-kg heroin, illegal weapons and eight luxury cars from his palatial house.Rano allegedly amassed huge moveable and immovable properties in a span of four years. In March 2021, the Punjab Government had suspended five senior police officials, including an IG-rank officer, for their alleged collusion with him.Sareen was summoned by the STF for recording his statement at his border-range office here on Thursday. After recording his statement, he told the media that the Enforcement Directorate was also investigating into the links of Punjabi singer with the international drug cartel suspects following his complaint. He said the singer used to shoot films in the farmhouse of Rano. He said while investigating into the international drug racket, the STF had found the involvement of politicians, police and certain civilians and sought approval and further action from the Punjab Government in this regard.“If he had paid for the shooting, then he should show the transactions and receipts,” he said, adding that the STF will look into the possibility that Rano might have paid him to convert his ill-gotten money from drug trade into white money through foreign programmes of Punjabi singer and his group. Rano might have invested his money in making films also and the STF must look into this, he said.Arun Sharma DSP, STF, said Sareen’s statement was recorded and his allegations would be investigated into. The STF may summon Punjabi singer in the near future for investigations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bjp-yuva-morcha-leader-ashok-sareen-records-statement-before-stf-315211
24-09-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University comes out with app for hearing impaired||Punjabi University today launched a mobile application named All in Indian Sign Language (AISL) for hearing impaired people prepared by the university’s teaching officials.University Vice-Chancellor Professor Arvind launched the application on the eve of International Day of Sign Languages. The application has been developed by Dr Williamjeet Singh, Amandeep Singh and Aditi Sharma of the computer science and engineering department of the varsity.Williamjeet Singh said the application had been developed with an aim to provide easy access to education and training of hearing impaired people. The creative interface of the application allows the users to map three spoken languages — English, Hindi and Punjabi with Indian Sign Language.He said: “The application is one of its kind where learning and testing can be done at a common platform with innovative content delivery system. A provision for quiz is also included for the evaluation of the learned concepts”, and added that the application would benefit the people to learn Indian Sign Language in an effective way. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-university-comes-out-with-app-for-hearing-impaired-315383
24-09-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||False narrative built before Operation Bluestar: Ex-Punjab governor BD Pande||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 23A false narrative about Punjab’s situation was built in the months leading up to Operation Bluestar in June 1984, leading to disastrous consequences, says a new book based on the memoirs of the late BD Pande, the Governor of Punjab from October 10, 1983, to June 27, 1984, when the state was under President’s rule.Titled ‘In the Service of Free India’, the book edited by his daughter Ratna M Sudarshan, and published by Speaking Tiger, comes more than a decade after his death in 2009 at the age of 92. Pande, who also served as the Union Cabinet Secretary and Governor of West Bengal, penned the memoirs between 1986 and 1999 and instructed his family to publish these at least five years after his death.Pande, who had a front-row seat of the events, lauds the Sikhs as a community and is highly critical of the central leadership, especially PM Indira Gandhi, and some “Hindu hardliners and vernacular press for contributing to the false narrative”. He also blames the tussle between President Zail Singh and former Punjab CM Darbara Singh for the unfolding of the events.Pande vehemently defends the Punjab Police and bureaucracy, saying they were on the top of the situation. “What has been essentially a failure on the political front has been bandied about as a failure of the police,” he insists. Before resigning three weeks after Bluestar, Pande had offered to quit thrice due to his “difference in approach” to the Punjab problem with the Prime Minister.“In my first meeting with her after taking over as Governor (eight months before Bluestar),” Pande writes, “she stressed her determination to stamp out these terrorists... and I listened somewhat spellbound as I could not believe that she would go to such lengths. I felt greatly disturbed at the thought and consequences if such actions ever became imperative.”On his impressions of her, he writes, “Even though one acknowledged her remarkable sense of political astuteness and timing, there was an element of ruthlessness in facing or removing her adversaries... She introduced what was called the amoral theory in Indian politics. Power had to be seized and retained — the measures adopted really did not matter.”He surmises: “What I am trying to say is that Gandhi could not and would not tolerate anyone or any party standing up to her. And the Akalis were one such party.” Pande’s memoirs paint almost a day-by-day sequence of events after he took over as Governor.“I have known people who, living in Delhi, were even afraid of coming to Chandigarh. Then from Chandigarh, if one went to the real Punjab — Amritsar, Jalandhar, or Ludhiana — one would find similar normalcy. Driving through the countryside, all was peaceful, with farming going on normally. The cities were bustling with activity. Factories were working normally, even schools and colleges. Hindus and Sikhs were walking together, visiting each other’s shops, riding together. The contrast between what one anticipated and what one actually experienced was vivid... I could not help but emphasise on this otherwise peaceful atmosphere.”A large number of Sikhs had been the victims of attacks by terrorists, he writes, and whenever an incident occurred, the Punjab Police Intelligence was blamed even though they had supplied advance information. “The police Intelligence furnished exact details of all arms inside the Golden Temple. The difference with the list furnished by the CID was of only one firearm. And it was said that Punjab Police failed in its duties.”On the controversial ‘White Paper’ tabled by the Centre before the Army operation, Pande says he was not even consulted. He notes that Akali leaders of the time were divided. They came to meet him separately while other political parties came in one group.He also questions the official figures of casualties in Bluestar. “The number of casualties among the terrorists and civilians was 1,200 (and not 700). Some 200 terrorists still got away. Bluestar did not achieve the desired result.”On the support for Khalistan or members of the Sikh community resorting to violence, Pande wrote that there was no such instance. “Sikh masses have not gone berserk. In fact, they have kept their calm and, as a mob, never attacked the Hindus, unlike the events in Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/false-narrative-built-before-operation-bluestar-ex-punjab-governor-bd-pande-315353
24-09-2021||---||No space for anger in politics: Congress on Captain Amarinder’s remark||New Delhi, September 23The Congress leadership and former Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh hit out at each other publicly today, with the party saying there is no place for anger in politics and the veteran leader hitting back with “no place for anger, but enough place for humiliation” jibe.Capt Amarinder had yesterday called Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra “inexperienced” and also threatened to pit a strong candidate against Punjab party unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu in the coming Assembly elections.Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said Amarinder Singh is an elder and may have stated things out of anger.Elderly get angryCapt is our elder. The elderly often get angry and say a lot of things. We hope he reconsider his words. There is no space in politics for anger. —Supriya Shrinate, Congress spokespersonSpace for insult?Is there space for humiliation and insult in the Congress? If a leader like me can be treated like this, I wonder what the workers must go through! —Capt Amarinder Singh, Former CM“He is our elder and the elderly often get angry and say a lot of things. We respect his anger, age and experience. We hope he does reconsider his words. But, there is no space in politics for anger, envy, enmity, vendetta and personal attacks and comments against political opponents,” she told the media.The party also refused to comment on whether Capt Amarinder would leave the party after his “unceremonious” exit as the Chief Minister of Punjab, and said “if someone wants to leave, we have no comment to offer”.The former CM retorted sharply to Shrinate through a tweet by his media adviser Raveen Thukral. “Yes, there’s no space for anger in politics. But is there space for humiliation and insult in a grand old party like the Congress? If a senior party leader like me can be treated like this, I wonder what the workers must go through!” said Capt Amarinder.The Congress had earlier described Capt’s statements as an elder’s anger.“We hope that he will rethink on his own words while showing prudence, as he has remained a stalwart of the Congress party, which made him the Chief Minister for nine years and nine months,” said Shrinate.Shrinate further said the party had an ideology and was fighting an ideological battle and would continue to stand with those who are standing with it in this battle. “But I would not like to comment on those who want to leave the party,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-space-for-anger-in-politics-congress-on-captain-amarinders-remark-315344
24-09-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Regular jobs for ‘Class D’ staff: Punjab CM Channi||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, September 23Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today said the ‘Class D’ jobs in the state government would now be regularised and not outsourced, as was being done earlier. He said he had directed his officials to make 1 lakh appointments.Speaking at a state-level job fair and the inauguration of Rs 150-crore Dr BR Ambedkar Museum at IK Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKGPTU), he told the youth, “Your brother has become the CM and all that he knows is that you have to be adjusted and given opportunities. I have directed my officials to ensure that as many government jobs are given as possible.”“As a minister, I used to point out that we must have regular posts of Class D employees, but I was invariably told that we can have regular jobs only for Class A and B officers who draw salaries to the tune of Rs 2.25 lakh a month. For those drawing Rs 10,000 or so, jobs were always outsourced. Now that I have that authority, I will make sure that all Class D employees are regularised.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/regular-jobs-for-class-d-staff-punjab-cm-channi-315348
24-09-2021||Faridkot||3 Dera Sacha Sauda followers booked in Faridkot||DSP ‘thrashes’ man, probe onFatehgarh Sahib: A delegation led by secretary of Maulana Mohammad Usman Rehmani Shahi Imam, Ludhiana, on Thursday submitted a complaint to the police alleging DSP Manjeet Singh thrashed hotel owner Mohammad Salim and fractured the arm of his son Hassan. A probe is underway. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-dera-sacha-sauda-followers-booked-in-faridkot-315368
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||4.7L to take Punjab Police exam tomorrow||With over 4.71 lakh candidates expected to take the written examination for 4,358 posts of constable in district and armed cadres on September 25 and 26, the Punjab Police have taken adequate measures to ensure seamless conduct.ADGP Gurpreet Kaur Deo, who is the Chairperson of the Central Recruitment Board for Constables, said admit cards had been issued to 4,71,007 candidates. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-7l-to-take-punjab-police-exam-tomorrow-315366
24-09-2021||Bathinda||Bus stands in Punjab shut for 2 hours today||Members of the Punjab state committee of the PUNBUS and PRTC Contract Workers’ Union met here today.They accused the government and the transport department of delaying the implementation of the decisions taken at a meeting on September 14. They said all bus stands would be closed for two hours tomorrow. They would join farmers’ dharnas on September 27 and go on strike from October 11-13. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bus-stands-in-punjab-shut-for-2-hours-today-315365
24-09-2021||Muktsar||Muktsar sees 328 cases of dengue||With Muktsar registering an increase in dengue cases, the district administration has now turned to local residents for help in containing the spread.As many as 328 cases have been reported to date this year in the district of which a maximum of 232 were detected in September alone.With 170 cases (135 reported in September), Malout town is the worst-hit, followed by Gidderbaha town (68) and Muktsar town (9).ADC (General) Rajdeep Kaur said: “The number of cases is higher than the last year. The health department has deployed 70 teams under the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme to detect and destroy dengue larvae. The cases are on the rise and without public support it is difficult to control the situation.” Dr Seema Goyal, district epidemiologist, has penned a poem to spread awareness among public, which is recited by a little girl of a private school. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-sees-328-cases-of-dengue-315363
24-09-2021||Bathinda||Ex-CM Parkash Singh Badal pays surprise visit to Bathinda varsity||Former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal today visited the Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, and interacted with the faculty members, especially from the Department of Applied Agriculture.He encouraged them to make efforts to help increase the farmer’s income through processed food products. He shared his innovation of utilising jamun, papaya and guava for developing innovative processed food such as barfi, jam and other products. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-cm-parkash-singh-badal-pays-surprise-visit-to-bathinda-varsity-315362
24-09-2021||Abohar||Farmer killed over water dispute||A group of men allegedly attacked a farmer and his son over a canal water irrigation dispute at Amarpura village, 10 km from here on the Abohar-Hanumangarh road. The injured were taken to the Sub-Divisional Civil Hospital here from where they were referred to a Sriganganagar hospital, where the farmer, Ram Kumar (70), succumbed to his injuries.As per information, Kumar had four months ago bought a piece of land from a villager, who had a dispute with some persons over some money transaction. A case has been registered against five persons. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-killed-over-water-dispute-315361
24-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Fazilka traders to participate in September 27 ‘Bharat bandh’||Fazilka, September 23Traders of Fazilka have decided to go on strike to express their solidarity with farm unions, which have called for ‘Bharat bandh’ on September 27.The Beopar Mandal, Fazilka, today convened a special meeting and unanimously resolved to stand by the farming community against the three agricultural laws by shutting their shops on September 27 till 4 pm. However, the chemist shops will remain open.Mandal president Ashok Gulbadhar said shopkeepers had been allowed to open their shop on Sunday, keeping in view the strike on Monday. Representatives of the farmer organisations under the umbrella of Samyukt Kisan Morcha are making all efforts to make the event a success and they have also approached the traders to for their support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fazilka-traders-to-participate-in-september-27-bharat-bandh-315360
24-09-2021||Sangrur||Sangrur Trust members boycott meeting, allege irregularities||Alleging the use of inferior quality material in developmental works, all three Congress members of the Sangrur Improvement Trust boycotted a meeting on Thursday. However, Trust Chairman Naresh Gaba passed the resolutions in the absence of members, who have announced to challenge the holding of meeting.Members have also written to senior authorities for a high-level inquiry into the developmental works. Trust members Santosh Kumari, Parmanand and Lachman Dass Lalka have alleged Trust employees were not showing them files of the ongoing work, nor they were called to pass the estimates of proposed ones.“The officers are not sharing any information with us. On Thursday, we boycotted the meeting, but the Chairman passed the agenda,” said Kumari. Denying the allegations, Gaba said they had been releasing the payment only after the audit of works by the third party. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangrur-trust-members-boycott-meeting-allege-irregularities-315358
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||SAD blames AAP for Manjinder Singh Sirsa’s nomination rejection||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today condemned the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government for holding senior party leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa ineligible for co-option as a member in the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) as the nominee of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) and asked it not to interfere in the religious affairs of the Sikh community.Also read: Manjinder Sirsa ineligible to be co-opted into DSGMC, says gurdwara directorateGurdwara Bangla Sahib shut: Delhi administration flayedGurdwara body urges Delhi govt to stop painting Golden Temple on walls of underpassAddressing a press conference here, senior leaders Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra, Maheshinder Singh Grewal and Avtar Singh Hit said it was condemnable that the AAP government had used its power to get the nomination of Sirsa rejected by the director of the Directorate of Gurdwara Elections. The leaders said Sirsa was eligible for nomination as a co-opted member as per the provisions of the DSGMC Act of 1971. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-blames-aap-for-manjinder-singh-sirsas-nomination-rejection-315357
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Pink bollworm attack on cotton crops: Punjab government orders girdawari||Deputy Chief Ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni today ordered a special girdawari to ascertain the damage to cotton crops after an attack of pink bollworm while presiding over a meeting with the top brass of the Agriculture and Cooperation Department on the directions of the Chief Minister. The meeting saw comprehensive discussions on the issue of shortage of DAP and urea supply. It was decided the matter should be taken up with the Department of Fertilisers, Government of India. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pink-bollworm-attack-on-cotton-crops-punjab-government-orders-girdawari-315355
24-09-2021||Bathinda||Punjab: Sold above MSP, cotton arrival up in mandis||Due to high demand and better price given by private players, Punjab has seen a manifold rise in the arrival of cotton crop at mandis as compared to last year.Despite the attack of pink bollworm on the crop in the region, farmers are buoyant as private players are purchasing cotton way above than the minimum support price (MSP) fixed by the government this season. The government has increased the MSP of cotton from Rs 5,725 to Rs 5,925 per quintal, but private players are purchasing cotton at around Rs 7,000 per quintal.As per the Punjab Mandi Board, various mandis in the southern Malwa belt have witnessed arrival of 80,000 quintals of cotton till September 22, 2021, against arrival of around 1,600-1,700 quintals cotton during the previous season. Of these, Bathinda and Mansa have witnessed arrival of 27,000 and 12,000 quintals, respectively.As per industry experts, after stagnating during the pandemic, the textile industry has begun to recover and the demand for cotton has risen. It is expected that consumption in 2021 will grow faster than the supply. This is the major reason that private players are procuring cotton at a high price this season. A cotton mill official said, “We want to meet the increased demand and anticipating an uncertain market ahead, we have decided to purchase cotton way above than the MSP. We are not waiting for the price to come down to make a purchase.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sold-above-msp-cotton-arrival-up-in-mandis-315354
24-09-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Pest attack: Farmers plough cotton crop in Bathinda, Mansa||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 23Cotton crop is under attack by pink bollworm in the southern Malwa region of Mansa and Bathinda.Farmers of Shekhu, Mirzeana, Jajjal, Natheha, Phulokhari and Malkana villages in Bathinda have ploughed their standing cotton crop after failing to control the pink bollworm attack. Around 42 acres of cotton crop have been ploughed in the past three days in Bathinda district. In Mansa, farmers in Bhamme Khurd village have uprooted their damaged cotton crop.Notably, cotton is sown in an area of over 3 lakh hectares in the state whereas it is sown in an area of one lakh hectares in Bathinda alone.Farmers of Ramsara village on Wednesday uprooted 27 acres of cotton crop. Farmer Jaskaran Singh of Ramsara ploughed his 10-acre crop destroyed by pink bollworm while Pargat Singh of the same village ploughed 5 acres. Farmer Ajmer Singh was forced to plough his cotton crop in 12-acre land with a tractor.BKU Ugrahan block president Malkit Singh Kot Dharmu appealed to farmers to start an indefinite protest outside the office of the Mansa Deputy Commissioner from September 30 to force the government to compensate the farmers for the damaged crop.Farm leaders from the Kul Hind Kisan Sabha demanded the government must pay a compensation of Rs 60,000 on per acre basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pest-attack-farmers-plough-cotton-crop-in-bathinda-mansa-315352
24-09-2021||---||Retd Punjab cop gets 10-yr RI for fake encounter||Mohali, September 23A special CBI court today sentenced a retired Sub-Inspector of the Punjab Police to 10-year rigorous imprisonment in a 29-year-old case at Sathiala village of Beas in Amritsar district.Special CBI Judge Harinder Kaur Sidhu sentenced Amrik Singh (then ASI) to RI for kidnapping, illegal confinement and killing of Gurvinder Singh in a fake encounter case. The court also slapped a fine of Rs 20,000 on him in default of which he would have to undergo one-year of extended imprisonment.The second accused, Inspector Wassan Singh, died during the trial. Wassan was then posted as Station House Officer of the Beas police station. Amrik, who broke down in the court today, was sent to the Patiala jail. The FIR was registered in 1997 following the Supreme Court directions. The agency had filed a chargesheet against Wassan and Amrik for killing Gurvinder Singh, a resident of Pheruman village in Amritsar.On July 21, 1992, a police team from Beas raided Gurvinder’s house and detained his father Chanan Singh. After questioning Chanan, his son was picked up from the house of his uncle in Jalandhar. Later, Chanan was released, but the next day, Gurvinder was killed in an encounter. In 1997, the case was handed over to the CBI and in 2000, charges were framed against both the cops for kidnapping, illegal confinement and murder. The police claimed Gurvinder, a 20-year-old college student, was involved in many murder, extortion and kidnapping cases, but during the trial, the allegations turned out to be false and the encounter, too, turned out to be fake.Killed student||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/retd-punjab-cop-gets-10-yr-ri-for-fake-encounter-315351
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Notice to Paramraj Singh Umranangal on Punjab’s plea||Around seven months after the appearance of Punjab Police officer Paramraj Singh Umranangal before a Faridkot court in connection with sacrilege and police firing matter was deferred, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued a notice on an application moved by the state for recalling the order.Justice GS Sandhawalia also fixed October 10 as the next date for hearing in the matter. In his petition argued by senior advocates APS Deol, Gurminder Singh Kharbanda, Himmat Singh Deol, Jatinder Singh Gill and Vishal R Lamba, Umranangal was seeking the quashing of an FIR registered on August 7, 2018, for attempt to murder and other offences under Sections 307, 326, 324, 323, 341, 201, 218, 120-B and 34 of the IPC and the provisions of the Arms Act at Kotkapura police station.Among other things, directions were also sought for quashing the entire investigation with regard to the petitioner on the ground that it was patently illegal, manifestly just and tainted by malafides. The Bench was told that the petitioner had also prayed that departmental inquiry should also be quashed and stayed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/notice-to-paramraj-singh-umranangal-on-punjabs-plea-315350
24-09-2021||Bathinda||Direct flight to Canada likely from September 27||Canada has extended the ban on flights from India till September 27 and further decision will be taken on the basis of the tests on passengers arriving from New Delhi on three flights, which landed in Canada on Wednesday.Transport Canada has announced an extension of the Notice to Airmen (NOTAM) that restricts all direct commercial and private passenger flights to Canada from India until September 26 at 23:59 EDT.Once the restriction expires, travellers eligible to enter Canada will be able to board direct flights from India only after producing a negative Covid-19 molecular test from the Canada-approved Genestrings Laboratory at the Delhi airport taken within 18 hours of the scheduled departure of their flight. It is learnt that no other test from any other clinic will be accepted, even if someone is connecting from a different city.Prior to boarding, air operators will make sure that fully vaccinated travellers have uploaded their information on the ArriveCAN mobile app or website. Travellers who are unable to meet these requirements will be denied boarding.Those entering Canada via an indirect route will continue to be required to obtain, within 72 hours of departure, a valid negative Covid-19 molecular test report from a third country, other than India.The resumption of the direct flight to Canada after five months will be a huge relief to Indians, who were opting for a transit route spending more than Rs 3 lakh per person. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/direct-flight-to-canada-likely-from-september-27-315349
24-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Submit report on false sureties case by October, Ludhiana Sessions Judge told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 23Just about five months after a trial court was rapped for acting mechanically while accepting false sureties and bail bonds in a case allegedly involving fake invoices worth Rs 393 crore, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has set October first week as deadline for the Ludhiana District and Sessions Judge to hold an inquiry.Justice Deepak Sibal of the High Court had in May set a month’s deadline for the submission of report, but the Ludhiana District and Sessions Judge, vide letter dated May 27, sought additional time for submitting a conclusive enquiry report.Fixing the case for October 7, Justice Sibal made it clear that the Judge would submit his report in terms of the court’s earlier order before the adjourned date of hearing. Justice Sibal, on a previous date of hearing, had also directed the trial court, which accepted the bail bonds and sureties, to furnish comments on the safeguards taken to record “satisfaction” before ordering the release of the accused.Justice Sibal had asserted furnishing false sureties at the time of release of an accused on bail clearly amounted to interference in the administration of justice. It was a menace, which continued to be rampant despite issuance of directions by the High Court in December 2011 in the case of “Rajinder Kumar versus State of Haryana”. The same was required to be put to an end.Justice Sibal had added that the trial court’s “satisfaction” at the time of accepting false sureties and bail bonds was, prima facie, recorded rather mechanically and ex-facie in violation of directions issued and circulated by the HC in Rajinder Kumar’s case.The case has its genesis in an FIR registered on a complaint by the tax authorities in Ludhiana, alleging that the petitioner-accused, by creating 23 fake accounts, raised fake invoices worth Rs 393 crore. The trial court in January granted bail to the petitioner, subject to furnishing of two sureties worth Rs 1 crore each, along with a bank guarantee worth Rs 50 lakh. The court accepted the same and ordered the petitioner’s release. It was later revealed that both the sureties, whose Aadhaar cards were produced before the court, had actually not consented to stand sureties. They had also not provided documents regarding their properties, which were produced before the trial court. Accordingly, an FIR for cheating, forgery and other offences was registered under Sections 170, 199, 200, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, 474 and 120-B of the IPC against the petitioner.Rs393-crore fake invoices raised||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/submit-report-on-false-sureties-case-by-october-ludhiana-sessions-judge-told-315347
24-09-2021||Amritsar||SGPC gives ultimatum to Punjab government on sanctity violation||An executive body of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), in its meeting, passed a resolution to give a seven-day ultimatum to the state government to take action against the culprit in the sanctity violation case or the body would decide the next course of action in this regard on its own.The SGPC also sought narco-analysis test and brain mapping of the accused. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur had written letters to the Chief Minister and the Director General of Police in this regard. Expressing dissatisfaction over the alleged police inaction, the SGPC chief said: “Even after several days, no concrete information about the conspiracy behind the incident has been given by the police. The executive body has decided that if the government does not take action within a week, the SGPC would take action on its own.”The executive body also resented that the Centre was indifferent towards issues related to Sikhs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sgpc-gives-ultimatum-to-punjab-government-on-sanctity-violation-315346
24-09-2021||Our Correspondent||KTF module busted, 3 held with tiffin bombs in Bhikhiwind village||Tarn Taran, September 23The district police have busted another militant module allegedly backed by the Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) with the arrest of its three activists from Bhagwanpur village in Bhikhiwind (Tarn Taran) on Wednesday night.The police recovered two boxes packed in foam which appeared to be tiffin bombs, two hand grenades (86P) and three 9-mm pistols from their possession. This is the sixth tiffin bomb recovered in Punjab in the past one and a half months.The district police said the arrested suspects had been identified as Kanwarpal Singh, Kulwinder Singh and Kamalpreet Singh, all residents of Moga. Kanwarpal disclosed that he had returned from Canada two weeks back.Bhikhiwind SHO Navdeep Singh Bhatti said the accused were produced in the court of Guarav Gupta, JMIC, Patti, which sent them in three-day police remand till September 25.SSP Opinderjit Singh Ghuman revealed the suspected were between the age of 22 and 23 years. Though no case has been found to be registered against them, theircriminal backgroundwas being verified.The development came four months after the Punjab Police arrested three activists of the KTF, involved in several heinous crimes, including the murder of a Dera man and firing on a priest. The trio had been found acting on the directions ofKTF’s Canada-based chiefHardeep Singh Nijjar.The suspects were arrested when a police party intercepted a Swift car bearing and arrested the trio. One of the suspected pointed his revolver at the police party. SSP Opinderjit Singh said preliminary investigations revealed the module members had reached Tarn Taran to retrieve some dumped militant hardware consignment, on the directions of Canada-based Arshdeep Dalla, who is a close aide of Hardeep Nijjar.The suspects recovered a hand grenade from Mari Kamboke and the second from Chung village, which were buried under the soil. Notably, Kamaljit and Lovepreet, who were earlier arrested in Moga, had introduced the accused to Arshdeep.A case under Section 307 of the IPC, Section 475 of the Explosives Substance Amendment Act, Sections 13, 18 and 20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and Sections 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act has been filed at the Bhikhiwind police station.Hand grenades, pistols seized||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ktf-module-busted-3-held-with-tiffin-bombs-in-bhikhiwind-village-315345
24-09-2021||Aman Sood||12 years on, RSS leader Rulda Singh’s murder remains mystery||Tribune News ServicePatiala September 23Almost 12 years after the murder of Rashtriya Sikh Sangat (RSS) chief Rulda Singh, the Punjab Police are yet to solve the crime mystery believed to an international conspiracy.Also read: 3 British Sikhs freed in Rulda Singh murder case in PatialaNow, a day after a UK court discharged three British Sikhs in connection with the 2009 murder of RSS leader Rulda Singh, who was shot in Patiala, due to insufficient evidence, the Patiala police will wait for the formal orders.On Wednesday, the court acquitted Piara Singh Gill, Amritivir Singh Wahiwala and Gursharanvir Singh Wahiwala due to insufficient evidence. The arrests followed early morning raids on Indian extradition warrants executed by the West Midlands Police in December last year.As per the Patiala police records, a total of 18 accused were named in the case, including these three British nationals, who were declared proclaimed offenders.In 2015, a local court in Patiala had acquitted Darshan Singh Makaropur, Jagmohan Singh, Daljeet Singh, Gurjant Singh and Amarjeet Singh, while trial against Jagtar Singh Tara and another alleged Khalistan Tigers Force terrorist Ramandeep Singh Goldy is still pending.With all accused tried in Indian courts already acquitted, the police were hoping that the arrest and extradition request against alleged pro-Khalistan elements in the UK would help them solve the mysterious murder case.However, with all three UK nationals being acquitted, the investigation has reached a stalemate. “We will wait for the formal orders of the UK court and only after going through the judgment, we will take a final call in consultation with the Ministry of Home Affairs,” said DSP City Saurabh Jindal. “At present, they are still POs as per our files,” he added.The Patiala police claim that two persons who had opened fire at Rulda Singh had come from the UK and had escaped after the murder. “Five persons had facilitated their stay in India, provided them arms and informed them of Rulda Singh’s daily schedule. They had helped the assassins target the RSS leader,” claim Patiala police investigations. The police claimed that these five persons were paid by the assassins for their role.Jindal said the police were yet to ascertain the identity of Gurdit Singh, Devinder Kaur, Lashwinder Singh and Kulbir Singh, whose names cropped up during probe but could never be identified.2009 Patiala Shooting UK court verdict||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/12-years-on-rss-leader-rulda-singhs-murder-remains-mystery-315343
24-09-2021||Anandpur Sahib||Sacrilege, PPAs top priority: Pargat Singh||Taking appropriate measures to resolve issues pertaining to the power purchase agreements (PPAs), drug menace and justice in sacrilege issues would be the top priority of the new Congress government. This was stated by Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) general secretary Pargat Singh, here today.Pargat Singh, who was here to pay obeisance at Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib, said: “There are numerous challenges before the government. Time is short.” The former Olympian said he was optimistic that this government would come out with flying colours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-ppas-top-priority-pargat-singh-315342
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||SAD plans September 29 march over land compensation to farmers||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today resolved to launch an agitation to raise the voice of two lakh farmers of the state across 19 districts whose land is being allgedly acquired for peanuts by the government for various roads under the Bharat Mala project.A protest march will be held from Mohali to the Chief Minister’s residence in Chandigarh on September 29 to secure justice for the affected farmer families. A party delegation will also meet the Governor on this issue tomorrow and submit a memorandum to him to demand fair compensation for the affected farmers.These decisions were taken after the senior SAD leadership led by party president Sukhbir Singh Badal met representatives of the Punjab Pradesh Road Kisan Sangharsh Committee, which has been spearheading the campaign to secure a fair compensation for the affected farmers.Briefing the SAD leadership, committee president Sukhdev Singh Dhillon said farmers had been offered low compensation averaging Rs 30 lakh to Rs 70 lakh per acre for rural and urban land, respectively, and demanded an enhanced compensation of Rs 1 crore an acre for rural land and Rs 3-5 crore an acre for urban land acquired for the road projects. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-plans-september-29-march-over-land-compensation-to-farmers-315341
24-09-2021||---||Punjab Congress being run  from Delhi: Parminder Singh Dhindsa||Chandigarh, September 23Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) MLA and former Finance Minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa today said the appointment of new Chief Minister of the state has made it clear that the decisions of the Congress high command were being imposed on Punjab without taking into account any ground reality. He said Punjab was in a dire need of the third alternative as the rulers sitting in Delhi could never do any good to Punjab.Reacting to the developments in the Punjab Congress, Dhindsa said the people of Punjab should now realise that the Congress government could not take any welfare decision on its own as it depended on the ‘Delhi Darbar’. He added even the previous SAD-BJP government acted on the cues of the BJP. He said the Congress leaders were fighting among themselves for their vested interests, leaving the people in the lurch.Dhindsa said looking at the activities of the newly appointed Chief Minister, it seemed like he was not only incapable of taking his own decisions but also blindly following the Congress high command and Navjot Singh Sidhu.He said keeping in view the current political situation in Punjab, there was a dire need for leaders who understood the issues of Punjab, Punjabi and Punjabiyat very well. Only a strong regional party could bring better change in the state, added Dhindsa.Channi CM till elections: BJPThe BJP on Thursday alleged the appointment of Charanjit Singh Channi as CM was a poll gimmick and the Congress would betray the Scheduled Caste community. State BJP president Ashwani Sharma said: “Channi has been made CM to woe the SC vote bank. Punjab affairs incharge Harish Rawat has gone on record to say that Navjot Sidhu will be the Congress ‘face’ for the 2022 Assembly elections.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-being-run-from-delhi-parminder-singh-dhindsa-315340
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Set deadline in sacrilege cases: AAP to Punjab CM||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said the people of Punjab expected the newly-appointed Chief Minister to set a deadline rather than an announcement for ensuring justice in the sacrilege cases.In a joint statement, AAP senior leaders Aman Arora and Prof Baljinder Kaur said Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu were continuously making announcements. “These are all announcements that the Congress leadership has been making since the 2017 elections. But in the last four and a half years, it has done nothing. The people want work, not announcements,” they added.Arora said with just 60 days to work, Channi should clarify to the people whether he would be able to punish the culprits of sacrilege and those who opened fire on the unarmed Sangat in the next 30 days. Prof Baljinder Kaur said no effective action had been taken by the Channi government so far. “Channi should tell in how many days he would eradicate the drug mafia system and put the big defaulters behind the bars,” she said. The AAP leaders also asked him to tell when he was going to act against the transport mafia. — TNSConvene Assembly session: CheemaAAP senior leader and Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema has asked the Chief Minister to immediately convene the monsoon session of the Vidhan Sabha. He said a 15-day session should be convened for decisive discussions on all vital issues, including fertilisers’ shortage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/set-deadline-in-sacrilege-cases-aap-to-punjab-cm-315339
24-09-2021||New Delhi||Amid internal feud, Punjab Congress in charge Harish Rawat meets Sunil Jakhar||Congress general Secretary in charge of Punjab Harish Rawat on Wednesday called on former state unit president Sunil Jakhar to seek his cooperation for Punjab amid intense factional wars between former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu.Jakhar, who was one of the chief ministerial frontrunners, had recently taken on Rawat for “undermining CM Charanjit Singh Channi by saying that the state elections will be fought under the leadership of Navjot Sidhu”.Rawat’s visit was also seen in the light of Jakhar’s unease over the former’s public statement that had “undermined” Channi.Rawat is learnt to have urged Jakhar to continue providing guidance to party workers. The visit was seen as the Congress leadership’s attempt to placate senior state leaders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-internal-feud-punjab-congress-in-charge-harish-rawat-meets-sunil-jakhar-315338
24-09-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||New Punjab Chief Secretary Anirudh Tiwari supersedes 6 officers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 23The new political dispensation in Punjab, headed by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, has chosen Anirudh Tiwari as the new Chief Secretary. He was serving as the Additional Chief Secretary, Development.Tiwari replaces Vini Mahajan, handpicked by former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in June last year. Mahajan, the first woman to be appointed to the post, has reportedly proceeded on leave.While three other officers — Ravneet Kaur, next in seniority to Mahajan, besides Sanjay Kumar and VK Singh — were among the top contenders, 1990-batch officer Tiwari was ultimately picked by the Channi-Sidhu team. His role in the Agriculture, Finance, Power and Personnel departments over the past few years ultimately worked in his favour.With this, Tiwari has superseded six officers — senior-most IAS officer of Punjab cadre Arun Goyal (on deputation to Centre), Ravneet Kaur, Sanjay Kumar, Anjali Bhawra, VK Janjua and Kripa Shankar Saroj.The outgoing Chief Secretary, too, had superseded five officers. Other than Goyal and Bhawra, all others have been re-designated as Special Chief Secretary to Government of Punjab. Mahajan, too, has been re-designated as Special Chief Secretary.While in principle, the senior-most IAS officer is to be considered for the top administrative post, for several years now, the government of the day has been picking officers of their choice to handle the job of coordinating between various departments. Tiwari, who hails from Patiala, was instrumental in putting Punjab on the national map for promoting renewable energy generation in the state.Having served as Secretary, Power, he will be required to fulfil the promise of making electricity cheaper by either renegotiating or scrapping the PPAs with producers, coming up with a sand mining policy, besides helping the ruling political dispensation in settling the ongoing farmers’ agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/new-punjab-chief-secretary-anirudh-tiwari-supersedes-6-officers-315337
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Post open defiance, party guarded over Capt Amarinder Singh’s next move||Amid the fresh face-off between Capt Amarinder Singh and the Congress high command, the party is closely watching the former Chief Minister’s next move.Given the timing of Captain Amarinder’s outburst, in the light of the impending Cabinet expansion of Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government, the top leadership engaged in hectic parleys in the national capital is wary that those left out may align with the former Chief Minister.In the coming days, Captain Amarinder is likely to visit Delhi concerning his political options. Sources also do not rule out his calling upon party president Sonia Gandhi.Ex-CM may reveal plans by Oct 15The party is wary that those left out may align with Capt. He is likely to visit Delhi in coming days, and may call upon party chief Sonia GandhiWhile Capt is likely to make political plans public by Oct 15, there is speculation he may form a new outfit or align with BJPCongress leaders are also not ruling out ex-CM playing key role in getting the concerns of the unions addressed over farm lawsWary of retaliation by those upset by the change of guard, top party leaders are busy mollifying them, if former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar accompanying party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi to Delhi yesterday and CM Channi calling up senior leader Brahm Mohindra on the directions of the party high command are any indicator.“After the Congress masterstroke of putting up a Dalit-Sikh face as the CM, the party leaders are keenly awaiting the next move of the former CM,” said a senior party leader amid speculation over Captain Amarinder forming a new political outfit or aligning with the BJP.The former CM is likely to make the announcement of his political plans by October 15. He has, however, not specified his political options while targeting the party high command and state president Navjot Singh Sidhu.Adding credence to speculation about Captain Amarinder’s next move, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Thursday hit out at Sidhu, saying the former Chief Minister was a hurdle in installing pro-Pakistan forces in power in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/post-open-defiance-party-guarded-over-capt-amarinder-singhs-next-move-315335
24-09-2021||Kapurthala||Will end corruption: Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today said he would make Punjab corruption-free for which he wanted youngsters’ support. Addressing a job fair after a ceremony for Dr BR Ambedkar Museum at IK Gujral Punjab Technical University here, the CM said: “Either I or corruption will go.”Channi said having started politics from the ground level, he was aware of contractors having to dole out up to 22 per cent commission to MC officials for projects. “This will not work. I know there are officers who will keep staring at you till the time you pay up. This will not be tolerated now,” he said.“I will break this nexus. There are all sorts of people. There are some honest people too,” he said, adding he had the roadmap for Punjab ready.Asserting that he was easy to access, Channi said, “I never keep my phone’s ringer off even if someone has to call at midnight.”The CM said the state government would soon set up Dr BR Ambedkar Institute of Management in collaboration with the IIM, Amritsar, at Kapurthala. Also, School of Ambedkar Thoughts and Bharat Ratna Dr Baba Sahib Ambedkar Centre for research would be set up in the Doaba region. — TNSSidhu adviser quitsPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s adviser Dr Pyare Lal Garg, who courted row over his remark on Pakistan, has quit. In a letter to Sidhu, he said: “I humbly withdraw my consent that was shown for tendering advice to you.”Wife backs PCC chiefEx-MLA Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu has said if her husband was anti-national, as claimed by Captain, he should be put behind bars. “He played cricket against Pak to win, was it anti-national?” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-end-corruption-punjab-chief-minister-charanjit-singh-channi-315334
24-09-2021||---||As top brass talks Cabinet, Punjab CM flies to Delhi||Chandigarh, September 23Having considered all permutations and combinations in finalising the name of MLAs to be included in the Cabinet, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi held a meeting with party leader Rahul Gandhi in Delhi late this evening. He also held talks with Punjab affairs incharge Harish Rawat.At short notice, Channi, who was attending an event in Jalandhar, flew to Delhi in a chartered plane from Amritsar airport. Channi was accompanied by two officers, but neither PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, nor CM’s deputies Sukhjinder Randhawa and OP Soni accompanied him to the national capital. Sidhu is said to be in Amritsar.Former Finance Minister Manpreet Badal was also stated to be at Delhi’s Punjab Bhavan, the venue of the meeting. Badal has been playing an active role ever since Channi took over as CM. With less than 90 days left for the model code of conduct to kick in, time is running out for the government to show results.Sources privy to developments said the party leadership did not want to drop all the ministers who were part of the Capt Amarinder government as they along with disgruntled leaders could align with the former Chief Minister, who has taken on the party high command over his unceremonious exit as CM.Former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar is learnt to have been taken on board regarding the selection of new ministers. Jakhar, who last evening accompanied Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra on a flight from Chandigarh to Delhi, held a meeting with Rahul this morning.Having been ignored for the CM’s post, Jakhar had objected to the “Sikh versus Hindi” narrative propounded by certain party leaders. Later in the day, party leader AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal and Harish Rawat besides Ajay Maken and Harish Chaudhary called upon Jakhar.With the CM and two Deputy CMs seated, a total of 15 names for the Council of Ministers are to be announced. This does not include the Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha.The central leadership, comprising Venugopal, Chaudhary, Rawat and Ambika Soni are briefing the Gandhis on the profile of each candidate being considered for the Cabinet berth.Brainstorming had been going in Delhi to consider a blend of experience and young faces that could correct the negative narrative of the Amarinder government and arrest anti-incumbency. Criteria like age factor, performance of ministers in the Captain Amarinder government and allegations of corruption are bound to be key factors in the selection of the Council of Ministers.With the CM and two Deputy CMs seated, a total of 15 names for the Council of Ministers are to be announced. This does not include the Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha.Brainstorming for 15 namesBesides the CM and two Deputy CMs, 15 names are to be announced for the Council of Ministers. Sources say leadership doesn’t want to drop all ministers who were part of the Capt Amarinder CabinetDifferences crop upDifferences are learnt to have emerged among the CM, his deputy Sukhjinder Randhawa and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu over appointment of AG, selection of DGP and allocation of portfolio of Home and Local Bodies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/as-top-brass-talks-cabinet-punjab-cm-flies-to-delhi-315333
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||CM Charanjit Channi called by Congress party high command to Delhi amid pending Cabinet expansion||Amid the pending Cabinet expansion, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has been called by the Congress party high command to Delhi.He is scheduled to fly from Amritsar airport for Delhi.Earlier, joined by former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar at the Chandigarh airport, Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra left for Delhi on Wednesday evening — a significant development in the wake of the impending Cabinet expansion of the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government.Jakhar may be placated with an important position in the party after he declined to accept the position of Deputy CM, say sources.He was reportedly asked to accompany the Gandhis to Delhi. Interestingly, none of the party leaders from Punjab were at the airport. Jakhar is likely to attend a crucial meeting with the Gandhis on Thursday. Meanwhile, the chief minister met Brahm Mohindra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-charanjit-channi-called-by-congress-party-high-command-to-delhi-amid-pending-cabinet-expansion-315160
24-09-2021||Aditi Tandon||No comment if Amarinder wants to leave, says Congress; Punjab ex-CM says this isn't the way to treat senior leaders||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 23In a major rebuff to former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the Congress on Thursday said it had no comment if someone wanted to leave the party.Also read: Ready to make any sacrifice to stop Navjot Sidhu becoming CM: Capt AmarinderSpeculation as Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka, Jakhar leave for Delhi“There is no place for anger, jealousy, envy, personal comments or a sense of revenge in politics,” the Congress said reacting to Singh’s comment on Wednesday that he would not let Navjot Sidhu become chief minister of Punjab at any cost and would field a strong candidate against him.Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate, considered close to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, on Thursday said Singh hopefully would reconsider his remarks in light of the fact that the “Congress made him CM for nine and a half years”.Shrinate said the Congress was fighting an ideological war and would stand by those who wanted to fight this way.“If he wants to leave, I have no comments on that,” Shrinate said, in a rare public rebuff to any party veteran.After Shrinate said there was no place for anger in politics, Singh responded through media adviser Raveen Thukral saying there was no place for anger in politics but there was place for humiliation in the Congress.“Yes, there's no space for anger in politics. But is there space for humiliation & insult in a grand old party like @INCIndia? If a senior party leader like me can be treated like this, I wonder what the workers must go through!'”Yes, there's no space for anger in politics. But is there space for humiliation & insult in a grand old party like @INCIndia? If a senior party leader like me can be treated like this, I wonder what the workers must go through!': @capt_amarinder to @SupriyaShrinate https://t.co/deEDRYlBMg  Amarinder on Wednesday had called the Gandhi siblings "inexperienced and misguided by their advisers".||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-comment-if-amarinder-wants-to-leave-says-congress-punjab-ex-cm-says-this-isnt-the-way-to-treat-senior-leaders-315150
24-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Senior advocate DS Patwalia appointed Punjab Advocate General||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 23Senior advocate DS Patwalia was on Thursday appointed Punjab Advocate General.His appointment as the top law officer came following the resignation by Atul Nanda from the post soon after Capt Amarinder Singh resigned.Patwalia has primarily been practising on the Constitutional side and is known for his proficiency in dealing with service matters. He has also been handling criminal matters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/senior-advocate-ds-patwalia-appointed-punjab-advocate-general-315134
24-09-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Change of guard in Punjab Congress unfolds how Gandhi siblings are taking over state party affairs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 23As the political drama unfolds in Punjab Congress, leading to climax of “anytime” announcement of CM Charanjit Singh Channi’s new Council of Ministers, telltale signs of micro-management or taking over the affairs of the party and the state government by Gandhi siblings are emerging.Also read: Speculation as Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka, Sunil Jakhar leave for DelhiFrom writing the script of “rebel” against former CM Capt Amarinder Singh to creating parallel power centre against him by elevating Navjot Singh sidhu as state party head to close monitoring of selection of Channi as CM and his Council of Ministers, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi seem to be in the saddle.They are working through their trusted lieutenants like Harish Chaudhary, with valuable inputs from political strategist Prashant Kishore, trying to recast the Punjab Congress minus Capt Amarinder Singh to ensure victory in the Assembly election.The behind-the-scenes work in selection of Channi as CM, contrary to demands to put up a Jat face, also indicates long-term planning by the Gandhis.As a party leader says the party’s central leadership never wants a state head to be an autonomous power, as a tall leader like Capt Amarinder Singh appeared to be.As the happenings in Delhi suggest, the central leadership comprising KC Venugopal, Harish Chaudhry, Harish Rawat and Ambika Soni are briefing the Gandhis on the profile of each candidate being considered for the Cabinet berth.Brainstorming has been going in Delhi to consider a blend of experience and young faces that could correct the negative narrative of the Amarinder government and arrest the anti-incumbency. Criteria like age factor, performance of the ministers in the Amarinder government and allegation of corruption are bound to be the factors in the selection of the Council of Ministers.The faces selected in the new Cabinet could be claimants in the new government if the Congress manages to win the 2022 Assembly election.After taking inputs from Channi, his two deputies and Navjot Singh Sidhu, the central leadership is independently deciding on the names.That is why Amarinder has ridiculed the way Punjab is being run from Delhi now. He has expressed shock at the way things are happening. Pointing out that as CM, he had called the shots and appointed his own ministers, as he knew the capability of each of them, he questioned how Congress leaders like Venugopal or Ajay Maken or Randeep Surjewala could decide who is good for which ministry.Contrary to perception that after replacing Amarinder, Sidhu would take over, reports from sources say that the PPCC chief may not get absolute power and checks and balances are being put in place on Sidhu by the Gandhis to ensure absolute power does not stay with one person.The appointment of Channi as CM, a Dalit face, and the challenge for Sidhu to counter the pro-Dalit narrative in the run-up to the 2022 Assembly elections shows the behind-the-scene work by the Gandhi siblings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/change-of-guard-in-punjab-congress-unfolds-how-gandhi-siblings-are-taking-over-state-party-affairs-315107
