25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi to meet ministers, MLAs every Tuesday||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday said he will meet ministers, MLAs and other political functionaries every Tuesday.The move is aimed at ensuring better coordination between the government and people’s representatives.A spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office said Channi ordered that the Cabinet meeting would be held every Tuesday at 3 pm and directed all administrative secretaries and heads of departments to remain present in their offices during this time every Tuesday.Likewise, he also asked them not to leave their offices till the Cabinet meeting is over. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-to-meet-ministers-mlas-every-tuesday-316111
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Charanjit Channi allocates work to bureaucrats at CMO||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Channi allocated work to newly-appointed bureaucrats at the Chief Minister’s Office on Saturday.A new circular issued on Saturday listed out work for bureaucrats at the CMO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-charanjit-channi-allocates-work-to-bureaucrats-at-cmo-316102
25-09-2021||---||Economy showing signs of recovery: Nirmala Sitharaman||Chandigarh, September 24Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman today said that the Indian economy was showing signs of recovery.State did better amid Covid timesHaryana handled the economy better during the Covid times, as it didn’t feel the need to utilise the widened borrowing capacity for states. Also, we’re 100% committed to doubling farmers’ income. For this, we have added alternative income sources. Nirmala Sitharaman, Finance MinisterHowever, she refrained from making a comment on it reaching the pre-Covid levels.Sitharaman was in Chandigarh as part of the 20-day birthday celebrations of Prime Minister Narendra Modi under the “Sewa and Samarpan” programme.She said Haryana had handled the economy better during the Covid times, as it didn’t feel the need to utilise the widened borrowing capacity for states. On Punjab’s GST dues, Sitharaman said after meeting their Finance Minister Manpreet Badal, she had released the dues for the state.On Border Area Development Programme for Punjab, which is in ratio of 60:40 between the Centre and states, she said it couldn’t be equated with Himalayan states and north-eastern states, which are in the ratio of 90:10 between the Centre and states.On the question whether the Centre would increase the deadline for doubling farmers’ income, which was slated for 2022 earlier, she said, “It is our 100% commitment to double their income. We’ve added alternative income sources for farmers, including dairy and growing valuable trees.”On bringing petrol and diesel under the GST, she said the GST council would decide the rate. On a question of whether demonetisation had achieved its objectives, she said it managed to curb fake currency and black money.The Union Minister said for the past seven years, the Centre was running many schemes for the economic uplift of the people on the last rung of society. Through these schemes, loans are being given to people from the lower strata to run their businesses. Referring specifically to the Jan Dhan accounts, she said through the DBT, the benefits of many schemes were reaching the poor families. She said collateral free loans were being given under Mudra for standups and startups.She said many economic reforms had been implemented since 2014 under the leadership of PM Modi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/economy-showing-signs-of-recovery-nirmala-sitharaman-315912
25-09-2021||A day before the name of Dera Baba Nanak MLA Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa started doing the rounds as the Chief Minister||The monk replaces the Ferrari driver in Majha||Voices to make Batala a district die downA direct fall out of the change in dispensation in Chandigarh has been that voices to make Batala a district have died down. Earlier, Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa had handed over a letter to then Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh urging him to elevate the status of the subdivisional town to a full-fledged district. Two powerful dissenting leaders Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, too, wanted the demand to be met. In between, salvos were fired from both sides apparently in what was slowly turning out to be a credit war. All eyes are on Randhawa and Tript as these two are now in power. However, people in the know claim that the move may not fructify till the elections are over. The division, if at all it happens, is likely to hit the lawyers’ community of Gurdaspur. The advocates fear they will have to face a loss of clientele. For the time being, it is peace that prevails instead of politics.Aarushi does city proudYoung Aarushi Mahajan has done the city proud by becoming one of the teachers selected to teach prospective candidates who will be appearing for an exam to recruit constables in Punjab Police. Even SSP Nanak Singh was impressed by her teaching skills following which he felicitated her at a simple ceremony held in his office. Aarushi says most of the candidates she teaches at the Sukhjindra College belong to the lower strata of society and hence are unable to afford the exorbitant fees taken by local tuition centres. She is a postgraduate in social sciences from Panjab University, Chandigarh. The SSP was scouting for a young teacher when somebody told him about Aarushi. The girl was quick to make up her mind as “she wanted to do something for the upliftment of society.” As things stand, she is turning out to be a success story of Gurdaspur. “Every educated person is not rich. But every educated person is capable of keeping himself or herself out of poverty,” she says. And that is what she intends to do. She wants all these candidates to get a good education so that they can manage things on their own. Aarushi surely must have heard about the adage: “Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day. Teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime”.— Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/the-monk-replaces-the-ferrari-driver-in-majha-315749
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Cong divided on selections||Within days of removing Capt Amarinder Singh as the Chief Minister and replacing him with Charanjit Singh Channi, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had remarked the crisis in Punjab unit had been resolved.Also read: Jakhar meets Rahul, gives inputs on CabinetAfter the initial euphoria, fissures appeared among different groups that had been “brought together” by the party high command to unseat Captain Amarinder.Party leaders strongly feel the Gandhi scion apparently went off the mark in understanding the hidden aspirations of party leaders in Punjab. Hours after Channi took over as the Chief Minister, different pressure groups became active in selection of names of other Cabinet ministers, getting the desired portfolios — besides shortlisting the name of officers for top administrative posts.The delay in finalising names of Cabinet ministers, selection of the Advocate General (AG) and Director General of Police (DGP) due to apparent differences between PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa indicates differences over the choice of candidates.Ahead of Channi’s selection as the CM, the narrative of “Sikh versus Hindu” face was pushed by pressure groups to manipulate the criteria for selection for the top post. With Channi, a Dalit face, in the saddle, Jat aspirants for the CM post are now lobbying keeping in mind the 2022 Assembly elections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cong-divided-on-selections-315669
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sunil Jakhar meets Rahul Gandhi, gives inputs on Cabinet||Ahead of meeting Rahul Gandhi in Delhi on Friday, former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar supported the former party president’s decision to appoint Charanjit Singh Channi as the Chief Minister.Only a few days ago, Jakhar had expressed displeasure at being left out of the race for the Chief Minister’s post, after certain party leaders raked up the “Hindu versus Sikh” controversy.Apart from being assigned an important responsibility in Punjab affairs, the former PCC chief is learnt to have discussed the contours of various factors at play in choosing the right candidates as ministers in the Channi-led Cabinet, besides giving his opinion on appointments for the top administrative posts.Broken glass ceilingRahul by choosing Channi as CM has broken barely perceptible glass ceiling. The bold decision is a watershed moment not only for the polity but also for state’s social fabric. —Sunil Jakhar, Former PCC chiefEarlier Jakhar tweeted: “What Rahul Gandhi has done by choosing Charanjit Channi as CM is that he has broken the barely perceptible glass ceiling. The bold decision, though very much rooted in the ethos of Sikhism, is nevertheless a watershed moment not only for the polity but also for the social fabric of the state.”Jakhar said all opponents of the Congress were literally “missing the forest while counting trees” in attributing political motives to the Congress’ choice of Punjab CM.He said there was a clear danger of Punjabiyat being put to the test once again with usual divisive forces trying to defragment the society. “The new Congress dispensation was being keenly watched whether they have what it takes.” — TNSAssigned key roleApart from being assigned a key role in Punjab affairs, Jakhar is learnt to have discussed with Rahul factors at play in choosing Channi Cabinet, besides giving opinion on top administrative picks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sunil-jakhar-meets-rahul-gandhi-gives-inputs-on-cabinet-315670
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure smooth procurement: Punjab CM to Centre||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today urged the Centre to help the state get authorisation of Cash Credit Limit (CCL) for the Kharif Marketing Season (KMS), 2021-22, from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) expeditiously.Keeping in view the upcoming kharif season, the Channi had detailed discussion with the Union Secretary, Food and Public Distribution, Sudhanshu Pandey, who called on the former at his office this afternoon.Acceding to the request of the CM to allow current procurement of paddy according to the previous norms, Pandey said the Centre had already taken a decision to procure paddy in the state as per the existing norms during the current paddy season starting from October 1.The CM told the Union Secretary that the revised norms should only be finalised by taking all stakeholders, the state government, farmers’ associations, arhtiyas and mills, into confidence.Expecting a bumper paddy crop during the current season, he sought cooperation from the Centre to ensure smooth and hassle-free procurement as per production target of the agriculture supported by the remote-sensing data. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-smooth-procurement-punjab-cm-to-centre-315671
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||SAD president Sukhbir Badal targets Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi||Launching an attack on the new Congress government, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal today asked Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to arrest him instead of searching for police officers to do the job.Talking to mediapersons after submitting a memorandum to the Punjab Governor on farmers’ issues, Sukhbir said there were reports that the government was planning to arrest some Akali leaders on “cooked-up charges”.“We are ready. Don’t waste your and state’s time. Quench your vendetta thirst. Tell us where you want us, and we will come for the arrest. They are targeting us because they know their days are numbered. They are scared and are whistling in the dark,” he said.Jibe at sidhuSidhu begged for and got car (for security) from Captain and even got Sonia and Rahul to intervene. He is not in govt but still using the same car. — Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD chiefSukhbir claimed the government was calling officers and “offering them powerful posts” in the police as reward for readiness to arrest Akali leaders.“Many of these officers have been calling us to tell us of the unprecedented pressure being put on them. I have told them to follow what the government says. But we will be watching who steps out of the constitutional line.”To a query on the role of PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu in government decisions, Sukhbir asked Channi not to allow “an extra-constitutional Super CM to treat him as a dummy and rubber stamp”.He claimed the government wanted to “cover own ineptitude” with vendetta and high-profile arrests. “But you cannot browbeat us,” he added.The SAD president said the recent events within the Congress suggested they were trying to divide Punjab along the communal and caste lines, posing a threat to the multi-cultural and secular ethos of the state handed down by Gurus, sages and Sufi saints. “The old Congress agenda of divide and rule is back.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-president-sukhbir-badal-targets-punjab-cm-charanjit-singh-channi-315672
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Double land acquisition relief for road projects in Punjab, Governor urged||The SAD today demanded a cent per cent hike in compensation to farmers for land being acquired under the Bharat Mala Project for highways in the state.Addressing mediapersons after leading an Akali delegation to submit a memorandum to Governor Banwarilal Purohit, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said: “Punjab farmers have been robbed of over Rs 25,000 crores by the state government’s decision to substantially lower the collector rates for the land affected by the acquisition. This acquisition will have collateral affect on neighbouring 75,000 acres, which will be rendered useless after being divided into sub-parts.He said the party would organise a tractor march to the residence of CM Charanjeet Singh Channi on September 29 to put pressure on the government to heed to the just demands of farmers.The party resolution alleged “shabby treatment” meted out to the owners of 25,000 acres acquired in 19 districts for Bharat Mala Project.The portions acquired are for Delhi-Jammu-Katra and Jam Nagar-Amritsar expressways; Amritsar-Una, Ludhiana-Ropar, Barnala-Batinda-Ganga Nagar, Mohali-Sirhind highways; Malout, Jalandhar and Patiala bypasses. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/double-land-acquisition-relief-for-road-projects-in-punjab-governor-urged-315673
25-09-2021||Ludhiana||Punjab farm unions gear up for ‘Bharat bandh’||Both Lakhowal and Kadian factions of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) have claimed farmers all across the country, along with small traders were all set to observe the ‘Bharat bandh’ call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) during the mahapanchayat at Muzaffarnagar.BKU (Lakhowal) general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said it wasn’t only farmers who had been fighting a battle against the central government for almost a year, but the common man and small traders, too, were up against it.BKU (Kadian) president Harmeet Singh Kadian said the bandh would be completely peaceful and no shop, showroom, office, educational institution, industry or any other commercial establishment would be allowed to remain open. He sought cooperation from all sections of society in their decisive battle against the central farm Acts.Both the BKU leaders said vehicles and personnel of police, Army, paramilitary forces, medical fraternity, fire brigade and ambulances as well as people in the need of medical care or those travelling to take examinations or interviews would be exempt from the bandh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-farm-unions-gear-up-for-bharat-bandh-315674
25-09-2021||---||In Muktsar, Cong councillors oppose party MC president||Muktsar, September 24Raising questions over the functioning of their own party’s Muktsar Municipal Council president Krishan Kumar Shammi Tehria and vice-president Mintu Kang, five Congress councillors today staged a walkout from a general house meeting.Congress councillor Gurinder Singh Bawa Koki, who is also a former council president, first raised questions over the functioning of the incumbent MC president and then another Congress councillor, Tejinder Singh Jimmy Brar, raised the same issue. They alleged Tehria was ignoring the councillors.No discriminationAll allegations levelled against me are baseless. The overall development of Muktsar is being carried out without any discrimination. —KKS Tehria, Muktsar council chiefThereafter, Brar and four other Congress councillors, including Yadwinder Singh Yadu, a MC former vice-president, staged a walkout. Some Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillors, too, accused the MC president of favouritism and left the meeting room.However, the resolution to buy a vehicle for the MC chief was passed by the House. A few days ago, Yadu had publicly opposed the proposal to buy the vehicle. Thereafter, 13 Congress councillors had even written to the senior party leadership, seeking replacement of the MC president and vice-president.Tehria however termed the allegations levelled against him as baseless. He said overall development was being carried out in the town.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/in-muktsar-cong-councillors-oppose-party-mc-president-315675
25-09-2021||Bathinda||Cong ticket aspirants in Maur out to woo voters||A change of guard in the ruling Congress has come as a jolt for Maur sitting MLA Jagdev Singh Kamalu, who recently joined Congress in presence of former CM Capt Amarinder Singh in a hope of getting ticket from here. With changing political development, he faces a tough completion from other aspirants in the party.Maninder Sekhon, grandson of former Mansa MLA Sher Singh Gagowal, Youth Congress secretary Navjot Sandhu and former MLA Mangat Rai Bansal’s wife Manju Bansal are amongst the probable candidates from Maur segment in Bathinda.Sekhon has started a campaign, “Padega Maur, Wadhega Maur”, under which he is providing free of cost education and stationery to the needy studying at government schools. He has also started a campaign, “Sada Kisan, Sada Mann”, under which free legal help would be provided to farmers booked during the agitation against three farm laws. Further, he has also announced providing free education up to 10th class for the farmers’ kids.Manju Bansal is overseeing the development in the Maur as halqa in-charge. In the 2017 elections, she unsuccessfully contested from the Mansa seat. In 2012, he husband lost to SAD minister Janmeja Singh Sekhon with a narrow margin from Maur. Sandhu has also started a campaign “Maur Mera Mann”, under which he is holding public meeting and listening to public grievances. — TNSKamalu, Khaira left out in coldMaur MLA Jagdev Singh Kamalu had recently left AAP and joined Congress along with Bholath MLA Sukhpal Khaira and Badaur MLA Pirmal Singh. A change of guard in the ruling Congress has come as a jolt for the Maur MLA||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-ticket-aspirants-in-maur-out-to-woo-voters-315676
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Employment scheme figures of Punjab Government fudged: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has questioned the claim of the ruling Congress to provide jobs to 2.5 lakh youth of Punjab under its ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ programme.AAP spokesperson and RTI activist Dinesh Chadha claimed he had called on the mobile numbers taken from the Punjab Government’s portal, which claimed to have provided employment under the scheme, and found the government claims to be false.He claimed the owner of a firm in Rohtak and Parwanoo denied advertising for 120 vacancies. Similarly, a Pune firm expressed shock over the requirement of 400 mechanic trainees. A similar reply was received regarding the vacancy of 30 technical experts in a Pathankot-based software firm.AAP said the Congress in its manifesto had promised to provide employment to 50 lakh youth under Ghar Ghar Rozgar, but now even the figure of providing 2.5 lakh jobs seems fudged.Chadha demanded that the Punjab Government should also upload the details of the youth who got jobs under the scheme. Chadha sought action against those who created fake data and shared the employment policy with the youth. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/employment-scheme-figures-of-punjab-government-fudged-aap-315677
25-09-2021||---||Patiala: COVA glitches give health officials tough time||Patiala, September 24The hiccups in the state government’s Covid application — COVA — continues to give health officials a tough time.Following the frequent technical glitches, officials are said to have been working overtime to upload the data of Covid sampling. Officials say the higher authorities have been informed about the problem, but to no avail.Doctors told The Tribune that since the app didn’t function for hours one day, they could not upload the sampling data. Consequently, there were problems in generating unique IDs and sending samples to lab.A medical officer in Patiala said: “Work continues to suffer due to frequent glitches. We have to note down patients’ details and wait for the application to work. This makes sampling cumbersome.” Dr Rajesh Bhasker, state nodal officer, said: “There is some issue at the backend of the application. It will be resolved in a day or two.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-cova-glitches-give-health-officials-tough-time-315678
25-09-2021||---||21 gastro cases in Sangrur village||Sangrur, September 24The supply of “polluted” water in Mimsa village of the district has reportedly led to the spread of gastroenteritis.A team of doctors has reached the village to monitor the situation. “A total of 21 persons are suffering from gastroenteritis and have been admitted to hospital. Two have been discharged, while the rest are being treated,” said Sangrur Civil Surgeon Dr Anjna Gupta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/21-gastro-cases-in-sangrur-village-315679
25-09-2021||Vishav Bharti||Monsoon delay may lead to dengue spike in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 24After Covid, Punjab is heading towards a dengue outbreak. So far, 1,900 cases of dengue have been reported in the state, which is almost double than the cases reported last year till the third week of September.As per the data compiled by state’s Health Department, so far 1,942 confirmed cases of dengue have been reported this year. Almost 20 per cent of the cases have been reported from Hoshiarpur district alone. The other worst-affected districts include Amritsar with 384 cases, Muktsar with 285, Bathinda with 237, SAS Nagar with 178 and Pathankot with 168 cases so far.Experts say the prolonged monsoon can further make the situation worse as it will provide a conducive atmosphere to mosquitoes for breeding. Last year, the state had reported 8,435 cases and 22 deaths.Dr Andesh Kang, Director, Health Services, said this year, the department had made elaborate arrangements with increasing the testing three fold. “We have 39 designated labs for testing vector-borne diseases and so far, the department has conducted 8,700 tests,” she said.Dr Gagandeep Grover, state’s nodal officer for dengue, said the way mosquito breeding was being found in houses, the number may easily cross the figure of last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/monsoon-delay-may-lead-to-dengue-spike-in-punjab-315680
25-09-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Change of guard signals Gandhi siblings’ growing say||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 24As political drama unfolds in the Punjab Congress, there are tell-tale signs of micro-management of the party and state government affairs by the Gandhi siblings.From writing the script against Capt Amarinder Singh and creating a parallel power centre by elevating Navjot Singh Sidhu as the state party chief to closely monitoring the selection of the Chief Minister and now his Council of Ministers, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi are truly calling the shots.They are working through their trusted lieutenants such as Harish Chaudhary, with inputs from political strategist Prashant Kishore, trying to recast the Punjab Congress minus Captain Amarinder to ensure victory in the upcoming Assembly elections. The behind-the-scenes work in selection of Charanjit Singh Channi as the Chief Minister, contrary to the demand for putting up a Jat face, also indicates long-term planning by the two.The central leadership never wants a state head to be an autonomous power, as Capt Amarinder Singh appeared to be. As the happenings in Delhi suggest, the central leadership, comprising KC Venugopal, Chaudhary, Harish Rawat and Ambika Soni, has been briefing the Gandhis on the profile of each candidate being considered for a Cabinet berth.Brainstorming has been going on in Delhi to consider a blend of experience and youth to correct the “negative narrative” of the Captain government and arrest anti-incumbency. Criteria such as age, performance of ministers in Captain government and allegations of corruption are being factored. Sources say Sidhu may not get absolute power and checks and balances are being put in place by the Gandhis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/change-of-guard-signals-gandhi-siblings-growing-say-315681
25-09-2021||Tribune Reporters||Roadways staff halt service for 2 hours in Bathinda||Bathinda/Abohar, Sept 24The Punjab Roadways Punbus and PRTC Contract Workers’ Union staged a protest and blocked the Bathinda city bus stand for two hours here today.The union members raised slogans against the state government and demanded regularisation of services. Meanwhile, commuters had to face inconvenience due to traffic snarl-ups on the Bathinda-Goniana road.Kulwant Singh, a state-level leader of the union, said the state government had been ignoring their demand of regularisation of services for a long time, leaving them with no option but to protest.Promise unfulfilledWe were assured during a meeting that our demands will be met. But now after the change of guard, the government officials are backtracking from their decision. —Kulwant Singh, Contract workers’ union leader“Even the newly appointed CM did not call any meeting to resolve our issue. We had called off our agitation after being assured during a meeting on September 14 that our demands would be met. But now after the change of guard, the government officials are backtracking from their decision.” The government had assured them of increase in salaries and annual increment, but it had adopted an evasive stance on the matter now, he added.“We had postponed our agitation till September 28 but with nothing concrete being done to honour their promises, we have decided to resume it today. If our demands are not fulfilled, we will sit on a dharna outside the new Chief Minister’s residence on October 12 and also carry out state-wide rallies and strike work at all bus stands,” added Singh.In Abohar, employees organised a protest at the bus stand, raising slogans against the government and halting movement of buses for two hours. Interestingly, almost all buses bore pictures of former CM Capt Amarinder Singh.Ferozepur Roadways Depot Employees’ Union president Baldev Singh said the managements of PRTC and PUNBUS were not paying heed to the demands of contract workers. He said the union would support the farmers’ call for ‘Bharat Bandh’ on September 27.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/roadways-staff-halt-service-for-2-hours-in-bathinda-315682
25-09-2021||---||From Patiala, protests shift to CM Channi’s hometown||Morinda, September 24With the appointment of local MLA Charanjit Singh Channi as Chief Minister, dharnas and protests rallies are also shifting from Patiala, the hometown of his predecessor Capt Amarinder Singh, to Kharar and Morinda.Members of the Water Supply and Sanitation Department’s Motivator and Master Motivator Workers’ Union have started a sit-in in front of the Chief Minister’s residence at Morinda. BEd-TET pass teachers, who had announced to gherao Channi’s Kharar residence, today postponed it after an assurance from the authorities to look into their demands. Protesters at Morinda said they had been staging protests in Gurdaspur, Malerkotla and Patiala for the past five years, demanding a fixed pay as per the minimum wages decided by the Deputy Commissioner. Hardev Singh, a protester, said they were deployed under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan by the department in 2015. Initially, there were over 1,100 persons working as motivators, but their number had dwindled to 216, he said.They said they had been rendered without work as the Chief Minister waived drinking water supply bill in villages. They had been earning Rs 2,500 a month as remuneration against collecting water supply bills charges in villages and for motivating people to construct toilets in their houses, Hardev Singh said.The protesters said their dharna would continue until they were provided job security and minimum wages. Amanjit Singh, a BEd-TET Union member, said they had suspended their plan to protest outside the Kharar residence of Channi after an assurance from authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/from-patiala-protests-shift-to-cm-channis-hometown-315683
25-09-2021||---||KTF module: Arms dropped through drones, claim police||Amritsar, September 24The two tiffin bombs, hand grenades and three 9-mm pistols recovered from three activists of the Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) were smuggled from drones reportedly in the Khalra area, where movements of a UAV were noticed a couple of days ago.Kanwarpal Singh, Kulwinder Singh and Kamalpreet Singh, all residents of Moga, arrested by the Tarn Taran police, were produced in the court yesterday, which sent them in five-day police remand. The police probe revealed they had been working as couriers.Though police officials are tight-lipped over the investigations being carried out in the case, it has been learnt the police were trying to identify those who had retrieved the explosives near the International Border.“The explosives were dumped somewhere in the Bhikhiwind subdivision from where the three had retrieved these on the directions of Canada-based Arshdeep Dhalla,” said Tarn Taran SSP Opinderjit Ghuman while adding the consignment was sneaked into the Indian territory with the help of drones. He said they were yet to get the directions on where and to whom to deliver the consignment.The Tarn Taran police teams had intercepted a car at a checkpoint near Bhagwanpur village in Bhikhiwind and arrested the trio yesterday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ktf-module-arms-dropped-through-drones-claim-police-315684
25-09-2021||---||Plea in HC over Cabinet decision on free mining||Chandigarh, September 24The Punjab Cabinet’s decision to allow “unregulated and unhindered mining of minor minerals by landowners and general public” today came under judicial scanner with the filing of a petition before the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the alleged move. It was one of the first decisions taken by the Cabinet in its maiden meeting after the change in guard.Among other things, the decision was described in the petition as an illegal act, a political gimmickry and an election stunt. The High Court was told the elections to the legislative Assembly in the state of Punjab were just about two to three months away and the dispensation within the ruling party had changed. Free sand to the public was being offered with an intent to gain political mileage, even though it was legally and practically unfeasible. It was likely to cause complete chaos in minor mineral extraction and would lead to an environmental disaster. “The ruling party, with an intent to fulfil the promise mentioned by it in the last election manifesto regarding free sand to the general public, is doing this all,” it was added.In the petition against the state of Punjab and other respondents placed before the High Court Division Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Alka Sarin, petitioner Mahadev Enclave Pvt Ltd was seeking the issuance of directions for quashing the decision dated September 20 taken by the government in its Cabinet meeting. Directions were also sought to place on record the decision before further quashing “subsequent consequential decision” by the state government for allowing unregulated and unhindered mining.The Bench was told: “The state government’s action in taking the decision of allowing free mining in the state is totally illegal and arbitrary and the same is against the law laid down by the Supreme Court and the High Court and the same is liable to be set aside.” The case will now come up for further hearing on September 27 when the Cabinet meeting record would be placed before the Bench.‘Political gimmickry’Among other things, the decision was described in the petition as an illegal act, a political gimmickry and an election stunt. The High Court was told the elections to the legislative Assembly in the state of Punjab were just about two to three months away and the dispensation within the ruling party had changed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/plea-in-hc-over-cabinet-decision-on-free-mining-315685
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Relief not paid, Faridkot admn told to book erring officials||Despite repeated orders from the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC), the Punjab Government is yet to release compensation announced under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (POA) Rules, 1995, for a family from Phaphre Bhaike village of Mansa.Taking a dim view of the delay, the NCSC, on orders of its Chairman Vijay Sampla, has issued a fresh notice to the Faridkot Divisional Commissioner asking him to immediately register a case against erring government officials.DC under lensAs per information received by the NCSC from petitioner Bhappi Kaur, her 20-year-old son had died upon returning home from a police station. The family alleged the boy was illegally arrested by the police and assaulted in custody.After the district police and officers failed to take legal action, Sampla visited the victim’s family on June 4 and ordered the Mansa Deputy Commissioner to pay Rs 8.25 lakh in compensation to the family under the SC Act, with immediate release of half of the amount.Sampla further ordered provision of free education to the victim’s younger brother and a monthly pension of Rs 5,000 to the victim’s mother.The Mansa Deputy Commissioner even appeared before the commission in Delhi and promised immediate release of compensation, but failed to do so.The petitioner, in her letter to Sampla on September 21, said the compensation was yet to be released by the District Social Justice and Empowerment Officer, even after passage of several months.Issuing a notice to the Faridkot Divisional Commissioner, a copy of which has been marked to the Mansa DC for necessary action, Sampla asked officers to ensure immediate release of compensation besides registration of case against the erring officials, under Section 4 of the SC/ST Act, 1989.He also directed the authorities to investigate the matter and submit the report by September 30 based on the facts and information on the action taken on the allegation/ matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/relief-not-paid-faridkot-admn-told-to-book-erring-officials-315686
25-09-2021||Bathinda||Fire at Bathinda bank, goods damaged||A massive fire broke out inside the office of a government bank on the Bathinda-Goniana road near Tinkoni on Friday. Goods worth lakhs, including records, computers, furniture, air-conditioners and other items, were gutted in the fire that lasted for nearly three hours.Finance Minister Manpreet Badal’s office was also in the same building but no damage was reported there. As many as 10 fire tenders were pressed into action to douse the fire.A short-circuit was stated to be the reason behind the incident. Sub-Fire Officer Gurmail Singh said, “We received a call around 9:05 am regarding the fire. We reached the spot and used four big and six small fire tenders to douse the fire. It took us around three hours before we could completely douse the fire. Some of our firemen also got injured in the exercise.” The manager of the bank said the fire caused heavy damage and many important records and items were gutted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fire-at-bathinda-bank-goods-damaged-315687
25-09-2021||Moga||Cattle vaccination begins in Moga||The Animal Husbandry Department today initiated a drive to vaccinate cattle and buffalo calves to prevent brucellosis disease under the National Animal Disease Control Programme (NADCP), a flagship scheme launched by the Union Government.The NADCP for Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) and brucellosis is a central sector scheme where 100 per cent funds are provided by the Union Government to states and union territories for vaccination. Around 29,000 cattle and buffalo calves will be vaccinated this year, which counts to just 10 per cent of the total population of animals in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cattle-vaccination-begins-in-moga-315688
25-09-2021||Abohar||4 killed, 16 injured in Abohar road mishap||Three farm labourers, including two women, travelling in a mini truck, and a car driver, were killed in an accident near Celebration Palace on the Abohar-Seetogunno road here today.As many as 15 farm workers and a driver received injuries. All were taken to the Subdivisional Civil Hospital. Preliminary investigation indicated that a canter was ferrying farm workers from villages Kuttianwali and Fatehwali in Muktsar district to Sriganganagar for plucking cotton on contract. As the vehicle reached near the Celebration Palace located on Seetogunno Road near the city bypass, it collided with a car driven by Sanju (22) of Azeemgarh Colony. Sanju and farm workers Ram Singh (45), Kuldeep Kaur (60) and Chhinder Kaur (65) died in the mishap. Sub Inspector Sukhwinder Singh and Municipal Corporation Inspector Kartar Singh said the damaged vehicles had been removed and traffic movement had been restored. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/4-killed-16-injured-in-abohar-road-mishap-315689
25-09-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Two docs under scanner for Rs 47L loss to Barnala hospital||Tribune News ServiceBarnala, September 24Two Barnala doctors have not only caused loss of Rs 47 lakh to the local Civil Hospital by not allowing patients avail the benefits of the Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana but also troubled them as they had to pay for their treatment despite being eligible for the scheme benefits.Both also allegedly tampered with the record, threatened a senior medical officer (SMO), took money from patients and did not prepare any note of their treatment.The doctors have been absent from their duty since July 7 while Barnala Civil Surgeon Jasvir Singh Aulakh sent his report to the director and recommended an FIR and recovery of Rs 47 lakh from them. The inquiry report has raised serious questions as it has the details of many patients, who, despite being poor, were forced to pay from their pockets as the doctors first admitted them under the yojana, but later made them pay.FIR recommendedWe found the doctors caused a loss of Rs47 lakh to our hospital. I have recommended the registration of an FIR against them and sent report to my seniors for further action. —Jasvir Singh Aulakh, Civil surgeonPatient Jaswinderpreet got admitted at the Barnala hospital for implant removal on May 29 this year as he was registered as a beneficiary under the yojana. The doctors, on July 6, got cancelled his registration and allegedly showed him as a wound debridement case by tampering with the record. Another women patient had to spend Rs 91,225 from her pocket for knee replacement despite being eligible for the scheme benefit as a doctor told her relative that the health card had been blocked for a month.“I am not authorised to disclose the names of the doctors, but as per the report of the SMO, we have found that they have caused a loss of Rs 47 lakh to our hospital. I have recommended the registration of an FIR against them and sent report to my seniors for further action,” Aulakh said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-docs-under-scanner-for-rs-47l-loss-to-barnala-hospital-315690
25-09-2021||Abohar||Murder accused nabbed||11 officials found absentFatehgarh Sahib: As many as 11 employees were found absent during a surprise inspection conducted by Fatehgarh Sahib SDM Dr Sanjeev Kumar. During the checking, six employees of the Municipal Council office, Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib, were found absent, whereas five employees of the BDPO office, Sirhind, were not present in the office. OC270-kg poppy husk seizedMoga: The Moga police have arrested two drug smugglers and seized 270 kg of poppy husk. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said a police party of the CIA, Moga, had intercepted a canter at Samalsar village. During the search, 14 bags of poppy husk (total weight 270 kg) were seized. TNSProminent lawyer passes awayFerozepur: Prominent lawyer Rattan Lal Singhal passed away a few days ago. His two sons, Varinder Singhal and Gaggandeep Singhal, said throughout his life, he remained a pillar of strength for social, religious, sports and public welfare organisations. Varinder said the bhog ceremony will be held on Sunday, September 26, at Genesis Dental Institute in Ferozepur. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/murder-accused-nabbed-315691
25-09-2021||Gurbaxpuri||Poor security: Balwinder Singh Sandhu's wife threatens to return Shaurya Chakra||Tarn Taran, September 24The wife of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu today threatened to return the award to the President and also seek his permission to die by suicide.Expressing her anguish, Jagdish Kaur Sandhu said the family was provided insufficient security. “Only three cops have been assigned to us and one of them always remains on leave. Our family had bravely fought during terrorism days in Punjab and now militant groups have again become active. Three members of a terrorist module were arrested yesterday with bomb and hand grenades,” she said, adding that her family was a constant target of terrorists as Sandhu was also killed at the behest of militants in Pakistan.She was also perturbed at the “partiality” in terms of facilities provided by the government, which were not on a par with the terrorist-hit families. Balwinder was shot on October 17 at his residence-cum-school complex in Bhikhiwind.The family warned that in case the grievances were not redressed within five days, they would return the award to the President on October 2. “The state government had offered ex gratia of just Rs5 lakh. An equal amount of compensation was given to the families of those who died after consuming spurious liquor. It is nothing but humiliation,” Jagdish said.She said the family of Sarabjit Singh, who was killed in a Pakistan jail, was given three government jobs, a petrol pump and huge amount as compensation, but they were never adequately compensated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/poor-security-balwinder-singh-sandhus-wife-threatens-to-return-shaurya-chakra-315692
25-09-2021||Muktsar||Muktsar village resident booked for casteist remark||The Kotbhai police today registered a case against one Gurpreet Singh of Dhulkot village here after a number of people from a particular community met senior police officers demanding action against him for uploading an audio clip of alleged casteist remarks on a WhatsApp group.Gidderbaha Deputy Superintendent of Police Narinder Singh said after the arrest of the accused it would be ascertained that whom he had targeted in the alleged audio clip.The police said even though the accused had tendered apology in the WhatsApp group, the audio by then had gone viral. Thus a case was registered against him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/muktsar-village-resident-booked-for-casteist-remark-315694
25-09-2021||---||MBBS fee up by 5%, all Punjab colleges to charge uniformly||Faridkot, September 24Announcing a uniform fee structure for MBBS, MD, MS, BDS and MDS courses in all private medical and dental colleges in the state, the Department of Medical Education and Research has increased the fee for MBBS course by 5 per cent.The MBBS full course fee, which was Rs 47.70 lakh for a management quota seat in private medical colleges, has been increased to Rs 50.10 lakh. However, for a government quota seat, it has been revised from Rs 18.55 lakh to Rs 19.48 lakh.Every private medical and dental college has 50 per cent of its total seats as government quota seats. The remaining 50 per cent seats comprise 35 per cent management quota and 15 per cent NRI quota seats. There is no change in the fee structure for NRI quota seats, which is US $1.10 lakh.Alok Shekhar, principal secretary, Department of Medical Education and Research, has announced the revised fee structure in the new notifications for admission to MBBS, BDS, MD, MS courses in the state for 2021 session onwards.The full MBBS course fee in the government medical colleges in the state has also been increased from Rs 7.81 lakh to Rs 8.21 lakh.Christian Medical College, Ludhiana, has not changed the fee structure for MBBS course. Its fee remains Rs 6.60 lakh per year with 10 per cent increase every year.However, there is no change in the fee structure for the MD, MS, BDS and MDS courses in both private and government medical colleges as per the notification.Under a uniform fee structure for postgraduate degree and diploma courses (MD, MS, Diploma and MDS) in private medical and dental colleges in the state, which include two minority colleges and two private medical universities, the department has notified that all private medical colleges would charge Rs 6.5 lakh per year for the 3-year MD/MS (clinical) courses and Rs 2.6 lakh per year for MD/MS (basic) courses. For MDS (PG course in dental science), the department has fixed Rs 5.85 lakh fee per year.The fee for MD, MS (clinical) course in government colleges is Rs 1.25 lakh (first year), Rs 1.50 lakh (second year) and Rs 1.75 lakh (third year). For the MD (basic sciences), this fee is Rs 1 lakh, Rs 1.10 lakh and Rs 1.20 lakh in three years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mbbs-fee-up-by-5-all-punjab-colleges-to-charge-uniformly-315695
25-09-2021||---||Ministers’ list almost done, Punjab CM Channi in Delhi again||Chandigarh, September 24Hours after former Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar met party leader Rahul Gandhi in Delhi on Friday, the announcement on ministers picked for the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Cabinet was delayed and the CM summoned to Delhi, barely 12 hours after his return from the national Capital.Also read: Change of guard signals Gandhi siblings’ growing saySunil Jakhar meets Rahul Gasndhi, gives inputs on CabinetRahul picking Channi a bold move: JakharChandigarh: Former Pradesh Congress chief Sunil Jakhar on Friday said Rahul Gandhi picking Charanjit Singh Channi as Punjab CM was a “bold move.” Jakhar is learnt to have played an important role in Cabinet expansion as well as appointments for top administrative posts. TNSChanni had flown to Delhi on Thursday evening for discussions on Cabinet expansion with Rahul.AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat along with Harish Chaudhary and Ajay Maken were at Kapurthala House, the CM’s Delhi residence, till late in the evening.The ministers’ list is expected to be announced on Saturday. Channi in the past four days has flown thrice to Delhi amid hectic lobbying.Jakhar, who is expected to be given a key role in Punjab affairs, is learnt to have given to the party leadership his input on the induction of at least two new faces. “Five ministers in former CM Capt Amarinder Singh ministry are being left out,” said a party leader, who did not want to be identified. Among those seen lobbying at Kapurthala House were Congress MP Ravneet Bittu and MLAs Lakhbir Singh Lakha, Madan Lal Jalalpur and Sangat Singh Gilzian.Channi first held a meeting with senior leaders KC Venugopal, Harish Rawat, Harish Chaudhary and Ajay Maken and then with Rahul Gandhi.The names of Pargat Singh, Raj Kumar Verka, Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Raja Warring and Kuljit Singh Nagra are doing the rounds.Pargat Singh, considered close to Pradesh Congress chief Navjot Sidhu, is Punjab Congress general secretary. Gilzian is working president of the party’s state unit.After the Kapurthala House meeting ended, Channi reached Rahul’s residence at about 10.30 pm, where AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was present too. The three held detailed discussions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ministers-list-almost-done-punjab-cm-channi-in-delhi-again-315772
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Anmol Ratan Singh Sidhu to be new Punjab Advocate General||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has cleared the name of senior advocate Anmol Ratan Singh Sidhu for the position of Punjab Advocate General, official sources said on Friday.Sources said that the appointment would be notified soon. The state government under the new Chief Minister had initially cleared the name of senior advocate DS Patwalia for the position but took back that decision.The position fell vacant after former advocate general Atul Nanda resigned hours after Amarinder Singh stepped down from the chief minister’s post.Sidhu has been practising law on both the criminal and constitutional sides.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anmol-ratan-singh-sidhu-to-be-new-punjab-advocate-general-315609
25-09-2021||---||List of Punjab ministers almost finalised; Congress high command again summons CM Charanjit Channi to Delhi||Chandigarh, September 24The Congress high command has again summoned Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi to Delhi for last-minute discussions before releasing the list of ministers.Apart from discussion on the cabinet, the issue of finalising the name of the state DGP could also figure in the meeting. Sources said PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu had also been called to Delhi. Channi had returned to Chandigarh on Friday morning after deliberations that went on till 2 am. The names of the new ministers in the Charanjit Singh Channi cabinet have almost been finalised.Though a wider consensus on the names has been reached, a last-minute feedback is being taken from senior leaders like Sunil Jakhar before the list is released.Also read: Sunil Jakhar supports Rahul Gandhi’s decision to appoint Charanjit Channi as Punjab CMAs top brass talks Cabinet, Punjab CM flies to DelhiNow, the official release of the list is awaited and all eyes are on when the list is sent to the governor. Depending on this, the swearing-in can take place in a day or two. Opinions page: Congress’ caste card strewn with challengesThe new faces learnt to have made the cut include Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Raj Kumar Verka, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Randeep Nabha, Pargat Singh and Surjit Dhiman. They have also retained at least seven names from the Amarinder cabinet. Going by caste and regional equations, there will be at least four Dalit faces and five Hindu faces besides striking a balance between Majha, Doaba and Malwa. Sources said first-time MLAs were not being included in the ministry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/list-of-punjab-ministers-almost-finalised-congress-high-command-again-summons-cm-charanjit-channi-to-delhi-315578
