26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 33 new Covid cases||With 33 fresh cases of coronavirus, the tally in Punjab reached 6,01,500 on Sunday, according to a medical bulletin.No Covid-related death was reported in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 16,506. One death case was added to the toll after reconciliation of data, it said.Among the fresh cases, Gurdaspur reported seven cases, followed by five in Jalandhar and three in Mohali.The number of active cases stood at 282.Thirty-one people recovered from the infection, pushing the number of those recovered to 5,84,712, the bulletin said.Chandigarh reported one case, taking the tally to 65,210.With no death reported in the last 24 hours, the toll remained at 819 in the city.The number of active cases in the city was 41 while the number of those recovered was 64,350. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-33-new-covid-cases-316531
26-09-2021||Mohali||Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, Mohali to be operational soon: CM Channi||In a major milestone towards imparting quality medical education to students across the state, the Punjab government will soon operationalise Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, Mohali.Divulging more details, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said the Punjab government has been consistently making endeavours to develop the state into a hub of medical education.He said that the Medical Assessment and Rating Board (MARB) of National Medical Commission (NMC) had after examining the Commission Assessor’s report, granted the Letter of Permission (LoP) for starting regular classes at Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences affiliated under Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot. Pointing out further, Channi said the decision of NMC to allocate 100 seats to the institute will go a long way in ensuring quality medical education and research to the students besides providing best healthcare facilities at affordable rates to the people in the region.Channi said the process of recruiting the required staff for the institute is already underway. He said that the state-of-the-art medical institution is already equipped with all infrastructural requirements in terms of buildings, equipment and hospital facilities as per National Medical Commission norms.  He said that adequate budgetary requirements for the institute as and when desired by the commission will also be made by the state government.The chief minister said it is a red letter day in the history of Punjab as with operationalization of this institute, medical education in the state will get a major push on one hand and people will be get quality health facilities on the other.While expressing gratitude to the commission for granting the LoP, he asked the officers to complete the necessary formalities at the earliest for starting the academic session in the institute.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/dr-br-ambedkar-state-institute-of-medical-sciences-mohali-to-be-operational-soon-cm%C2%A0channi-316517
26-09-2021||Bathinda||Punjab CM Channi gives job letters to families of farm stir victims||Expressing solidarity with families of farmers who lost their lives during agitation against the farm laws, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday handed over appointment letters to government jobs to their next of kin.Accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, the Chief Minister visited the house of labourer, late Sukhpal Singh (30) at Mandi Kalan village in Bathinda and handed over an appointment letter of government job to his elder brother, Natha Singh.Sukhpal Singh fell ill during the sit-in protest at Tikri border and underwent treatment at the PGI, where he died on March 31.Expressing gratitude to the Chief Minister, Natha Singh said as per the announcement made by the state government, they had already got a financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh that is being utilised to rebuilt their dilapidated house.Similarly, the Chief Minister handed over an appointment letter to Gurmail Singh of Chauke village in Rampura tehsil of Bathinda as his only son Jashanpreet Singh (18) died at the Tikri border on January 2.Striking an emotional chord, the Chief Minister said the state is committed to bail them in this hour of crisis.He said they would not allow these laws to be implemented in the state. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-gives-job-letters-to-families-of-farm-stir-victims-316515
26-09-2021||Bathinda||Punjab CM Channi gives job letters to families of farm stir victims||Expressing solidarity with families of farmers who lost their lives during agitation against the farm laws, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday handed over appointment letters to government jobs to their next of kin.Accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, the Chief Minister visited the house of labourer, late Sukhpal Singh (30) at Mandi Kalan village in Bathinda and handed over an appointment letter of government job to his elder brother, Natha Singh.Sukhpal Singh fell ill during the sit-in protest at Tikri border and underwent treatment at the PGI, where he died on March 31.Expressing gratitude to the Chief Minister, Natha Singh said as per the announcement made by the state government, they had already got a financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh that is being utilised to rebuilt their dilapidated house.Similarly, the Chief Minister handed over an appointment letter to Gurmail Singh of Chauke village in Rampura tehsil of Bathinda as his only son Jashanpreet Singh (18) died at the Tikri border on January 2.Striking an emotional chord, the Chief Minister said the state is committed to bail them in this hour of crisis.He said they would not allow these laws to be implemented in the state. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-gives-job-letters-to-families-of-farm-stir-victims-316514
26-09-2021||Bathinda||Punjab CM Charanjit Channi promises farmers full crop compensation for bollworm attack||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi promised full compensation for crops damaged by pink bollworm attacks in the region.Channi, who was speaking to farmers in Bathinda—his first interaction with them since taking over as chief minister last week—said his government would send over large quantities of pesticides to help farmers deal with the pestilence.He said compensation for crop loss would be sent directly to farmers instead of going through middlemen.Channi, who was in Bathinda with Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa, also demanded to know from the agriculture department why they had not been alert enough to stem the bollworm attack when it first began.This comes after a state agriculture department official informed the chief minister that the 2-3 blocks in the region have seen 60 per cent of crops come under attack.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-charanjit-channi-promises-farmers-full-crop-compensation-for-bollworm-attack-316453
26-09-2021||Aditi Tandon||Punjab’s new CM Channi: Case for SC empowerment?||It is a peculiar coincidence that Charanjit Singh Channi (58) was born in Ropar, also the birthplace of Kanshi Ram, widely acknowledged as the most influential Scheduled Caste leader of India after Dr BR Ambedkar.But unlike Kanshi Ram, whose political grounding began in Pune where he had gone to work after completing his education in Punjab, Channi’s rise to the post of Punjab Chief Minister — the first from a Scheduled Caste — stems from his grassroots work in the state as municipal councillor, municipal council chairman, MLA and eventually minister.By virtue of his prolonged political acclimatisation and impressive educational attainment (he is a law graduate, an MBA and is pursuing PhD from Panjab University, Chandigarh), Punjab’s first SC Chief Minister represents a new-age leadership with the potential to signal the pre-eminence of merit in an era of caste politics.But the question is, whether the Congress party’s “bold” move will be viewed solely from the prism of symbolism, or will it transcend to a national discourse where the journey of disadvantaged SCs becomes as important as their destination.Prof Surinder Jodhka, who heads the Centre for the Study of Social Systems at Jawaharlal Nehru University, says symbols cannot be taken lightly. “Political symbolism itself is very significant. The ideological facades that political parties build are important. With the appointment of Channi as CM, SCs are feeling elated. This has added to their sense of self in a Jat Sikh-dominated land. The CM, a rooted politician, has a chance to provide a new vision to the SC middle class,” says Jodhka, who follows the social life of castes in contemporary India.For the Congress, the appointment is a clear gamble considering political terms in Punjab have traditionally been dictated by Jat Sikhs, who comprise 21 per cent of the state’s population and control the agrarian economy.Rahul Gandhi’s decision, which expectedly riled the BJP, Akali Dal-BSP and AAP, is rooted as much in Congress’ electoral calculations in Punjab (SCs have historically supported the party, but the vote share has been depleting) as by the former party president’s stated plan to nurture national-level SC leadership.Channi’s appointment fits into the Congress’ ongoing emphasis on SC projection. Earlier this year, the party named veteran SC leader Mallikarjun Kharge as Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha even after he lost the Lok Sabha election. Kharge led the Congress in the 16th Lok Sabha earlier.In 2019, when constituents of Maharashtra’s newly formed Maha Vikas Aghadi decided to nominate two ministers each for the first oath-taking, the Congress handpicked state chief Balasaheb Thorat and AICC’s SC department chief Nitin Raut. Politically, too, Rahul Gandhi and AICC general secretary Priyanka Vadra have actively associated with SC issues, agitating against sexual assaults on SCs in Hathras (UP) and Delhi Cantonment recently, and earlier leading the campaign in the Rohith Vemula case.The signalling is evident as parties nationally vie for the SC pie, with the BJP claiming to have the maximum SC Members of Parliament.In Punjab, Jodhka says, the Congress gamble on Channi may work. Describing his elevation as an interesting moment in Punjab’s history, the expert notes that the ground in the state is changing and time is ripe for experiments.“Channi and Navjot Singh Sidhu are like political entrepreneurs, unlike political patriarchs Darbara Singh, Amarinder Singh and Parkash Singh Badal. The ground in Punjab is changing. The actual data of employment in agriculture shows the number employed in cultivation in Punjab is much less than thought,” notes Jodhka, sharing statistics that the proportion of people registered as cultivators is nearly 50 per cent in rural Punjab and 25 per cent in the state as a whole — indications of a declining agrarian economy, which has political implications for Jat Sikhs.With democracy of a new kind emerging in Punjab and old hegemonies fading, CM Channi can seize the moment to meet the Congress’ aspirations of winning over SCs beyond Punjab, but the success of the gamble will reveal itself only at a later time.Meanwhile, a cross-section of community members says the nomination of Channi as CM is celebratory enough as it adds to the community’s collective sense of pride.Meena Kotwal, who founded the web portal Mook Nayak this year to track growing atrocities on SCs, asks why Channi’s elevation should not be hailed as empowering in times of caste-based lynching with SCs as specific targets. “We should feel sorry it has taken so long for Punjab, which has the highest proportion of SCs in its population across India, to have a CM from the community. The Congress has set an agenda. Why did the NDA not appoint SC Chief Ministers? They are in power in nearly 17 states,” Kotwal asks, adding that she had to launch Mook Nayak to articulate SC voices because her leaders didn’t care.BSP chief Mayawati’s sagging political fortunes fit into this debate, with experts attributing her fall to flailing ideological commitments. A four-term Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister who inherited Kanshi Ram’s legacy is now hoping to strike a chord with Punjab’s SCs having allied with the Shiromani Akali Dal. The combine has promised an SC Deputy CM like the AAP.But political observers don’t see much hope for Mayawati.Hemlata Mahishwar of the Akhil Bharatiya Dalit Lekhika Manch says Mayawati’s support base hasn’t dwindled without reason. “She hardly comments on SC exploitation but makes it a point to publicly woo Brahmins. Her intentions are doubtful. SC Members of Parliament don’t help the cause of community empowerment because they barely articulate the voice of their people. They in fact join the very voices that exploit them. These questions are critical to the debate on SC empowerment,” Mahishwar says.Changing the narrativeCurrently Professor, Hindi Department, Jamia Millia Islamia, Mahishwar questions the celebratory mood over Channi’s appointment.“In the 75th year of India’s Independence, we are being told to celebrate a CM from the SC community. Does this not raise question marks on our evolution as a democracy? The question is whether Channi has any merit other than his caste to get where he got. The very fact that so much attention is being paid to SC symbolism means we have kept the community deprived for decades so that we could play a certain kind of politics. Those taking credit for projecting SCs must introspect where we stand as a modern democracy,” the expert says, raising moot points about whether symbolism alone can yield desired social outcomes for marginalised sections even though it may deliver short-term electoral dividends.History testifies that Ambedkar, India’s tallest SC ideologue and the country’s first Law Minister, did not need symbols to influence society and steer reforms.As Jodhka says in his paper, ‘Kanshi Ram and the Making of the Dalit Political Agency’, “Ambedkar’s influence on contemporary Dalit lives in India goes far beyond the sphere of electoral mobilisations and continues to shape and inspire a wide variety of social, religious and political movements across the subcontinent. Given his pioneering struggles and educational achievements, he has also come to be very widely recognised as an important thinker of modern India, far beyond the Dalit universe, who provided a powerful and critical perspective on Indian society.”In fact, more than symbols, it was the Constitution that gave the SCs a level-playing field to seek dignity and substantive citizenship.Researchers say India needs fresh thinking on empowerment if political representation — as is being argued in Channi’s case — is indeed to serve as a tool for social transformation.Mahishwar explains, “If we continue to view political appointments from the prism of symbolism, we will only be aiding the historical perpetuation of caste politics. We must break free from parochial perspectives and consider a leader’s individual capacity to deliver rather than his caste alone. We must see how one SC leader despite starting on an unequal footing in society leveraged constitutional guarantees and overcame prejudices to become CM. That narrative is the need of the hour.”Mahishwar’s thought finds resonance among emerging aspirational SC and OBC classes. A cross-section of achievers from these communities did not wish to dwell on caste. Sushil Kumar, the first ‘Kaun Banega Crorepati’ contestant to win Rs5 crore in 2011, hails from Bihar and has lived the realities of caste, but wants to be identified as an equal. He says the Congress’ symbolism in Punjab will definitely have a positive impact in times when the general perception is that the ruling BJP is preferential towards Savarnas, although discrimination in the delivery of government schemes has diminished largely.“Even so, the caste complex is psychological. It can’t be explained, this sense of being unequal. So when a leader from the community is projected, euphoria is natural because the community’s sense of self-worth gets reinforced. How long this lasts is anybody’s guess,” says Kumar, hoping the CM will deliver.The Congress for its part says Channi’s projection is part of Rahul Gandhi’s mission to groom SC leaders under the plan that acknowledges “SC leaders equals SC voice”. Gandhi’s political strategy is to reach out to SCs beyond Punjab in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and elsewhere.Experts feel the road to SC empowerment will remain tough despite momentary symbolism by parties. Kanshi Ram’s slogan “Jiski jitni sankhya bhaari, uski utni hissedaari” was given in the 1980s, and yet, the inequities are stark, change slow.CRITICAL COUNTSource: Lokniti Survey, The Centre for Study of Developing SocietiesSC Chief Ministers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-new-cm-channi-case-for-sc-empowerment-316424
26-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Sangat Singh Gilzian likely to be part of Cabinet||Hoshiarpur, September 25Sangat Singh Gilzian, who was elected MLA for the third time in a row from the Vidhan Sabha constituency, Urmar Tanda, will likely be inducted in the new Punjab Cabinet. There was a wave of happiness among area residents and Congress workers. As soon as the news of Gilzian’s name for the Cabinet made rounds, workers started gathering at the Block Congress office and distributed sweets.Gilzian is known as a leader with a strong support base at the grassroots level, had contested election in 2007 as an independent and became an MLA by winning with a huge lead, in 2012 and in 2017 he contested on the Congress party ticket and got elected as an MLA. The then Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh had appointed him as his political advisor. Recently, he was made the working president of Punjab Congress. Gilzian began his political career as sarpanch and contested the first election to the Legislative Assembly in 2002, in which he was defeated with a small margin.Gilzian’s brother, Mahinder Singh Gilzian is the head of the Indian Overseas Congress in America and is close to the Gandhi family. By profession, he’s a farmer while his brother and son are businessmen in America.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sangat-singh-gilzian-likely-to-be-part-of-cabinet-316348
26-09-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Cabinet revamp: Wait may finally be over for Pargat Singh||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 25Known to be nurturing his aspiration to get inducted in the Cabinet for long, wait for Jalandhar Cantonment MLA and Olympian Pargat Singh may finally be over.A protégé of PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, who toppled Capt Amarinder Singh from the post of CM, Pargat’s name figures in the list of the probables that Congress is contemplating as fresh addition in the new Cabinet.Already made general secretary (organisation) of the PPCC recently by Sidhu, Pargat has been reportedly eyeing the portfolio as Sports and NRI Affairs Minister, which was with Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi earlier. Pargat had never gone along with Sodhi and had rather taken on him for poor performance even in the Assembly.Pargat had embarrassed the minister and even his own government saying that the department had not issued any tenders even for ‘knickers’. He had gone vocal saying that there was no practical work being done on ground and trials for academies were often held very late.On being asked if he was interested in these portfolios, Pargat said, “I want to work for the state. I am ready to take any assignment the party wants to offer me.”Though there has been no official announcement yet, Pargat’s supporters, including his friends associated with him because of his game, have already started celebrating the occasion offering sweets to one another.There’s also a buzz that Rana Gurjit Singh, who had to resign as a Power and Irrigation Minister, at the start of the tenure of the incumbent government over allegations against him for sand mine allocation could make a comeback.Even his supporters shared their excitement and had reportedly even performed ardas at a gurdwara.Rana Gurjit’s opponents within the party and in the opposition fired salvos at him and the party leadership for deciding to take a ‘tainted’ leader back in the Cabinet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cabinet-revamp-wait-may-finally-be-over-for-pargat-singh-316335
26-09-2021||---||Amritsar farmer: A master of hybrid chillies||Charanjit Singh TejaTribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 25Gurbir Singh, a marginal farmer of Bhorshi Rajputan village, has made a mark in progressive farming. He is a well-know vegetable seed and nursery seller in the area.Narrating his story of struggle, Gurbir said he was unable to continue his studies, due to unfortunate death of his father in a road accident in 2000. He said he was 19-year-old and his family was under debt.He said he had to take care of his mother, two younger brothers and a sister. As a result, he started sowing vegetables on his 2.5 acres.Later, Gurbir contacted Dr Narinderpal Singh, In-charge Farm Advisory Service Scheme of Punjab Agricultural University, and got training in making chilli hybrid seeds.Gurbir became a master in hybrid chillies and cytoplasmic male sterility technique used for breeding of new varities. He established Gobinpura nursery for quality production in vegetable and did several experiments. During rabi season, nursery is raised on 8.5 acres while during kharif season it’s reduced to 3 acres.Gurbir has developed a vermicompost unit to supplement essential nutrients for nursery. He constructed a moveable net house in 1 kanal, where he grows tomato, brinjal, capsicum and cauliflower.Net-house cultivation increases quality and quantity of nursery. In order to improve water efficiency, Gurbir uses drip irrigation system.A biogas plant has been installed to optimise the use of cow dung. The biogas is used in kitchen and slurry in fields. Gurbir was awarded by the PAU in 2010. He also got ‘Best Nursery Grower’ award in 2009 and got many awards in addition to ‘Farmer Award’ by Amritsar Deputy Commissioner under the Agriculture Technology Management Agency scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amritsar-farmer-a-master-of-hybrid-chillies-316369
26-09-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Flight service at Chandigarh International Airport to stay smooth during fog||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 25After the Ministry of Defence made it clear that the installation of advanced CAT-3 ILS was not viable, the Chandigarh International Airport authorities have installed approach lights with a touchdown zone on the runways, which will allow operations during visibility as low as 550 metre instead of the existing 1,200 metre.No more grounding of flightsAjay Bhardwaj, CEO, Chandigarh International Airport Limited, said there would be no grounding of flights in the foggy weather as they had installed 180 approach lights with a touchdown zone on the runways. The work is nearing completion and they will make it operational from October 1, Bhardwaj added.Earlier, pilots faced difficulty while landing at the airport during foggy days in the winter season. The CAT-3 ILS allows flights to operate even at visibility as low as 50 metre.The work of installing approach lights with a touchdown zone on the runways, an upgrade of the existing CAT-1 ILA (instrument landing system), was carried out by Tata Power Strategic Engineering Division and will become operational from October 1.Flights operating from the Chandigarh airport remained grounded for about one month from mid-December to mid-January due to the extreme foggy weather.Ajay Bhardwaj, CEO, Chandigarh International Airport Limited, said there would be no grounding of flights in the foggy weather as they had installed 180 approach lights with a touchdown zone on the runways. The work is nearing completion and they will make it operational from October 1, he added.Bhardwaj said the new system would allow pilots to land with the help of approach light instruments if they couldn’t establish a visual contact with the runway, especially in foggy conditions when visibility is low.There had been frequent cancellation of flights in the peak winter due to fog, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/flight-service-at-chandigarh-international-airport-to-stay-smooth-during-fog-316225
26-09-2021||Naina Mishra||Vaccination for kids not important, reopen schools: PGI expert||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25The Covid-19 vaccine for paediatric population is not imperative for the reopening of schools. This was stated by Dr Arun Bansal of the Department of Paediatrics, PGI.Their cognitive learning being hit: DoctorThe schools should be reopened immediately, at least for Class V onwards. The cognitive learning, personality and nutrition of kids are being affected as they are not going to schools. The body mass index has increased resulting in obesity. Increased screen time is causing problems. — Dr Arun Bansal, Department of Paediatrics, PGIDr Bansal, who is also the Scientific Converner, Association of Paediatricians, spoke to Chandigarh Tribune during the North Zone Pedicon-2021 organised by the Association of Paediatricians of Chandigarh today.“The schools should be reopened immediately, at least for Class V onwards. The cognitive learning, personality and nutrition of children are being affected as they are not going to schools. The body mass index has increased resulting in obesity. Increased screen time is causing problems,” said Dr Bansal.“The disease severity is less among children and it has been observed that the proportion of kids infected in the first and second waves remained the same. Children have also been found immune in sero survey. Majority of them were found asymptomatic. Prioritising vaccination for reopening of schools is not the right approach,” he added.“The vaccine will be rolled out in two-three months for children as well, but before that schools should be reopened. The right way forward is ensuring a safe environment for children where the school staff and adults around them are immunised,” he said.Dr Piyush Gupta, president, Indian Academy of Paediatrics, said the academy constituted a ‘Task Force on School Reopening 2021’ and shared criterion to be followed at district or local level for reopening schools. He said the decision of reopening schools should be taken at the local level and not on the national level.MIS-C challengeDr Bansal shared that around 100 children with Covid-19 also suffered from multisystem inflammation syndrome in children (MIS-C), a condition where different parts of body can become inflamed, including the heart, lungs and kidneys. “This condition occurs after four to six weeks of Covid-19 in children. This is even more serious than acute Covid-19 disease. We were able to recover the patients.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/vaccination-for-kids-not-important-reopen-schools-pgi-expert-316227
26-09-2021||Vishav Bharti||2 health officials siphon Rs 75L during Covid||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25Two officials — the Director, Finance, and an accountant posted at National Health Mission (NHM) — siphoned off Rs 75 lakh from accounts of the National Health Mission during the Covid outbreak. The fact came to the fore in an inquiry of the department and a special audit.The officials were so brazen in siphoning off the money that besides withdrawing cash, they even transferred around Rs 8 lakh from NHM accounts to their own.According to sources, Finance Director Neeraj Singla and accountant Mandeep Kaur have been indicted in a departmental inquiry as well as a special audit carriedout by the audit wingof the government.Sources revealed Singla, in connivance with the accountant, had been continuously withdrawing cash from the accounts of the National Health Mission during the financial year 2019-20 and 2020-21. The lid off the scam was blown when former Health Minister Balbir Sidhu was tipped off and he ordered a probe. Punjab Health Systems Corporation Director Manjeet Singh was asked to conduct the inquiry.Before the inquiry, a special audit was also carried out by the internal audit cell of the government and it was found that these officials would cite emergency requirement like payment to labour and transportation and withdraw the huge sums of cash from NHM accounts.The inquiry report found around Rs 25 lakh was spent on the work which was never authorised by any official. Apart from that, Rs 8 lakh was transferred to their accounts; Rs 17.45 lakh was withdrawn in excess than the bills produced; Rs 15 lakh cash was withdrawn of which no entry was made; around Rs 3 lakh was withdrawn on the pretext of making payment but later the entries were deleted from the software; and Rs 1.5 lakh was withdrawn on the pretext of giving cash incentive to officers/officials on the occasion of Diwali. Apart from that, Rs 17.54 lakh payment was made without following General Financial Rules.Singla was earlier Manager, Finance, and was promoted to the post of Director. He has refused to comment. However, accountant Mandeep Kaur said she was ajunior official, and was only following the directions of her seniors.NHM Managing Director Kumar Rahul said he was examining the inquiry report and an appropriate action would be taken against the erring officials.Was only following orders: accountantNeeraj Singla was earlier Manager, Finance, and was promoted to the post of Director. He has refused to comment. However, accountant Mandeep Kaur said she was a junior official, and was only following the directions of her seniors.How money meant for virus-hit was ‘misused’Rs 25 lakh Spent without authorisationRs 8 lakh Transferred to own accountsRs 17.45 lakh Withdrawn in excess than bills producedRs 15 lakh Cash of which no record foundRs 1.5 lakh Withdrawn on pretext of Diwali bonus||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-health-officials-siphon-rs-75l-during-covid-316231
26-09-2021||Manav Mander||HIV cases among drug addicts increased during lockdown||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, September 25During the Covid-induced lockdown, drug addicts were not able to venture out. As a result, needle and vial sharing increased and many of them turned HIV positive. The sad part is that many cases are emerging where not only the addict but the spouse and kids (in few cases) have also turned positive in Ludhiana district.In 2019, the total number of drug addicts who turned HIV positive in Ludhiana district were 300. In 2020, due to the lockdown, only 100 new cases were identified while in 2021, till now, 260 new cases have been reported.Spouse, kids infectedTill now, we have found five to six cases where drug addicts have turned HIV positive. They have infected their spouse and in few cases kids as well. —NGO volunteerAccording to sources, 193 drug addicts who turned HIV positive were married and of these, 98 were yet to be traced. “Till now, we have found five to six cases where drug addicts have turned HIV positive. They have infected their spouse and in few cases kids as well,” said a volunteer of an NGO which is working on the Injectable Drug Users’ Project. A 27-year-old man from Mundian Kalan, who was a drug addict, turned HIV positive during the lockdown. He infected his wife and one-year-old kid.Not just syringes, the sharing of vials by drug addicts is becoming one of the reasons behind the increasing number of HIV positive patients in the district, said Dr Inderjit Singh Dhingra, who heads the NGO running the Injectable Drug Users Project of Punjab State AIDS Control Society since 2008.“While smack is getting costlier, addicts are depending more on injectable drugs. Vial sharing is on the rise. Addicts use their own syringes but are filling them from the same vial, which is becoming the reason for HIV spread. During lockdown, the addicts were unable to go out and visit hotspots. As a result, syringe sharing also increased during this period,” said Dr Inderjeet Dhingra, project director.However, Dr Amrit Chawla, District AIDS Prevention and Control Unit Officer, said even during the lockdown, the department provided all necessary things to drug addicts like groceries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hiv-cases-among-drug-addicts-increased-during-lockdown-316242
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||HC puts itself on notice on ex-registrar’s plea||The Punjab and Haryana High Court stayed the operation of its own administrative order, seeking to withdraw the benefits of time scale, on a petition filed by its former registrar. The Bench has also put the High Court on notice on the petition filed by Ashok Kumar Arora.Appearing before the Bench, Arora’s counsel Puneet Gupta pointed out that the petitioner was promoted as joint registrar on July 22, 2011, and thereafter, to the post of Registrar. He was designated Registrar Protocol and Court Officer(Maintenance) and (Purchase) on July 23, 2015.During his period of service, recovery of 20 per cent of the additional pay granted to a registrar promoted was protected, since they were entitled to the benefit of the same pay as admissible to the superior judicial service members in the time scale. After the petitioner retired on May 3, 2018, the benefits of time scale were sought to be withdrawn vide the impugned order dated July 12.Arora, in his petition placed before Justice GS Sandhawalia, was seeking direction for quashing impugned order dated July 12, whereby the time scale granted was “illegally withdrawn”. Directions were also sought for the grant of all consequential benefits, along with 18 per cent interest from the date of its accrual till the date of actual paymentThis is the third petition challenging the impugned order. Before parting with the matter, Justice Sandhawalia fixed the case on October 10 for further hearing on the petitions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-puts-itself-on-notice-on-ex-registrars-plea-316245
26-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Week on, Punjab Govt yet to zero in on former AG Atul Nanda’s successor||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25The government, it seems, is unable to decide the next Advocate-General of the state. It is believed to have finalised three names in quick succession in the past three days, but appointed none.Senior advocate APS Deol was “chosen” for the post, but could not be appointed till late Saturday evening. His name triggered a debate as he was counsel of ex-top cop Sumedh Saini and IG Paramraj Singh Umaranangal. Among other things, it was said Punjab required a competent criminal lawyer as Advocate-General. But that did not mean Saini’s counsel could be made the AG. There was a conflict of interest as Saini’s name had cropped up in the Behbal Kalan case. Deol’s name was reportedly cleared by CM Charanjit Channi and the file was in the process of being placed before the Governor. But the process could not be completed.In an earlier last-minute turnaround, the government reportedly decided to appoint senior advocate Anmol Rattan Singh Sidhu as the AG after initially promising the post to senior advocate DS Patwalia, who was offered the post by Channi. PCC chief Navjot Sidhu was also in favour of Patwalia but the file could not be signed as the CM left for Kapurthala and then Delhi. Patwalia’s name led to a whisper campaign in the corridors of power. The Additional Solicitor-General’s post held by his brother, PS Patwalia, during the NDA government’s first tenure was used against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/week-on-punjab-govt-yet-to-zero-in-on-former-ag-atul-nandas-successor-316248
26-09-2021||Hoshiarpur||Ignored, Hoshiarpur MLA Sunder Sham Arora vacates house within one hour||As soon as Hoshiarpur MLA Sunder Sham Arora came to know that he did not make it to the new Cabinet, he immediately renounced the government facilities he had received as a minister and vacated his official residence in Chandigarh.Arora left the official residence within an hour after the new Cabinet list was released. Handing over the accommodation to the officials concerned as per the rules, Arora said: “I am only concerned about serving people. Government facilities and security cover do not matter to me.” — OCProbable ministers wary of celebrationsMuktsar: After last-minute flip-flop over names of the CM and Dy CMs, the probable Cabinet ministers seem to be cautious. Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, who is likely to be sworn in on Sunday, has reportedly asked his supporters to not celebrate before the oath ceremony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ignored-hoshiarpur-mla-sunder-sham-arora-vacates-house-within-one-hour-316253
26-09-2021||Bathinda||Pink bollworm infestation: AAP, SAD seek relief for pest-hit cotton belt farmers||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab MLA and Kisan Wing state president Kultar Singh Sandhwan and MLA Prof Baljinder Kaur visited various villages in the cotton belt of the state to assess the damage caused to the crops by the pink bollworm infestation.The leaders asked Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to give 100 per cent crop loss compensation to the affected farmers by inspecting the entire cotton belt of Punjab and a high-level inquiry on the varieties of BT cotton seeds and pesticides. At the same time, the farmers of the entire cotton belt should be provided high-quality pesticides free of cost, they said.Sandhwan and Baljinder Kaur on Saturday visited the affected farmers in Kot Bakhtu and Kanakwal villages of Bathinda district. Expressing sympathy with them, the AAP leaders said the time for sowing cotton was over and no new crop could be sown. Therefore, the farmers should get full compensation for the loss.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal also asked asked the Chief Minister to announce an immediate compensation of Rs 50,000 per acre for farmers whose cotton crop had been destroyed in lakhs of acres across the Malwa belt in the state besides demanding an impartial inquiry into supply of spurious BT cotton seeds to farmers.Badal announced SAD would stage a protest at Bathinda on October 3 in case the Punjab Government did not announce the due compensation to the affected farmers as well as the farm labourers. The SAD president visited six villages in Bathinda (rural), Talwandi Sabo and Sardulgarh Assembly constituencies. Meanwhile, when Sukhbir was going to various villages, he faced protests from the farmer unions at Shiekhpura village in Bathinda district. The agitating farmers carrying black flags blocked the road. The police had a tough time in pacifying them. — TNSBike rally before ‘Bharat bandh’To mobilise support for the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha on September 27, scores of farmers carried out a motorcycle rally in the city area and 12 villages in Bathinda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/pink-bollworm-infestation-aap-sad-seek-relief-for-pest-hit-cotton-belt-farmers-316289
26-09-2021||Ferozepur||6 held for attacking cops||1,360-kg poppy husk seizedAbohar: The police seized 1,360-kg poppy husk from two vehicles and arrested three persons near Abohar. SP Preeti Jain said the consignment was worth Rs45 lakh. They intercepted a truck in Manaksar and seized 1,180-kg drug. In another case, the police seized 180-kg drug worth Rs7 lakh. oc1 held for kidnapping bidAbohar/Sriganganagar: A café owner, Manvinder Singh Khaira (25), was arrested on the complaint of a teacher of Fazilka, who alleged that three car-borne miscreants molested her, tore her clothes and pushed her into a drain when she resisted a bid to kidnap her. ocDrive against plasticSangrur: Barnala District Legal Services Authority chairman Virinder Aggarwal said they would launch a seven-day ‘Plastic free Barnala’ campaign in association with the district administration on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti under the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’. tnsMansa lad shines in UPSC examMansa: Simrandeep Singh of Mansa secured all-India rank 34 in the Civil Services Examination conducted by the UPSC. It was his third attempt. Simrandeep had also cracked the Punjab Public Service Commission exam this year. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-held-for-attacking-cops-316293
26-09-2021||---||Caste, regional factors play key role||Chandigarh, September 25As 15 ministers take oath in the Charanjit Singh Channi’s Cabinet tomorrow, caste and regional considerations while mollifying MLAs close to Capt Amarinder Singh seem to have played an important role in deciding the names.Also read: Opposition attacks Punjab Govt for selecting ‘tainted’ leadersAfter the brainstorming session of state party leaders, chaired by Rahul Gandhi, a message has been sent out regarding likely dropping of the former ministers who faced alleged corruption charges.However, likely induction of three-time Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh, a minister in the Captain Cabinet who was forced to step down after an alleged scam in the allotment of sand mines to his former employees, has come as a surprise. Pulls and pressures by leaders to leave the party is learnt to have worked in Rana’s favour.Among the seven new faces likely being inducted, five are Jats, one an OBC and another a Valmiki. However, Mazhabi Sikh MLAs have been left out of the Cabinet.“What is surprising is that not a single Dalit leader from the Doaba region has been adjusted. Doaba is the hub of Dalit vote bank,” said Anish Sidana, a Congress leader.Sources said former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar was instrumental in getting Rana Gurmit Sodhi dropped. In the recent past, Jakhar had opened front against Sodhi.Jakhar’s suggestion to the party high command to least disturb Hindu ministers in the Capt Amarinder Singh government helped retain most of them, barring Sunder Sham Arora. While PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu batted for adjustment of Mazhabi Sikh MLA Sukhwinder Singh Danny, various permutations and combinations did not allow adjustment of any of the three MLAs from the community.Decision of the party not to induct any first-time MLA resulted in many being left out. Even as the party high command had cleared a majority of the names, differences started surfacing among the legislators who got upset over being left out in the race.CM to meet ministers, MLAs every TuesdayTo ensure better coordination, CM Channi on Saturday said he would meet ministers, MLAs and other political functionaries every Tuesday at his office from 11.30 am to 2.30 pm. A spokesman for the CMO said the CM ordered that Cabinet meeting would be held every Tuesday at 3 pm and all administrative secretaries/HoDs had been asked to stay in offices during the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/caste-regional-factors-play-key-role-316216
26-09-2021||Jupinderjit Singh||SIT head who first probed sacrilege cases now officiating Punjab DGP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25The government today appointed Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, Special DGP, Armed Battalion, as the officiating head of the state police force, relieving DGP Dinkar Gupta of the charge.The government will wait for the UPSC approval for posting Sahota as the regular DGP. Gupta, who had two years and seven months’ tenure as the state police chief, has also sought permission for a central deputation. The government has approved his application for one-month leave, but the permission for central deputation was awaited. Gupta was already empanelled to hold Director General’s post at the Centre last year.Will fight drugsI will continue to work for the betterment of the department. Further strengthening the fight against drugs and keeping vigil on bad elements, besides maintaining law and order, are among my top priorities. —Iqbal Preet SahotaSahota, a 1988-batch IPS officer, is currently holding the charge of the Special DGP (Armed Police, Jalandhar). According to the order, Sahota has been “given the additional charge of the DGP in addition to his own duties during Gupta’s leave period”.Sahota, being the Director, Bureau of Investigation, was the head of a special investigation team formed in 2015 by then Akali government to probe sacrilege incidents.Then Deputy CM Sukhbir Badal, accompanied by then DGP Sumedh Saini and Sahota, had announced that the probe had led to the arrest of two youths who received funds from abroad to carry out the protests, which had also led to police firing at Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura.However, the claims proved false within a month and the youths had to be freed. Due to the backlash, the Akalis replaced DGP Saini with Suresh Arora and Prabodh Kumar replaced Sahota.Sahota has superseded six officers. He was in contention for the post with 1986-batch IPS officer Sidharth Chattopadhyaya and 1987-batch officer VK Bhawra.Sources said Sidhu was pushing for Chattopadhyaya, while Channi was rooting for Sahota. Both Channi and Sahota belong to the reserved category. Channi seems to have had the final say. Sources said Chattopadhyaya’s case fell after the Congress top brass sought legal advice. He was among the officers empanelled for the DGP’s post when Gupta was chosen. Senior SC lawyers advised against appointing him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-head-who-first-probed-sacrilege-cases-now-officiating-punjab-dgp-316219
26-09-2021||Chandigarh/jalandhar||Opposition attacks Punjab Govt for selecting ‘tainted’ leaders||The SAD today called the decision to induct Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and Gurkirat Singh Kotli in the Cabinet a move to protect them despite their “heinous” crimes.YAD chief Parambans Singh Romana and MLA Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi said Raja Warring was accused of abetting suicide of contractor Karan Kataria who killed his two children before shooting himself in Faridkot, whereas Gurkirat Singh Kotli was accused of raping and molesting a French tourist who had visited Punjab in 1994. They said Warring’s brother-in-law had already been booked in abetment to suicide case, whereas the NCW had issued a notice to the government regarding Kotli’s involvement in the rape case.AAP’s Harpal Singh Cheema said if tainted ministers were included in the Cabinet, they would wage a war from the streets to the Vidhan Sabha and protest at the CM’s residence. BJP state chief Ashwani Kumar Sharma said the Congress failed to keep its promises in the past 4.5 years and now they were blaming it on Capt Amarinder Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/opposition-attacks-punjab-govt-for-selecting-tainted-leaders-316222
26-09-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Seven new faces likely in Punjab Cabinet; oath ceremony today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25The Congress high command has finalised the names of 15 MLAs to be inducted in the Cabinet headed by Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Accompanied by Deputy CMs Sukhjinder Randhawa and OP Soni, the CM today met Governor Banwarilal Purohit at 12.30 pm. He later told the media the swearing-in for the new ministers would take place at 4.30 pm on Sunday.Also read: Meet the new faces in Charanjit Channi cabinetOpposition attacks govt for selecting ‘tainted’ leadersThe CM and his two deputies remained tight-lipped on the names but sources said the Cabinet would have seven new faces. Some former ministers loyal to Capt Amarinder Singh too were among the probables. The CM is learnt to have called up those to be part of his team. “Anything can happen at the last moment. The names will be revealed just before the oath ceremony”, observed a senior leader.Among the new faces likely are two-time MLA Raja Warring from Gidderbaha, three-time MLA from Amritsar -West Dr Raj Kumar Verka, three-time MLA from Urmar Sangat Singh Gilzian, former minister and MLA from Jalandhar Cantt Pargat Singh, two-time MLA from Fatehgarh Sahib Kuljit Nagra and two-time MLA from Khanna Gurkirat Kotli.Former Irrigation Minister and MLA from Kapurthala Rana Gurjeet Singh is expected to make a comeback. A minister in Capt Amarinder’s Cabinet, he had stepped down after an alleged scam regarding allotment of sand mines. Till Saturday evening, there were reports that Nabha MLA Randeep Nabha could replace another new face. Though most probables chose to play it down, there were reports of celebrations by supporters of Kotli, Verka and Rana Gurjeet Sodhi.Among the former ministers likely to be taken again are Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Badal, Sukhbinder Sarkaria, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Vijay Inder Singla, Aruna Chaudhary, Razia Sultana and Bharat Bhushan Ashu. Former ministers Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Sunder Sham Arora, Rana Gurmit Sodhi, Balbir Singh Sidhu and Gurpreet Kangar are unlikely to find a place in the expanded Cabinet. Arora said he had already vacated his official residence.Channi was summoned to Delhi by the Congress high command on Friday to discuss the Cabinet expansion, barely hours after he had returned from the national Capital.THE PROBABLESNew faces: Raja Warring (Gidderbaha) Raj Kumar Verka (Amritsar-West), Sangat Singh Gilzian (Urmar), Pargat Singh (Jalandhar Cantt), Kuljit Nagra (Fatehgarh Sahib), Gurkirat Kotli (Khanna) and Rana Gurjeet Singh (Kapurthala)Old faces: Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Badal, Sukhbinder Sarkaria, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Vijay Inder Singla, Aruna Chaudhary, Razia Sultana and Bharat Bhushan AshuThe ignored: Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Sunder Sham Arora, Rana Gurmit Sodhi, Balbir Singh Sidhu, Gurpreet Kangar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/seven-new-faces-likely-in-punjab-cabinet-oath-ceremony-today-316145
26-09-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh sings his blues away||Captain Amarinder Singh seems to be turning to music to chase away the blues. Capt Amarinder, who recently stepped down from the Punjab chief minister’s position spurring a change of guard months before assembly elections, sang at a recent dinner he hosted for his batchmates from National Defence Academy and their spouses. “While his NDA batchmates (23rd & 24th course) & their spouses revelled in his excellent hospitality, @capt_amarinder himself could be seen basking in the joy of the moment at the fun-filled dinner he hosted for them today at his Mohinder Bagh farmhouse in Mohali,” his media adviser Raveen Thukral said in a tweet.While his NDA batchmates (23rd & 24th course) & their spouses revelled in his excellent hospitality, @capt_amarinder himself could be seen basking in the joy of the moment at the fun-filled dinner he hosted for them today at his Mohinder Bagh farmhouse in Mohali. pic.twitter.com/n2vFLYK4G5  And there was more merriment….@capt_amarinder seemed in full mood to enjoy the moment. Listen in to him singing ‘O gorey gorey…’ from an old Hindi movie. pic.twitter.com/xbwEzBBCw5||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-sings-his-blues-away-316104
26-09-2021||---||Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota appointed officiating DGP of Punjab||Chandigarh, September 25The government on Saturday appointed 1988-batch IPS officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, Special DGP, Armed Battalion, as the officiating head of the state police force, relieving DGP Dinkar Gupta of the charge.According to the orders issued by the state government, Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota would also continue to hold the charge of Special DGP, Armed Battalion, Punjab.After assuming charge, newly-appointed DGP Punjab held a meeting with all the top brass of Punjab Police.DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, while terming all the initiatives taken by the Punjab Police in past as extremely laudable, said he will continue to work for further betterment of the state police.“Further strengthening the fight against drugs and keeping vigil on bad elements, besides, maintaining law and order in the state are among my top priorities,” said the DGP.Notably, DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota has served in various capacities in the state. Prior to the posting as Special DGP Armed Battalion Punjab, he had remained Special DGP, Punjab Home Guards, and Commandant General Civil Defence.He had also served as ADGP, PAP Jalandhar; ADGP Railways, ADGP Prisons, ADGP Administration, Director Bureau of Investigation and other major posts in Punjab Police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/iqbal-preet-singh-sahota-appointed-officiating-dgp-of-punjab-316038
26-09-2021||---||CM Charanjit Channi meets Governor; 15 Punjab ministers to take oath on Sunday||Chandigarh, September 25With the list of ministers in the Charanjit Channi cabinet finalised, the oath-taking ceremony will take place at 4.30 pm on Sunday.Also read: Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota appointed officiating DGP of PunjabWith the CM and Deputy CMs Sukhjinder Randhawa and OP Soni already having taken oath, 15 more ministers will be sworn in on Sunday.Channi met Governor Banwarilal Purohit here on Saturday afternoon who told him that the oath ceremony would take place on Sunday evening.As reported earlier, five former ministers in the Amarinder Singh cabinet are being dropped.Opinions page: Annihilating identities: Channi’s elevation as Punjab CM raises hope of empowerment of oppressed classesThough the official confirmation of the list is awaited, it is learnt that the ministers who are likely to be dropped are Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Shyam Sunder Arora, Balbir Sidhu, Gurpreet Kangar and Rana Gurmeet Sodhi.At least seven new faces have made it to the new cabinet. These are likely to be Raj Kumar Verka, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Rana Gurjeet, Gurkirat Kotli, Kuljit Nagra and Pargat Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cm-charanjit-channi-meets-governor-15-punjab-ministers-to-take-oath-on-sunday-316020
