27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sees 38 more Covid cases, one virus-related death||Punjab on Monday reported 38 fresh coronavirus cases that took the infection tally to 6,01,538, according to a medical bulletin.A Covid-related death was reported from Faridkot district and the toll went up to 16,507.Of the fresh cases, Jalandhar reported nine cases, followed by five in Amritsar and four in Fazilka.The number of active cases stood at 284.Thirty-five people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,84,747, according to the bulletin. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-sees-38-more-covid-cases-one-virus-related-death-316972
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi asks his ministers to keep their security at bare minimum||Underlining the need to curb “VIP culture”, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday asked his ministers to keep their security personnel at the bare minimum.He pointed out to them that he had already pruned his own security. Chairing a meeting of the Council of Ministers here at the Chief Minister’s Office, Channi said that this initiative will not only be instrumental in deployment of extra security personnel judiciously but also save the general public from unnecessary inconvenience in this regard, an official statement said.During the Cabinet meeting, Channi placed on record deep appreciation to former chief minister Amarinder Singh and those who were part of the latter’s Cabinet “for implementation of pro-people initiatives and overall development works in the state”, it said.Emphasising the need to prepare a comprehensive roadmap, the chief minister asked all administrative secretaries and head of departments to prepare an action plan to implement their development projects and welfare schemes in a time-bound and holistic manner.Assuring a clean, transparent, fair, just and efficient administration to the people, Channi asked ministers to perform to the best of their capacities and capabilities.He said that now they will have to work overtime so as to come up to the expectations of the people in delivering good governance to them to their satisfaction.Channi urged all of them to work zealously with utmost sincerity, honesty and commitment to boost the image of the government and meet the aspirations of the people particularly at the grass roots.In order to provide easy access to elected representatives like sarpanches, municipal councillors, it was also decided to issue entry cards from either the office of deputy commissioners or Sub Divisional Magistrate, the statement said.Holders of such cards will be allowed hassle free entry in state government offices and Civil Secretariats in Chandigarh, it said.While Channi along with two deputy chief ministers took oath a week ago, the 15 other members of his Council of Ministers, took oath on Sunday and this was the first meeting of the full-fledged cabinet.The Congress had recently picked Channi as the leader of the state’s Congress Legislative Party. He was sworn in as the chief minister on Monday last.Amarinder Singh had resigned as chief minister over a week ago, after being locked in a bitter power tussle with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-asks-his-ministers-to-keep-their-security-at-bare-minimum-316967
27-09-2021||Mansa||Irked over his crop damaged by pink bollworm, young farmer ends life in Mansa||Farmers in Malwa region have been protesting on the streets on a daily basis due to the link bollworm attack on cotton crop.A young farmer on Monday died by suicide by swallowing a poisonous substance after seeing his damaged cotton crop.The deceased has been identified as Rajinder Singh (27) of Khiala Kalan village in Mansa district. The police handed over the body to the family members of the deceased.Nahar Singh, father of deceased Rajinder Singh, said that he had two canals of land while he had sown cotton on eight acres by taking land on contract basis at Rs 55,000 per acre.His younger son today died by suicide by consuming poisonous substance as he was irked over the damage of his cotton crop. He said he has a debt of Rs 8 lakh of commission agents. Village panch Jagsir Singh and Sardul Singh of village Khiala Kalan said Rajinder Singh was disturbed by the pink bollworm attack on their cotton crop.After spraying pesticides on his cotton crop yesterday, he ended his life by allegedly taking the poisonous substance himself in the evening today. They demanded compensation for the family and also demanded action against the companies supplying substandard seeds.Investigating Officer Sukhpal Singh said Rajinder Singh, a youth from village Khiala Kalan, died by suicide.“We got information about this and we have taken action on the statements of Nahar Singh, father of the deceased youth,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/irked-over-his-crop-damaged-by-pink-bollworm-young-farmer-ends-life-in-mansa-316957
27-09-2021||Vijay Mohan||Decreasing rainfall in Punjab’s lower Shivalik region could hit crop production: Study||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 27A study by experts from the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, showed erratic behaviour and statistically significant decreasing trends in monthly and seasonal rainfall in lower Shivalik region of the state, which could adversely impact agriculture in the area.The study recorded a decrease of 12 to 17 mm annually and of 9 to 14 mm in the monsoon over a 15-year period. In the kharif the decrease in rainfall was 9 to 15 mm where as in the rabi season it was 3 to 5 mm. In winters the decrease was 1 to 2 mm. Most of the rainfall in the areas under study was received in the monsoon season.“As the agriculture under the study areas is entirely dependent on rainfall, the declining trends coincide with the different crop growth phases and cultural operations which ultimately affect the crop production in these regions,” the study observed.“Therefore, farmers need to adopt different strategies such as rain water harvesting, planting less water requiring and short duration crops/cultivars to cope with the reducing rainfall and to avoid the risks of crop failure,” it cautioned.Authored by three experts from PAU’s Regional Research Station, SBS Nagar, the study has been published by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) in the latest issue of its in-house journal.The lower Shivalik region of Punjab, commonly called Kandi region, constitutes close to 8 per cent in the north eastern region of Punjab and lies in five districts—Pathankot, Hoshiarpur, SBS Nagar, Rupnagar and SAS Nagar.“The agriculture in this region is rain fed and behaviour of rainfall is changing due to climate change. The detection of current pattern of rainfall in changing scenario of climate, in terms of annual, seasonal and decadal basis certainly has great importance on the local, regional and national scales, due to the associated critical socioeconomic consequences,” the study said.The probability of reduction in productivity increases with the erratic behaviour of rainfall in terms of frequency, intensity and distribution. The scarcity in water availability due to delays in the onset of the rainy season, dry spells during the wet season and reduction in the length of the growing season results in crop failure, according to the study.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/decreasing-rainfall-in-punjabs-lower-shivalik-region-could-hit-crop-production-study-316930
27-09-2021||New Delhi||Farmer dies of cardiac arrest at Singhu border||A farmer, who was protesting at the Singhu border against the three contentious farm laws, died due to cardiac arrest on Monday, the police said here.The deceased farmer, identified as Baghel Ram, 55, was a resident of Khela village in Punjab and was a member of Kirti Kisan Union (KKU).Another KKU member Raghuveer Singh said Baghel Ram was not keeping well for some time and was taking rest in his tent.The police said as soon as they received information about Baghel’s death, they rushed to the spot and took him to a nearby hospital where the farmer was declared brought dead. After the post-mortem it was learnt that the farmer died due to heart attack.Earlier there were reports of chaos due to farmer’s death, but the police denied all such reports.His death comes on a day of countrywide strike by farm unions.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a consortium of 100-odd farmers unions from across India, 15 trade unions and several political parties have jointly called a Bharat Bandh from 6 am till 4 pm on Monday to mark the first anniversary of what they termed as a ‘Black Day’ when the President had given his assent to the three farm laws last year.At the Singhu border, there were a large number of tractor trolleys parked but there were relatively very few people. This is one of the places where farmers have been sitting on protest since November 2020.Around two-and-a-half km long stretch of Delhi-Karnal highway (at Singhu village), where a large number of farmers was always seen during the last few months, on Monday bore an almost deserted look. Even the two stages erected for regular speeches and rallies were almost empty.Jagdish Singh, a farmer from Ludhiana said, “Trolleys are vacant because people living in them have gone to block roads at Tikri and Delhi-Haryana border.”“By evening the situation will be different and more and more people will be here,” Singh, who was busy preparing food for the protesters, told IANS.People, who were at the Singhu protest site, were seen busy either preparing food or cleaning their tents.Security at the outer premises of Singhu protest site has been strengthened with multiple teams of Delhi Police and Central forces deployed. People going towards Singhu from Delhi have to take a long circuitous way as the entry on the Delhi-Karnal road (at Singhu village) has been prohibited. —IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmer-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-at-singhu-border-316926
27-09-2021||---||Farmers block major roads in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, September 26In view of the Bharat Bandh call, the farmers and their supporters staged protests by blocking highways at various locations in Ludhiana district on Monday.The farmers blocked Ladhowal toll plaza on National Highway 44 in Ludhiana. The protests were also staged at major chowks and intersections on Ferozepur Road, Jalandhar Bypass, Bharat Nagar Chowk, Jagraon Bridge, Phullanwal Chowk and Jodhewal Basti. Raising slogans against the Modi government, the protesting farmers were demanding repealing of the farm laws at the earliest. Amid the protest, the shops and other commercial establishments remained closed in the city.Meanwhile, the buses remained off the roads while some trains were halted at Ludhiana railway station. Several passengers were stranded at Ludhiana railway station and bus stand. Also, commuters faced inconvenience.Various social organisations, employees, labourers and others unions have also extended their support to the bandh call given by the farmers' union. Extending their support to the farmers, the members of the contractual staff of PUNBUS and PRTC also participated in a protest at Bharat Nagar Chowk.Members of Majlis Ahrar Islam Hind burnt an effigy of the central government near the Jama Masjid here. The members said they stood with the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/farmers-block-major-roads-in-ludhiana-316898
27-09-2021||Kulwinder Sandhu||Road, rail traffic blocked at many places in Moga district||Tribune News ServiceMoga, September 27Life in Moga district was disrupted on Monday as a nationwide shutdown against three farm laws got under way with protesters blocking highways and key roads, and squatting on railway tracks at some places.BKU Krantikari Moga activists started squatting on the railway track at Dagru village at about 6.10 am and also on the Moga-Ferozepur national highway adjoining the railway track. Both rail and road traffic on the Moga-Ferozepur railway track and national highway was blocked, respectively.At 6.20 am, BKU Ekta Ugrahan activists started dharna/road jam at Killi Chahal village on the Moga-Ludhiana road and blocked the highway.  At 6.25 am, BKU Krantikari activists started dharna/road jam at Jalalabad village on the Moga-Jalandhar highway and blocked the road traffic.At 6.30 am, the BKU Ekta Ugrahan activists started dharna/road jam at Smalsar village on the Kotakpura-Baghapurana highway and blocked the road traffic.The BKU Lakhowal activists blocked traffic on the main square of the Moga town while another group of farmers blocked the Moga-Baghapurana road at the toll plaza on the outskirts of Chand Purana village.  The highways and link roads were also blocked at Kot-Ise-Khan, Dharamkot, Lohara, Jawahar Singh Wala, Bilaspur, Buttar Kalan, Nathuwala Garbi and Nathoke villages.The farmers also staged a protest outside the Silo food grains storage at Dagru village.The protests were going on peacefully and no untoward incident was reported from any part of the district so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/road-rail-traffic-blocked-at-many-places-in-moga-district-316894
27-09-2021||Ajay Joshi||Bharat Bandh: Farmers stop Army convoy in Jalandhar for half an hour||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 27A high drama was witnessed on Monday near PAP-Rama Mandi flyover in Jalandhar, when the agitating farmers stopped an Army convoy on routine exercise.It took the convoy half an hour to cross the blockade after showing relevant documents to the farmers.The incident took place around 7 am when the Army convoy coming from Amritsar wasn't allowed to move near the PAP flyover. The convoy with nearly a dozen Army trucks and jeeps was heading towards Rohtak in Haryana.An officer leading the convoy asked the farmers at the protest site to remove the barricades.The farmers lead by Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) allowed the Army personnel to pass after checking their documents and identities.The convoy left the spot around 7.30 am.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bharat-bandh-farmers-stop-army-convoy-in-jalandhar-for-half-an-hour-316893
27-09-2021||---||Punjab Health Systems Corporation director Dr Manjit Singh resigns||Patiala, September 27Citing personal reasons, Dr Manjit Singh, director, Punjab Health Systems Corporation, resigned from his post on Monday afternoon.Dr Singh, who was given one-year extension by the state government, is, however, said to have resigned after the change of guard in the health ministry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-health-systems-corporation-director-dr-manjit-singh-resigns-316890
27-09-2021||Amritsar||Complete bandh in rural areas in Amritsar; good response in Gurdaspur, Batala||The farmer unions blocked most of the rail and road routes leading to the city during the Bharat Bandh protest on Monday as a result of which the public faced inconvenience.The bandh call received a huge response in rural areas as markets were completely closed. In the city, the farmers staged a road block at Golden Gate while several marches were taken out to appeal to the shopkeepers to keep their shops closed.The farmers also held protests in nearby towns Ajnala, Baba Bakala, Rayya, Kathunagal, Attari, Chogawan, Majitha, Chehharta and Jaintipur. At Devidaspura railway crossing, the farmers removed their clothes to protest against the government.Railway officials said the routes of several trains had been diverted. Besides farmers, other sections of society also observed the bandh. Many schools and colleges suspended teaching. At Guru Nanak Dev University, the student organisation, Students for Society, gave a call for boycott of classes and held a protest.   Complete bandh in Gurdaspur, BatalaGurdaspur: A complete bandh was witnessed in Gurdaspur and Batala.Office-goers faced inconvenience as all modes of transport remained off the roads.The Gurdaspur-Batala and Gurdaspur-Pathankot national highways were blocked. However, ambulances were allowed to ply.Gurdaspur SSP Nanak Singh stationed himself at the Babri by-pass where the cops had set up an impromptu check post. He said nearly 500 policemen were put on duty to ensure there was no untoward incident. “As many as 17 points have been identified where trouble can take place. Adequate security arrangements have been made at these sites,” he added.In Batala, SKM activists blocked traffic at Gandhi Chowk and also near VMS educational institute on the Batala-Amritsar road.Farmers pitched a tent on the rail tracks near Mandi Chowk in the process blocking the Gurdaspur-Dinanagar-Pathankot road. Similarly, a tent was pitched on the Gurdaspur-Sri Hargobindpur road near Sathiali bridge. Police had been deployed near the bridge.Satbir Singh Sultani, general secretary, Punjab unit of the Kirti Kisan Union, is the main coordinator for the SKM in this district.Batala SSP Ashwani Kapur said farmers were holding protests at 19 different points in the town. “We have covered all these sites. There has been no trouble till now,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/complete-bandh-in-rural-areas-in-amritsar-good-response-in-gurdaspur-batala-316879
27-09-2021||---||Work suspended at Patiala’s sabzi mandi, railway station; Punjabi University students, teachers hold protest||Patiala, September 27Offices and private establishments in Patiala remained shut on Monday in support of the Bharat Bandh call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha. From the sabzi mandis in the city to the district courts and Punjabi University campus, work remained suspended throughout the city.Vendors at the old sabzi mandi at Raghomajra and new sabzi mandi at Sanauri Adda kept the mandis closed. Binder Singh Nikku, one of the vendors, said the vendors decided to shut all work in support of the call. "The mandi will be functional only after 4 pm,” he said.Work at the city's railway station also remained suspended. Though commuters reached the railway station to board trains, they had to return dejected.Students, along with teaching and non-teaching staff of Punjabi University, also closed the university gates as a mark of protest against the farm laws.PUTA secretary Avneet said representatives of the PUTA along with non-teaching employees and students of various organisations were holding a protest at the university gates.There was hardly any activity in various markets. Shops remained shut and roads remained largely deserted.Commuters harassedPatiala: Commuters were at the receiving end of the Bharat Bandh as all national and state highways in the state were blocked. Commuters were seen walking in search of conveyance on the Patiala-Bathinda national highways. People had been waiting for buses at the bus stops. All state-run bus services remained suspended.Government employees were inconvenienced in reaching their offices owing to the roadblocks. Army vehicles were also not allowed by the protesting farmers. However, farmers allowed ambulances, doctors and patients to pass. Farmer leaders have appealed to the fellow protesters not to bully the commuters, and instead, convince them and win them over for the cause.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/work-suspended-at-patialas-sabzi-mandi-railway-station-punjabi-university-students-teachers-hold-protest-316875
27-09-2021||---||Bharat Bandh: Farmers block Chandigarh-Ambala road, Mohali airport road at 5 places||Mohali/Panchkula, September 27Farmers on Monday blocked the airport road at five places, including Sohana Singh Shaheedan Gurdwara, Sectors 78-79 Chowk and Chhat village light point.Bharat Bandh: Traffic diversions in Chandigarh todayBesides, the farmers also blocked the Landran Chowk, Motemajra, Sandra village, Derri, connecting the airport road to the Kharar-Banur road in Mohali district.LIVE UPDATES: Farmers block roads at various places in Punjab, HaryanaBharat Bandh: Traffic congestion at Delhi-Gurugram borderFarmers also blocked the Chandigarh-Ambala road at Dappar toll plaza, Lalru, Zirakpur and Handesra road section falling in Punjab area on the Ambala-Naraingarh road.Farmers blocked the Zirakpur-Shimla highway at the Chandimandir toll plaza.There was no major impact of the Bharat Bandh on Chandigarh as all shops were open in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bharat-bandh-farmers-block-chandigarh-ambala-road-mohali-airport-road-at-5-places-316857
27-09-2021||---||Jallianwala renovation: DBYC to hold protest in Amritsar on Oct 20||Jalandhar, September 26The Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Committee (DBYC) will hold a protest in Amritsar against the recent changes made at Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar. The announcement was made by members of the DBYC here on Sunday. They stated that they would hold a protest from the Bhandari bridge to Jallianwala Bagh on October 20.The committee said the decision was taken after detailed discussions with various people’s groups following a meeting held on the issue.Members from various farmer groups and other public organisations also joined the committee members in the meeting. They said while Jallianwala Bagh was a monument which bears testimony to the freedom struggle and sacrifices made by countrymen, the changes made to it have been disturbing for countrymen.A meeting on the issue was held under the leadership of DBYC president Ajmer Singh at the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall here on Sunday. While sharing information on the decision taken during the meeting, committee general secretary Gurmeet Singh and cultural convener Amolak Singh said, “Despite repeated appeals to the Prime Minister, the President, the Jallianwala Bagh Trust and the administration, seeking restoration of the monument to its previous form, these communications have evinced no response. Therefore, the decision to take the path of protest was taken in the meeting. The march on October 20 will be the first vocal reaction to the changes made to the monument.”A committee member said the future course of these protests will be intimated on October 20. The protest will be taken to its logical conclusion and if required, a series of stirs will be held. It was decided that the participating organisations would independently work to raise the issue of the Jallianwala Bagh alterations.The DBYH had written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is also Chairman of the Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, on September 8 expressing anger over recent the alterations to the Jallianwala Bagh. It had sought the constitution of a committee of prominent historians and also sought restoration of the monument to its earlier form and layout.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jallianwala-renovation-dbyc-to-hold-protest-in-amritsar-on-oct-20-316816
27-09-2021||INFOCUS||Act now to save Punjab on the water front||Ranjit Singh GhumanThe Punjab Government has at last acknowledged that reckless abuse of groundwater, non-harvesting of rainwater and wheat-paddy crop rotation would result in desertification of the state in the next 15-20 years. However, given the track record of successive governments in Punjab, there is little hope that the problem will be addressed in an effective and sustainable manner. For the past about four decades, governments conveniently ignored the ever-growing problem of water scarcity in Punjab. They refused to read what was written on the wall. The only significant step taken to save groundwater was the Punjab Preservation of Sub-soil Water Act, 2009, enacted by the Assembly. The effective implementation of this Act did postpone the extraction of groundwater from May 15 to June 15 — a very hot and dry period during which there is a very high level of evapo-transpiration.The Vidhan Sabha panel’s report is not the first to highlight the depleting water table and impending water scarcity. Some expert committees and several experts have been pointing to the unsustainable overexploitation of groundwater since the mid-1980s. Johl Committee-1 (1986) and II (2002), constituted by the state government for restructuring and diversifying agriculture, made significant recommendations for shifting a substantial area (20 per cent) from under paddy, but these did not cut any ice. Instead, the area under paddy increased from 3.9 lakh hectares (9.62% of the net sown area) in 1970-71 to 31.03 lakh hectares (75.35% of the net sown area) in 2018-19. The Draft Agricultural Policies (2013 and 2019) prepared by the Punjab State Farmers’ Commission also recommended crop diversification by shifting a considerable area from under paddy. Unfortunately, these draft policies never fructify into an agricultural policy. Consequently, the state has neither an agricultural policy nor a comprehensive water policy. Even the Punjab Water Development and Regulatory Authority, constituted in 2020, has not included irrigation under its purview. Unfortunately, successive governments of Punjab, instead of acting upon the recommendations of their expert committees, have been indulging in cheap, competitive political populism aimed at vote banks. This is a classic case of irresponsible governance.Paradoxically, among the major rice-producing states of India, Punjab is the most inefficient in terms of water productivity as it is using 5,337 litres to produce 1 kg of rice, while the all-India average is 3,875 litres (in West Bengal’s case, it is 2,605 litres). Water consumption in total rice production in Punjab increased from 16,642.5 billion litres in 1980-81 to 63,153 billion litres in 2017-18, out of which more than 70 per cent was groundwater. In 1980-81, Punjab exported 81% of its total water (in the form of rice contribution to the Central pool) used in rice production; it increased to 88.46 per cent in 2017-18.To meet the increasing demand for irrigation, the number of tubewells in the agricultural sector shot up from 1.92 lakh in 1970-71 to 14.76 lakh in 2018-19, an increase by 7.69 times. Compared to it, the net sown area rose from 40.53 lakh hectares in 1970-71 to 41.18 lakh hectares in 2018-19 (an increase by only 1.02 times). The gross cropped area increased from 56.78 lakh hectares in 1970-71 to 78.39 lakh hectares in 2018-19 (38.06 per cent rise). Evidently, the number of tubewells registered a highly disproportionate rise as compared to the rise in the net area sown and the gross cropped area. Consequently, the net annual groundwater availability for irrigation development decreased from 2.44 million acre feet (MAF) in 1984 to minus 11.81 MAF in 2017. Such a dark situation arrived due to overexploitation of groundwater.Overexploited blocksThe aggregate gross groundwater draft in Punjab increased from 145 per cent in 2004 to 166 per cent in 2017. The number of overexploited blocks rose from 53 (44.92 per cent) in 1984 to 109 (78.99) per cent in 2017. According to the latest report (2019) of the Central Ground Water Board, in 18 of Punjab’s 22 districts, the draft was more than 100 per cent in 2017. Among them, seven districts are such in which the draft is in the range of 208-260 per cent. In another four districts, the draft is 151-200 per cent; in seven other districts, it is 101-150 per cent. Of the remaining districts, in two the draft is 98 per cent and 99 per cent and in another two it is 74 per cent and 76 per cent. The author’s study revealed that during 1996-2016, 12 districts (predominantly paddy-growing) had witnessed a decline in the water table ranging from 3.55 metres to 22.05 metres.It is quite worrisome that the area where the groundwater table is more than 10-metre-deep has been continuously increasing. It rose from 7.5 lakh hectares (14.9% of total area of Punjab) in June 1989, to 33 lakh hectares (65%) in June 2016 — an increase by 4.4 times over a span of 27 years. Due to increasing dependence on groundwater for irrigation, the electricity consumption in agriculture jumped from 463 million KWH in 1970-71 to 12,484 million KWH in 2017-18 (an increase of nearly 27 times). Significantly, the higher increase has been witnessed in those districts which are predominantly rice-growing.Lack of awarenessThe author’s study (ICSSR-commissioned major research project, 2013-15) has revealed that the level of awareness and sensitivity about judicious and optimum use of water is very low among water consumers across various sectors (agricultural, domestic, industrial and commercial) and the government too is not serious about the emerging water scarcity. Water harvesting and conservation are nearly non-existent across the sectors. Shifting a substantial area from under paddy would require a compatible policy intervention both by the Central and state governments. For optimum and sustainable use of water, Punjab must have comprehensive agricultural, industrial and water policies and effective and result-oriented implementation thereof. All stakeholders must join hands to address the issue so as to save Punjab from approaching desertification.The author is Professor of Eminence (Economics), GNDU, Amritsar. Views are personalSend your feedback to letters@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/act-now-to-save-punjab-on-the-water-front-316815
27-09-2021||---||On way to Singhu, Tarn Taran farmer killed in road accident||Karnal, September 26A 35-year-old farmer was allegedly killed, while two others were injured when their tractor-trailer was hit by a canter on the National Highway-44 near Baldi bypass in the wee hours of Sunday.The incident took place around 4 am when the farmers were going to the Singhu border to join the agitation, which has completed 10 months.The deceased farmer has been identified as Harjinder Singh of Tarn Taran district in Punjab, while the injured are Kanwaljeet Singh and Sharvan Kumar, also from Tarn Taran. They are undergoing treatment. Harjinder was driving the tractor.The driver of canter, however, fled the spot after leaving the vehicle behind.“We have registered a case against the canter driver under Sections 279, 304-A and 337 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). We are probing the case,” said Vijay Kumar, investigation officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/on-way-to-singhu-tarn-taran-farmer-killed-in-road-accident-316712
27-09-2021||Sports Correspondent||Tokyo Olympian Kamalpreet Kaur felicitated with 65-kg cake||Ludhiana, September 26Kamalpreet Kaur, the first Indian woman athlete, who hogged limelight by breaching 65 metre barrier in discus throw event in the Tokyo Olympics recently, was felicitated by city-based Belfrance Bakers and Chocolatiers, Sarabha Nagar, here yesterday.Kamalpreet (25), a native of Kabarwala village, near Malout, in Muktsar district, was honoured by bakers Harjinder Singh Kukreja and Surinder Singh Kukreja with a cake weighing 65 kg, matching her stupendous feat in Tokyo.“The number 65 is significant because our Punjabi sister is the first discus thrower to create history by hurling the iron disc to 65 metre distance. That is why we have made this special cake to salute her achievement,” said Harjinder Singh. The 65 kg three tier cake was crafted with Olympic rings, a large discus and a fondant figurine of Kamalpreet Kaur in her team jersy with Kaur printed on it.“Cakes are what we excel in. This is the best tribute we could’ve given to daughter of Punjab, who made us proud with her performance in an international event,” said Satinder Singh. Elated Kamalpreet said, “It is a proud moment not just for me and my family, but also for Punjab and India. What is heartening is all love and respect my sport, discus throw, has been accorded because of my achievement in the Tokyo Olympics-2020.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tokyo-olympian-kamalpreet-kaur-felicitated-with-65-kg-cake-316752
27-09-2021||Ludhiana||It’s time to upgrade industry in Punjab with new tech, say industrialists||The economy of Punjab is the 16th largest state economy in the country with 5.29 lakh crore (FY2020-21) in gross domestic product. Punjab ranks 19th among Indian state on the basis of per capita GDP of US$2,090.The same Punjab ranked first in per capita GDP amongst Indian states in 1981 and fourth in 2001, but has witnessed slower growth than the rest of country in recent years.Expressing concern over this, industrialists feel that now is the time to upgrade industry in Punjab by adopting new world technologies rather than depend on just entrepreneurship skills of Punjabis.Pankaj Sharma, general secretary, Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertaking (CICU), said, “Being the border state and away from the sea port, there is always location disadvantage for Punjab.”“The government should focus on products, which don’t have just the volume, but more value addition rather than products, which have less value and more raw material cost. This is imperative because the freight cost of incoming raw material will be more and outgoing finished products from Punjab will be expensive thus making it difficult for the industry to survive in the state,” Sharma added.“In Punjab, Ludhiana is among the top 10 places/cities in ease of doing business in India. So, we should captlise on it. We have least bureaucratic hassles as well as labour union issues, which we can propagate to encourage investment in Punjab,” said Sharma.“The time has come for Punjab leaders cutting across all parties to rise above petty issues and sit together and do brainstorming to make a road map for the next 10 years,” Sharma added.Industrialists rue that the government has not focused on agri-based industry for which raw material is in abundance in the state. “Industry making packaged food for domestic as well as export market should be promoted in the similar manner as hosiery and bicycle parts. As the cost of land is high as compared to other states, the Punjab Government should earmark industrial zones at different undeveloped places in the state, which will not only promote our GDP, but also provide employment in abundance,” said Upkar Singh, president, CICU.Voicing similar views, Badish Jindal, president, FOPSIA, said, “Ample opportunities should be provided to the youth so that they drop the idea of going to Canada or overseas for greener pastures.”“Another vital issue is to create interest of bigger groups to invest in Punjab. To create their interest we need to have good business environment as well as government support,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/its-time-to-upgrade-industry-in-punjab-with-new-tech-say-industrialists-316754
27-09-2021||---||Punjabi University to set up environment cell to combat climate change||Patiala, September 26Punjabi University, Patiala, will set up an environment cell on the campus to help combat climate change. University Vice-Chancellor Professor Arvind made the announcement during the university’s one-day webinar on “accelerating actions to combat climate change implications in Punjab’’, funded by Punjab State Council for Science and Technology, Chandigarh. The webinar was oganised by the university’s environment society.The VC said there was a need to conserve biodiversity of Punjab including fishes and birds.Officials, who were part of the event, elaborated upon various government schemes initiated to stall climate change caused by stubble burning, discharge of industrial effluents and plastic waste. They also encouraged sustainable use of agricultural waste.Meanwhile, Dr Rahesh Jalota, senior environmental officer, Department of Environment and Science, Queensland, Australia, delivered a talk on ‘Land Management and Carbon Sequestration’ by rehabilitation of wasteland. He explained the use of simple technologies to deal with soil erosion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-university-to-set-up-environment-cell-to-combat-climate-change-316741
27-09-2021||---||Cotton crop damaged, Punjab CM announces relief||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 26Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today visited Bathinda to assess the loss of cotton crop which was damaged due to pink bollworm attack in the Malwa belt.Sukhbir’s field visit drama: AAPThe Aam Aadmi Party termed the visit of SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal to the pink bollworm-hit cotton belt a mere drama and alleged the party along with the Congress and BJP had done more harm than good to agriculture and farming.‘Disease causes to be identified’The CM announced full help to farmers whose cotton crop had been damaged and said immediate action would be taken for investigation and treatment of the causes of the spread of pink bollworm. The compensation would be disbursed directly to farmers, he added.He inspected the fields in Nasibpura and Katar Singh Wala villages where pink bollworm had damaged cotton crop. Channi was accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa.Channi announced every cotton cultivator who had suffered loss due to the attack would be duly compensated by the government. The Chief Minister asked officials of the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department to set up various labs across the state to test andcertify seed quality so as to prevent recurrenceof such pest attacks.Channi asked officials to pump in all resources in terms of best available insecticides and pesticides to save theprecious crop of farmers from these attacks.When the Chief Minister reached the cotton field here, the security personnel stopped farmer Balwinder Singh Khalsa from meeting the Chief Minister. The farmers were outraged by this action. When the Chief Minister came to know about this, he directed the security personnel to send the farmer to him.Balwinder Singh apprised the Chief Minister that he used to cultivate land on a contract basis but this time, the pink bollworm had destroyed everything. He told the Chief Ministerif compensation wasgiven by the government, it did not reach them.The Chief Minister announced full help to farmers whose cotton crop had been damaged and said immediate action would be taken for investigation and treatment of the causes of the spread of pink bollworm. The compensation would be disbursed directly to farmers, he added. He also said the first target was to check the further spread of the attack by taking necessary preventive measures.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cotton-crop-damaged-punjab-cm-announces-relief-316539
27-09-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Punjab CM Channi visits labourer’s house to give job letter||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 26Expressing solidarity with families of deceased farmers who lost their lives during the ongoing agitation against the central farm laws, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today visited the house of a farm labourer at Mandi Kalan village in Bathinda and handed over an appointment letter to his family members.Late Sukhpal Singh (30), actively participated at the Tikri border stir and underwent treatment at PGI, where he died on March 31. Channi, who was accompanied by his deputy Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, said his government stood by the farmers. Meanwhile, as the CM overstayed in the fields and cancelled his visit to Chauke village, Maur MLA Jagdev Singh Kamalu reached there to hand over the appointment letter to the family of deceased Jashanpreet Singh.However, the Congress infighting came to the fore as when Kamalu was handing over the appointment letter, another party leader and a ticket aspirant from Maur, Bhupinder Gora, snatched it from him. Gora said ADC (Development) Paramvir Singh would do the honours. Later, the ADC along with Kamlu and Gora jointly handed over the letter to the family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cm-channi-visits-labourers-house-to-give-job-letter-316540
27-09-2021||---||400 protests planned in Punjab during ‘Bharat bandh’||Chandigarh, September 26As many as 400 protests are planned across Punjab on Monday during the ‘Bharat bandh’ call in protest against the three farm laws.Joginder Ugrahan, Farm LeaderSupport GrowingWe are working round the clock to make ‘Bharat bandh’ a big success and getting support from all sections.The protesting farm unions are leaving no stone unturned to turn the bandh into a show of strength as Monday marks the anniversary of the enactment of the three farm laws, which were earlier passed by Parliament. People from different walks of life and unions have extended support to the bandh call announced by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.The bandh will be effective from 6 am to 6 pm, during which offices, shops, industries and commercial establishments will remain closed. Vehicular movement will be restricted and no government or private social function will be held. However, there are no restrictions on emergency and essential services. An official release by the morcha said the bandh would be voluntary and peaceful.All political parties, including politicians from the ruling Congress in the state, have already supported the call. All parties have asked their cadres to support farmers.Meanwhile, in Sangrur, farmers have been making the required arrangements to make the bandh successful. On Sunday, farmers conducted meetings in villages and formed special teams to convince residents to support the bandh.BKU Ugrahan president Joginder Singh Ugrahan on Sunday visited Barnala to oversee the arrangements for the September 28 rally to mobilise more support against the central farm laws. “We are working round the clock to make ‘Bharat bandh’ a big success and getting support from all sections,” said Ugrahan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/400-protests-planned-in-punjab-during-bharat-bandh-316543
27-09-2021||---||Denied Cabinet berth, 2 Punjab ex-ministers ask why||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 26Expressing displeasure at the Congress high command’s decision to deny them a Cabinet berth, two senior party leaders and former Cabinet ministers Gurpreet Singh Kangar and Balbir Singh Sidhu in an emotional outburst today said they had been subjected to “gross injustice” despite giving their best performances as ministers.Paid price for loyalty to CaptI have had to pay the price for loyalty towards Capt Amarinder. It is not fair as every soldier has to be loyal to his commander. — Gurpreet Singh Kangar, Ex-MinisterNo way to treat party workersThis is not the way to treat committed party workers like us who have given the best of their life to serving the cause of the party. — Balbir Singh Sidhu, Former MinisterRegional balance ‘disturbed’Faridkot MLA Kikki Dhillon said regional balance had been disturbed in the Cabinet expansion. Despite having seven districts in western Malwa, only one minister, Raja Warring, had been inducted. Earlier there were two ministers — Rana Gurmit Sodhi and Gurpreet Kangar — from the region.The two former ministers have written to the high command to express their displeasure at being left out of the Punjab Cabinet, which was sworn in today. They have asked for the reasons prompting the high command to ignore them, while asserting they stood by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi.“We supported former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, as advised by the high command. Now we will work along with the new CM as per the instructions of the party high command,” they said, while addressing mediapersons ahead of the oath-taking ceremony. “Had the high command asked for our resignations, we would have resigned on our own. What has been done is quite embarrassing and humiliating,” said Kangar, adding his loyalty towards Captain Amarinder had cost him dear, “which is not fair as every soldier has to be loyal to his commander”.“Now, as a Congress soldier, I owe my allegiance to present Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. But if the loyalty to the party causes the kind of outcome that has happened in my case in the Congress, then it is really sad. The high command should answer why I have been ignored despite so many achievements. I was responsible as the Revenue Minister for computerising land records,” said Kangar.Listing his achievements as the Health Minister, Sidhu, who almost broke down, said: “During the Covid-19 pandemic, I ensured health systems work efficiently. I worked day in and day out to ensure people of the state did not face problems. In the past years, we streamlined health infra at the grassroots level. This is not the way to treat committed party workers like us who have given the best of their life to serving the cause of the party.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/denied-cabinet-berth-2-punjab-ex-ministers-ask-why-316545
27-09-2021||Aparna Banerji||6 Doaba MLAs seek Rana Gurjeet Singh’s ouster||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 26Even as Punjab affairs incharge Harish Rawat has defended the induction of Rana Gurjeet Singh into the Charanjit Singh Channi Cabinet, six party MLAs from the Doaba region opened a front against the elevation today, saying they will continue their “crusade against corruption” and try to convince the high command to remove him from the Cabinet.SC leaders ignoredWhy has corrupt and tainted Rana Gurjeet been given Cabinet berth? Representation may instead be given to a clean SC leader. Six Doaba MLAsCharges not provenLeadership has verified facts. No charges have been proved against them (Rana Gurjeet and Gurkirat Kotli) and they had been exonerated. — Harish Rawat, Punjab Affairs InchargeAhead of the declaration of the state Cabinet this morning, the leaders, including six Congress MLAs, three of them from the SC community, met PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and asking him to impress upon the high command to drop Rana Gurjeet from the Cabinet.Their prime objections were the sand mining charge against Rana Gurjeet and lack of enough SC faces in the Cabinet, even though 38 per cent of Doaba’s population belonged to the community.SC MLAs Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal (Phagwara), Raj Kumar Chabbewal (Chabbewal) and Pawan Adia (Sham Chaurasi) were among those who raised the objections. Besides, three Sikh MLAs — Navtej Singh Cheema (Sultanpur Lodhi), Bawa Henry (Jalandhar North) and Sukhpal Khaira (Bholath) — along with ex-PCC chief Mohinder Singh Kaypee, who is also from the SC community, sought dropping of Rana Gurjeet.The MLAs said all three leaders given Cabinet berths from the SC-dominated Doaba region were Sikhs. “At least one berth could have been given to an SC or a Mazhabi Sikh. Even a Hindu face has been removed. That is our argument. It’s not division — we have only tried to oppose a person who carries a taint,” they said. While Doaba has 23 Assembly segments, 18 of these are represented by Congress MLAs. Of these, eight seats are reserved. The three MLAs from Doaba inducted into the Cabinet include two Jat Sikhs — Pargat Singh (Jalandhar Cantt) and Rana Gurjeet Singh (Kapurthala) — and an OBC Sikh — Sangat Singh Gilzian (Urmar).Meanwhile, defending the induction of Rana Gurjeet and Kotli, Punjab affairs incharge and AICC general secretary said the party leadership had gone into the details and verified facts in both cases.Seniority sees Nabha throughThe seniority of four-time MLA Kaka Randeep Singh Nabha worked in his favour as his case was taken up by the party high command. He ousted two-time Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Nagra from the race for a Cabinet berth.Four-time legislatorKaka Randeep Singh Nabha, 50, AmlohThe four-time MLA took the primary membership of the Congress in 1985 and went on to serve as the convener of the Indian Youth Congress (Kisan Cell). A product of The Lawrence School, Sanawar, Kaka Randeep first contested the Assembly elections from Nabha in 1997 as an Independent, but lost by a narrow margin in an Akali wave. In 2002, he contested on a Congress ticket and won. He went on to get re-elected from the seat twice i.e. in 2007 and 2012. In 2017, he shifted to the Amloh seat in Fatehgarh Sahib, after Nabha was declared a reserved constituency, and won. He was deputed by Rahul Gandhi to oversee the Assembly elections in Mizoram. He also worked for the party in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, UP, HP, Haryana and Punjab. Married into the royal family of Afghanistan, Kaka Randeep is a member of Khalsa College, Patiala, Khalsa College, Amritsar, and lifetime member of the Blind Institute, Chandigarh. Surinder BhardwajWhat went against themSC Post-Matric Scholarship scamFormer Minister for Social Justice, Empowerment and Minorities Sadhu Singh Dharamsot figures in a probe into disbursal of SC Post-Matric Scholarship. The case pertains to a probe report tabled by former ACS Kirpa Shankar Saroj into the Rs55.71 crore scam. Though Capt Amarinder government gave him clean chit, the CBI and ED are investigating the disbursal of funds.‘Bungling’ in prime land auctionFormer Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora’s name figured in alleged bungling in the JCT Electronics’ 31-acre land auction worth Rs90 crore. Former Deputy Speaker Bir Devinder had complained to Punjab Lokpal seeking an investigation into the matter. Then Advocate General Atul Nanda had said the deal caused a loss of Rs125 crore to the state exchequer.Double compensation caseFormer PCC chief Sunil Jakhar played a key role in Rana Gurmit Sodhi’s ouster. A bête noire, Jakhar has opposed his inclusion in the 2018 Cabinet expansion. He had written to AICC general secretary KC Venugopal and then CM Capt Amarinder Singh, seeking criminal proceedings against Sodhi in alleged double compensation case. Rana had won the case in SC. “I have every right to claim genuine compensation for ancestral property. I have won cases right up to SC,” Sodhi maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/6-doaba-mlas-seek-rana-gurjeet-singhs-ouster-316547
27-09-2021||---||Mohali medical college gets NMC’s nod||Mohali, September 26In a major milestone towards imparting quality medical education to students across the state, the Punjab Government will soon operationalise Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, Mohali.8% faculty shortageChief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said the Medical Assessment and Rating Board (MARB) of the National Medical Commission (NMC) had, after examining the commission assessor’s report, granted the Letter of Permission (LoP) for starting regular classes at Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences affiliated under Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot.CM Channi said the decision of the NMC to allocate 100 seats to the institute will go a long way in ensuring quality medical education and research to the students besides providing best healthcare facilities at affordable rates to the people in the region.Channi said the process of recruiting the required staff for the institute is already underway. He said the state-of-the art medical institution is already equipped with all infrastructural requirements in terms of buildings, equipment and hospital facilities as per the NMC Medical Commission norms. He said adequate budgetary requirements for institute as and when desired by the commission will also be made by the state government.He asked officials to complete the necessary formalities at the earliest for starting the academic session in the institute at the earliest.The NMC had asked the college to recruit more faculty as a deficiency of eight per cent was found during the inspection.Alok Shekhar, Principal Secretary, Department of Medical Education and Research, said as per a letter received by the department, Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, accredited by Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, has been awarded approval by the NMC for the academic year 2021-22.The idea of Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences was conceived in one of the first cabinet meetings of this government in 2017 but it remained a non-starter. The college was constructed under a Government of India’s scheme to allow 50 new medical colleges (in the district hospitals which had more than 200 beds) in the country. However, all other 49 started functioning much earlier, only Mohali medical college remained a non-starter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mohali-medical-college-gets-nmcs-nod-316550
27-09-2021||---||Drain water submerges bridge, enters fields; residents peeved||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 26Following the recent spell of rain, water from Chandbhan drain near Ablu village in Bathinda has submerged a bridge connecting dozens of villages and entered in fields. Many villages have been cut-off from the main road due to the submergence. Residents of nearby villages gathered near the bridge area and raised slogans against the district administration and the government for not providing a permanent solution to the problem.Kothe Lal Singh, a farmer leader, said when it rains heavily, the water starts flowing over the bridge as it is of low height. Harpreet Singh, said, “Residents have to face the same problem every year. Despite bringing the matter into the notice of the district administration, no concrete steps have been taken, though senior officials visited the area to take stock of the situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/drain-water-submerges-bridge-enters-fields-residents-peeved-316551
27-09-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Kathlour wildlife sanctuary thrown open to tourists||Tribune News ServicePathankot, September 26The Kathlour wildlife sanctuary has thrown its doors open to eco-tourists for the first time since it came into existence in 2007.3 eco-sensitive zonesThe safe haven for animals and birds, having idyllic surroundings, is spread over an area of 1,860 acres on the banks of the Ravi. It is maintained by the Department of Forests and Wildlife Preservation.The sanctuary had a lot of tourist potential but the rules did not allow for people to visit it. “However, once there is a change in rules recently, we decided to let the world have a peep. Funds were restricted but Deputy Commissioner Sanyam Aggarwal made efforts to get Rs 1.2 crore released from the District Minerals Foundation funds. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests Raman Kant Misra was the guiding spirit,” said Rajesh Mahajan, Divisional Forest Officer (Wildlife).“Wildlife needs wilderness not just to survive, but also to live freely. Sadly, many species struggle to survive due to increased human activity and expansion into their natural habitats. With this idea in mind, we have now developed three zones — eco-sensitive, buffer and the core zones. Tourists are not allowed to go beyond the eco-sensitive zone. The main refuge of wildlife is the core zone which is a protected zone. Plans to protect air and water, wilderness and wildlife are in fact plans to protect mankind,” said Mahajan.An 11-seater improvised golf cart, which is a pollution and noise free vehicle, will take visitors around the sanctuary. A 5-km long nature trail has also been established. Private vehicles have been banned but a dozen bicycles beckon the tourists. There is an island in the middle of the area. A cafeteria, too, has been constructed. To have a perfect view of the surroundings visitors can climb atop either of the two 30-feet towers. Officials are expecting a heavy rush from October till February when the cold weather is actually conducive to both the humans and wildlife.“Wildlife is something which can never be constructed. Once it is lost, it is gone forever. Man can rebuild a pyramid but he cannot rebuild the ecology,” said DC Aggarwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kathlour-wildlife-sanctuary-thrown-open-to-tourists-316552
27-09-2021||Aman Sood||Patiala down from three ministers to 1||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 26The royal city is the biggest loser in today’s Cabinet expansion, down to just one minister from three during the Capt Amarinder Singh government.Back high commandIt is sad Patiala has lost more representation in Cabinet. However, the 2022 polls are important and we support the high command’s decision. — KK Malhotra, District Congress ChiefThe New Moti Bagh Palace, the official residence of the former CM, has been wearing a deserted look ever since the change of guard.With the exit of Patiala (Urban) MLA and former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Nabha legislator Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Patiala (Rural) MLA Brahm Mohindra was the lone minister from the district to take oath in the Channi Cabinet today. He was the Local Bodies Minister in the outgoing Cabinet.After having lost out on the Deputy CM’s post, the adjustment of Mohindra in the new Cabinet has left people worried over the fate of ongoing projects, including construction of bus stand, shifting of dairies, heritage street and canal drinking water supply for city.“While Mohindra will now hold the key to Patiala as he is the lone face in the Cabinet, PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu is likely to announce a new team in the Patiala Congress before the 2022 polls,” said a source.“The only saving grace could be a possible patch-up between Capt Amarinder and Sidhu. If that doesn’t happen, a complete reshuffle in the district Congress is not ruled out with more Sidhu supporters finding a place,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-down-from-three-ministers-to-1-316554
27-09-2021||Archit Watts||Warring ‘Raja’ on Badals’ turf||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, September 26After getting the Cabinet berth in the Charanjit Singh Channi government today, 43-year-old Congress MLA from Gidderbaha Amrinder Singh Raja Warring has emerged as the tallest leader of the party in Muktsar district, the home district of the Badals.Never looked backWarring has never looked back in his political journey. Though some controversies surrounded him, he has always emerged stronger. — Congress LeaderMuktsar district has four Assembly segments – Muktsar, Malout, Gidderbaha and Lambi. In the Muktsar Assembly segment, Karan Kaur Brar (daughter-in-law of former CM Harcharan Singh Brar) is the party’s face, but she belongs to the Capt Amarinder camp. Further, she lost the Assembly election in 2017 from SAD’s Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi.In Malout, Ajaib Singh Bhatti is the sitting Congress MLA, who is the Deputy Speaker of the Vidhan Sabha. He is a resident of Bathinda district and the party had sent him to Malout in 2017. At times, several Congressmen have publicly raised their voice against him.In Lambi, Gurmeet Singh Khudian, former president of the District Congress Committee, recently left the Congress and joined the AAP. Further, PPCC general secretary Jagpal Singh Abulkhurana, son of late former minister Gurnam Singh Abulkhurana, has not yet contested any election. Warring, a disciple of former MP Jagmeet Singh Brar, started his political career as the Muktsar block chief of the Youth Congress in 2000. He held several positions in the party before Rahul Gandhi fielded him from Gidderbaha Assembly segment in 2012 against then PPP chief Manpreet Singh Badal. Warring hogged the limelight by defeating Manpreet by a margin of 18,399 votes. In 2014, Rahul Gandhi made him the national president of the Indian Youth Congress.A second-time MLA, Warring even contested the Lok Sabha election against Harsimrat Kaur Badal from Bathinda in 2019, but lost by a narrow margin.Some staunch Congressmen here say Warring, a strong critic of the Badals, has carved a niche for himself. “Warring has never looked back in his ongoing political journey. Though some controversies surrounded him, he has always emerged stronger. He is young and people have hopes from him,” said some Congressmen. After losing his parents in his childhood, Warring was brought up by his maternal uncles. His grandfather Sampuran Singh was a member of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee.His maternal uncle Harcharan Singh Sotha Brar is the president of the District Congress Committee, Muktsar. In the last four and a half years, Warring’s wife Amrita too has increased her political activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/warring-raja-on-badals-turf-316555
27-09-2021||Parvesh Sharma||Despite opposition, Vijay Inder Singla stays on||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, September 26Even after reported stiff opposition from within the party for his proximity to former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, Sangrur MLA Vijay Inder Singla has succeeded in retaining his place in the new Cabinet.He has emerged even stronger in the politics of Sangrur district, where the voices of dissent had become pronounced after the resignation of the previous council of ministers. “My agenda is only development and I have never discriminated against any party worker. Sangrur’s development will continue,” said Singla.Though after Capt Amarinder’s resignation many had predicted Singla’s exit too, his proximity with the central leaders helped him retain his place in the Cabinet.However, many believe it won’t be an easy going for him as ex-MLA Arvind Khanna has already hinted at joining the SAD and contesting from the Sangrur seat. Senior Congress leader Kansal said like all other parties, there are differences among Congress leaders of Sangrur too. “But we will bring everyone aboard before the elections,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/despite-opposition-vijay-inder-singla-stays-on-316556
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Channi Cabinet meets today||Opinions page: Chance for Congress to play reformer’s role||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-cabinet-meets-today-316557
27-09-2021||GS Paul||Raj Kumar Verka’s induction in Punjab Cabinet adds to Majha clout in Congress||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 26The induction of Amritsar’s West MLA leader Raj Kumar Verka in the Cabinet has further strengthened Majha’s image of being the “power centre” of the Congress.Also read: Celebrations break out at Raj Kumar Verka’s residencePCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu, working president Sukhwinder Singh Danny Bandala (Jandiala MLA), two deputy CMs OP Soni and Sukhjinder Randhawa (representing Amritsar Central and Dera Baba Nanak, respectively), along with ministers Sukhjinder Singh Sarkaria (Rajasansi) and Tript Randiner Singh Bajwa (Fatehgarh Churia) all belong to Majha. Born on March 20, 1962, to a Valmiki family he emerged as a strong Dalit leader from Majha region. He was conferred with a Cabinet ‘rank’ and status in the Capt Amarinder Singh-led government, but without any portfolio.He ‘diplomatically’ indulged himself actively in Capt Amarinder and Navjot Singh Sidhu camps. He sided with Sidhu, revolting for a change in the state leadership on the grounds of inaction in Kotkapura firing issue, and when encountered by media, he deftly held Capt Amarinder in high esteem and called him the real ‘Captain’.Unlike other Congress MLA, he was the one who went to see Sidhu at his residence when the latter got incommunicado after quitting the Capt Amarinder’s Cabinet. To bring truce between the warring factions within the party, he had raised the demand for a Dalit CM candidate for the Assembly elections.Verka shares a good rapport with BJP leaders also. He was reappointed as vice-chairman of National SC Commission in 2013 and continued till 2016. At present, he is the chairman of Punjab State Warehousing Corporation. He successfully contested from the Verka constituency in 2002. In 2007, he was defeated but bounced back and in 2012 and 2017 from Amritsar West.Having a knack of acting, he has authored songs with social or patriotic messages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/raj-kumar-verkas-induction-in-punjab-cabinet-adds-to-majha-clout-in-congress-316558
27-09-2021||Ludhiana||Channi govt can’t fool people: SAD||SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today charged the Congress government with taking the state towards chaos and mess and failing to fulfil the promises made during the last Assembly elections.Will probe ministersIf we come to power, we will set up an inquiry commission to probe several ministers. — Sukhbir Singh Badal, SAD ChiefDuring his daylong tour of the city, he addressed nearly a dozen election meetings, covering Ludhiana Central, Ludhiana West and Atam Nagar Assembly segments and sought support for party candidates Pritpal Singh Pali, Mahesinder Singh Grewal and Harish Dhanda, respectively.Sukhbir said the previous Amarinder Cabinet stood exposed and if the new dispensation led by Charanjit Singh Channi had any notion that they would again fool the public, they were mistaken. He said a government remote-controlled from Delhi could do no good for the state. Only a regional party could deliver, he added, stressing all policy decisions taken by the government would be reviewed if his party came to power. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-govt-cant-fool-people-sad-316561
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||No real change, says Punjab LoP Harpal Singh Cheema||Condemning the Cabinet berths to leaders facing allegations of corruption, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today said it was clear that Charanjit Singh Channi-led regime is no different from the previous Captain government.Senior AAP leader and Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema said Capt Amarinder Singh and his Cabinet did nothing in four and a half years of it rule and to avoid public opposition in the run up to the elections, the Congress changed them and pretended to be clean. He said the difference between the ‘common man’ Channi’s words and deeds is clear.He said the Chief Minister and state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu should clarify their stand on Rana Gurjeet now. Cheema also objected to the inclusion of former CM Beant Singh’s grandson Gurkirat Singh Kotli. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-real-change-says-punjab-lop-harpal-singh-cheema-316562
27-09-2021||Ropar||Seeking regular jobs, teachers climb bridge railing in Ropar||Demanding regular jobs, around 12 temporary teachers climbed onto a maintenance railing of a headworks bridge on the Sutlej here today. The protesters said their jobs were not regularised despite the fact that they were working for the past 18 yearsin government schools.Under the banner of the Temporary Teachers’ Union, nearly 200 teachers reached at the bridge around 9 am and 12 of them climbed upon the railing. Rajinder Kaur, one of the protesters from Ropar district, said their jobs were not regularised though they fulfilled all the requirements. They had already been sitting on a dharna in front of the Punjab School Education Board office for past 105 days in Mohali, she said. The police officials tried to persuade the protesters to get down of the bridge railing on the promise of arranging a meeting between them and officials at the Chief Minister’s residence in Morinda. The agitating teachers, aftersending their four representatives to meet the officials, however, decided to continue their protest. After seven hours, they suspended their agitation when a letter was received from Deputy Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Mankanwal Singh Chahal that to resolve their demands, a meeting had been fixed at noon at the Punjab Civil Secretariat tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/seeking-regular-jobs-teachers-climb-bridge-railing-in-ropar-316563
27-09-2021||Sriganganagar||Will usher in change, says AAP’s Sanjay Singh||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) senior leader and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh on Sunday said the party was well prepared to win the Vidhan Sabha elections in Punjab next year.“We are moving ahead in Haryana also. AAP will bid farewell to the Congress in Rajasthan too and the BJP will have no chance to win here. We have come to bring “badlav” (change) in politics,” he said. Sanjay Singh launched an attack on the central government at the ‘Kisan Nyay Sabha’ organised in a field near the India-Pakistan border in Sriganganagar’s Mateeli Rathan village. He said the Narendra Modi government was selling stakes in Coal India, BPCL, LIC, SAIL, Railways and civil aviation public undertakings worth Rs 6 lakh crore. “PM Modi is only concerned about his few corporate friends. Otherwise, farmers would not have to sit on the roads for 10 months to get the laws repealed,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-usher-in-change-says-aaps-sanjay-singh-316564
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Day on, 2 officials deposit Rs 40 lakh  to NHM account||A day after The Tribune highlighted how two officials allegedly siphoned Rs 75 lakh from the Health Department accounts during the Covid pandemic, the erring officials have deposited money back to the account of the National Health Mission (NHM).Sources confirmed both officials had deposited over Rs 40 lakh to the NHM account. The remaining amount was spent by flouting the General Financial Rules. The department will probe and call for disciplinary action against the erring officials. The sources said the department might initiate criminal proceedings against the officials as well. NHM Managing Director Kumar Rahul was not available for a comment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/day-on-2-officials-deposit-rs-40-lakh-to-nhm-account-316565
27-09-2021||Ajay Joshi||Apple supply to Punjab slumps as Himachal private firms procure crops||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 26The procurement of apples by private firms in Himachal Pradesh has affected supply in the local markets here.Traders say there is a slump of around 20-30 per cent as compared to last year. This has caused a hike in the prices of the apples. Arhtiyas selling apples in the wholesale market say there is a hike of Rs 20-30.Ravi Shankar Gupta, a trader at the Maqsudan fruit mandi, said: “Apples from HP start arriving in the local mandis in August. Last year, by this time, around 40-50 Jeeps containing 20-25 quintal apples had arrived, but this season, just 7-10 Jeeps have reached. Subsequently, the prices have increased by almost 20 per cent. In the wholesale market this year, the 2X quality apples are being sold at Rs 30-35/kg, 3X at Rs 40-55/kg, 4X at Rs 60-70/kg and 5X at Rs 80-100/kg. On the contrary, last year, the prices were between Rs 20-30/kg, Rs 35-50/kg, Rs 55-60/kg and Rs 70-80/kg, respectively.”Kuldeep Raj (50), another fruit dealer, said owing to the drop in supply, traders were selling the fruit kept in the cold stores here.The local apple traders are now waiting for the arrival of apples from Jammu and Kashmir. Amar Singh Dogra (60), a Himachal-based apple farmer and dealer, confirmed the slump in the export of the apples to Punjab. “While the production doubled this year, the quantity of apples of large size, which are usually sold in Punjab, remained lower than the last year. Consequently, private firms procured fine quality apples before they could be transported to other states,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/apple-supply-to-punjab-slumps-as-himachal-private-firms-procure-crops-316566
27-09-2021||Fazilka||Ensure discharge of treated water into drains: NGT panel||A panel of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), led by Punjab and Haryana High Court Justice (retd) Jasbir Singh, visited sewage treatment plants (STPs) of Fazilka district today to take on stock of situation to overcome the problem of water pollution and waste water management in the district.Former Chief Secretary SC Aggarwal, environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal and technical expert Babu Ram were also present.Justice Singh warned the officials concerned to abide by NGT instructions to clean contaminated water and said no untreated water should be allowed to flow into the drains. He said the councils which fail to abide by the instructions shall have to pay a penalty. He directed the Punjab Pollution Control Board officials to ensure quality of water from of sewage treatment plant and said only treated water should be allowed to be supplied to fields for agriculture purposes. He directed to expedite completion of under construction STPs.Aggarwal exhorted the residents to set up rainwater harvesting system in every village to improve the quality of sub-soil water. It is stated that untreated water from neighbouring five districts is being flown into drain which pollutes sub-soil water, resulting in spread of several diseases in border villages.Notably, a farmer, Vikram Ahuja, had filed a petition before the NGT two years ago and claimed that sub-soil water in nearly 132 villages of the border district had become unfit for human consumption and agriculture purposes, as untreated water of major drains flows to Fazilka — a low lying area. In response, the NGT had constituted a panel. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-discharge-of-treated-water-into-drains-ngt-panel-316567
27-09-2021||---||112-year-old Fazilka district hospital to be shifted near dumping ground||Praful Chander NagpalFazilka, September 26Set up in 1909, Fazilka Dane Hospital (now a district hospital) will be shifted to new building soon but adjacent to a carcass-dumping ground near a road connecting Senia and border road.No overhead water tank in New buildingAccording to information, the new building lacks an overhead water tank, due to which water supply requirements of the 100-bed hospital will be hit. Experts pointed out that water motors alone won't be enough to provide water supply. When contacted, Sukhchain Singh, XEN, Punjab Health Systems Corporation, said tenders for construction of an overhead tank had been floatedThe department had directed the authorities to shift the hospital on September 15. The orders have been issued despite the fact that there were certain glaring shortcomings in the newly constructed building. However, the shifting process has begun, sources said CM Charanjit Singh Channi should formally inaugurate the hospital, along with the newly constructed bus stand, soon.There is a huge carcass-dumping ground just 20-feet away from the new building, from which foul smell emanates round-the-clock. “It is difficult to stay at the hospital on a windy day and it will cause a lot of inconvenience to the patients admitted at the hospital too,” said some persons from the hospital staff.Fazilka Municipal Council Sanitary Inspector Naresh Khera claimed that the process of shifting the dumping ground had begun and the new ground shall be allotted soon.According to information gathered by The Tribune, the building lacks an overhead water tank, due to which water supply requirements of the 100-bed hospital will be hit. Experts pointed out that water motors alone won’t be enough to provide water supply.When contacted, Sukhchain Singh, XEN, Punjab Health Systems Corporation, said tenders for construction of an overhead tank had been floated.Besides, the sewerage system of the hospital had also been connected in an alleged “unauthorised manner” without remitting requisite amount of Rs 65 lakh to the Municipal Council. Municipal Council Executive Officer Rajnish Girdhar said the health authorities had applied for the connection and were yet to deposit Rs 65 lakh for it.Meanwhile, the government appears to be in utter haste to shift the hospital to the new building allegedly to derive mileage of the facility before the state Assembly elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/112-year-old-fazilka-district-hospital-to-be-shifted-near-dumping-ground-316568
27-09-2021||Faridkot||Raise awareness on ADRs: Experts||The Indian Pharmacopia Commission (IPC) has started sensitisation of doctors, paramedical staff and clinicians in a three-day training-cum-workshop here regarding the adverse drug reactions (ADRs).To create awareness about ADR, experts said about 3 per cent of all patients visiting hospital OPDs complaint of drug reactions and many need hospitalisation. Most of them go unreported despite these being life threatening. So, adequate awareness about it is required, said the IPC trainers.The doctors are mandatorily advised to report any untoward event on ADR forms under Pharmacovigilance so that the pharmaceutical companies manufacturer safe drugs, said the experts. Dr Raj Bahadur, Vice Chancellor, BFUHS, Faridkot advised doctors and paramedical staff to fill in the ADR form diligently, as it is vital for quality assessment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/raise-awareness-on-adrs-experts-316569
27-09-2021||Faridkot||3 hospitalised after snakebite||Three children of a daily wager were hospitalised after being bitten by a snake at their home in Pacca village of Faridkot on Saturday night. Two children are on ventilator support while the condition of the third child was improving. The siblings were sleeping with their mother when the incident took place. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/3-hospitalised-after-snakebite-316570
27-09-2021||Batala||Batala duo in cleft stick||Taken for granted, no moreAmritsar: Amidst reports of PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu's "visible" dominance over newly appointed CM Charanjit Singh Channi in public appearances, a video has surfaced suggesting otherwise. During Channi's visit to the holy city, the Amritsar Improvement Trust chairman was hurriedly replaced with Sidhu's confidant Damandeep Singh. During the announcement in Channi's presence, Sidhu got the official letter from Principal Secretary Hussan Lal and directly handed it over to Damandeep, standing to his left. Much to Sidhu's embarrassment, Channi, who was to Sidhu's right, caught hold of the letter, took out his glasses and read it before making the announcement. Political experts believe Channi acted keeping the sanctity of the CM's office in mind. The message was clear for Sidhu - not to take him for granted.What’s in a nameAmritsar: Three-time MLA Raj Kumar Verka, who was inducted into the Council of Ministers of the Charanjit Singh Channi government on Sunday, is popularly referred to as 'Doctor Sahib'. Leaders from his party, too, address him with the moniker when they call him to deliver a speech on the stage. In reality, he is not a qualified doctor. The epithet of 'doctor' is entrenched before his name so firmly that a large number of people addressed him as 'Doctor Sahib'. His supporters even raise slogans of 'Doctor Sahib'. Mentored by late Congress stalwart RL Bhatia, Verka has contested the Assembly elections four times, winning thrice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/batala-duo-in-cleft-stick-316571
27-09-2021||Abohar||Four killed in road accidents||Training camp for doctorsFaridkot: With the increasing global disease burden of childhood tuberculosis (TB), a training camp-cum-workshop was organised here for doctors of three state government medical colleges for the formulation of guidelines for diagnosis and treatment of paediatric TB cases. It was organised by the Central Indian Academy of Paediatrics and the Central TB Division. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/four-killed-in-road-accidents-316572
27-09-2021||Rajmeet Singh||Punjab Cabinet expansion: 15 ministers sworn in, Captain Amarinder skips event||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 26Fifteen ministers joined the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Cabinet on Sunday, seven of them new faces. They were administered oath by Governor Banwarilal Purohit at Raj Bhavan here. In a last-minute change, four-time MLA from Nabha Randeep Singh Nabha was inducted in place of PCC working president and Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra after Rahul Gandhi spoke with the CM late last night.Opinions page: Chance for Congress to play reformer’s roleUnruffled, Nagra sought to clarify that he was never in the race, having resigned as MLA last year to mark his protest against the contentious farm laws.The Speaker has yet to accept his resignation.Also read:Denied Cabinet berth, 2 Punjab ex-ministers ask whyChanni Cabinet meets todayDespite opposition, Vijay Inder Singla stays onPatiala down from three ministers to 16 Doaba MLAs seek Rana Gurjeet Singh’s ousterRahul’s footprint evidentEleven former ministers in Capt Amarinder Singh government were re-inducted. Pradesh Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu was seen on the stage along with the new ministers. Capt Amarinder and former PCC chief Sunil Jakhar did not show up at the ceremony. Election on mind, CM Channi said decision-making would now be expedited. “I am working 24x7. I will fulfil all promises,” he added.New faces: Raja Warring (Gidderbaha), Raj Kumar Verka (Amritsar -West), Sangat Singh Gilzian (Urmar), Pargat Singh (Jalandhar Cantt), Randeep Singh (Nabha), Gurkirat Kotli (Khanna)Re-inducted: Rana Gurjeet Singh (Kapurthala)Old faces: Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Badal, Sukhbinder Sarkaria, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Vijay Inder Singla, Aruna Chaudhary, Razia Sultana, Bharat Bhushan AshuThe ‘dropped’Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Sunder Sham Arora, Rana Gurmit Sodhi, Balbir Singh Sidhu, Gurpreet KangarBrahm Mohindra, being the seniormost MLA, was administered the oath first. Next was Manpreet Badal. All re-inducted ministers were sworn in before the newcomers, with the exception of Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh. A former Irrigation Minister, he had to resign in 2018 after his name figured in a sand mining scam. Earlier in the day, MLAs from Doaba met Sidhu, demanding that Rana Gurjeet Singh’s name be dropped from the list. Despite that, the latter was taken in the Cabinet. So was Gurkirat Kotli. The Khanna MLA had faced trial for the abduction and molestation of French tourist Katia. He was acquitted in 1999 after the victim failed to testify against him and the other accused.Punjab affairs in-charge and AICC general secretary Harish Rawat said, “No charges were proved against them.”Hours before the swearing-in, ex-ministers Balbir Singh Sidhu and Gurpreet Singh Kangar told the media they were unhappy at being ‘dropped’ but would abide by the party decision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cabinet-expansion-15-ministers-sworn-in-captain-amarinder-skips-event-316536
27-09-2021||---||Punjab Cabinet expansion: 15 Cong MLAs take oath as ministers; Rana Gurjit in despite objection by legislators||Chandigarh, September 26With barely five months to go for assembly elections, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday inducted 15 ministers, dropping five Amarinder Singh loyalists from the previous ministry.While 15 ministers took oath today, CM Channi and Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa and OP Soni were sworn in last week.Brahm Mohindra was the first one to take oath, followed by Manpreet Badal.Read also:Despite pressure from party MLAs against Rana Gurjit Singh, the former Irrigation minister and three-time MLA was reinducted.Four-time MLA from Nabha Randeep Nabha replaced Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Nagra at the last hour.The exercise, which has Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s stamp all over it, saw seven new faces finding a place in the Cabinet.The Congress had in mind social and regional equations in the induction of ministers with AICC general secretary Harish Rawat dubbing it as a “balanced cabinet”.The Cabinet expansion came a week after Amarinder Singh resigned as chief minister following a bitter power tussle with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and was replaced by Channi.Read alsoThe new faces in the Channi Ministry are Randeep Singh Nabha, Raj Kumar Verka, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Pargat Singh, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring and Gurkirat Singh Kotli.Rana Gurjit Singh has made a comeback, having resigned in 2018 from the Amarinder Singh Ministry after facing flak from the Opposition over allegations of impropriety in the auction of sand mining contracts.He has been re-inducted despite a section of Congress legislators objecting to his name for the ministerial berth.The name of four-time MLA Nabha was confirmed at the last hour as earlier the name of Kuljit Singh Nagra was considered final in the list of new faces, according to sources.Nagra later in a tweet said he had decided not to be part of the Cabinet.Among the new entrants, Verka belongs to the Scheduled Castes community and Gilzian is from other backward classes (OBC).Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit administered the oath of office and secrecy to the legislators at a ceremony here.Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Singh Badal, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Aruna Chaudhary, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Razia Sultana, Vijay Inder Singla and Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who were ministers in the previous Amarinder Singh government, were retained.Rana Gurjit Singh, Mohindra and Singla are considered close to Amarinder Singh.Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Balbir Singh Sidhu, Gurpreet Singh Kangar and Sunder Sham Arora, who were ministers in the Amarinder Singh-led cabinet, did not find a place in the new ministry.In the cabinet, nine ministers represent Malwa, three Doaba and six Majha regions. Two deputy chief ministers were from the Majha region.After the Cabinet expansion, now all eyes will be on the allocation of portfolios.Jalandhar Cantt legislator Pargat Singh, considered close to the party’s state unit chief Navjot Sidhu, is the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee general secretary.Pargat, who is a former Indian Hockey Captain, had targeted Amarinder Singh over unfulfilled promises and had even accused Amarinder’s former political secretary of threatening him.Raj Kumar Verka, a legislator from Amritsar-West, belongs to the Scheduled Caste community.Gurkirat Singh Kotli, 47, MLA from Khanna, is a grandson of former chief minister Beant Singh. He had faced trial in the 1994 case of abduction and molestation of a French tourist. In 1999, he was acquitted in the case.Sangat Singh Gilzian, a three-time legislator and presently representing Urmar constituency in Hoshiarpur district, belongs to the OBC community and is also presently Punjab Congress working president.  A youth face Amarinder Singh Raja Warring is a legislator from Gidderbaha and is considered close to Navjot Sidhu.He had defeated Manpreet Singh Badal, who had then floated his own party, in 2012 from Gidderbaha. He had remained Youth Congress president from 2014 till 2018.Randeep Singh Nabha is a four-time legislator and is presently representing the Amloh constituency.Channi’s two deputies Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni were sworn in on Monday.However, the discontent in the faction-ridden party appeared to be far from over.Hours before the ceremony, Balbir Singh Sidhu and Gurpreet Singh Kangar held a joint news conference where they questioned the decision to drop them.Balbir Sidhu even broke down while asking “What is my fault?” while Kangar too posed the same question.Sodhi was vocal in supporting Amarinder Singh during the internal rift in the party. He had faced criticism from the Opposition over a land compensation case.Dharamsot, Arora, Sidhu and Kangar too had been targeted by the Opposition over various allegations leveled against them, and the Congress intends to correct the negative narrative against the government by removing them ahead of the assembly polls.Talking to reporters after the oath-taking ceremony, Rawat congratulated the new ministers and extended best wishes to Channi for a good beginning.To a question on Balbir Sidhu and Gurpreet Kangar, who were dropped from the ministry, Rawat said, “We have decided that those who could not be accommodated in the Cabinet, they will be adjusted in the party and government set-up because there is a lot of work, they will be given responsibilities. Nobody is left out.”“Seven new faces have been included and to create social and regional balance, this exercise has been done. The party has not left anyone, but the areas of their service will change and they will be deputed at other services both in the government and outside,” he said.Among those inducted in cabinet include youth faces, he said adding that representation has been given to the Scheduled Caste community and Backward Classes.“We have tried to ensure a social balance. This is a balanced cabinet,” he said.Asked if Amarinder Singh is upset with the party, Rawat said, “There is nothing like that. If anything is there, he will be mollified and a way will be found out.”The names for cabinet expansion were finalised after Channi, Navjot Sidhu and other leaders had held deliberations over the past few days with the party’s senior leadership including Rahul Gandhi.Channi was handpicked as Punjab’s first Scheduled Caste chief minister following the unceremonious exit of Congress veteran Amarinder Singh.A total of 18 MLAs, including the chief minister, can be included in the cabinet. With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cabinet-expansion-15-cong-mlas-take-oath-as-ministers-rana-gurjit-in-despite-objection-by-legislators-316494
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Congress MLAs from Doaba wanted Rana Gurjit Singh’s name to be dropped from cabinet||Seven prominent Congress leaders from Doaba had written to Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu against including Rana Gurjit Singh in the Punjab Cabinet for his alleged involvement in a sand mining scam in the state— ahead of a Cabinet expansion. Rana Gurjit Singh was re-inducted in the Cabinet. Sand mining row: Punjab minister Rana Gurjit resignsREAD Tribune's investigative series on the sand mining scam here Mohinder Singh Kaypee, ex-president Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee; MLAs Navtej Singh Cheema from Sultanpur Lodhi; Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal from Phagwara; Bawa Henry from Jalandhar North; Raj Kumar from Chabbewal; Pawan Adia from Sham Churasi; and Sukhpal Singh Khaira from Bholath—all leaders from Doaba— had written to Sidhu, and marked a copy of the letter to Chief Minister Channi, voicing their opposition to Rana Gurjit Singh’s inclusion.“We wish to convey a huge resentment amongst the public and the Congress cadre on the proposed inclusion of tainted Rana Gurjeet Singh,” the letter read. “He was dropped from the Cabinet in January 2018 due to the infamous mining allocation scandal involving him, his family, and his companies directly. The Punjab Government had forfeited approximately Rs 25 crore deposited by his front company M/s Rajbir Enterprises for the mining auction of the sites in Punjab. We wonder why Rana Gurjeet Singh is being included in the Cabinet as he was dropped and has got no clean chit from any court or government.” In the eye of ‘sandstorm’This campaign against Rana appeared to be led by Khaira, whose recent re-entry into the party Rana had opposed. Khaira rejoined the party in June after a stint with Aam Aadmi Party.Khaira, meanwhile, faces corruption allegations himself: he’s being investigated by the Enforcement Directorate after a cross-border drug smuggling network was discovered in Fazilka.The letter to the party also talked about skewed caste dynamics in the proposed Cabinet.“Apart from the above-stated facts, it is amusing that all the three ministers proposed to be included in the Cabinet from Doaba region are Jatt Sikhs and one is OBC Sikh, whereas there is approximately 38 per cent Dalit population in this region,” the letter said. “Therefore, we all request you to immediately drop Rana Gurjeet Singh from the proposed Cabinet expansion and instead include a clean Dalit face in view of the upcoming elections.”Four of the seven leaders who’ve written the letter—Kaypee, Chabbewal, Adia, and Dhaliwal—are Dalits.The disgruntled Congress MLAs also headed to Patiala for a closed-door meeting with Sidhu on Saturday afternoon to make their case just hours before new ministers were sworn in.“We will oppose this induction and have told our side of the story to Sidhu," an MLA who did not want to be named had said, as the MLAs stepped in to meet Sidhu. A senior Congress leader cited the case of an MLA whose name was dropped from the list of probables because his name was linked to an illegal mining case in his own constituency.“They’ve now added someone who was removed on corruption charges. They should understand that polls are only a few months away,” this leader, who also preferred to stay anonymous, said.The letter, and the meeting, came after some 15 Congress MLAs from Doaba held a meeting and later a signature campaign to bolster their cause.Congress sources said several legislators from the party had raised similar concerns: that the inclusion of a person facing corruption charges would likely send out wrong signals just before assembly elections and potentially show the party in a bad light. Rana Gurjit Singh was forced to resign from former chief minister Amarinder Singh’s Cabinet in 2018 after his name began to be linked to a mining scam in the state.Opposition to Rana Gurjit Singh's reinduction comes only days after Chief Minister Charanjit Channi vowed to end corruption in the state when he was sworn in last week.Meanwhile, Opposition parties latched on to the controversy. Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa said his party would strongly oppose the appointment of any "corrupt" leader to the Punjab Cabinet. Nagra dropped, Randeep Nabha inFatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Nagra was replaced by Nabha MLA Randeep Nabha. The sources attributed the substitution to regional balance and experience.The last-minute changes were made after Congress president Sonia Gandhi intervened, some sources said. 'Embarrassing'In a related development, former ministers Balbir Singh Sidhu and Gurpreet Kangar, whose names were dropped from the new cabinet, have asked the party leadership why they have been left out but added they would abide by the party’s decision.The two leaders, who addressed a press briefing just before cabinet expansion, said it was embarrassing for them to know that they’d been bypassed.“If the high command had asked us for our resignations, we would have given them. This is embarrassing. We have asked why the high command has ignored us,” the two leaders told the press, as Balbir Singh Sidhu broke down at the press conference.  Both were ministers in the Amarinder Singh cabinet.Punjab's assembly elections are due in the state early next year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-mlas-from-doaba-wanted-rana-gurjit-singhs-name-to-be-dropped-from-cabinet-316463
27-09-2021||MALWAKaka Randeep Singh||Meet the new faces in Charanjit Channi cabinet||Kaka Randeep Singh Nabha, an MLA from Amloh, studied at Lawrence School Sanawar School and graduated with Economics (Hons) from Government College Chandigarh. He contested his first election from Nabha constituency in 1997 as an independent but narrowly lost to the Akalis. He then fought, and won, the 2002, 2007, and 2012 assembly elections as a Congress candidate but had to change his seat to Amloh in 2017 after Nabha was declared a reserved constituency.A four-time MLA, he joined Congress as a primary member of Block Congress Nabha in 1985, has been the convener of the Indian Youth Congress (Kissan Cell), and has worked for the party in Karnataka, Mizoram, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, and Punjab.He is married into the Royal Family of Afghanistan. His wife helps him handle his constituency. His son runs an NGO Gurdarshan Singh Nabha memorial Foundation.Also read: Opposition attacks govt for selecting ‘tainted’ leadersSeven new faces likely in Punjab Cabinet; oath ceremony todayYoung turk with Good oratorial skills'Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, 43, GidderbahaHandpicked by Rahul Gandhi, the young leader made his debut in the state Assembly by defeating then PPP chief Manpreet Singh Badal from Gidderbaha in 2012. He went on to become the Indian Youth Congress president in 2014. Warring retained the Assembly seat in 2017. Known for raising his voice against the Badals, Warring even contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Bathinda against Harsimrat Kaur Badal, but lost by a narrow margin. In 2019, he was appointed as one of then CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s political advisers. Warring is currently considered close to PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. A good orator, Warring has courted controversies in the past over to his public comments. He recently questioned the functioning of outgoing Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal. In an affidavit filed during the parliamentary elections in 2019, he cited matric as his qualification.Set to be 3rd generation ministerGurkirat Singh Kotli, 48, KhannaSet to be a third generation Cabinet minister, Kotli was first elected to the Punjab Vidhan Sabha in 2012 and then again in 2017. While Kotli began his political career by working as a second-rung student union leader at Government College, Chandigarh, during his graduation, he imbibed traits of statesmanship from his grandfather Beant Singh, spending time with him when he was the CM from 1992 to 1995. His father Tej Parkash Singh served as the Transport Minister. Though Kotli represents the Khanna seat, he has been actively involved in the Payal segment, since his native village falls under this constituency. Besides serving as the chairman of the Committee on Petitions of the Vidhan Sabha, he has from time to time been member of various constitutional bodies.Next: PortfoliosAll eyes will now be on allocation of portfolios. Officially, the government is tight-lipped, but sources say Dy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa may get Home and Cooperation portfolios. The Home department is crucial as it is monitoring the sacrilege case probe, besides handling of the Vigilance department. Second Deputy CM OP Soni may get PWDMAJHALongest-serving SC panel vice-chiefRaj Kumar Verka, 58, Amritsar WestThe Congress’ SC face began his political innings in the state by winning his maiden Assembly election from the Verka constituency in 2002. He went on to become the longest-serving Vice-Chairman in the National Commission for Scheduled Castes from 2010 to 2016. Verka was also appointed Chairman of the Punjab State Warehousing Corporation during the erstwhile Capt Amarinder Singh government. He has won three of the four Assembly elections contested so far. In the 2007 elections, he was shifted to the Amritsar West Assembly segment after it was declared reserved, but lost. Verka subsequently won the 2012 and 2017 elections from the constituency. While he was considered a strong contender for a Cabinet berth after Navjot Singh Sidhu quit as Power Minister, following his disagreement with the former Chief Minister, Verka had to be content with a Cabinet rank without any portfolio.DOABASangat Singh Gilzian, 68, UrmarPicked recently as a PCC working president, Gilzian’s simple living and sharp acumen are perhaps at the core of his three consecutive victories from the Urmar Assembly seat. Belonging to the Backward Class, he represents the Lubana community concentrated in certain pockets, including Urmar and nearby Bholath, Hargobindpur and Sultanpur Lodhi constituencies. Gilzian first contested the Assembly election in 2002, but lost. Denied ticket, he chose to contest as an Independent and won in 2007. He later went on to rejoin the party. Then on, he has been maintaining his position comfortably. Gilzian was hardly seen politically active outside his constituency till he got appointed as Sidhu’s deputy. Gilzian enjoys a good rapport with NRIs. Having risen from the level of a sarpanch of Gilzian village, he largely confined himself to his area. In 2018, he quit all party posts protesting over not getting his due position.Comeback for sugar baronRana Gurjeet Singh, 65, KapurthalaA businessman from UP (now Uttarakhand), the Congress veteran had moved to Punjab in 1989. A liquor and sugar baron, he also owns a paper mill in Ropar. He was the richest candidate in the 2017 Punjab elections with assets to the tune of Rs 170 crore. He became an MLA from Kapurthala in 2002. In 2004, he defeated former Prime Minister Inder Kumar Gujral’s son Naresh Gujral to become an MP from Jalandhar. His sister-in-law and wife too remained MLAs from the Kapurthala seat in 2004 and 2007, respectively. Since 2002, the seat has been within the family, as Rana Gurjeet won again in 2012 and 2017. It is a comeback in the Cabinet for Rana Gurjeet Singh as he had been inducted as the Power and Irrigation Minister in 2017. He, however, got embroiled in an alleged scam over sand mine allocation, forcing him to resign in January 2018.Vociferous Captain criticPargat Singh, 56, Jalandhar CantonmentThe hockey Olympian-turned-bureaucrat-turned-politician recently got appointed as the general secretary (organisation) of the PCC. A confidant of PCC chief Navjot Sidhu, Pargat was at the forefront of attacks against ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh as he conducted a series of press meets, ultimately leading to the change of guard within the Congress. Pargat, who was the Director, Sports, till the end of 2011, started his innings with the SAD after he was picked by party chief Sukhbir Badal as the candidate for the Jalandhar Cantt seat. But he left the party in 2016 and went on to join the Congress. In 2017, the party fielded him from the seat and he won it for a second time. Akalis, however, term him an “opportunist, who backstabbed his own mentor”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/meet-the-new-faces-in-charanjit-channi-cabinet-316217
27-09-2021||Mukesh Tandon & Ravinder Saini||10 months on, farmers’ stir  still strong; no sign of thaw||Tribune News ServiceSonepat/Jhajjar, September 25Even as the farmers are set to mark the completion of 10 months of their dharna at Singhu and Tikri on Sunday, there is no sign of weakening of the movement against the Centre’s three farm laws.Though the number of protesters camping at both the sites keeps varying, their morale and spirit are still high. Confident about winning the battle against the Centre, they reiterate that they will not go back home till the laws are repealed.The agitation has seen many ups and downs in the past 10 months. With the harvesting season round the corner, small camps have come up in place of tractor-trailers and langar is now confined to small groups. Many farmers have started their own kitchens and the supply of ration and other food items from outside has dipped.Bhajan Singh, an 85-year-old farmer from Barwali Kalan village in Fatehgarh Sahib who has been staying at Singhu border for months, said, “Our number here has come down as this is the time to work in fields. If we won’t work, how we will provide food to our family and to the nation?”As soon as the crop season ends, the farmers will again reach the Delhi borders to fight for their rights, he claimed.Gurpal Singh, another elderly farmer, said, “We have been staying on the roads bearing the vagaries of the weather for 10 months, but we are determined to get the farm laws repealed.”Pragat Singh, a BKU (Rajewal) leader, said, “In 10 months, the agitation has only gained strength. It has now spread to other states. We are also getting support from abroad. The Centre seems to be under pressure due to the growing unrest against the laws. We are hopeful of a resolution soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/10-months-on-farmers-stir-still-strong-no-sign-of-thaw-316143
