30-09-2021||New Delhi||Sikh community members call on BJP president J P Nadda||Members of the Sikh community on Thursday met BJP president J P Nadda here and thanked him for giving representation to the community and resolving their long-pending issues, the party said.BJP Delhi unit president Adesh Gupta, general secretary Rajiv Babbar and party's national spokesperson R P Singh accompanied the Sikh community members to the party office.Singh said members of the community met Nadda and expressed their heartfelt gratitude to the party and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for appointing Lieutenant General (retd) Gurmeet Singh as the Governor of Uttarakhand and Iqbal Singh Lalpura as the Chairman of the National Minorities Commission.They also thanked Nadda for resolving long-pending issues related to the compensation for the victims of the 1984 riots and removing names of 312 Sikh foreign nationals from the black list.The meeting of the Sikh community members with Nadda was organised by BJP's Delhi unit. It came a day after former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh met Home Minister Amit Shah in the national capital. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-community-members-call-on-bjp-president-j-p-nadda-318350
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: SSPs told step up security in border areas||Punjab DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota on Thursday directed SSPs of districts along the India-Pakistan border to step up surveillance by starting “night domination operations”.The districts for which the security measure has been ordered every night from 9 pm to 4 am are Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Batala, Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Ferozepur and Fazilka.The DGP directed them to divide their districts into sectors and depute a gazetted officer for every sector, who will be personally out on the “night domination operation”.The SSPs will maintain a duty roster of gazetted officers and rotate them for supervision, he added, as per an official statement.Sahota said all “nakas” and other sensitive locations will be manned at night under the supervision of a non-gazetted officer, while additional check-posts should be put up on ancillary roads for checking of vehicles.“Inter-state ‘nakas’, especially on the J-K border, should also be strengthened and all vehicles coming from J-K should be thoroughly checked,” directed the DGP.SSPs have also been told to prepare a weekly deployment plan, showing the “nakas” and patrolling, which will be approved by the Range Inspector General of police.Such weekly plans will be flexible and based on the current internal security situation, he said.DGP Sahota asked SSPs to give special attention to drones and suspicious persons moving in vulnerable areas.He also ordered SSPs to utilise all police control room vehicles and bullet proof material to cover vulnerable places besides activating all control rooms. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-ssps-told-step-up-security-in-border-areas-318349
30-09-2021||---||‘Kuchh toh majbooriyan rahi hongi…’: Jakhar’s jibe at Capt-Shah tango||New Delhi, September 30Former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar on Thursday took a jibe at former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Union Home Minister Amit Shah's tango, saying "Capt must have had some compulsions".Tweeting an old picture of home minister and Capt, Jakhar captioned it with a Bashir Badr quote: "Kuchh toh majbooriyan rahi hongi, yu hi koi bewafa nahi hota."??? ?? ????????? ??? ????, ??? ??? ?????? ???? ???? ! - ???? ???? pic.twitter.com/Q8N8ccPuxD  Amarinder Singh had met Union Home Minister Amit Shah at his residence on Wednesday and said he discussed the prolonged farmers stir with him.After his meeting that lasted for about 45 minutes, Singh tweeted "met Union Home Minister Amit Shahji in Delhi. Discussed the prolonged farmers' agitation against #FarmLaws & urged him to resolve the crisis urgently with the repeal of the laws & guarantee MSP, besides supporting Punjab in crop diversification. #NoFarmersNoFood."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kuchh-toh-majbooriyan-rahi-hongi%E2%80%A6-jakhars-jibe-at-capt-shah-tango-318334
30-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC confirms interim anticipatory bail to Punjabi singer Gurdas Mann||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 30The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Thursday confirmed interim anticipatory bail granted to Punjabi singer Gurdas Mann in a case registered against him on August 26 for hurting religious feelings of the Sikh community.The Bench, at the same time, granted the investigating officer the liberty to make Mann join the probe through videoconferencing as he was down with Covid.“As no custodial interrogation of the petitioner is required, the interim bail granted on September 15 is made absolute. Let the petitioner join the investigation within five weeks from today. In meantime investigating officer may join petitioner through video conference,” Justice Avneesh Jhingan asserted.The Bench also made it clear that the State would be at liberty to move an application for recalling the order, in case of his failure join the investigation within five weeks. As the case came up for resumed hearing before Justice Jhingan, senior counsel R. S. Cheema with Arshdeep Singh Cheema and Tarannum Cheema submitted that the petitioner had tested for Corona positive.The senior advocate further submitted that the petitioner would join the investigation as soon as he recovered from Covid-19. In the meantime, the petitioner volunteered to join the investigation through videoconferencing, if the investigating agency so desired. He also sought four weeks for physically joining the investigation.The State counsel also did not dispute that the petitioner had tested positive and reiterated that his custody was not required.Among other things, Mann in his petition through had contended the Sessions Judge, who rejected his earlier bail plea, was apparently influenced by the show of public outcry, generated by some sections through a sustained campaign. The settled principles regulating the question of bail were overlooked in an atmosphere projected as surcharged. The statutory parameters and the settled norms through precedents were relegated to the background. “The Judge did not even pause to consider as to whether the investigating agency had asked for custodial interrogation and further made a valid case for the same.”It was added that the petitioner had deep roots in the society and nothing in his previous conduct during the inquiry would show that he was likely to abscond. Moreover, the alleged objectionable material was already in public domain and nothing was required to be recovered from the petitioner warranting his custodial interrogation.“Moreover, as a humble Sikh and the sensitive citizen, the petitioner made a widely circulated public apology…. His words ought to be interpreted in the total background of his lifelong devotion to venerable Sikh Gurus and to the principles of Sikhism,” it was added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-confirms-interim-anticipatory-bail-to-punjabi-singer-gurdas-mann-318333
30-09-2021||---||Punjab DGP directs SSPs of border districts to start night domination operations||Chandigarh, September 30In view of the current security scenario, Officiating Director General of Police (DGP), Punjab, Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota on Thursday directed all the Border district SSPs to start Night Domination Operations along the Indo-Pak international border from 9 pm to 4 am. The border districts include Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Batala, Amritsar Rural, Tarn Taran, Ferozepur and Fazilka.The DGP also directed the Border SSPs to divide their districts into sectors and depute gazetted Officer for every sector, who will be personally out on the Night Domination. The SSPs will maintain a Duty Roster of Gazetted Officers and rotate them for supervision of Night Domination Operations, he added.DGP Sahota said that all nakas in the second line of defence and other sensitive locations would be manned at night under the supervision of a non-gazetted officer, while, additional nakas should be put-up on ancillary roads for checking of vehicles. “Inter-state nakas, especially on the J&K border should also be strengthened and all vehicles coming from J&K should be thoroughly checked,” directed the DGP.SSPs have also been directed to prepare Weekly Deployment Plan showing the nakas and patrolling which would be approved by the Range IGP. Such Weekly Plans would be flexible and based on the current internal security situation.DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota asked SSPs to give special attention to drones and suspicious persons moving in the vulnerable areas. He also ordered SSPs to utilise all the PCR/RRPS Vehicles and Bullet Proof Material to cover vulnerable places besides activating all the control rooms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-dgp-directs-ssps-of-border-districts-to-start-night-domination-operations-318332
30-09-2021||Tribune Web Desk||'Humiliated' Capt Amarinder drops Congress from Twitter bio after saying he'll quit party||Chandigarh, September 30"Leaving the Congress, but not joining the BJP", is what former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh said on Thursday dismissing all rumours of him joining the saffron party. What followed soon after was him dropping the party's name from his Twitter bio.His Twitter bio read: "Army Veteran. Former Chief Minister of Punjab. Continuing to Serve the State (sic)".On Thursday afternoon, he announced that he would quit the Congress, over a week after he stepped down as Punjab Chief Minister amid increasing differences with Navjot Singh Sidhu.Amarinder said the Congress was going downhill with senior leaders being completely sidelined and he felt "humiliated" with the way the party treated him, adding: “Sidhu is a mere crowd-puller, and he does not know how to carry the team along.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/humiliated-capt-amarinder-drops-congress-from-twitter-bio-after-saying-hell-quit-party-318300
30-09-2021||---||Navjot Sidhu meets Punjab CM Channi; suspense over resolution of issues continues||Chandigarh, September 30 The suspense over the resolution of issues raised by Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu continued on Thursday evening after a two-hour meeting between him and Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi.There was no immediate briefing after the meeting held at the Punjab Bhavan here, two days after Sidhu resigned as the Punjab Congress chief following differences over the appointment of "tainted" officials and ministers.Also read:Let’s talk it out, Charanjit Singh Channi reaches out to Navjot Singh SidhuPunjab crisis: Why take ‘tainted’ leaders, asks Navjot SidhuNavjot Sidhu ‘irked’ over Punjab CM consulting Finance MinisterSikh bodies: Withdraw appointments of Punjab DGP & AGChanni first left the meeting venue around 6 pm while Sidhu came out about half an hour later.No party leader spoke to the media after the meeting concluded.Earlier in the day, Sidhu reached Chandigarh from Patiala to meet Channi.The meeting came a day after Channi reached out to Sidhu and offered to resolve issues through talks.Just before his meeting with Channi, Sidhu attacked the state's new DGP, alleging that he wrongly indicted two Sikh youths in a desecration case and gave a clean chit to the Badals. Sidhu had resigned as the Punjab Congress chief on Tuesday. His abrupt resignation triggered a fresh turmoil in the party's Punjab unit. Days after the deadlock between Sidhu and the party leadership over the appointments of the DGP and AG, besides those of "tainted" ministers, the cricketer-turned-politician showed first signs of thaw in the strained relations.The meeting was said to have been arranged after a number of MLAs called up both Sidhu and the Chief Minister to find an amicable solution.Sidhu earlier tweeted: “Chief Minister has invited me for talks … will reciprocate by reaching Punjab Bhawan, Chandigarh at 3:00 PM today, he is welcome for any discussions !”Chief Minister has invited me for talks … will reciprocate by reaching Punjab Bhawan, Chandigarh at 3:00 PM today, he is welcome for any discussions !  Sources said that in the backdrop of the development related to Capt Amarinder Singh meeting Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Sidhu's gesture towards Channi could be understood.“What transpires in the meeting between the two, only time will tell, but there could be changes in the top posts as desired by Sidhu. The action plan in sacrilege case and other election promises would also be discussed,” a senior leader earlier said.As the drama continues, Congress leader Sunil Jakhar hits out at Sidhu, he tweeted: “Enough is enough. Put an end to attempts to undermine the authority of CM time and again. Aspersions being cast on selection of AG & DGP is actually questioning the integrity/competence of CM and Home Minister to deliver results. It’s time to put the foot down and clear the air.”Enough is enough. Put an end to attempts to undermine the authority of CM time and again. Aspersions being cast on selection of AG & DGP is actually questioning the integrity/competence of CM and Home Minister to deliver results. It’s time to put the foot down and clear the air.  Factionalism in Punjab Congress has come to the fore over recent appointments of the new cabinet and other top officials.Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, Channi had said, "I have spoken to Sidhu sahab over telephone today. The party is supreme and the government accepts the party's ideology and follows that. (I told him that) You come, sit and talk.""If you (Sidhu) feel there is anything wrong, you can point it out," he said.When asked what was Sidhu's response, Channi had said the leader told him that he would sit and talk, and would give him time for a meeting.Channi said his government will set up a team under a special prosecutor for fighting cases in courts."We are setting up a team of a special prosecutor and 10 members, and it will handle our (state government) important cases," he said."A special team will be appointed. Therefore, there should not be any doubt on me. Everything will be transparent," he further said.He said, "Whatever feedback we got from colleagues and others and whosoever could be appointed, we appointed. But the decisions will be taken according to the people of Punjab."    "I have no objection or any ego in anything. I am very clear. If anything sends wrong message to people, I will not be rigid on it," he said in an apparent reference to recent appointments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-meets-punjab-cm-channi-suspense-over-resolution-of-issues-continues-318260
30-09-2021||---||Advocate Sandeep Moudgil recommended for appointment as judge of Punjab and Haryana High Court||New Delhi, September 30The Supreme Court Collegium led by Chief Justice NV Ramana has cleared 16 names for appointment as judges in four high courts.This includes the name of advocate Sandeep Moudgil who has been recommended for appointment as a judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The other high courts where names have been recommended for appointment as judges are Odisha High Court, Bombay High Court and Gujarat High Court.The decision was taken at a Collegium meeting held on September 29, it was officially announced on Thursday.In its meeting held on Wednesday, the collegium approved the proposal for elevation of 16 names -- six judicial officers and 10 advocates – as judges of the four high courts.As per the statements uploaded on the apex court website on Thursday, the collegium has approved the proposal for elevation of four judicial officers -- AL Pansare, SC More, US Joshi-Phalke and BP Deshpande -- as judges of the Bombay High Court.Similarly, the collegium has recommended names of advocates Aditya Kumar Mohapatra and Mruganka Sekhar Sahoo and judicial officers Radha Krishna Pattanaik and Sashikanta Mishra for their elevation as judges of the Orissa High Court.For the Gujarat High Court, the collegium has approved the proposal for elevation of seven advocates -- Mauna Manish Bhatt, Samir J Dave, Hemant M Prachchhak, Sandeep N Bhatt, Aniruddha Pradyumna Mayee, Niral Rashmikant Mehta and Nisha Mahendrabhai Thakore -- as judges there.Besides the CJI, the three-member collegium which deals with the appointment in high courts includes Justices UU Lalit and AM Khanwilkar.The collegium has been taking steps by recommending names to fill up a large number of vacancies in higher judiciary in the country.After assuming charge as the CJI in April this year, Justice Ramana has recommended nearly 100 names for appointment to different high courts, besides filling up nine vacancies of judges in the Supreme Court in one go. With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/advocate-sandeep-moudgil-recommended-for-appointment-as-judge-of-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-318257
30-09-2021||Jalandhar||Sikh bodies: Withdraw appointments of Punjab DGP & AG||Recent appointments made by the state government have snuffed out any remaining hope for justice in the Bargari issue. This was stated by the Alliance of Sikh Organisations, a conglomerate of various Sikh groups. It demanded withdrawal of appointments of the DGP and the AG while criticising CM Charanjit Singh Channi for siding with accused in sacrilege cases.Sukhdev Singh Phagwara, coordinator of the political wing of the alliance, said the recent appointments reveal the intentions of the state government on the issue. He said after 2015, Channi is the third such CM of the state who has displayed the same approach to justice on the issue.Phagwara raised questions on the SIT headed by DGP Iqbalpreet Singh Sahota, formed on the issue of sacrilege, on its soft approach to question Dera followers facing charges in the case. He said the previous government’s action in the case was inconclusive. He also added the recommendation of registering FIRs against ‘unidentified police officers’ responsible for the Behbal Kalan firing incident was also made under the SIT headed by Sahota.He further added that AS Deol, the chief counsel for the main accused DGP Sumedh Saini in the Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura firing incidents, being appointed as Advocate General, Punjab, clearly makes the present government’s intentions clear.He said what is surprising is that previously both former CMs Sukhbir Badal and Capt Amarinder Singh have lost their chair due to their lackadaisical approach in ensuring justice in these cases. But the third CM who promises not to repeat the previous mistakes of the twin CMs, actually surpasses them in backing those with questionable conduct in the sacrilege cases. He said “The Alliance of Sikh Organisations appeals to the Congress government and its MLAs that they pressurise the CM to withdraw these twin appointments.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-bodies-withdraw-appointments-of-punjab-dgp-ag-318211
30-09-2021||---||Family of Jalandhar Congress leader Anupam Pathak refuses to perform last rites||Jalandhar, September 29Tension prevailed at Pucca Bagh area as the family members of Congress leader Anupam Pathak (52), who had committed suicide last evening, refused to perform his last rites till the arrest of the accused whose names he had mentioned in the four-page suicide note.Anupam, who was more popular as Anup, was the husband of Congress councillor from Municipal Corporation Ward No. 51 Radhika Pathak. Known for his jovial behaviour, Anup reportedly took the extreme step after receiving threats from three persons in a land dispute. He had hanged himself with the ceiling fan of his room. His son and wife, who saw him in the condition, immediately took him to a hospital where he was declared brought dead.The police had registered a case against four persons. Karan Pathak (27), son of the Congress leader, alleged that the police have so far not been showing any seriousness over the matter. “The police were not even registering the case earlier. Now after registering the case, the cops were not making any effort to nab the accused. Due to this, my family members have decided that the last rites will not be performed until the accused are arrested,” added Karan.Cremation was scheduled to be held at Harnamdasspur ground at 2 pm today. After the family’s protest, the police sought 24-hour time from the family members for making a headway in the case.In the suicide note, the deceased had named Inderjit Chaudhary, Amrik Sandhu and Ravinder Singh Chaudhary for forcing him to end his life. Due to property dispute, the 52-year-old deceased mentioned in his suicide note that he was being harassed by the accused consistently, who wanted to usurp his property. They also used to give him and his family life threats.Today, a large number of supporters of Pathak had gathered outside, his house at Pucca Bagh and threatened to hold a dharna if the police did not arrest the accused.After receiving the information, ACP Balwinder Iqbal Singh Kahlon and SHO Rajesh Kumar reached the spot. The ACP said: “We have registered a case under Section 306 of IPC (Abetment to suicide) at police division number four. Besides the police are tracing the location of the accused to nab them. The body has been kept at the morgue.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/family-of-jalandhar-congress-leader-anupam-pathak-refuses-to-perform-last-rites-318217
30-09-2021||---||Plastic-free Amritsar: Give plastic waste, get a gift in return!||Amritsar, September 29In an initiative to keep the environment of the city clean, a ‘Plastic-Free Amritsar’ campaign has been launched by Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu under the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) here today. The objective of the campaign is to free the city dwellers of the plastic.In this campaign, the residents of the city have been invited to bring plastic and get gifts in return. The residents of the city will collect plastic items and give them at a booth constituted for purpose and they will be given a gift as an honour.Addressing the gathering Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said they were making efforts to make Amritsar a clean and developed city. He said the Municipal Corporation and the UNDP were working together to tackle the problem of plastics which was becoming the biggest threat to the environment. “The Punjab Government has launched the Plastic-Free Amritsar campaign to free the city of plastic. In this move, residents of the city should extend their full cooperation in making this campaign a success,” added Rintu.The Mayor called the residents to use jute or cloth bags when go for shopping in the market to eliminate the need of plastic envelopes from the outset. “Protecting the environment has become a need for our survival. The people should also contribute in this campaign for the betterment of the country,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/plastic-free-amritsar-give-plastic-waste-get-a-gift-in-return-318194
30-09-2021||---||Forum wants Punjab Government to buy private thermal plants, experts differ||Patiala, September 29The newly formed Power Sector Reforms Forum has cautioned the state government against cancellation of power purchase agreements saying that such a step might have an adverse effect on consumers.The forum, comprising retired power engineers of the PSPCL, said the government should instead buy private plants. However, power experts believe that buying the private thermal plants will not solve the issue as the “underutilisation of power is the root cause” of the losses.Addressing a press conference at the Patiala Media Club the former engineers claimed that electricity tariffs may increase due to higher dependency on procurement of power from Indian Energy Exchange Limited, where the rates are highly volatile and consumers may have to face power cuts next summer.Bhupinder Singh, convener of the Power Sector Reforms Forum, while quoting data of the Central Electricity Authority said that plant load factor of the three private thermal plants has gone down. Meanwhile, Onkar Singh Bhambra, joint convener, insisted that the only viable solution is that the state should acquire Rajpura and Goindwal Sahib thermal plants, which the respective companies have offered to sell to PSPCL. “The use of cheaper coal from own mine shall reduce the variable cost and resultantly the plant load factor shall improve, making electricity cheaper from these plants. The fixed charges shall also get reduced benefiting consumers”, they said.The forum leaders also opposed the privatisation of the distribution, proposed in the new electricity act which shall, on one hand, make electricity costlier and also deteriorate the quality of supply to the rural areas.However, power sector experts said it was surprising that the forum was pleading that there was no issue of over capacity of the IPPs in extra cost of power and the only issue was that these were installed in private sector and the same could be corrected by acquiring these plants. “Surprisingly this is exactly what IPPs want by offering to sell the plants. Till the rate of purchase of these plants is known, how can anyone say that buying it will be viable option?” they questioned.“If somebody has to quote major reason for high power purchase cost, it is over capacity of these plants and non-utilisation of coal for them from Pachhwara mine in the first instance. Overcapacity has led to underutilisation of these private as well as state thermals, resulting in higher cost of generation from them”, said experts.Meanwhile, a former chief engineer said that now after having signed PPAs for 25 years at very high rates when they have already recovered major capital cost these IPPs want to exit the PPAS by selling old units at very high costs. “Underutilisation shall remain the crucial point even if these are acquired by the state. The government should not buy these private thermal plants when the state peak load is only for three months. The government cannot use or sell the power produced by these plants for rest of the nine months and thus power cost will rather rise”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/forum-wants-punjab-government-to-buy-private-thermal-plants-experts-differ-318187
30-09-2021||New Delhi||Punjab political crisis Rahul Gandhi’s failure: BJP||Asserting that stability in Punjab is essential for the national security, the BJP on Wednesday hit out at the Congress for “creating political volatility” in the border state.BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra alleged the Congress had become synonymous with “instability” and called the Punjab political crisis a “colossal failure” of Rahul Gandhi.He said the Gandhi family had gone to Shimla on a vacation after replacing Amarinder Singh as the Chief Minister. “The entire episode has brought to fore the colossal failure of Rahul Gandhi,” Patra alleged.“Senior Congress leaders like Manish Tewari have expressed concern over the situation in the state as Punjab’s stability is important for national security,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-political-crisis-rahul-gandhis-failure-bjp-318131
30-09-2021||Rajiv Mahajan||Denied permission to sell paddy in Punjab, Himachal farmers seek local procurement centre||Nurpur, September 29Hundreds of farmers of the Mand area in Indora subdivision of Kangra district are in distress after they were declined procurement of their paddy crop at the Food Corporation of India (FCI) centres in the neighbouring Punjab. As a result, the demand for a permanent FCI procurement centre in the area has gained momentum.APMC TO MAKE EFFORTS TO REDRESS ISSUEThe APMC will try its best to set up a procurement centre in Mand before the next harvesting season after interacting with local farmers about the most suitable location.. — Raj Kumar Bhardwaj, Secy, APMCSources said paddy is produced on around 2,500 hectares in the Mand area, known for wheat, maize and paddy, besides sugarcane crop. The FCI, for the first time, had started procuring wheat at two centres in Kangra district — Thakurdwara and Fatehpur. The farmers had been selling their wheat produce at these centres until June 15 on the maximum support price (MSP). Farmers of Mand area, which borders Punjab, earlier sold their paddy crop at FCI centres in Mukerian of Hoshiarpur district. But this year, the Punjab Government had declined to procure crops of farmers of other states.Raj Kumar Bhardwaj, secretary, Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), Kangra, said a distressing situation arose after the Punjab Government declined the procurement. He said the APMC would try its best to set up a procurement centre in Mand before the next harvesting season after interacting with local farmers about the most suitable location. The Agriculture Department is constructing a grain market at Milwan in Indora subdivision, the foundation stone of which was laid earlier this year, he said.Suresh Pathania, president of the Kangra Kisan Union, has sought a permanent solution to the problem by setting up makeshift procurement centres at Fatehpur and Indora for the time being.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/denied-permission-to-sell-paddy-in-punjab-himachal-farmers-seek-local-procurement-centre-318003
30-09-2021||Abohar||Two held with weapons||Lightning kills 2 farmersAbohar: Two farmers died after lightning struck two villages during rain on Tuesday afternoon. Police station incharge Madan Lal Bishnoi said Kumbha Ram (68) of Chak 4-BKSM and Ant Ram (52) of Chak 12-BLM Bicholia village succumbed to serious burn injuries after being struck by lightning. OCTwo bodies foundAbohar: The bodies of two boys, who went missing on Sunday evening, were found in the Khunja canal, near Sriganganagar road. Nikhil Chandolia (18) and Karan (14) reportedly left their houses after telling their parents that they were going to participate in a cycle race. OCFarm worker ‘kills’ wifeAbohar: A farm worker allegedly killed his wife on Tuesday night. Ajay Kumar told the police that for the past eight days, his family had been coming from Anoopgarh to the fields owned by Krishan Sihag to pluck cotton. On Tuesday, he saw his father Bansi Lal, who suspected his wife Kanta Devi’s character, assaulting her. Kanta died on the spot. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-held-with-weapons-317961
30-09-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda DC’s residence gheraoed over teacher’s transfer||Members of the Democratic Teachers’ Front staged a protest and gheraoed the residence of the Deputy Commissioner against the transfer order of a teacher to a village in Barnala district from Government High School, Sardargarh village, Bathinda. The union members gathered outside the district administrative complex and raised slogans against the Education Department.Resham Singh, president of the union, said, “Kuldeep Singh was serving at the government high school for a long time and discharged his services diligently. The academic performance of students has also improved after he joined the school. Without investigating the matter properly, senior officials, acting on a complaint filed by the school head teacher, have acted against Kuldeep Singh and not only transferred him to a distant location but also put him under suspension now. The head teacher does not have cordial relations with residents and she is of the view that Kuldeep is close to them.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bathinda-dcs-residence-gheraoed-over-teachers-transfer-317962
30-09-2021||Fazilka||Nab culprits: Kin of mishap victim||Villagers and family members of a deceased, who was killed in a road mishap, blocked the Fazilka-Ferozepur highway near Ladhuka Mandi for the second consecutive day today over the alleged police inaction in the accident case.Sources said Manjit Singh, a resident of Dhunkian, was returning home after buying some household goods from Ladhuka Mandi. A four-wheeler, reportedly belonging to wine contractors, allegedly hit his bike resulting in his death. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/nab-culprits-kin-of-mishap-victim-317963
30-09-2021||---||Minor raped in Moga, uncle booked||Moga, September 29A 13-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her uncle at her house in Bughipura village on the outskirts of Moga city, police officials said.The victim, in a statement recorded before the investigating officer of the local police, said when she came back to her house from school, her uncle pulled her inside a room and raped her. He locked the main gate of the boundary wall from inside before pulling her inside the room.Her father, working as a driver and mother, working under MGNREGA, were not present at home when the incident took place, she told the police. The accused has been identified as Pawan Singh, who ran away from the spot after committing the crime.The police took the victim to the district hospital for medical examination, in which it was prima facie confirmed that she was raped, probably in a forceful act of sexual harassment, police officials said.The police have registered a criminal case under Section 376 of the IPC and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at the Mehna police station.Investigating officer Karamjit Kaur said the accused was yet to be arrested. “We have raided his house and other possible hideouts, but he is evading arrest. We will arrest him soon,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/minor-raped-in-moga-uncle-booked-317964
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab crisis: Why take ‘tainted’ leaders, asks Navjot Sidhu||A day after he resigned as Punjab Pradesh Congress chief, Navjot Singh Sidhu today questioned the appointment of the police chief, Advocate-General and “tainted” leaders, saying he was ready to make “any sacrifice” to uphold his principles and that his aim was to improve people’s lives and “to make a difference”.Several party leaders, including ministers Pargat Singh, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and Punjab Congress working president Pawan Goel, visited him at his residence in Patiala.In a video clip, Sidhu said: “I have no grudge against anyone. My fight has been on issues and a pro-Punjab agenda.” Apparently referring to IPS Sahota, who has been given the additional charge of DGP, he said: “Today, I see a compromise on those issues.” Sahota was the head of an SIT formed in 2015 by then SAD government to probe sacrilege incidents. On APS Deol, he said: “My soul jitters when I see those who secured blanket bails, are advocate general (sic).”—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-crisis-why-take-tainted-leaders-asks-navjot-sidhu-318053
30-09-2021||Chandigarh/Ludhiana||AAP's Punjab CM face: Arvind Kejriwal keeps the guessing game on||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said he would declare his party’s CM candidate soon. “The candidate will be a person all Punjab will be proud of,” he claimed even as AAP Punjab unit president and aspirant for the post Bhagwant Mann looked on.Also read: In Ludhiana, Arvind Kejriwal assures people better health care in case AAP forms next govt in PunjabAAP’s CM face soon, will be ‘pride’ of PunjabPunjab Congress has made a spectacle of itself. People are confused as to whom to approach with their problems. Only AAP can provide a stable and honest govt. —Arvind Kejriwal, AAP convenerMann had camped in Delhi for days earlier this month to get the high command to name his candidature. He has reportedly been sulking over the party’s reluctance to do so. Kejriwal threw a “5-point challenge” to the new Punjab CM, asking him to honour the promises made by his predecessor. “Five issues need to be addressed immediately. First and foremost, there are allegations that he (Channi) inducted ‘tainted’ ministers and appointed ‘tainted’ officers to prime posts. All of them must be removed.“Those behind the Bargari sacrilege case are yet to be punished. The CM should read Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh’s report and take action. Young boys and girls from poorer sections carrying job cards given by Captain are yet to get employment. Also, Captain had promised to waive loans of farmers. This has not been done. Lastly, the Congress says the power purchase agreements can be cancelled. The Channi government must do so.”He said a dirty fight for power was on in Punjab. “The Congress has made a spectacle of itself. Only AAP can provide a stable and honest government,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aaps-punjab-cm-face-arvind-kejriwal-keeps-the-guessing-game-on-318054
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Cabinet waives power dues  of defaulters||The Punjab Government today decided to waive pending power bills of all defaulters having load up to 2 KW, putting a burden of approximately Rs 1,200 crore on the exchequer. About 80 per cent of the power consumers in the state would be covered by the decision.The decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by CM Charanjit Singh Channi, who said consumers whose connections had been disconnected would benefit. The announcement comes days after AAP chief and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal promised 300 units of free power per month to each household in the state. Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu has been pitching for providing up to 300 units of free power and round-the-clock supply to all consumers.Let’s talk it out: CM I’ve invited him (Sidhu) to sit and talk. —Punjab Chief ministerChanni said of the total 72 lakh domestic connections in Punjab, 53 lakh had power load up to 2 KW. “About 55,000 to 1 lakh connections had been snapped. Instructions have been passed to restore all of these. A fee of Rs 1,500 for restoring connection has also been waived,” he said.The CM said a new policy to counter sand mafia was also on the anvil. The government is deliberating allowing free mining of sand by landowners to abolish the contract system. The aim is to ensure sand availability to consumers at affordable rates. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-cabinet-waives-power-dues-of-defaulters-318055
30-09-2021||---||Amid Punjab crisis, Rahul in Kerala, Priyanka in UP||New Delhi, September 29Amid the Punjab Congress crisis, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra were in Kerala and Uttar Pradesh, respectively, attending to their political constituencies.While Priyanka held one-on-meetings with Congress leaders in Lucknow to evolve an election plan, Rahul in Kozhikoze said the Congress saw India as people, whereas the RSS-BJP combine saw the country in terms of a map.“Some people view India as a map. That is the vision of the BJP. Our vision is different. We see India as its people and the relationships they forge with one another,” said Rahul. He said for the Congress, India was no map.“We carry India in our hearts. That is the difference between us and them,” said the Congress leader, at the inauguration of a recreation centre for senior citizens in Kozhikode. The Wayanad MP is in Kerala for a day.Meanwhile, Priyanka met party leaders and workers at the UP Congress headquarters and assured that the issues of home buyers would be part of the party’s election manifesto. She is on a five-day visit to the poll-bound state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-punjab-crisis-rahul-in-kerala-priyanka-in-up-318068
30-09-2021||Aditi Tandon||Punjab saga: Captain Amarinder meets Amit Shah, sets stage  for new political equations in state||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 29In a move signalling shifting power equations in poll-bound Punjab, Congress veteran and former state chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh met Home Minister Amit Shah for nearly an hour on Wednesday and discussed the ongoing farmers’ agitation, urging early resolution through repeal of farm laws.Editorial: Punjab Congress tangleAlso Read: Amid Punjab crisis, Rahul in Kerala, Priyanka in UPLet’s talk it out, Charanjit Singh Channi reaches out to Navjot Singh SidhuPunjab Congress MLAs, ministers rush to PatialaThe meeting, which bears huge political implications for Punjab’s electoral arithmetic, comes in the wake of the ongoing Punjab Congress crisis and Captain’s resignation as Chief Minister.This is the first meeting that Amarinder Singh had with Amit Shah after quitting as CM. The personal touch of today’s engagement — at Shah’s Krishna Menon residence — makes it significant and holds possibilities for the emergence of a future Captain-BJP axis in Punjab, a state where the saffron party doesn’t have a face after the SAD walked out of the NDA. Sources said any future alignment with Captain would need to stand on a solid ground with farmers’ issues emerging as an area of convergence.That explains why Capt raised farm agitation with Shah today, setting the stage for potential future resolution of a movement that has lasted over 10 months.“Met Union Home Minister, discussed the prolonged farmers’ agitation and urged HM to resolve the crisis urgently with the repeal of farm laws, guaranteed MSP besides supporting Punjab in crop diversification. No farmers, no food (sic),” Capt tweeted after the meeting.Asked if Captain could join the BJP, sources said it was too early for that and the current political logic was against a formal joining of hands, considering the farmers’ agitation. “There is no meeting ground right now,” said a source, adding that the alignment was a work in progress.The BJP would want to use Captain’s credentials in Punjab to resolve the farmers’ agitation. “If (Captain’s) suggestions are found workable, the government might revisit the farm laws which it has categorically said cannot be repealed. It remains to be seen how these issues pan out and whether Capt Amarinder can lead that resolution of the farmers’ issues, in which case the BJP would gain both in Punjab and UP. This is in the realm of possibility. Once a meeting ground emerges, a Capt-BJP axis could become possible,” a source said.For Captain, the developments are part of natural progression after the Congress, in his words, “humiliated him”. The former CM had said at the time of resigning that he was preparing for a battle and would do “whatever it takes to keep Navjot Singh Sidhu from becoming CM.”Ex-cm exposed: SADChandigarh: The SAD said the meeting only proved the two were always together. “Captain had been supporting the BJP’s game plan all these months. Now the cat is out of the bag,” spokesperson Dr Daljit S Cheema said.Who’s the boss, ask Sibal, Azad; demand CWC meet New Delhi: In the wake of several Congress leaders quitting the party and its Punjab unit getting into deeper crisis, Kapil Sibal demanded a meeting of the Congress Working Committee. “We are not ‘Jee Huzur-23’. We will continue to put forth our views and demands,” said Sibal, speaking formally on behalf of the G-23 leaders who had in 2020 written to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi for election to the post of party president, the CWC and the Central Election Committee. G-23 member Ghulam Nabi Azad also shot off a letter today to Sonia, demanding a CWC meeting and reminding her that the group was awaiting action on its past demands. Internal party polls were earlier postponed due to Covid. Sibal, meanwhile, said no one knew who was taking decisions.“In our party at the moment there is no president. So we don’t know who is making these decisions. We know and yet we don’t know,” Sibal quipped. Reacting to the Punjab Congress implosion, he said the crisis in the border state was “advantage Pakistan and ISI.”“We know the history of Punjab and the rise of extremism there. We know how forces across the border exploit the situation to create an atmosphere of uncertainty. The Congress should make sure it remains united. If someone has an issue, it should be discussed and conversation must emanate from the seniormost member of the party,” the former minister said, urging a free hand for the PCC.Sibal quoted Mahatma Gandhi to say no monopolies should be created in the power structures of a country or party and conversations should happen. “Listen to our point of view. If you don’t accept it, fine, but at least listen,” Sibal said lamenting the defections of Sushmita Dev, Luizinho Faleiro, Jitin Prasada, Jyotiraditya Scindia among many others and asking the Congress top brass to introspect.The party veteran also said those who took decisions on Punjab should be asked about what went wrong.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-saga-captain-amarinder-meets-amit-shah-sets-stage-for-new-political-equations-in-state-318074
30-09-2021||Muktsar||Out on bail, Muktsar man shot, police suspect gang rivalry||In a suspected gang war, unidentified bike-borne persons, who were wearing masks, shot a 36-year-old man and injured his brother on the Goniana road in Muktsar town this afternoon.The deceased has been identified as Sham Lal, alias Shama, a resident of the same area. He was facing five criminal cases, including one of murder. Sentenced to 20-year imprisonment, he was out on bail. Eyewitnesses said the assailants fired 40-50 bullets. They left their motorcycle on the road and fled in a car snatched from a passerby.Canada-based gangster Goldy Brar, an aide of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, is learnt to have taken responsibility for the murder through a Facebook post. Brar reportedly claimed that Shama “used to support and pass on information to rival groups”. He alleged that the bullets used in the murder of Gurlal Brar, a former student leader and member of Bishnoi gang who was killed last year in Chandigarh, were supplied by Shama.Eyewitnesses said Shama along with a friend had just returned from a police station when he was attacked. “Shama ran for shelter inside a house, but sustained multiple bullet wounds and succumbed to the injuries. The bullets also hit Shama’s brother Kuku, who is undergoing treatment,” said an eyewitness. Shama’s cousin Chamkaur Singh was shot on the same road two years ago. Senior police officers, including the SSP and the DSP, visited the spot and have started an investigation.SSP Charanjit Singh Sohal said: “There were three attackers who had come on a motorcycle. The deceased, too, had a criminal record. It appears to be a case of group rivalry. Someone has taken responsibility of the murder on social media, but we are verifying the facts. We have formed three teams to arrest the attackers, who first used a stolen motorcycle to commit the crime and later snatched a car to escape. The car was last spotted in Sangaria, Rajasthan.” — TNSWe’ve done it: Canada-based gangsterCanada-based gangster Goldy Brar, an aide of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, is learnt to have taken responsibility for the murder through a Facebook post. Brar reportedly claimed that deceased Sham Lal “used to support and pass on information to rival groups”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/out-on-bail-muktsar-man-shot-police-suspect-gang-rivalry-317965
30-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court orders CBI probe in drugs case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 29In an embarrassment for the Punjab Police, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ordered a de novo or fresh investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in a drugs case after taking into consideration the contentions of the counsel for the accused that the state agencies usually tried and protect their own officials in such matters.The direction by Justice Amol Rattan Singh came on two petitions filed against the state of Punjab and other respondents by Upashu Garg and another petitioner through counsel Ishan Gupta and Arjunveer Sharma. One of the petitioners was seeking reinvestigation by an independent agency into an FIR registered under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act on February 22, 2020, at the Sadar police station in Dhuri. Directions were also sought to direct the investigating agency to scientifically probe “the peculiar aspects and prevalent facts and circumstances of the entire case”.Referring to a photograph of three men, Gupta, during the course of hearing, submitted that an SSP in his affidavit stated that the persons in the snap were not identified by the SHO concerned as two police officials from the same police station. Gupta, however, submitted that even the rear profiles of the persons in the CCTV footage showed they were actually police officials with the petitioner in between. The time recorded was 8.35.19 pm on February 22, 2020 — the day the petitioner was apprehended. But the time of apprehending them was shown to be after 10.10 pm in the FIR.Justice Amol Rattan Singh observed the counsel for the petitioners had specifically submitted that verification of the profiles of the three persons in the photograph by an independent agency would reveal that the petitioner was with the two police officials on either side. The photograph showed the time to be 8.35.19 pm and definitely not after 10.10 pm, when a secret informer allegedly came out with information that the petitioner was selling intoxicating drugs.Justice Amol Rattan Singh asserted it would be appropriate in his opinion to order de novo investigation, adding the court may have been inclined to direct investigation by the Punjab Bureau of Investigation, but the counsel had, perhaps, correctly pointed out the state agencies were usually seen trying to protect their own officials in drug cases. Even though investigation in every single drug-related case could not be entrusted to the CBI, the case in hand was one where it should be handed over to it. “The trial court is directed to stay proceedings till the next date of hearing, with de novo investigation ordered by this court, to be conducted by the CBI,” Justice Amol Rattan Singh added.FIR filed in 2020 at DhuriThe direction by Justice Amol Rattan Singh came on two petitions filed against the state of Punjab and other respondents. One of the petitioners was seeking reinvestigation by an independent agency into an FIR registered under the provisions of the NDPS Act on February 22, 2020, at the Sadar police station in Dhuri.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-orders-cbi-probe-in-drugs-case-317966
30-09-2021||---||Thefts, robberies have Sangrur residents worried||Sangrur, September 29Thieves having a free run of Sangrur city is causing panic among locals. Some unidentified miscreants broke into four shops in the main market located in the heart of city on Saturday morning and decamped with cash. Similar incidents were reported here in the last month too, but the police are still groping in dark.There has been no end to such incidents, though the city has two police stations, round-the-clock police patrolling, traffic check posts and other police check posts, set up on the entry and exit points of the city.A shopkeeper said: “I received a call from some passer-by and was informed that the shutter of my shop was damaged. When I reached there, I found that all cash was missing from the counter.”Sangrur city SHO Gurvir Singh said, “The police have increased the time of patrolling. We have got some vital clues and are investigating the case. The accused will be arrested soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/thefts-robberies-have-sangrur-residents-worried-317967
30-09-2021||Bathinda||Bid to lease out Bathinda thermal plant guest house fails||After the closure of Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant (GNDTP) in Bathinda, it is the Lake View Guest House, situated near the thermal lakes, which is at stake. With barely any guests left, the Powercom Department’s bids to lease it out twice failed. The revenue from the guest house has decreased significantly since the plant was shut down.Built in 1970s along with the GNDTP, the guest house has been used by the department officials and even ministers of successive governments.Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant Employees’ Federation president Gursewak Singh Sandhu said: “While department officials have been claiming that they are trying to lease it out, they are actually planning to sell it off. But, we will not let it go in private player’s hands.”A senior official of the GNDTP said: “Since no private player is showing interest in the guest house, the state government will take a decision on the property.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bid-to-lease-out-bathinda-thermal-plant-guest-house-fails-317968
30-09-2021||---||Check unplanned constructions: Punjab CM to Principal Secretary||Chandigarh, September 29Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi asked the Department of Local Government to check the growth of unplanned and haphazard constructions and make efforts to provide basic amenities to the residents of the state.While reviewing the functioning of the department, Channi told AK Sinha, Principal Secretary, Local Government, to issue guidelines to the municipal councils to allow construction of houses in the urban areas as per the building plans approved by the authorities concerned.He said rampant corruption prevailing in the department at different levels must be checked, as there were complaints from the people that they were being harassed for even genuine works such as approval of building plans and permission for water and sewerage connections.He also directed the Principal Secretary to ensure that people were given amenities such as water supply, street lighting, sewerage system, roads and parks.The Chief Minister also emphasised the need to have at least 35-ft roads in colonies for hassle-free road connectivity. He said the colony plans, which had roads of 20 ft, should not be approved.Channi also told the Principal Secretary to redress the grievances of people on priority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/check-unplanned-constructions-punjab-cm-to-principal-secretary-317969
30-09-2021||---||Now, 300 can gather indoor, 500 outdoor in Punjab||Chandigarh, September 29In view of the considerable improvement in the Covid situation across the state, CM Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday ordered relaxation in  on the gatherings from 150 to 300 persons indoor and 300 to 500 outdoor. He, however, said the Covid protocol restrictions would be adhered to strictly.While reviewing the Covid situation, the Chief Minister asked the School Education Department to encourage students to attend classes by following the protocol.He also asked the Social Security, Women and Child Development Department to reopen anganwari centres while strictly following the Covid safety norms.Expressing satisfaction over the decline in positivity rate of Covid cases, the Chief Minister also asked the Health Department to ensure strict compliance to Covid safety protocol, including wearing of masks and social distancing. He also asked the Health Department to ramp up the testing capacity up to 50,000 per day as a precautionary measure in view of the coming festive season.Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Alok Shekhar said 232 cases were reported during last week with an average of 33 positive cases per day.He also apprised the Chief Minister that the Covid situation in the state was stable and 25,000 to 30,000 tests were being conducted daily with a special focus on students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/now-300-can-gather-indoor-500-outdoor-in-punjab-317970
30-09-2021||---||No clean chit to Gurmeet Ram Rahim in sacrilege cases, clarify police||Chandigarh, September 29The Punjab Police on Wednesday termed all allegations of giving a clean chit to Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim as bogus and baseless.An official spokesperson said the clarification was given in response to news reports (not in The Tribune), referring to Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, who has been given the additional charge of the Director General of Police (DGP), that he gave a clean chit to Gurmeet Ram Rahim while heading an SIT to investigate the Bargari sacrilege cases in 2015.The spokesperson said ‘angs’ of Sri Guru Granth Sahib were found scattered in Bargari village on October 12, 2015, and FIR no. 128 was registered under Sections 295 and 120B of the IPC at the Bajakhana police station. An SIT headed by Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, then Director, Bureau of Investigation, was constituted to investigate the sacrilege case.The spokesperson clarified the SIT had functioned just for 20 days (from October 14, 2015, to November 2, 2015), after which the case was transferred to the CBI.“The entire investigation was conducted by the CBI, not the SIT headed by Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota,” the spokesperson said, adding no clean chit had been given to Gurmeet Ram Rahim or any other person.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-clean-chit-to-gurmeet-ram-rahim-in-sacrilege-cases-clarify-police-317971
30-09-2021||Sameer Singh||2 years on, Mansa cotton farmers await crop loss relief||Tribune News ServiceMansa, September 29Farmers from eight villages of the district are still awaiting compensation for the crop loss suffered in a heavy hailstorm in June 2019. They have made several rounds of government offices in the past two years, but to no avail.BKU to launch agitationThe BKU (Kadian) recently submitted a memorandum of demands to the Mansa administration, seeking compensation for crop loss. If it fails to release the amount within 10 days, we will launch a stir. Jaggar Singh, BKU (Kadian) leaderThen DC had ordered a girdawari in the affected villages of Behniwal, Peron, Raipur, Birewala, Jherianwali, Tandian, Bajewala and Bhamme Kalan. Subsequently, a report was submitted to the state government, but the compensation has eluded farmers to date.Kewal Singh, a farmer from Raipur village, told The Tribune: “I had cultivated cotton over 27 acres, but heavy hailstorm and rainfall damaged my crop completely. As I did not receive compensation, I had to take loan to sow cotton for the next two seasons.”In Raipur village, cotton was sown over 3,000 acres. As per farm union leaders, more than 80 per cent of the crop was damaged.Gurjant Singh, a leader of the BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), said: “The hailstorm damaged crops in the neighbouring Bathinda district as well. A majority of farmers there received Rs 12,000 per acre in compensation. However, Mansa farmers continue to wait for relief. Why the government meted out indifferent treatment to us when the crop loss in Mansa district was more widespread?”Mansa DC Mohinder Pal said, “I have asked senior officials to examine the records. They will submit a report to me within two days. If the records corroborate with farmers’ claim of crop loss two years ago, compensation will be provided to them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-years-on-mansa-cotton-farmers-await-crop-loss-relief-317972
30-09-2021||---||Quality of cotton seed to be probed: Punjab Deputy CM||Chandigarh, September 29Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has said the state government would conduct an inquiry into the seed quality following the pink bollworm attack on the cotton crop in Malwa.“Criminal proceedings will be initiated against those found guilty. Their properties will be attached and fine will be imposed,” he said after meeting a delegation of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee here today.Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Deputy CMGuilty to face fineCriminal proceedings will be initiated against those found guilty. Their properties will be attached and fine will be imposed. Randhawa further said, “After assuming the charge, Agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha ordered that a report on the pest attack be submitted within the stipulated time frame.”“To save the cotton crop from further damage, the state government will provide farmers with free spray,” said Nabha.He also said the government had provided Rs 5 lakh each to families of farmers, who died during the ongoing agitation against the controversial agricultural laws. “The process to give jobs to one family member of the deceased farmers has been set rolling. Soon, appointment letters will be given.”The minister assured that the appointment letters would be given in a month.On the withdrawal of cases registered against farmers during the anti-farm law agitation, the Deputy Chief Minister said the government had withdrawn 60 out of 105 cases, while the remaining cases would be withdrawn soon.About the sugarcane dues, Randhawa said: “The government has made 99 per cent of payments to cooperative sugar mills. Now, only Rs 8 crore is pending.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/quality-of-cotton-seed-to-be-probed-punjab-deputy-cm-317973
30-09-2021||---||Ensure hassle-free paddy procurement: Punjab CM||Chandigarh, September 29Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday directed the Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department to ensure smooth and hassle-free procurement of paddy during the current kharif season beginning October 1.While reviewing the arrangements and preparedness for the paddy procurement season at a high-level meeting, the Chief Minister asked the Food and Civil Supplies Department, the nodal agency for the procurement operations, to ensure all necessary arrangements for smooth, prompt and seamless procurement and storage of paddy.Timely paymentThe entire paddy produce will be procured. The government will ensure timely payment to the farmers. All necessary arrangements for seamless lifting are in place. Charanjit Singh Channi, Chief MinisterReiterating his government’s firm commitment, Channi said, “The entire paddy produce will be procured. The government will ensure timely payment to the farmers. All necessary arrangements for seamless lifting are in place.”Meanwhile, Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu assured the Chief Minister that the department would leave no stone unturned in ensuring smooth procurement during the current paddy season to the satisfaction of all stakeholders.Taking part in the deliberations, Director Food and Civil Supplies Dr Abhinav Trikha informed the Chief Minister that elaborate arrangements had already been put in place to procure the expected paddy arriving in the mandis of the state.Briefing the Chief Minister, the Director (Food and Civil Supplies) said the Government of India had fixed Rs 1,960 per quintal as the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for grade ‘A’ paddy for the kharif marketing season 2021-22.Four state procurement agencies — Pungrain, Markfed, Punsup, PSWC, along with the FCI — will procure paddy on the Minimum Support Price as per the specifications laid down by the Government of India.He further said that 1,806 purchase centres notified by the Punjab Mandi Board had been allotted among the government procurement agencies.To curb the spread of Covid pandemic and avoid glut in mandis, nearly 800 rice mills/public places are being set up as temporary purchase centres for procuring paddy.The procurement policy for the kharif season has been issued after the approval of the Food and Civil Supplies Minister.The Chief Minister was also informed that gunny bales and covers (tarpaulin) for storing paddy would be arranged in a timely manner.The Food Corporation of India (FCI) makes its own arrangements of gunny bales, cash credit, stock articles and storage space.Rs 35,712-Cr credit limit issued Rs 1,960 MSP per quintal for grade ‘A’ paddy1,806 centres notified by Punjab Mandi Board||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ensure-hassle-free-paddy-procurement-punjab-cm-317974
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Vigilance Bureau chief BK Uppal goes on leave||Vigilance Bureau (VB) chief BK Uppal has proceeded on one month’s leave amid reports that he will be replaced. Uppal sent the leave application to Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today. Sources say the decision on his application and who would be given the officiating charge till a regular appointment is made will be taken tomorrow.Uppal was in the eye of the storm over ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini’s arrest fiasco. Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had even sought his removal in a tweet, causing embarrassment to the government over the arrest of the ex-DGP and subsequent court relief to him. Former DGP Dinkar Gupta had also gone on leave, facilitating an officiating DGP’s appointment. Sources say the government is studying the rules to know whether it needs approval of the Vigilance Commission for the appointment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-vigilance-bureau-chief-bk-uppal-goes-on-leave-317975
30-09-2021||Archit Watts||Punjab Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring’s first test: Reining in transport mafia||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, September 29To keep his word and act against the alleged transport mafia will be a litmus test for newly appointed Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring.A strong critic of the Badals, Warring once said in the Vidhan Sabha the state government had failed to control the transport mafia. Besides, he has publicly accused some officers of the transport department of hobnobbing with Akalis. At times, he has said the state government should issue new transport licences to allow small players enter the arena and create competition.“Now, Warring is given the charge of the department which he always desired. It’s time to act against the transport mafia and set things right. The transport department is running into losses, which has further increased after the state government started free travel for women in state-owned buses,” said a senior Congress leader of Malwa.Meanwhile, a senior official in the Transport Department said after the abolition of the post of district transport officer (DTO), people were a harried lot. “The new minister should once visit any SDM office to know the ground realities. He will then definitely usher in some changes. The corruption has increased manifold,” he said. “There was a need to bring in transparency in the functioning of the transport depots and set the time table of government buses as well,” he added.Wants bus stands encroachment-freeChandigarh: Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Wednesday asked officials of the department to ensure all bus stands across the state were encroachment-free within two days. Chairing his maiden meeting here, the minister said encroachments at the bus stands were not only causing inconvenience to the masses but also leading to a huge loss to the exchequer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-transport-minister-amrinder-singh-raja-warrings-first-test-reining-in-transport-mafia-317976
30-09-2021||Mohali||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal courts arrest over land relief||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal and other party leaders today courted arrest here after they were stopped from marching to the Chief Minister’s residence in Chandigarh to protest the low compensation given to farmers whose land has been acquired for the Bharatmala project.Will compensate adequately: GovtThe government is with the farmers. They will be adequately compensated for the land acquired under the Bharatmala project and all their grievances will be resolved. Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Deputy Chief MinisterEarlier, thousands of SAD workers congregated at Gurdwara Amb Sahib here from where they started the march to the Chief Minister’s residence on tractors as well as on foot. The march was stopped near the border with Chandigarh, where SAD workers along with leaders of the Road Sangharsh Committee, which is spearheading the agitation for fair compensation, held a dharna before courting arrest. Sukhbir alleged the Congress government was giving affected farmers compensation ranging from Rs 30 lakh to Rs 70 lakh per acre for rural and urban land, respectively, when they should be getting at least Rs 2 crore per acre.Around 25,000 acres of two lakh farmers is being acquired across 19 districts of the state. Sukhbir claimed the acquisition would render 75,000 acres useless with no access and irrigation facilities and more than 3,000 houses would be demolished and villages would lose 100 village ponds. He further claimed one crore trees would be felled under the project and hundreds of factories, shellers, poultry farms, brick kilns and dairy farms would be hit. He promised farmers a fair compensation if the SAD came to power. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-chief-sukhbir-singh-badal-courts-arrest-over-land-relief-317977
30-09-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Tussle at top has Congress Doaba leadership in flux||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 29The ongoing tussle at the top after the resignation of PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has led to tussle and confusion among Congress leaders of Doaba. Since two new ministers from the region are involved in the ongoing tussle — Pargat Singh as a part of the coordination panel to resolve issues with Sidhu, and Rana Gurjeet Singh, whose ouster from the Cabinet has been demanded — it has created a sort of division among MLAs. Both the leaders have so far not been able to return to Doaba since their oath-taking on Sunday.Showing their direct opposition to the induction of Rana Gurjeet, seven leaders of Doaba, including ex-president of PCC Mohinder Singh Kaypee and MLAs Navtej Singh Cheema from Sultanpur Lodhi, Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal from Phagwara, Bawa Henry from Jalandhar North, Dr Raj Kumar from Chabbewal, Pawan Adia from Sham Churasi and Sukhpal Singh Khaira from Bholath, had already written to the state leadership.To thwart their campaign on the day of oath-taking, Rana, too, is learnt to have got a counter-signature campaign done wherein 22 MLAs are learnt to have signed in his favour. Despite having clearly taken sides with Sidhu in his recent tussle with ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh, the Nawanshahr MLA is now in favour of Rana Gurjeet and sort of differs with Sidhu on opposing his re-entry into the Cabinet. “I personally feel that no one is guilty until proven. I think it is wrong to target Rana. Moreover, I feel this is the time when we all 117 leaders need to work in one direction collectively. If we remain divided like this, we may fall behind to 58 or 59 seats, which will ultimately lead us nowhere”, he said.Spotlight on two ministersTwo new ministers from the region are involved in the ongoing tussle — Pargat Singh as a part of the coordination panel to resolve issues with Sidhu, and Rana Gurjeet Singh, whose inclusion in the Cabinet has been opposed by many.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/tussle-at-top-has-congress-doaba-leadership-in-flux-317978
30-09-2021||GS Paul||Party’s image, workers’ morale hit: Congress leaders||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 29Congress leaders believe Navjot Singh Sidhu’s sudden move of stepping down as Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president would adversely impact the party’s image and morale of party workers in the state.Even as Sidhu, in a video message, has tried to justify his move, MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla is of the view that all differences should be resolved across the table, instead of making it public and giving an opportunity to the Opposition to strike back.Why interfere?His interference in Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s daily affairs led to commotion in the state unit. The allegations over Capt-Badal alliance were frivolous. Darbari Lal, Cong leader“Sidhu’s decision to resign and make it public is unexpected and hasty. He should have raised the issues at the party platform. I think the issues could have been resolved amicably if he had taken into confidence certain colleagues with whom he was comfortable. Now when the damage to party’s image has been done, MLAs have been frequenting his place and persuading him to reconsider the decision,” he said.Hasty, unexpectedSidhu’s decision to resign and make it public is unexpected and hasty. Since he heads the state unit, he should have raised his issues at the party platform. Gurjeet Singh Aujla, MPFormer Vidhan Sabha Deputy Speaker and three-time Congress MLA Prof Darbari Lal said: “Sidhu’s political aspersions have led the high command to dislodge undisputed leader like Capt Amarinder Singh unceremoniously. Sidhu should have realised that the PCC president’s task is to organise party’s structure whereas the chief minister has constitutional rights to run the government and make appointments. The sand and drug mafias with political connivance or Bargari sacrilege incidents were a matter of investigation and the government has constituted special investigation teams for the same”.Amritsar rural party president Bhagwantpal Singh Sachar said attempts were being made to settle the issues at the state-level amicably. “Resignation is no solution, rather it will further dent the morale of the workers and the party’s image. He could have raised his point of view with the senior party leaders before making any move,” he said.Echoing identical views, party’s district urban president Jatinder Sonia and councillor Rajesh Madan said, “We cannot afford to lose him. Things will be sorted out soon.”Can’t lose him||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/partys-image-workers-morale-hit-congress-leaders-317979
30-09-2021||Aman Sood||Punjab Congress MLAs, ministers rush to Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 29Almost a week after PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu set the stage for party stalwart Capt Amarinder Singh’s replacement, he is “adamant to quit”.Though party insiders say he may be replaced if he doesn’t budge by Thursday, Sidhu is “sure not to work in the present set of things”. During more than 24 hours of his self-imposed exile at his ancestral home in Yadavindra Colony here, Sidhu has met almost over 15 MLAs and many Cabinet ministers, but has cold-shouldered everyone when it came to a “rethink on his resignation chant”. “Where have our promises gone? I will continue to fight against the wrong. Even if alone, I will not budge and will continue to fight for what is right for the people of Punjab,” he said.With Capt Amarinder Singh meeting Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi, Congress insiders say Sidhu is short of time for a compromise formula. “From the CM to many senior party leaders, including his close aide Pargat Singh, all have tried their best, but Sidhu is non-committal about a rethink on his resignation,” said a senior Congress leader.Sources say Sidhu has made it clear to all party leaders that there is no way he is going to backtrack from the promises he made to the people of Punjab, including a “clean” government.“He is not going to backtrack on the issues raised by him and stands by his resignation. Those coming to meet him can continue with the government, but he won’t compromise on his stand,” he is learnt to have told the leaders who visited him today.An MLA who spent over two hours with Sidhu told The Tribune that Sidhu would not take back his resignation with the “given set of ministers and officers appointed in the past two days”. “He clearly told us that if no one is willing to stand by him, he will continue to move ahead and fight till his vision of Punjab is fulfilled,” the MLA said. Another Congress leader who met him said: “Sidhu felt sidelined over recent appointments in the government.”While Ghanaur MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur, who was seen cosying up with Sidhu when he was appointed the PCC chief, stayed away and so did majority of the leaders from Patiala. Those who visited him today were PCC working chief Pawan Goel, Congress MLAs Fatehjang Bajwa, Inderbir Bolaria, Nathu Ram and Surjit Dhiman. Many other party workers and PCC members also met him. “We hope the crisis is resolved soon with the intervention of the party high command,” Goel said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-mlas-ministers-rush-to-patiala-317980
30-09-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Navjot Sidhu ‘irked’ over Punjab CM consulting Finance Minister||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, September 29The choice for the Director General of Police (DGP) and the Advocate General (A-G) was not the only sticking point that irked Congress leader Navjot Sidhu, who resigned as the state Congress president yesterday.Sidhu was reportedly annoyed with CM Charanjit Singh Channi, for cosying up to Finance Minister Manpreet Badal and seeking his advice on important matters after taking charge of the state.In the last nine days, Manpreet and Channi have had several meetings at the Finance Minister’s residence in Chandigarh. Manpreet has posted pictures of the meetings on the social media. In one of the meetings, Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa was also present.On Tuesday night, when party leaders were heading to meet Sidhu at his Patiala residence after he resigned from the post of the state Congress chief, Manpreet posted photos of Channi holding late-night discussions with him in Chandigarh. Sidhu was expecting Channi to take his advice on matters concerning the state, but Channi instead turned to Manpreet.Channi, along with Randhawa and other ministers, had reportedly backed Sidhu for the PCC president’s post and spearheaded the campaign against then CM Capt Amarinder Singh. Once Capt Amarinder resigned, several lobbies within the Congress started staking their claim.For the post of the new CM, Sunil Jakhar, Randhawa and Sidhu opposed each other. Later, Channi emerged as a consensus choice. However, after the change of guard, a regrouping took place within the Congress with Manpreet emerging stronger in the power corridors. Channi held meetings with him and sought advice on important matters, leaving Sidhu high and dry.Manpreet, who remained tight-lipped over the tussle between the Sidhu group and Capt Amarinder, suddenly got into the limelight with Channi taking over as the CM.Sidhu found himself on the back foot as Channi ignored his advice on the crucial appointments of the DGP and the A-G, and instead appointed Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota as the DGP and APS Deol as the A-G. Both have been under the cloud over sacrilege cases.After visiting the Governor to stake claim as the next CM, Channi first visited Manpreet, his next-door neighbour in Chandigarh, on September 19. Sources claim Manpreet had a role to play in the last-minute change in the choice for the CM. Manpreet had apparently suggested Channi’s name, for he is a Dalit face.Manpreet Badal emerges stronger||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/navjot-sidhu-irked-over-punjab-cm-consulting-finance-minister-317981
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress crisis: AICC observers in Chandigarh, assess ground support||As the stalemate between the Congress high command and Navjot Singh Sidhu continues, PCC leaders are weighing options in the event of the party not giving much leeway to the cricketer-turned-politician.The government is in no mood to replace the Advocate-General, DGP and tainted ministers, as sought by Sidhu.Party observers Harish Rawat and Harish Chaudhary, who were in Chandigarh on Wednesday, are taking feedback from MLAs on the issues raised by Sidhu.It is learnt that the leadership is assessing the ground support of MLAs to Sidhu. Hoping that the party could gain political ground after making Channi as the first Dalit CM in Punjab, most MLAs are supporting the party high command. The government plans to address pro-people issues such as waiving electricity dues, ending illegal mining and controlling transport mafia to hijack the agenda from Sidhu.Going by the developments till late in the evening, party leaders are keenly watching Capt Amarinder Singh’s next move and decide future of Sidhu accordingly. In the event of Sidhu’s resignation getting accepted, search for the new face has to be made. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-crisis-aicc-observers-in-chandigarh-assess-ground-support-317982
30-09-2021||---||Let’s talk it out, Charanjit Singh Channi reaches out to Navjot Singh Sidhu||Chandigarh, September 29Amid the ongoing political crisis in the state unit of the Congress, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday reached out to Navjot Singh Sidhu in a bid to resolve issues through talks following the former cricketer’s resignation from the post of the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president.In the backdrop of efforts to mollify Sidhu, the party high command rushed AICC Punjab affairs incharge Harish Rawat and observer Harish Chaudhary to Chandigarh to keep a watch on the developments in the state unit. Chaudhary is learnt to have interacted with some MLAs and party leaders. Channi had yesterday sent ministers Pargat Singh and Amrinder Singh Raja Warring to meet Sidhu.Talking to reporters on the sidelines of a Cabinet meeting, Channi said, “The party is supreme and the government follows the party’s ideology. I have spoken to Sidhu over the telephone today. I told him he should come, sit and talk.”“The (state) president is the head of the party. The head has to sit among the family,” he said, adding that Sidhu had agreed to meet him.Sidhu had abruptly resigned, plunging the Congress into a fresh crisis. Sidhu had questioned the appointments of the Director General of Police, the state’s Advocate General and “tainted” leaders. Channi, however, defended the appointments, saying he had acted on the basis of feedback from the party members.On being asked about Sidhu’s response to his offer to talk, the CM said Sidhu told him he would give the time for the meeting. “We will sit with him and talk. I have no objection or any ego in anything,” he said.Giving credence to the efforts to mollify Sidhu, the three working presidents of the Pradesh Congress Committee — Kuljit Nagra, Pawan Goel and Sukhwinder Danny — issued a statement appreciating Sidhu and Channi for the announcement of waiving pending electricity bills of consumers having load of up to 2 KW.Haven’t quit: A-G||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/lets-talk-it-out-charanjit-singh-channi-reaches-out-to-navjot-singh-sidhu-317939
30-09-2021||Aditi Tandon||Punjab saga: Capt Amarinder meets Amit Shah in Delhi, sets stage for new poll equations||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 29In a move that signals shifting power equations in poll-bound Punjab, Congress veteran and former state chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh met Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday evening at the latter's residence to discuss the prevailing security scenario in the border state and the ongoing farmers’ agitation.The meeting, which lasted for nearly an hour and bears huge political implications for Punjab, comes in the wake of an ongoing Punjab Congress crisis and Singh’s recent resignation as state chief minister.After the meeting, Singh tweeted "met Union Home Minister Amit Shah ji in Delhi. Discussed the prolonged farmers' agitation against #FarmLaws & urged him to resolve the crisis urgently with the repeal of the laws & guarantee MSP, besides supporting Punjab in crop diversification. #NoFarmersNoFood."Met Union Home Minister @AmitShah ji in Delhi. Discussed the prolonged farmers agitation against #FarmLaws & urged him to resolve the crisis urgently with repeal of the laws & guarantee MSP, besides supporting Punjab in crop diversification. #NoFarmersNoFood  Capt Amarinder Singh left the Shah residence from the rear gate to avoid media queries after the meeting got over.This is the first meeting Amarinder held with Shah after exiting Punjab CMO. The personal touch of the meeting makes it important and reveals possibilities of Capt’s future entry into the BJP, which does not have a face in Punjab.Equally important is the timing of the meeting, scheduled a day after Shah met BJP in-charge of Punjab Tarun Chugh.Amarinder Singh, who was unceremoniously forced out of the Punjab CM’s position to pander to state Congress chief Navjot Sidhu’s ambitions, had said at the time of resigning that he was readying for a battle and would do “whatever it takes to keep Sidhu from becoming CM”.Capt’s clarion call against Sidhu implied that all his future options were open.Sources privy to the Capt-Shah meeting said the ground for the engagement had been laid in advance and the two leaders could well discuss a possible meeting ground for a future political alignment.A major issue of convergence for the two sides is Capt’s nationalistic credentials which Prime Minister Narendra Modi has publicly praised more than once and the ongoing farmers’ agitation where Capt Amarinder can play a role.The discussions between the leaders also veered around Punjab’s security given the crisis in the state government, with Sidhu resigning followed by another minister Razia Sultana putting in her papers.The BJP today already questioned the Punjab Congress crisis saying it was causing instability in a sensitive border state, a stand Capt has taken for long terming Sidhu “dangerous and unstable”, and questioning his links with Pakistan PM Imran Khan.Sources said if Capt and Shah agreed on the terms of engagement, especially in respect of the farm agitation, the former Punjab CM could meet PM Modi soon, clearing the path for his formal entry into the BJP.The BJP had yesterday said the meeting with Capt was not ruled out.Sources close to Capt Amarinder today said all options were open, as the former CM had said when he resigned recently.If Capt Amarinder enters BJP, the entire electoral landscape of Punjab would change with the BJP suddenly finding a face and ground.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-saga-capt-amarinder-meets-amit-shah-in-delhi-sets-stage-for-new-poll-equations-317902
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress crisis: CM Channi reaches out to Navjot Singh Sidhu, offers to talk it out||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday reached out to a miffed Navjot Singh Sidhu and offered to resolve issues through talks, a day after the former cricketer resigned as the Punjab Congress chief.Channi also said the party is supreme and the government follows the party’s ideology.Read also“I have spoken to Sidhu sahab over the telephone today. Party is supreme and the government accepts the party’s ideology and follows that. (I told him that) you should come, sit and talk,” he told reporters on the sidelines of a cabinet meeting.“The (state) president is the head of the party. The head has to sit among the family,” he said, adding that Sidhu had agreed to meet.Sidhu, who had abruptly put in his papers plunging the Congress into a fresh crisis, on Wednesday broke his silence, questioning the appointments of the director-general of police, state’s advocate general and “tainted” leaders.Channi, however, defended the appointments, saying he had acted on the basis of feedback from the party members.“I have no objection or any ego in anything,” he said, indicating that he was ready to review the decisions.Asked what was Sidhu’s response to his offer to talk it out, Channi said that Sidhu told him that he would give the time for the meeting.“We will sit with him and talk,” he said.To a question, Channi said Minister Pargat Singh and some other leaders went to meet Sidhu.Asked if Sidhu had done the right thing, Channi said he could not comment on it.“I will never deviate from the issues of the people of Punjab,” he asserted.He said, “Whatever feedback we got from colleagues and others and whosoever can be appointed, we appointed. But the decisions will be taken according to the will of the people of Punjab.” PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-congress-crisis-cm-channi-reaches-out-to-navjot-singh-sidhu-offers-to-talk-it-out-317896
30-09-2021||Aditi Tandon||‘No elected Cong chief, don’t know who is taking decisions’: Sibal seeks CWC meeting amid Punjab crisis||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 29As the Congress implodes in Punjab and exodus of leaders continues, party veteran Kapil Sibal weighed in on what he described as a “heartbreaking” situation and called for a meeting of the working committee for threadbare decisions on the goings-on.Noting that the crises in Punjab Congress was advantageous to ISI, Sibal, speaking for all his G23 colleagues on Wednesday, said he didn’t know who was taking decisions as there was no elected party president.Read alsoThe former minister called for an internal dialogue on sliding Congress image and prospects saying G23 was for strengthening the Congress and would never leave the party ideology.“In our party at the moment there is no president.So we don’t know who’s taking decisions. We know yet we don’t know. A senior colleague has asked for the CWC to be convened so that what we can’t speak publicly we can have a dialogue as to why we are in this state,” said Sibal in the first formal interaction by any leader of the G23 that has asked for internal elections in August 2020.Sibal cited Mahatma Gandhi to say there should not be any monopolies in party structures and conversations should be encouraged.“We are not those who will leave the ideology of the party and go elsewhere. It is ironic that closest of their aides have left and those they thought were not theirs are still with the party and are seeking to strengthen it,” the veteran said, noting with “heart break” a continuing stream of defections from the party and asking the Congress to introspect why people are leaving.“I am speaking on the behalf of like-minded Congress men who wrote a letter last year and are awaiting actions by the leadership in respect of election to the post of president, the CWC and the central election committee.I stand here today with a very heavy heart. I belong to a party with a historic legacy, a party that has through its efforts won us freedom, a party whose leadership in the past we could be proud of. And I can’t see my party in the situation it is today,” lamented Sibal.He said it “breaks his heart” to see the Congress in its present state when the country is facing serious challenges which only the Congress can battle.Citing the reported Chinese infiltration in Uttarakhand,the Afghanistan situation which presents a great danger to JK, the “squandered” PM visit to the US, poverty, and unemployment, Sibal said, “And in that state for the Congress to be in this state saddens me. We are the ones that have to fight together against the government which has no legitimacy to function even for a day but what’s happening?”“People are leaving us,” rued Sibal mentioning the recent exits of Sushmita Dev, VM Sudheeran, Jitin Prasada, Jyotiraditya Scindia, late president Pranab Mukherjee’s son Abhijit and Lalitesh Tripathi in UP.The Congress leader said while the defectors could be criticised for leaving, “Congress must introspect why they left, whether there was some fault on our part.”He urged everyone in the Congress to think of how to take the party forward and strengthen it and appealed to those who have left to come back. “Congress alone can save this republic because the present dispensation is destroying the very foundations of the republic. For this to happen we need an open dialogue, conversations, we need to understand each other’s point of view,” Sibal said.On Punjab, the veteran lamented that a border state where this (the current crisis after PCC chief Navjot Sidhu’s resignation) is happening to the Congress is advantage Pakistan’s ISI.“We know the history of Punjab and the rise of extremism there. We know how forces across the border create instability. Congress should make sure they remain united. If someone has an issue it should be discussed and the conversation must take place from the seniormost member of the party. That will take place if there is an elected president, an elected CWC, if the structure is strengthened bottom up,” the leader noted.He quoted Mahatma Gandhi to call for conversations on the way forward and said “We are all liable to err…In a vast country like this there should be room for all schools of thought. No monopolies should be created in power structures of the country or a party,” Sibal said in some plain speaking to Congress, which is rapidly losing ground in Punjab, one of the only three states where it’s in power on its own.He said the G23 was not against any individual (Rahul Gandhi) and only wanted to strengthen the party.“Listen to our point of view. If you don’t accept it, that’s fine but at least listen. We respect your point of view. Allow us a dialogue,” Sibal urged Sonia Gandhi, at a time when Rahul Gandhi, currently calling the shots, has taken a position that “those who wish to leave the Congress and fear the BJP can leave”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-elected-cong-chief-dont-know-who-is-taking-decisions-sibal-seeks-cwc-meeting-amid-punjab-crisis-317892
30-09-2021||Ruchika M Khanna & Nitin Jain  ||Arvind Kejriwal begins Punjab visit, gives Channi 5-point agenda to act||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh/Ludhiana, September 29Embarking on a two-day visit to Punjab amidst deepening crisis in the ruling Congress, AAP supremo and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal here on Wednesday listed out a five-point agenda for his new Punjab counterpart, Charanjit Singh Channi, and asked him to fulfill all the pending promises made by his predecessor, Capt Amarinder Singh.Congratulating Channi and spelling out the five-point agenda for him, Kejriwal said the tainted ministers and officers recently appointed on key posts should immediately be sacked and booked, all those accused and masterminds in the Bargari sacrilege incident be arrested within 24 hours, the unemployed should be provided jobs and till the employment is given, unemployment allowance be given to all unemployed youth, all farm loans should be immediately waived, and the controversial power purchase agreements made by the previous SAD-BJP government in the state should be cancelled."If Channi is serious about public welfare and has the will to serve them, he should take at least these five decisions in his four-month stint," asserted Kejriwal, while adding that he had made electricity cheaper, offered water free, and wiped out corruption in his maiden 49-day stint as Delhi CM.Later, interacting with the media at Mohali airport, Kejriwal reiterated that AAP could provide a effective alternative to Congress. “There is a dirty fight going on for power. The people of Punjab don’t understand to whom they should take their problems to, as the Congress has made a spectacle. Now, only the Aam Aadmi Party can give Punjab a stable, good and honest government. Only four months have left until the elections, after that the AAP will give a stable and honest government to the people of Punjab,” he said.in Ludhiana, evading a direct reply to the AAP's Punjab CM face, the party supremo said a person of whom the state would be proud of would be made the CM candidate.Without taking any media queries, Kejriwal said he would interact with the journalists in detail on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/arvind-kejriwal-begins-punjab-visit-gives-channi-5-point-agenda-to-act-317873
30-09-2021||---||Punjab to waive pending electricity bills of defaulters having connections up to 2 KW||Chandigarh, September 29The Punjab cabinet on Wednesday decided to waive pending electricity bills of all defaulters having connection up to 2 KW.This will cover 80 per cent electricity consumers in Punjab. Such consumers whose connections have been disconnected would benefit from it.This will put approximately Rs 1,200 crore burden on the state exchequer and will benefit consumers in rural and urban areas. Committees at tehsil level will be formed to handle such cases and verify the beneficiaries. The policy will apply only to the previous electricity bills that are pending.This was announced by Chief Minister Charanjit Channi at a press conference.The CM also announced a mechanism to end sand mafia saying they would soon bring a new policy on mining.On Navjot Sidhu, Channi said he had talked to him. “I have invited him to talk so that we can resolve the issue.”The CM said that as sought by the party high command, the government is appointing a dedicated team of public prosecutors and lawyers to handle cases like sacrilege.Channi said, “I will focus on all important Punjab issues and address them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-to-waive-pending-electricity-bills-of-defaulters-having-connections-up-to-2-kw-317850
30-09-2021||---||Ready to make any sacrifice but will stick to principles, says Navjot Sidhu||Chandigarh, September 29Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday said he was ready to make any sacrifice but would stick to principles.He said his fight is based on pro-people issues and justice and he had no personal agenda.Also read: Navjot Singh Sidhu’s ‘meeting’ with Bhagwant Mann creates a buzzIn a video posted on Twitter, Sidhu, who resigned as Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief on Tuesday, said he had joined politics 17 years ago to make the lives of people of the state better and could not compromise on certain things.हक़-सच की लड़ाई आखिरी दम तक लड़ता रहूंगा … pic.twitter.com/LWnBF8JQxu  He said his fight is for Punjab and he did not hanker after any posts.Sidhu said he would neither misguide the party high command nor would he allow anyone do so.Will not backtrack on issues raised as he stands by his resignation, Navjot Sidhu tells party leadersThe video is being seen as an effort to clear air on the reasons being attributed to his resignation.The Amritsar MLA said he did not believe in bringing back the tainted people and would fight this to the end.Also read: Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi defends choice of Cabinet, top law officer APS DeolIn the video, Sidhu hit out at the Charanjit Channi government over the appointment of Advocate General and re-inducting ministers facing allegations of taint.He said those very officers and the system that was responsible for all the misery in Punjab were back. “Where have our promises gone, but I will continue to fight against the wrong,” he added.Sidhu gave an indication of his future political course, though he did not clearly spell out his options.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ready-to-make-any-sacrifice-but-will-stick-to-principles-says-navjot-sidhu-317822
