01-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal government open to suburban train talks||The Mamata Banerjee government wrote to Eastern Railway on Saturday to initiate talks on running a few pairs of suburban trains for people in the wake of a row erupting between commuters and the Railway Protection Force (RPF) at Howrah station on Saturday evening. Over a 100 commuters gathered at Howrah station on Saturday evening demanding they be allowed to board a special train operating between Howrah and Burdwan for railway staff. Commuters were stopped by RPF personnel, leading to a scuffle. A similar scuffle had taken place on Friday too. The local train service in Bengal stopped in the wake of the Covid-19-induced lockdown, leaving lakhs of daily passengers, mostly job-holders, in the lurch. State government sources said the railways operated 20 to 22 trains from Howrah and Sealdah daily but the masses were not allowed to board those. While blaming the railways for “using force” to disperse people wanting to board the special train on Saturday, the state government urged Eastern Railway to hold talks on ways to run a few trains in mornings and afternoons. “Indeed, rather than taking resort to unquiet means, we could sit and discuss how a few pairs of trains could be run locally in the morning and in the afternoon hours to serve the general commuters at large,” reads the letter signed by state home secretary H.K. Dwivedi to Eastern Railway general manager Suneet Sharma. Spokesperson for Eastern Railway Nikhil Chakrabarty said: “We will respond to the state government’s letter.” Railway sources said they had written two letters earlier urging the Bengal government for talks on running trains  for the masses, but got no reply. Recently, some BJP leaders on Twitter have accused chief minister Mamata Banerjee of hindering the resumption of the local train service.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-326
01-11-2020||West Bengal||Fresh drop in Covid active cases in Bengal||For the fifth consecutive day after Durga Puja, Bengal on Saturday logged a drop in total active Covid-19 cases, reporting 3,993 new infections and 4,049 recoveries in 24 hours, giving the last day of October a silver lining. Overall, in October, the state logged over 1.16 lakh cases and 1.04 lakh recoveries. Between October 1 and 22, there were over 80,000 new cases and 69,000-odd recoveries. Between October 23 and Saturday, however, the gap narrowed with 36,000-odd cases and 35,000-odd recoveries. Fifty-seven Covid-19 deaths were also reported on Saturday, including 16 each from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. The total of novel coronavirus cases in Bengal went past 3.73 lakh. But it includes nearly 3.3 lakh recoveries and 6,841 deaths. Saturday also reset the record for daily recoveries for the 12th consecutive day. The recovery rate rose to 88.3 on Saturday. The national rate is 91.45 per cent. “In these five days after Puja, there have been 19,851 recoveries, over 19,842 new cases. The total of active cases has dropped from 37,190 to 36,886,” said a minister. “Most importantly, prior to this, we were still largely detecting infections from the pre-Durga Puja days. Now, we are in the main festival days. For someone who got infected on Mahasashthi, Saturday was Day 10 for them,” he added, explaining that the impact of Puja days would be palpable in the Covid-19 numbers over the next few days, starting now. It is between days six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected. If the trend continues, it would mean the Calcutta High Court’s curbs to prevent crowded pandals were effective. Of the total 6,841 deaths reported, the state government attributed 5,751, or 84.1 per cent, to comorbidities. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.83 now, still behind the national rate of 1.49 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-326
01-11-2020||West Bengal||Tea health staff to be on Covid vaccine list in Alipurduar||District health officials in Alipurduar district have decided to include the names of doctors and all others associated with healthcare in tea estates of the district on the list of the frontline beneficiaries of Covid vaccine. The move follows an instruction from the state government to prepare such lists in each district where it has been decided that people associated with healthcare would be the first to be provided with the vaccine in due course as they are frontline workers. Girish Chandra Bera, the chief medical officer of health of Alipurduar, said that along with doctors and other health staff posted in government hospitals and private nursing homes of the district, they have also decided to include those who are working at the hospitals and health centres at the tea gardens. “The infrastructure is limited in these hospitals and dispensaries and yet they (the healthcare personnel) have been consistently working during this pandemic for the tea population. In fact, it is because of these people that the spread of the pandemic has been successfully controlled in the tea gardens. They deserve to be in the first list of beneficiaries. We will soon send the list to Calcutta,” he said. In Alipurduar, there are 60 tea gardens out of which seven are lying closed. Tea trade union leaders have also lauded the decision made by the health department. “In most tea gardens, the health facility that the tea companies are supposed to provide to the workers and their families are in a shambles now. We have time and again raised questions on the issue. But despite such odds, there are a number of doctors, nurses and paramedics who have put their best efforts to help Covid-19 patients and others for months now. It is good that the health department has made this decision (to include them on the first list of those eligible for the vaccine),” said a senior trade union leader in Birpara.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-326
01-11-2020||West Bengal||Two held with gold worth over Rs 2 crore in Siliguri||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized gold bars worth over Rs 2 crore from a car at Fulbari here on Friday. DRI sources said they had information that gold would be smuggled through the Siliguri corridor from the northeast. Accordingly, they intercepted a car — heading to Uttar Pradesh from northeast — at Fulbari in Siliguri. Two persons, both residents of Thoubal district in Manipur, have been arrested in this connection. They have been identified as Buyamyum Jahangir and Shahidur Rahman. “The arrested duo were taken to the DRI office in Siliguri where the vehicle was searched. In total, 30 pieces of gold bars, weighing around five kilos, was recovered from a specially built cabinet and also from the rear and front doors of the car,” said a source. “The gold was smuggled into Manipur through the India-Myanmar border. Jahangir and Rahman collected the consignment and were to deliver it in Uttar Pradesh,” the source added. The estimated cost of the seized gold is around Rs 2.60 crore, sources said. On Saturday, Jahangir and Rahman were produced at the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court here and have been sent to judicial custody for 14 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-326
01-11-2020||West Bengal||Myanmar seaman feared drowned at East Midnapore’s Haldia port||The second officer of a private cargo vessel from Panama carrying iron ore went missing after he slipped off a draft ladder and fell into the water at East Midnapore’s Haldia port complex on Friday. Sources said Myanmar national Sang Oo, 34, of carrier MV Magic Striker was last seen around Friday 10.40pm. “Crew members reported he was wearing a life jacket and flailing in the water to prevent himself from drowning. Search parties have been at work since Friday night but we have had no luck so far,” said a port official, adding that water depth at the site was roughly 10 metres. Sources said that Oo, the second officer of the vessel, was also heard crying for help. The captain, chief officer and others cried to rescue him but failed. Haldia dock complex general manager (administration) Pravin Kumar Das said coast guards’ efforts to rescue Oo were underway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-326
01-11-2020||West Bengal||Halloween fever hits North Dinajpur town||Ghouls hitting the streets of Raiganj on Friday night — many on motorcycles, many with guitars slung on their shoulders — may have caused many jaws to drop. Halloween celebrations are not exactly common in this small town. But this year, a group of youths decided they would dress up as ghouls and zombies to entertain people “stressed out amid the Covid situation”. The youths went around some prominent locations of the town like Raiganj railway station area, the local bus stand and NS Road. They played the guitar, sang and distributed chocolates among people. Mahua Ghosh, a member of the “ghouls,” said they had planned the celebration to help people de-stress. “Everybody is stressed these days due to the pandemic. So we thought of giving them some entertainment. I’d say people enjoyed the ambience with us,” said Mahua. Not at first, though. Some residents, not used to youths in scary masks and face paint, initially called up the Raiganj police station. The policemen reached the spot but they too were entertained by the group. “We were really surprised to see a group of people wandering in the streets of the town. They had their faces covered with masks and they made strange gestures. Some of them were even playing guitars and singing. Soon we realised that it was pure fun as they approached us and offered us chocolates,” said Arijit Ghosh, a trader residing in Ukilpara of the town, who was returning home with his family late night after attending an invitation. Ghosh said he had heard about Halloween. “I knew it is celebrated abroad, especially the United States. But it is rare to see something  like this here in Raiganj. It was a nice experience and gave us some entertainment amid the stress of the pandemic,” he added. Papu Mondal, who owns a garments shop at School Road, confessed to being startled when offered chocolates by “strangely dressed youths”. “Initially, I got scared but then I realised by mistake. It was nice hearing them humming with guitars. They also gave me some chocolates,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-326
01-11-2020||West Bengal||Elephant touches live wire, dies in Jalpaiguri ||An adult makna or male wild elephant without tusks died of electrocution at Kherkata village under Nagrakata block of Jalpaiguri district on Friday night. Foresters visited the spot and filed a complaint with the police, based on which a person who allegedly laid live wire around his betel nut plantation was arrested. On Saturday morning, villagers spotted the elephant’s carcass on the plantation and informed officials of the state forest department. Soon, foresters from Kherkata Forest Beat and Khunia Forest Range and a police team from Nagrakata reached the village. “We examined the carcass and found that a resident of the village had laid illegal live-wire fences around his house and a betel nut plantation. That is why the elephant died. The police have arrested Mafizul Haque, the house owner, and we will take appropriate legal steps against him,” said Rajkumar Layak, the range officer of Khunia. In past three months, this is the second incident of elephant death due to electrocution in Nagrakata block. Foresters came to know that in Kherkata, located on the banks of Diana river and close to Kherkata forest, most of the villagers are farmers. “Incidents of elephant depredation have been reported earlier from the village. There are reports that some villagers put up illegal power fences to deter elephants from entering the area. We will soon conduct an awareness drive,” Layak said. V.K. Yadav, the principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) of the state, said they plan to revive the awareness campaign to deter people from using illegal power fences which can prove fatal for elephants. “We will campaign in villages located on the fringes of wild animal habitats and in tea gardens,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-326
01-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid surge in Bengal blamed on festive shopping ||The data of Covid-19 cases of north Bengal districts according to the state health department indicates a surge in the number of such cases ahead of and during the Durga Puja. Darjeeling tops the list of north Bengal districts witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases. Sources at the department said that according to the data of total number Covid cases reported from October 12 to 28, the trend of infections is high in most districts of the region. Only North Dinajpur and Kalimpong districts are the exceptions. According to the data, 2,210 people got affected in Darjeeling district during this period (October 12 to 28), followed by Jalpaiguri (1,877), Malda (1,667), Cooch Behar (1,530), Alipurduar (908) and South Dinajpur (906). In North Dinajpur and Kalimpong, the number of infections is much less, that is, 605 and 231 respectively. A health official said the data “clearly indicated” that people acted more responsibly in North Dinajpur and Kalimpong during this period. He added that the data indicated that most new cases were reported from marketplaces that were crowded with shoppers ahead of the festival. “To know the extent of Covid-19 infection for a particular period, we need to collate the data for a fortnight or so. This data indicates the contagion has spread through crowded marketplaces,” said a health official. The official said that in Darjeeling district, most of cases were reported from the plains. The highest number of cases in Darjeeling reported on a single day was 189, which is much higher than the usual trend. In Jalpaiguri, the most number of cases recorded in a day (during the same fortnight) is 180. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by the state to handle the Covid situation in north Bengal, said: “To know the extent of the spread of infection during Durga Puja days, we need to wait for another seven to 10 days.” He advised those who had gone out during puja days to stay in home isolation. “We all have seen how people roamed around during puja days, gathered in public places and jostled in immersion ghats without maintaining physical distance in most places. Rising data indicates that the infection has spread during these days and we are apprehensive of a sharp spike soon. We would suggest people who went out during the puja days to stay in home isolation for five to seven days,” said Roy. Additional inputs by Binita Paul in Siliguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-326
01-11-2020||West Bengal||Durgapur: Bent barrage gate fuels water supply crisis fears||A sluice gate of the Durgapur Barrage on the Damodar river got bent on Saturday, causing water to gush out to lower catchment areas and leave the upper catchment area almost dry. Officials of the irrigation department, which maintains the barrage, said the iron sluice gate No. 31 got bent on Saturday morning because of pressure exerted by water. The barrage has 34 sluice gates. The incident has left officials of West Burdwan and Bankura administration worried as unavailability of water in the upper catchment area could trigger a scarcity of drinking water in both districts. “We have urged people not to waste water,” said Dilip Agasty, Durgapur mayor. Officials of the public health engineering department, which supplies drinking water in Bankura’s Borjora block, said they could maintain normal water supply for the next 48 hours from its reservoirs, but beyond that, it would be difficult. However, Debasish Barua, superintendent engineer, Damodar irrigation circle, had words of hope. “We will be able to repair or replace the gate within 48 hours. We need the upper catchment area dry to carry out work,” he said. In 2017, sluice gate No. 1 was bent. CPM MLA from Durgapur (East) Santosh Deb Roy said he had urged both the central and state governments to overhaul the barrage “but both the governments have kept on passing the buck”. Trinamul MLA from Durgapur (West) Biswanath Padial blamed the CPM and the Centre for not doing their bit for the barrage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-326
01-11-2020||West Bengal||Siliguri lab does 2 lakh Covid tests||The Viral Research Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL), functioning at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) on the outskirts of Siliguri continues to hold the top slot in Bengal among all the labs conducting Covid-19 tests. Now, the VRDL has become the first lab in the state to cross two lakh tests. It is also one of the youngest of the over 90 laboratories of the state where the tests are being done. The VRDL started its journey from March 29. According to the bulletin issued by the state health department on Friday (that showed Covid-19 related data till Thursday), the VRDL so far has 1,99,551 samples in the RT-PCR (real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) method. “We have crossed the two-lakh mark. Our lab is also the first in the state that had crossed the one-lakh mark in August this year. Also, by June, we could test 50,000 samples only in 84 days,” said Arunava Sarkar, principal investigator of the lab at NBMCH. Crediting “complete teamwork” for the stellar performance of this young lab, Sarkar attributed the feat to the efforts of his team members and support from the administration and the state. Santanu Hazra, the in-charge of the lab, said the number of tests vary from 1,400 to 1,600 in a day. “We have advanced equipment at the lab which is why we would be able to conduct more tests in a day. Among these include the RT-PCR machine, cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT), TrueNat and the automated RNA extractor,” he said. On Friday, a small celebration was held at the microbiology department, under which the lab functions, as authorities came to know that the lab crossed the two-lakh-testing mark. “It is indeed a success for all of us,” said a faulty member of NBMCH. In August 2020, when the lab completed 1 lakh tests, it had not only topped Bengal but was also among the first three labs in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-327
01-11-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee invites Binay Tamang for talks||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has invited Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa for talks in Calcutta on November 3 amid murmurs that she has convened the meeting to ensure a truce between the two factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. The Binay-Anit camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has been an ally of the Trinamul since September 2017 while Bimal Gurung faction announced their decision to dump the BJP-led NDA and back Trinamul on October 21. Well-placed sources said that the meeting between Mamata and the Binay-Anit duo would be held at Nabanna at 3pm on November 3. This is the first meeting between Mamata Banerjee and Binay-Anit camp after Gurung’s decision. “The outcome of the meeting would determine the new political landscape in the hills following Bimal Gurung’s dramatic decision to join hands with Mamata,” said a source. Discussions are on in the hills that Mamata might try to balance both the Binay-Anit and Bimal factions as both are now Trinamul allies. But settling the dispute among the two factions is possibly easier said than done as leaders of Binay-Anit camp have stated that they would neither share space with Bimal nor “crumble under any pressure or forces in this regard”. Against this charged political background in the hills, Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar’s first visit to Darjeeling starts from Sunday. In Malda on Saturday, asked on separate Gorkhaland state issue, he dodged a direct reply and said he would “try to understand the issue during my visit”. The Binay camp started holding rallies in Darjeeling hills to show their strength after Bimal’s supporters started doing so in the past week or so. One narrative that the Binay camp is spelling out is the possibility of law and order deteriorating in the hills if Bimal is allowed to return. The Binay camp on Saturday held rallies in Kurseong and Mirik. They had earlier held rallies in Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Sonada. Bimal’s supporters are mobilising people for “a grand welcome” and also intend to hold a rally in Kurseong on November 8. Many of Bimal’s supporters are trying to convince their supporters that their leader’s decision to join hands with Trinamul was also for the sake of the “5,000 cadres who are on the run (because of cases slapped against them during the 2017 Gorkhaland agitation)”. Alok Kanth Mani Thulung, president, Darjeeling sub-division committee of the Binay camp, however, challenged this figure. “They are adept at lying. We have found out that only 52 people are on the run. Well, we can accept the figure to be 100 or 200 at the most but we challenge them to provide data of 5,000 cadres on the run. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesperson of the Morcha (Binay camp), has categorically stated that they would not share any platform with Bimal Gurung. “We would like to assure the public that we shall never share any platform with Bimal Gurung as we have already rejected his leadership. We shall not crumble to any pressure or forces in this regard,” said Pokhrel. The use of word “pressure or forces” is being interpreted as being directed at Trinamul. Pokhrel’s statement is important as it suggests Mamata has her hands full. “But, one has to note that Mamata Banerjee has the upper hand with regard to these two factions,” said another observer. Discussions are also in hill political circles on the possibility of Bimal Gurung being asked to operate from Nepali-dominated areas in the Dooars. The Bimal Gurung camp, however, is not keen on such an arrangement and wants to return to the hills. Governor Dhankhar, whose spats with the Mamata government are frequent, added in Malda: “The issues which are there in north Bengal will be surely addressed in due course. People never thought that Article 370 will be abrogated. But it has happened now. Indian Constitution allows solutions to every problem...I will try to understand the issue during my visit by interacting with people.” Additional inputs from Soumya De Sarkar in Malda||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-327
01-11-2020||West Bengal||CPM nod for Bengal poll pact with Congress||The CPM’s central committee on Saturday green-signalled the Bengal unit’s proposal for an electoral understanding with the Congress for the Assembly elections in the state next summer after the powerful Kerala lobby came around to accepting the pragmatic line advocated by general secretary Sitaram Yechury. According to the decision of the central committee — the highest decision-making body of the party — the CPM and the Left Front will have an electoral understanding with all the secular parties, including the Congress, in Bengal against the ruling Trinamul Congress and the BJP. In Assam, which also goes to the polls next summer, the CPM will contest the elections in cooperation with secular Opposition parties, including the Congress. In Tamil Nadu, the CPM will remain within the DMK-led alliance, which includes the Congress, that was stitched up ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Briefing reporters about the decisions taken at the central committee meeting held virtually, Yechury said he did not foresee any adverse impact of this arrangement with the Congress on the Kerala elections that are also due next summer. In Kerala, the ruling Left alliance is pitted against a Congress-led front. Yechury cited the 2006 elections when the two parties had fought against each other in the state polls while being part of the United Progressive Alliance at the Centre. The Left won the Assembly elections in both Bengal and Kerala in that instance. The hardliners in the central committee, essentially from Kerala and led by former general secretary Prakash Karat, had held out on any truck with the Congress till last week. But finally they gave in to the rationale that there needs to be clarity in advance to avoid the pitfalls of the 2016 experiment when the party dilly-dallied on an electoral understanding till the eleventh hour, by when it was too late to translate it on the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-327
