02-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal local train services to restart with 50% of passenger strength||Railway authorities are keen to resume local train services in West Bengal allowing 50% of passenger strength and ensuring that COVID-19 safety protocols are followed strictly, officials said on Monday after a meeting with top state government officers. Initially, they were targeting to resume the operations with 10-20% of the normal services which will be slowly increased to 25%, they said. The final decision on the resumption of local train services will be taken at a meeting with the state government on November 5. The authorities stopped the local train services when the lockdown was announced in March to combat the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-325
02-11-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra's condition critical, given blood transfusion||Veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee was given blood transfusion on Sunday after his haemoglobin count fluctuated as his condition remained critical, one of the attending doctors said in a statement. The 85-year-old Chatterjee was admitted to a private hospital in the city 25-days back after he tested positive for Covid-19. The condition of the veteran actor was a matter of concern due to co-morbidities and advanced age, the doctor said, adding "We are fire fighting with complications happening." "His bleeding part is not contained or controlled fully. His haemoglobin is fluctuating. We had to transfuse four units of blood. We had to do a CT to find out his exact internal bleeding location. We are trying to seal the bleeding spot which is yet to be fully successful," he said. "Every passing day we may be losing ground due to his advanced age. We are correcting a lot of things. We are optimising organ functions. His neurological issues not been treated fully to the point of his recovery. This is actually the main problem of Chatterjee's general non-improvement of consciousness status."  the doctor said. However Chatterjee's organ functions are holding on, and he is putting on urine and oxygen part is satisfactory, according to the doctor. The doctor said that they were considering giving him another dialysis, the third one since last Wednesday. "There have been some mild physiological alterations due to the bleeding, we might give him a dialysis," he said then. The other vital parameters of the thespian are working fine, he said, adding that "lung-wise he is doing okay. And infection part is not that bad." Two sessions of dialysis had earlier been conducted on Chatterjee since Wednesday, because of which his vital parameters became stable at that time. The veteran actor is on ventilator support since last week. The iconic actor, who had debuted in Satyajit Ray masterpiece Apur Sansar, is under treatment since October 6 after he tested Covid-19 positive. He later tested negative for the infection but Covid- 19 encephalopathy set in and various other comorbidity complications surfaced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-325
02-11-2020||West Bengal||Durgapur and Bankura run dry after sluice snag||Water supply to households and industries in Durgapur and Bankura, including four power plants, was severely affected on Sunday after the Durgapur barrage on the Damodar had run dry. A sluice gate of the barrage had been twisted under high water pressure on Saturday, following which the barrage was emptied out. Several residents of Durgapur and Bankura were compelled to buy packaged drinking water on Sunday as taps at homes or on roadsides were dry. “The caretaker of our apartment informed me in the morning that the reservoir had ran dry and there had been no supply of water from the civic body since Saturday evening. So, I purchased packaged drinking water for domestic use,” said Gopal Mukherjee, a physician and a resident of Durgapur. “It is not possible to meet such a large demand with only two submersible pumps at our residential complex,” Mukherjee added. Several residents of the town complained that though the local civic body had assured them of unhindered water supply for the next 48 hours, barely 10 minutes of unhindered supply had been recorded till Sunday afternoon. “I used to collect water from the public tap in our locality but the civic body supplied water only for 10 minutes today. Most of us in the locality failed to collect water,” said Shipra Pramanik, a homemaker. Traders said the demand for bottled water had shot up. “I usually sell 600 litres daily but demand suddenly spiked today because of the incident at the Durgapur barrage. I have already sold 1,400 litres of water today,” said Anjan Chowdhury, a shopowner. The authorities of Mejia Thermal Power Station (MTPS) Mejia in Bankura said they would be able to run the plant for maximum 48 hours more. “We have not been getting fresh water from the Damodar since Saturday and the water we have in our reservoirs will be exhausted in the next 48 hours. If we cannot arrange unhindered water supply, we cannot produce power,” said an official of the MTPS under the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). Sources said the situation at the other two power plants of the DVC in Andal and Durgapur was similar. The latter is a state-run concern operated by the Durgapur Projects Limited. Durgapur mayor Dilip Agasty, who had a brief argument with irrigation department officials on Sunday regarding the delay, said they were “trying their best” to fix the problem. “We are trying to maintain normal water supply from our reservoirs. We are expecting the situation to improve by Tuesday evening,” said Agasty. He, however, denied that the town was experiencing inadequate water supply on Sunday. In Bankura, civic authorities started supplying water in tanks to households. “We are collecting water from our deep tube wells and submersible pumps and supplying the water to the households. We are worried about the situation,” said a functionary of the Bankura municipality. Irrigation secretary Naveen Prakash on Sunday visited Durgapur barrage and held a meeting with engineers and West Burdwan district officials. “Our engineers are working on a war footing to restore normality. We will finish the work on the sluice gate by tomorrow,” said Prakash. Once the sluice gate is fixed, water from two reservoirs upstream the Damodar in Jharkhand will feed the Durgapur barrage and it will take at least 24 hours to reach the Durgapur town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-325
02-11-2020||West Bengal||Murder cry by BJP after youth’s death||The body of a youth was found hanging from a mango tree inside a deserted orchard in Nadia’s Gayeshpur on Sunday and the BJP claimed the deceased as its worker and accused Trinamul of terrorising political opponents. Bijoy Sil, 28, was a resident of ward 4 in Gayeshpur town and a driver of a LPG cylinder delivery vehicle, said police sources. The police registered an unnatural death case and started an investigation even as the local BJP leadership called it a political murder and organised protests in the district. “Bijoy had been a Trinamul activist. He joined the BJP before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. He was being regularly threatened by Trinamul goons as they wanted him to come back to Trinamul,” said local BJP leader Bappa Mitra, who claimed he was Sil’s relative. Soon, senior state BJP leaders joined the chorus and started visiting Sil’s home. “This is another political murder. Our party has called a 12-hour strike in Kalyani on Monday. We will stage protests in front of all police stations in the state tomorrow,” said Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh. The deceased’s wife, Kamil, said her husband hadn’t killed himself. “He was dedicated and worked hard for the education of our children. But he had faced repeated threats from some miscreants of our locality.” She couldn’t confirm her husband’s political leanings. “My husband was very close to a BJP leader and often accompanied him...But I have no idea if he was involved with political activities,” she said. Trinamul said Sil was its worker and he had committed suicide. The BJP said it was drawing up plans to organise movements against alleged political killings by Trinamul over the next few days. The statements of the BJP leaders and their plans to organise larger protests bore hints that the saffron ecosystem is planning to create a narrative that law and order in the state is worsening. “Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar is publicly commenting on law and order in Bengal.... Then, Union home minister Amit Shah is coming to the state this week and it seems to be a strategy to keep talking about law and order in Bengal,” said a political observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-325
02-11-2020||West Bengal||Tamang camp’s rally on day of CM talks ||The Binay Tamang camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has decided to hold a rally in Darjeeling hours before its leaders meet chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna on November 3. Mamata called Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa for a meeting for the first time after Bimal Gurung, who had been on the run for the past three years, resurfaced in Calcutta on October 21 and announced his decision to denounce the BJP-led NDA and support the Trinamul Congress in the 2021 Bengal Assembly elections. Even as Trinamul is jubilant over Gurung’s decision, the Tamang camp has made it clear that it does not want Gurung in the hills. “On November 3, we will start two rallies simultaneously from Darjeeling railway station and Singamari and they will all culminate in a public meeting at Chowk Bazar,” said Keshav Raj Pokhrel, the spokesman for the Tamang camp. Singamari is Gurung’s bastion. “Our rally will start at 11am and end at 2 pm,” said Pokhrel. Mamata is scheduled to meet Tamang and Thapa at 3pm. Observers believe the Darjeeling rally is another attempt by the Tamang-Thapa duo to prove that they, too, have strong support base in the hills. Asked about their decision to hold a public meeting on D-day, where the future landscape of hill politics could be decided, Pokhrel said it was “a mere coincidence”. “We have been holding rallies regularly in the hills,” he justified. Gurung’s decision to join hands with Trinamul has upset political equations in the hills. However, it is not smooth sailing for Gurung either because of legal issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-325
02-11-2020||West Bengal||TMC, Cong vie for Ghani Khan legacy||The Congress and the Trinamul Congress separately observed the 94th birth anniversary of late A.B.A. Ghani Khan Choudhury, who is still considered as the tallest political leader of Malda and whose political influence remains unchallenged even 14 years after his demise. The birth anniversary celebrations are being seen as efforts by opposing parties to claim the legacy of the Congress patriarch, who was synonymous with development and secularism. The Malda leadership of both the Congress and Trinamul is led by Ghani Khan’s descendants. The Congress is led by Ghani’s younger brother and Malda South MP Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury a.k.a Dalu and MLA Isha Khan Choudhury, son of Dalu. Mausam Benazir Noor, Ghani’s niece and a two-time MP, had left the Congress and joined Trinamul last year. Although Noor lost the Lok Sabha seat, Trinamul got her elected to Rajya Sabha and made her the party’s district chief. Congress leaders on Sunday offered floral tributes to Ghani’s mazaar (tomb) at Kotwali, where Ghani lived for 80 years. Isha Khan Choudhury and three other Congress MLAs, along with a large number of party workers, offered prayers at the mazaar around 8.30am. Noor, on the other hand, accompanied by Trinamul leaders Narendranath Tiwary, Sumala Agarwala, Subhamay Bose and others, went to Ghani’s tomb around 10.15am and paid tributes. After paying homage to Ghani, the Congress leaders garlanded two statues of the Congress stalwart at Rathbari and Brindabani Ground in Malda. Later, they cut a cake bearing Ghani’s name at the Town Hall. Trinamul leaders, on the other hand, decorated the statue of Ghani Khan at Rathbari with flowers and cut a giant cake. Noor addressed the party workers and exhorted them to inculcate the spirit of Ghani Khan’s uncompromising fight for secularism and development. Isha and Noor claimed that their respective parties were true torchbearers of Ghani Khan’s legacy. “My uncle Ghani Khan Choudhury never compromised with communalism. He never thought of quitting the Congress and despite all odds, died as a staunch Congress man. Thousands of youths here got employment because of him. Congress is the only party that carries forward Ghani Khan’s legacy in true sense. Ghani Khan and the Congress cannot be separated ideologically, politically and practically,” Isha said. Noor claimed the dream of her Barkat (as Ghani was popularly known as) Mama (maternal uncle) of defeating the Left Front was materialised by none other than Mamata Banerjee. “Barkat Mama handed his political baton to Mamata Di. The Trinamul supremo in true sense is the true torchbearer of Ghani Khan’s principle. Both of them have courted development and secularism as the ways of their lives. I am proud to be a descendant of Ghani Khan and privileged to work under Mamata Banerjee,” Noor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-325
02-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal active Covid cases drop for sixth day||Bengal on Sunday logged a drop in the total of active Covid-19 cases for the sixth consecutive day, resetting the highest number of recoveries for the 13th day running with 4,053 cured patients. The state also reported 3,987 new cases and 59 deaths on Sunday. Since Durga Puja ended, Bengal has been recording less than 4,000 new cases every day. There has not been such a spell of fall in the total of active cases since a 15-day streak ended on September 7. “Now, we are getting numbers of infections during the Puja proper. For someone who got infected on Mahasaptami, Sunday was Day 10 for them. The Covid-19 figures we get over the next few days are of the Puja days. From whatever we have been seeing since Tuesday, there is ample scope for optimism,” said a Bengal minister. It is between days six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected. The recovery rate — which had taken a two-week tumble since October 6 — rose to a new high of 88.44 on Sunday. The national rate is 91.51 per cent now. “This is quite incredible. After the Onam experience in Kerala and the disregard for safety protocol by masses just before Puja, there was an apprehension of a major surge in the cases in Bengal. So far, there is little indication of the situation spiralling out of control,” the minister said. In the six days since the end of Puja, the state logged 23,829 new cases, outnumbered by the 23,904 recoveries, resulting in a drop in the total active cases from 37,190 to 36,761. “The numbers this week should, conclusively, tell us whether Calcutta High Court’s intervention, to keep unbridled revelry from worsening the outbreak into a full-fledged public health emergency, was effective. If the post-Puja numbers, so far, are the start of a trend, the judicial intervention could have been a blessing from the goddess,” the minister said. The total of novel coronavirus cases in Bengal went past 3.77 lakh, including nearly 3.34 lakh recoveries and 6,900 deaths. With 44,457 swab samples being reported examined on Sunday, Bengal achieved over 46 lakh tests at 51,121 per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.21 per cent now. Of the total 6,900 deaths reported, the state government attributed 5,805 (84.1 per cent) to comorbidities. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.82 now, still behind the national rate of 1.49 per cent. The state reported 35.09 per cent occupancy on 12,811 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 94 dedicated hospitals. Besides, around 4 lakh telemedicine consultations on Covid have been given so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-325
02-11-2020||West Bengal||State mulls change in home isolation policy||The Mamata Banerjee government is considering a plan that focuses on care at safe homes, instead of home isolation, for Covid-19 patients aged above 50 or with any health risk factor, said a government official. About 75 per cent of the 36,886 active cases in the state till Saturday were in home isolation, but the government has decided to be selective from now on in allowing home isolation. “We have seen that a significant percentage of total Covid deaths were because of late hospitalisation of patients from their homes. We are trying to develop an efficient system where only risk-free people would be allowed home isolation,” said a senior state government official. While modifying the protocol for home isolation, the state government is planning to focus on bringing people with two or more risk factors — irrespective of age group — to safe homes even if the patients are asymptomatic or having mild symptoms. Sources have said health risk factors include any chronic disease like kidney ailment, diabetes, cardiac ailment, cancer and asthma. “The protocol is being modified only because it has been found that condition of Covid patients having comorbidities can deteriorate within a few hours. We want to ensure that the ‘golden hour’ is not lost on the way to a hospital,” said a senior bureaucrat. The new protocol will come into effect very soon, said the officer. According to the sources, the state was worried because the number of deaths could not be brought down in the past few weeks despite several attempts. On an average, 60 people died everyday across the state in the past couple of months. While more than 80 per cent of the deceased had comorbidities, around 60 per cent of the total deceased were brought to hospital late from home isolation, said a source. “We now want to cut down the time of transferring patients from home isolation to hospitals. As safe homes are attached to dedicated Covid hospitals and patients are monitored on a regular interval, it is expected that the death rate could be brought down significantly,” said an expert associated with the government’s initiatives. Earlier, the government had made engagement of a caregiver mandatory while allowing home isolation to asymptomatic or mild cases. But the sources said the protocol was not followed properly across the state and hence, the death rate could not be brought down. Now, the government has joined hands with the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to ensure that each of the patients, who are allowed to go for home isolation, remains under the supervision of a doctor. The medical practitioner would prescribe medicine and monitor health parameters of the patient on a daily basis and would contact the authorities concerned in case the patient requires admission in the hospital. The sources said the government had already developed 200 safe homes with 11,507 beds across the state. Right now, only 975 people are admitted to the safe homes. “There is enough space at the safe homes to accommodate asymptomatic or mild patients with health risk factors right at the moment,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-325
02-11-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul to campaign against governor||Trinamul Congress leaders in north Bengal have decided to reach out to people and campaign against the constant criticism of governor Jagdeep Dhankhar who, according to them, is a “political agent with some agenda”. State tourism minister Gautam Deb said on Sunday: “It appears that from Day One, he has been acting like a political agent with some agenda. We know people of Bengal are politically conscious and well aware of every issue. We will just put everything in front of them and use social media.” En route from Calcutta to Siliguri by train on Saturday, the governor had spoken to media persons at the Malda Town station where he criticised the Mamata Banerjee government. Before leaving for Darjeeling on Sunday, Dhankhar held a news conference at the state guest house here and again lambasted the government. “We would like to request the governor to work within the framework of the Indian constitution and not to function as the spokesperson for any political party. If he (governor) has to make observations on any issue, he could report the same to the Centre or ask the state government to share information with him. Instead, he is acting like the cadre of a saffron party. This is unprecedented and unfortunate,” said Deb. Dhankhar had questioned the role of the district magistrate and the superintendent of police of Darjeeling and said their job was not that of members of any political party. Trinamul Rajya Sabha member Shanta Chhetri said the governor had questioned the integrity and self-respect of two efficient civil servants without any concrete proof. “Such statements are unexpected from a governor. He has tried to demoralise his own officers without understanding facts.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-326
