03-11-2020||West Bengal||Major bureaucratic reshuffle in Bengal||In a major IAS-cadre reshuffle effected by the Bengal government, Poonambalam S, who was the district magistrate (DM) of Darjeeling, has been made the new joint secretary in the land and land reforms department and Shashank Sethi succeeded him, a notification said. Sethi was earlier the managing director of Paschim Banga Agri Marketing Corporation and a project director in the Public Health Engineering department. Incidentally, the Darjeeling DM was transferred hours after he met Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, who is presently on a month-long visit to the Hills. Government sources said it was a routine transfer. The administrative rejig was effected for those who have been holding a post for nearly or more than three years, in accordance with Election Commission (EC) norms, they said. It came just a week before the EC holds an all-party meeting to discuss matter regarding the upcoming assembly polls in the state. Sumit Gupta, who was the executive director of West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation (WBIDC), has been appointed as the DM of North 24 Parganas, and Mohammed Enaur Rahman will be taking over as the district magistrate of Purba Bardhaman. Abhijit Mukhopadhyay has been made the new DM of Purulia, the notification issued on Monday said. Similarly, Partha Ghosh has been posted as the new DM of Nadia, while Moumita Godara Basu named as Jalpaiguri district magistrate. Vijay Bharti, the Purba Bardhaman DM, replaced Basu while Vibhu Goel, the former Nadia DM, stepped into the shoes of Ghosh in Purba Medinipur. Abhishek Kumar Tiwary, who was the DM of Jalpaiguri, was named as the joint secretary of the state higher education department. Chaitali Chakrabarti, who held the post of district magistrate of North 24 Parganas, has been shifted to the state home department as a special secretary. A Subbiah, the principal secretary of the backward classes welfare department and MD of the West Bengal Essential Commodities Supply Corporation, was given the additional charge of commissioner in the Medinipore Division. According to the notification, Vandana Yadav, a secretary of the Industry, Commerce and Enterprises department and director of the WBIDC, has been given additional charge as the secretary of the Public Enterprise and Industrial Reconstruction department. Pritha Sarkar, who was also a secretary in Industry, Commerce and Enterprises department, has been made the commissioner of the Presidency Division, the notification added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-323
03-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal sees week-long drop in active Covid cases||For a week since the end of Durga Puja, Bengal logged a drop in total active Covid-19 cases, aided by a rise in recoveries and a relative slump in new infections, in what seems to be turning out to be a different outcome of the festival than what had been feared. On Monday, for the seventh successive day, Bengal reported less than 4,000 new infections, with 3,957. With 4,085 recoveries, the state reset its record for recoveries for the 14th consecutive day. The state also reported 57 deaths, including 13 each from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. It is between days six and 10 of the novel coronavirus infection that most cases get detected. So, these are figures of infections during Durga Puja days, a minister said. “Monday was Day 10 for someone who got infected on Ashtami,” the minister said. “This (the data) is now beginning to tell us how effective Calcutta High Court’s intervention (to control crowds during festive days) was. Another five days or so of this, and we will have undone much of the damage from the first three weeks of October,” he added. In the seven days since the end of Durga Puja, Bengal reported 27,989 recoveries, outweighing the 27,786 new infections. The total active cases dropped from 37,190 to 36,576. Also, the state’s recovery rate rose to a new high of 88.59. The national rate is 91.74 per cent now. “This is a near-miraculous phenomenon, a remarkably pleasant surprise. Instead of considerably worsening over the festival, the outbreak seems to have been relatively reined in,” the minister said. However, Bengal still has 6.57 per cent of the nation’s total active cases, coming fourth after Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka. Bengal’s caseload is over 3.81 lakh, including over 3.38 lakh recoveries and 6,957 deaths. Its mortality rate is 1.82, still behind the national rate of 1.48 per cent. With 43,237 tests on Monday, Bengal achieved over 46.44 lakh tests, at 51,601 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.22 per cent now. Of the total 6,957 deaths reported, the state government attributed 5,848, or 84.1 per cent, to comorbidities. The state reported 34.84 per cent occupancy in the 12,966 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 96 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides 4.03 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-324
03-11-2020||West Bengal||NIA arrests teacher over ‘Qaida link’||The National Investigation Agency arrested a madrasa teacher from Murshidabad’s Raninagar late on Sunday in connection with its probe into alleged al Qaida operatives in Bengal and Kerala. Abdul Momin Mondal, 32, was arrested after the agency found his involvement in a series of “conspiratorial meetings” convened by the members of the banned terror outfit. Momin, according to sources, used to work as a teacher in Raipur Darul Huda Islamia Madrasa in Murshidabad and officers have been tracking him for sometime following leads provided by the six, who had been arrested on September 18 from the bordering district of Bengal. He was produced in a district court in Murshidabad on Monday and granted transit remand so that he could be taken to New Delhi for further interrogation. Son of Rejual Mondal, a farmer at Nazrana village of Raninagar in Murshidabad, Momin was allegedly a part of the group from Murshidabad that created a Whatsapp group where they would exchange messages that allegedly referred to Ghaza-e-Hind, referring to ultimate conquest of India, said a source. Senior officials in the central intelligence agencies said Ghaza-e-Hind was an idea that was floated by Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind, a separatist organisation and an al Qaida cell active in Jammu and Kashmir. The police in Jammu and Kashmir claimed that in October 2019, the group was completely “neutralised”. Officials said they had recovered several “digital devices” from Momin's house during the raid preceding the arrest. It was still not clear how Momin was involved in raising funds for the banned terror outfit but officials claimed that the money was to be used for carrying out attacks at multiple places across India, including the National Capital Region. “Momin shared a thick friendship with Abu Sufiyan, a tailor at Raninagar market in Murshidabad,” said the official. Sufiyan was among the six arrested from Bengal including Najmus Sakib, an engineering student and Atitur Rehman, a first-year student of arts at college in Nadia's Karimpur, from Murshidabad in September. Mosaraf Hossan arrested from Ernakulam is Atitur's elder brother. He had settled in the Kerala town||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-324
03-11-2020||West Bengal||Rivulet poser to Durgapur Barrage sluice gate repair||Irrigation department engineers are yet to start repairs at Durgapur Barrage even 48 hours after sluice gate No 31 got bent, causing water to gush out to lower catchment areas and leaving the upper areas almost dry. The incident has triggered a severe water crisis in Bankura and Durgapur region and threatens to halt power generation in four plants. Since the damage was spotted on Saturday, irrigation officials said they set up a temporary barricade with sandbags to stop water from flowing through the damaged gate. “We need the area to be dry for the work,” said an engineer. But the area is not dry. Irrigation officials said the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) stopped releasing water from its two dams in Maithan and Panchet in Jharkhand but rivulets linked to Damodar in Asansol and Bankura were posing a challenge. “Natural rivers cannot be stopped and we are trying to set up a temporary barricade cordoning off the damaged gate with the help of sand bags and mud on the river bed,” the engineer said. Five earthmovers and over 100 labourers were put on the job. Engineers from SAIL’s Durgapur Steel Plant also joined the effort with irrigation department engineers. “We will start restoration (work) once we manage to make the gate area dry. Once it starts it will require at least 15 hours,” said Sanjay Singh, chief engineer of the irrigation department. On Sunday, Naveen Prakash, additional chief secretary of the irrigation department, had said work would be over by Monday. However, engineers on Monday evening were still struggling to stop water from reaching the damaged gate. A source in the irrigation department said the gate’s repair would not ensure immediate water supply. “It would take at least 24 hours — if not more — for water from DVC’s Maithan and Panchet dams to reach the barrage after the gate is fixed,” the source added. “If we can start work on Tuesday, we don’t expect the situation to improve before Friday night,” he said, adding they needed to keep the repaired gate “on observation”. An irrigation department official blamed lack of maintenance for the damaged gate. The official said subsequent state governments did not overhaul the iron sluice gates ever since the DVC had handed the facility over to the state administration in 1965. A source in the irrigation department said heavy siltation at Durgapur Barrage lowered its capacity to hold more water released from dams. He said silt and stored water combined to create huge pressure on the gates, weakening them. Prakash on Sunday had also said the government would replace 11 gates of the 34 gates and repair the rest, but the process would take time. Around 5am on Saturday, employees of the irrigation department of the barrage noticed during inspection that sluice gate No 31 got twisted and water reserved in the upper catchment of Damodar river gushed out to the lower catchment areas in East Burdwan, Hooghly and parts of Howrah. Feeder canals, which supply water to treatment plants of Durgapur Municipal Corporation and public health engineering (PHE) department of Durgapur and Bankura, turned dry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-324
03-11-2020||West Bengal||Barrage crisis awaits long-term solution||Damage to one of the 34 sluice gates of the Durgapur Barrage on Damodar river on Saturday has triggered a water crisis in the region, prompting the Bengal government on Monday to marshal its resources to supply water to residents in Durgapur and Bankura. Around 25 lakh people have been affected with the upper catchment area going dry following the damage to gate number 31 of the Durgapur barrage. The manner in which the Mamata Banerjee government swung into action made it clear that it was trying its best to avert a repeat of the 2017 water crisis that had triggered people’s unrest. Aware of the political consequences if the crisis lingers and memories of the 2017 unrest still fresh in the minds of many, sources in the administration said chief minister Mamata Banerjee instructed the public health engineering (PHE) department, civic bodies and gram panchayats to ensure sufficient water supply in the region before Union home minister Amit Shah’s proposed two-day visit to Durgapur and Bankura from November 5. Starting Monday, the state PHE department supplied 2 lakh drinking water pouches to the civic authorities of Durgapur and Bankura for distribution among the residents to handle the drinking water crisis. PHE officials said seven mobile water treatment units that produce 20,000 water pouches per hour had been sent to the districts of West Burdwan (where Durgapur is located) and Bankura. “We have also sent 36 tankers in various blocks of Bankura, including the town, to supply water to the people. Around 2 lakh water pouches have been distributed in Durgapur and Bankura on Monday and the number (of pouches) will be increased from Tuesday,” said a PHE official in Durgapur. Durgapur civic authorities said they were supplying water through 65 tankers in various areas of the town. “We have already distributed one lakh water pouches that we received from the PHE so far. The situation is under control. We are expecting an improvement by Wednesday,” said Pabitra Chatterjee, mayoral council member (who is in charge of water supply), Durgapur. People made a beeline in front of the tankers when they arrived in their localities. But the actual supply remains far short of the demand. Many residents of Durgapur and Bankura complained of water scarcity. “I had to wait for 90 minutes to get a bucket of water. I need at least 10 more buckets,” said Ramkrishna Samanta, 68, a retired Durgapur Steel Plant employee. “The civic body has sent only one tanker whereas we have around 450 families in the locality,” said Bhadu Pal, another Durgapur resident. The situation was no different in Bankura town. “We are forced to buy packaged drinking water for domestic use as we do not have other options. The cost of water per bottle has gone double,” said Mrityunjoy Biswas, a resident. The crisis that has not only affected households but also industries and power plants in the region that depend on the Damodar river for water. Though domestic consumers in the region do not depend on Damodar Valley Corporation’s Mejia Thermal Power Station in Bankura, officials at the plant feared that power supply to bulk consumers might get affected if the crisis persists on Tuesday. “We will not be able to produce power from Tuesday evening if we do not get fresh water. We are running the plant with stored water but that will get exhausted on Tuesday,” said an engineer at Bankura district’s Mejia Thermal Power Station of the DVC. The plant generates around 2,350MW of power from its eight units and makes bulk supplies to Indian Railways, Coal India and to Bangladesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-324
03-11-2020||West Bengal||Binay writes off Bimal ahead of CM meet||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Binay Tamang on Monday said that he did not consider rival Bimal Gurung a threat and the latter would not figure in his talks with chief minister Mamata Banerjee scheduled for Tuesday. Tamang, who along with party colleague Anit Thapa on Monday headed for Calcutta from Bagdogra to attend Tuesday’s meeting with Mamata at Nabanna, for the first time in years spoke about Gurung with whom he had severed ties in 2017. After a gap of three years, Gurung resurfaced in Calcutta last month to ally with Trinamul while announcing he was walking away from the BJP, the party with which he had been in an alliance since 2009. “Bimal Gurung and Roshan Giri can never be a threat to me... On the other hand, it is Binay Tamang who can be a threat for them,” asserted Tamang in Bagdogra when asked if Gurung’s comeback in the hills would affect his political career. Tamang labelled Gurung as a “fugitive leader”. He added that Gurung would not be a subject of Tuesday’s meeting with Mamata. “First of all, we want to make it clear that we will not share any political or administrative platform with Bimal Gurung and Roshan Giri. He (Gurung) is a fugitive leader and all I can say that nobody is above law. We should all respect the judiciary,” Tamang said. “We will have an administrative meeting with the chief minister. He (Gurung) is not at all a subject of it. The meeting has been planned to usher in development and to ensure peace and stability in Darjeeling hills and in the Dooars,” he added. Interacting with newspersons, Tamang tried to prove that Gurung’s decisions and remarks had not gone down well with hill residents by referring to demonstrations and protest rallies organised by his faction against Gurung. During the past 10 days, supporters of both Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang factions have been trying to assert themselves in what is being viewed as a game of political one-upmanship. Such events have been held in many places across the hills, right from the district headquarters of Darjeeling to hilly hamlets like Mungpoo and raised the political heat in the hills. While the Gurung lobby is desperate to prepare ground for their leader away from the hills for over three years now, the Tamang faction is trying to retain its support base. “The spontaneous expression of resentment by common people of hills who are also taking part in (our) rallies and organising protest marches is a clear indication as to what they want,” said Tamang. Such remarks a day ahead of the meeting with Mamata, hints that Tamang wants to reassert his strength in the hills, said political observers. They also opined that for the past three years, the Tamang faction was the sole ally of Trinamul in the hills, but now have a competitor in the form of the Gurung lobby. It is evident that both factions will now try to prove their support base before Mamata Banerjee and her party colleagues to get preference from Trinamul, said an observer. “Through these remarks, Tamang has made the first move on Monday. It would be interesting to see how the Gurung faction reacts, and more importantly, how the Trinamul leadership manages to strike a balance,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-324
03-11-2020||West Bengal||Election Commission calls Bengal all-party meeting on November 9||The Election Commission of India has called an all-party meeting for Bengal on November 9, a move indicative of the panel’s willingness to get the ball rolling for the state’s Assembly elections. The commission would meet representatives of respective districts a day after the all-party meeting. The commission, which has for months been busy with the ongoing Bihar Assembly polls, is now shifting focus to Bengal where state elections are due next summer. “This is a testing of water, to assess the poll preparedness of the state, in the wake of the pandemic. There will be virtual meetings from Nirvachan Sadan (EC headquarters in Delhi) for early stocktaking,” said a source. “Bengal has been a challenging state for decades by way of electioneering for the commission. So there will always be some extra attention paid to the state,” he added. There were doubts earlier on whether the Assembly polls next year — in Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Puducherry — would take place in the summer according to schedule despite the Covid-19 pandemic. But after the commission went ahead with Bihar polls on schedule, it is being widely assumed that the elections next year are unlikely to be rescheduled. “Unless something unforeseen happens in terms of the Covid-19 situation by way of a full-fledged public health emergency, these elections will also be held on time. The commission is starting its work on the ground this month for that,” said the source. He said that the maximum number of voters in a booth was capped at 1,500 and necessary steps to restructure booths were already underway. “The main concern of the commission for Bengal is to conduct not only free, fair and peaceful polls but also to do so safely with the Covid-19 outbreak still in existence,” he said. “While elections must take place, they can’t be allowed to exponentially worsen the pandemic situation,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-324
03-11-2020||West Bengal||Sourav Ganguly conveys ‘disinterest’ to join BJP||Former India cricket captain Sourav Ganguly has informed the BJP leadership that he is not interested in joining politics or campaigning for the party during the Assembly elections in Bengal next year, sources said on Monday. According to the sources, Sourav made it clear to the BJP last month that he did not want to join active politics and was happy with his role in cricket administration. There have been no attempts from the party to pressure him into changing his mind since the message was conveyed, the sources added. Sourav could not be reached for comment. BJP sources neither confirmed nor denied the claim. But a BJP source said, referring to the situation before the 2019 general election, “the party always wanted Sourav to play an important role but his hands were full with several other engagements”. “The situation is different today as we have become a major political force in Bengal,” the BJP source said, adding that any role by Sourav would still help the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-324
03-11-2020||West Bengal||GTA employees’ outfit severs ties with Binay camp||The United Employees Union (UEU), a frontal organisation of Binay Tamang’s Gorkha Janmukti Morcha comprising pay-band employees of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) on Monday announced its decision to disaffiliate from the party and go independent. The Binay Tamang camp immediately reacted to the development and said that many GTA employees were not happy with the UEU’s decision and that the party would form a GTA Employees Organisation on November 6. There are 4,565 such workers in GTA. The UEU’s decision has come as a setback for the Binay Tamang camp at a time the political situation in the hills is in a flux with the Bimal Gurung faction of the Morcha deciding to dump the BJP-led NDA and support Trinamul in the 2021 Bengal Assembly polls. UEU president Anil Rai, however, said the present political situation in the hills had no bearing on their decision. “The decision has nothing to do with politics. We are not looking at who will come and who will leave (in the context of Bimal Gurung returning to hills after three years) as this has been happening for many years,” said Rai. “We were with them (Binay camp) for three years and we feel we achieved little. Our objective is to get our demand (of regularisation of employee jobs) fulfilled,” said Rai. The present employee association was formed in 2017 replacing the Janmukti Astai Karmachari Sangatan (JAKS) affiliated to the Bimal Gurung-led Morcha. The UEU initially said it would stay “apolitical” but soon aligned with the Tamang camp, saying only political will could solve its problems. The catalyst for the latest decision seems to be chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s reply to the GTA board of administration chairman Anit Thapa, that the state government was not in a position to take any decision regarding workers during this pandemic. Thapa had raised the regularisation issue during an administrative meeting at Uttarkanya in Siliguri last month. Some hill observers believe that the political flux might have influenced the decision. Bimal Gurung supporters are mobilising across the hills everyday. “Had the issue been raised properly earlier (before the Siliguri meeting), the chief minister might probably have had a different take on the issue,” said Rai. The employees that comprise more than 90 per cent of the GTA staffs recently held a pen-down strike. Many of these employees were recruited as contract workers when the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council (DGHC) was formed in 1988. Since then, many served under Bimal Gurung’s GTA, under Binay Tamang, the former GTA head now replaced by Anit Thapa. Over the years, the status of GTA employees changed from contractual workers to “pay band workers” and their minimum salaries now start from Rs 10,000 (Group D staff) to Rs 22,000 (Group A employees such as engineers). There have been a couple of occasions when it seemed that their demand was heard. On September 17, 2009, following a hunger strike by JAKS, the state government had given a written assurance to the JAKS to regularise 3,472 employees. The fast lifted following the assurance. However, the government backtracked and said the promise had been given under duress. On May 14, 2015, Calcutta High Court directed the state government to convene a meeting with the GTA in four months to decide how it would set in motion the process of absorbing these employees in permanent posts, but not much progress was made. When the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration was formed in 2012, there was a provision for setting up Subordination Service Selection Board in the GTA empowered to fill up Group D, C and B posts in GTA following financial approval from the state government. The board has not yet been formed. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesman of the Morcha (Binay Tamang faction), said: “We welcome the UEU’s decision. However, members of the sub-divisional committee of their union expressed their dissatisfaction. Hence, we will form the GTA Employees Organisation on November 6.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-324
03-11-2020||West Bengal||Call to resume elephant safaris in Dooars||The state forest department should resume elephant safaris in the Gorumara and Jaldapara national parks of north Bengal to bring in more tourists, stakeholders of the tourism industry in the Dooars said on Monday. The demand comes a day after the elephant safari was introduced in the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve in neighbouring Assam. Kaziranga, the largest habitat of one-horned rhinos in the world and a world heritage site recognised by the Unesco, had reopened its gates for visitors on October 21 this year. However, the park authorities resumed elephant safari — the principle attraction for any person visiting a wildlife habitat of this region — from November 1. “Tourists have started visiting the Dooars but the footfall is pretty low compared to early years. We are getting inquiries but many people, who wish to visit the region, are disinclined to confirm their trips as they cannot enjoy the elephant safari, both in Gorumara and Jaldapara,” said Biplab Dey, assistant secretary, Dooars Tourism Development Forum. In the Dooars, tourists who want to visit the reserve forests can avail themselves of car safaris and climb watchtowers to relish nature and wildlife. “Wild animals are often sighted during car safaris but elephant safari has always remained the top attraction for tourists. The facility has been opened at Kaziranga in Assam and we believe it can be introduced here too. Officials of the state forest department should think about it and make a decision. This would also help in reviving the tourism sector that has suffered a major setback since mid-March because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown,” said a resort owner at Lataguri on the fringes of the Gorumara National Park. Told about the demand, a  senior forest officer said the department was exploring options to ensure that the contagion did not spread if elephant safari was introduced. “We understand that resumption of elephant safaris can bring in more tourists to the region. But simultaneously, we will have to consider the risk of infection. A new set of rules has to be framed before this facility is reopened for visitors,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-324
03-11-2020||West Bengal||Plan to ramp up Covid tests in Jalpaiguri||The rise in Covid-19 cases across Jalpaiguri district in the past few days prompted the health department to plan an increase in the number of daily tests. Sources in the department said the staff would visit rural pockets to collect samples, both for rapid antigen tests and RT-PCR tests. “A number of rural areas of Jalpaiguri district had remained green zones for months. However, it came to our notice in the past few days that Covid cases had been reported from villages. That is why we have decided to increase the number of tests to find out the trend of infections in rural areas,” said Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty appointed by the state government to manage the Covid situation in north Bengal. Roy held a meeting with officials of the district administration, Jalpaiguri zilla parishad, panchayat samitis and blocks on Monday. At the meeting, he mentioned that elected representatives and officials working at the rural bodies in all three tiers, along with those posted in blocks, should extend cooperation to the health department for collection of samples. “We are focussing on haats (weekly village markets) as the infection can spread rapidly from such places. Our men will collect samples from traders as well as customers at the markets,” said Roy. Uttara Burman, the sabhadhipati of the Jalpaiguri zilla parishad, has said there are 28 haats under the rural body. There are some more such markets in different blocks. “It has been made clear that all traders at these markets will have to undergo tests. If any trader did not get himself tested, we will not let him open his shop or stall until the pandemic is over. We will soon start making public announcements to make people aware of this initiative and cannot take any chane to let the infection spread through these markets,” the sabhadhipati said. As of now, around 1,000-odd tests — both rapid antigen and RT-PCR — are conducted in the district in a day. The health department has planned to increase the number to 2,500 in a day, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-324
