04-11-2020||West Bengal||Advice against crackers||The Mamata Banerjee government on Tuesday “advised” people against the use of firecrackers during Diwali and Kali Puja in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “All are being advised not to use any kind of firecrackers during Kali Puja and Diwali this year as air pollution could turn the situation critical for Covid patients as well as those who are facing lung problems,” Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said at Nabanna on Tuesday. The announcement came against the backdrop of speculation that the state government was considering a ban on the sale and use of firecrackers — a step adopted by the Rajasthan government — in view of the pandemic. On Tuesday, the Odisha government also prohibited the sale and use of firecrackers from November 10 to 30. Environment activists and healthcare specialists have written to the Bengal chief minister demanding a ban on crackers. So far, the assessment in the state government is that the decision should be left to the good sense of the people instead of imposing a ban. Diwali and Kali Puja fall on November 14 this year. “Considering the way the people and clubs helped the state government in maintaining the protocol during Durga Puja, it is advised that Kali Puja and Diwali are also celebrated in the same way,” the chief secretary said. Senior government officials, including the chief secretary, the home secretary, the DGP and the city police commissioner, held a meeting with the chief minister at Nabanna earlier in the day to frame a policy to ensure that the Covid-19 situation does not deteriorate and corona-positive patients, a large number of whom face breathlessness, do not suffer during the festive season. The chief secretary urged people not to burn any type of firecrackers, including those usually permitted in other years. Sources in Nabanna said that the state government had yet to decide whether to take legal action if anyone burst firecrackers. A senior official said: “We are not in favour of imposing a strict norm. We believe that good sense will prevail.” The National Green Tribunal has issued notices to the Centre and environmental and administrative agencies in the National Capital Region (NCR) and adjoining states asking them whether firecrackers should be banned from November 7 to 30 in view of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-322
04-11-2020||West Bengal||Neighbour shot dead over land||One person was shot dead and three others suffered injuries following a clash between two families over a land dispute at Jadupur village here on Tuesday. Sources said Momrez Ali, 38, was having a problem with his neighbour Bablu Ali over the ownership of a piece of land. On Tuesday, as Momrez was fencing the land, Bablu reached the spot with some of his associates. Soon an altercation began between them and it turned violent as Bablu shot Momrez. Some neighbours rushed to rescue Momrez but Bablu and his men attacked them with sharp weapons. The villagers took Momrez and the three injured to a hospital where doctors pronounced him dead. Maleka Bibi, the deceased’s mother, alleged that Bablu, his father Sukbar and some others had organised the attack and killed Momrez. Police have detained three persons in connection with the case. The sources said Bablu and his family had fled the village. Sukumar Ghosh, the inspector-in-charge of Chanchal police station, said: “Searches are on to nab Bablu and other accused.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-323
04-11-2020||West Bengal||Plans for Covid awareness in Siliguri||The board of administrators of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation has drawn up new plans to curb the spread of Covid-19 across the city, particularly because of the surge in the number of cases during the past couple of weeks. “A surge in Covid cases has been noticed across the civic area during past two weeks. On an average, around 70 cases are being reported in a day, which is really a matter of serious concern. That is why we have decided to take some initiatives to check the spread of the infection,” said Asok Bhattacharya, chairman of the BoA at SMC, and also the Siliguri MLA. On Tuesday, Bhattacharya held a meeting with officials of district health department and representatives of the civic body. Sources in SMC said earlier, in case a patient was identified, his house was temporarily isolated with bamboo barricades placed in front of the house. Later, the barricade was replaced by yellow ribbons to mark the house. “However, it has been now decided that our men will put posters on the house for identification. Also, the posters will carry detailed dos and don’ts’ for the patient’s family as well as for other residents of the locality. Pamphlets will be distributed in the area to make people aware of health safety protocols,” said a source. To ensure that the infection does not spread from garbage collected from a patient’s house, it has been decided that such households will get yellow trash bags. “These bags will be collected and dumped separately on a regular basis. It is important that garbage from an infected family is not dumped in the locality as it increases the risk of infection,” the source added. “I have also written to the chief minister and requested her to see that proper medical infrastructure is maintained in Siliguri for Covid treatment,” said Bhattacharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-323
04-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid fears fuel oxygen cylinder hoarding||Senior health officials in Jalpaiguri and some other districts of north Bengal have expressed their concerns over the increase in demand of oxygen cylinders at a time when Covid-19 cases are on the rise. The health officials have also sounded an alert, saying some residents stock oxygen cylinders at home merely as a precaution. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by the state to handle the Covid situation in north Bengal, said the demand for oxygen cylinders had increased across the globe in the wake of the pandemic and India and north Bengal were not exceptions. “During this period, shortage of oxygen cylinders has been felt sometimes in Jalpaiguri and in some other districts of north Bengal. We have tried to find out the reason and found that some people, who are apprehensive that they might face breathing problems if infected with the contagion, have hired and kept such cylinders at the homes as a precaution. This is undesirable. They should act like responsible citizens and return the cylinders to the provider concerned so that the cylinders can come of use to patients who actually need artificial oxygen supply,” said Roy. In Jalpaiguri town, sources said, there are a number of people who are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic Covid patients and are staying in isolation at their homes. “Many families of such patients have taken away the cylinders and are keeping it at their homes for weeks. In fact, there are instances that some families have oxygen cylinders with them even though there is no Covid patient at home. This trend of hoarding oxygen cylinders has to stop,” said a senior doctor of the town. Sanjoy Chakraborty, secretary of Jalpaiguri Welfare Organisation — an NGO that provides oxygen cylinders on rent at a lower cost — said they have an inventory of 25 cylinders. “But in these days, we are hardly left with one or two cylinders at our place. People are coming to us and hiring cylinders for their homes. Those who do not need them should return them to us as oxygen comes under essential supplies. Such a practice can lead to an artificial shortage of oxygen cylinders in the area,” Chakraborty said. Some health officials are mulling a proposal to verify whether the oxygen cylinder is actually needed in a household. “The organisations which provide the cylinders on rent have details of those who take cylinders on rent. We are thinking of asking them to check whether it is really needed or a person simply wants to stock it as a precaution. This exercise, we believe, can discourage unnecessary hoarding,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-323
04-11-2020||West Bengal||Power utility blast kills worker||A contract worker was killed and a private security guard severely injured following an explosion at the seventh unit of the state-run Durgapur Projects Limited (DPL) on Tuesday morning. Police said when the explosion occurred, Omprakash Chowhan, 38, was carrying out a cleaning job at the unit that was closed on Tuesday. Omprakash died on the spot, while private security guard Bam Ruidas, 39, was injured. Doctors said Bam’s right leg had blown off. The incident occurred around 11am when the power utility had shut down generation because of inadequate water in the wake of the Durgapur Barrage crisis. Initially, the DPL management said the explosion had been triggered by a short-circuit at the power generating unit. But the engineers of the power utility ruled out any such snag. Trade unions INTUC and Citu and Trinamul Congress have demanded proper investigation into the incident. “The incident is very serious and shocking. If there were no electrical fault what was the reason behind the blast. We demand investigations,” said Biswanath Padial, Trinamul trade union president in West Burdwan and MLA. Police have reached the spot and started investigations. The police suspect chemicals used in cleaning led to the blast. “The chemical was in an empty drum that was handled by the deceased during cleaning work. We have asked forensic experts to find out what was the chemical,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-323
04-11-2020||West Bengal||Binay camp bursts crackers||The Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha started celebrating in the hills on Tuesday evening amid claims that the chief minister referred to Tamang and Anit Thapa as “guardians” of the hills. Tamang’s supporters burst crackers in Darjeeling town while others in Kalimpong distributed sweets. Tamang and Thapa, who is also the chief of GTA, met Mamata in Nabanna for the first time after rival Morcha leader Bimal Gurung — with serious criminal charges against him — reappeared after three years last month and pledged support to Trinamul in the upcoming Bengal elections. Tamang’s written statement after the meeting read: “In our discussion hon CM said that Anit and Binay are the guardians of Hills. As a guardian you should know how to keep hills under control and prevail peace in the hills. I have entrusted hills in your hands. I will at any cost will not interfere in your works nor will allow anyone to interfere in the hills. Peace and tranquility of the hills is our priority. I want peace not only in hills but in the entire North Bengal. I and my party will work to keep the area peaceful. I assure my support to you two (sic).” After the meeting got over by 4pm, the mood turned celebratory in Tamang’s camp in Darjeeling though the outcome of the meeting was officially not made public. Speaking to the media in Calcutta, Tamang repeatedly stressed that Gurung was not discussed. But the tone for the celebrations was set by Tamang himself, who sent a WhatsApp message, “meeting successful, peace will prevail in the hills,” to his party leaders. To mediapersons, Tamang’s WhatsApp text read: “Meeting is over, Meeting is fruitful.” Tamang said that the GTA would receive extra grants and funds for beautification of Mirik Lake and that official-level meetings would be convened to decided pending issues of GTA employees and cinchona plantations. However in Darjeeling, the “political outcome” was the talking point. A senior leader of the Tamang camp posted a status “Chapter Closed” in his Facebook account as if to imply that Gurung’s political chapter was closed. But many hill observers believe that the entire picture is yet to unfold. “Tamang may have received a favourable response from Mamata Banerjee but one must not forget that Bimal Gurung is also getting preferential treatment in Calcutta in the sense that he was there in the city in full public view,” said a hill observer. Many in the hills are speculating that Gurung might stay in Gorkha-dominated area of the Dooars while Tamang and Thapa would be in the hills. Whether that formula is honoured or not remains to be seen as Gurung’s supporters are also active across the hills. They held an indoor meeting in Mirik today. Tamang’s faction has in turn been trying to stress that Gurung’s presence in the hills would create a law-and-order problem and that he is a “fugitive” wanted by law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-323
04-11-2020||West Bengal||Meeting with CM at Nabanna, ripples in hills||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Binay Tamang called Bimal Gurung a “non-entity” and said people in the hills were angry with the fugitive leader who resurfaced last month, these comments coming within hours of his meeting with chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna. “Who is Bimal Gurung? There is no point in giving any importance to him. He is a non-entity now,” Tamang told newspersons in Calcutta after his meeting with Mamata. A political observer said that the comments, made immediately after his meeting with Mamata, were significant. “It shows that Binay Tamang might have got a message from Nabanna during the meeting that bolstered his confidence,” said an observer. Ever since Gurung dramatically resurfaced on October 21 after a three-year gap and extended his support to Trinamul, a section of leaders of the rival Tamang faction appeared worried amid questions on who would lead the Morcha in the coming days. Gurung, who had allied with the BJP-led NDA before resurfacing in October, had been the undisputed leader of the hills till 2017. Tamang filled the void after Gurung left Darjeeling. As of now, there does not seem to be any scope for reconciliation between Gurung and Tamang. Tamang, who spoke about Gurung on Monday for the first time after the developments of October 21, iterated on Tuesday that he was in full control of the hills. “We know that some of his (Gurung’s) people held a meeting in Mirik on Tuesday. But there were hardly 200-odd people there, whereas thousands came out on the streets and joined in protest marches against him. People in the hills are angry with him and their participation (in anti-Gurung rallies) was the spontaneous outburst of resentment brewing within,” said Tamang. Quizzed on his meeting with Mamata, Tamang maintained it was on certain pending issues of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) and talks revolved around how to maintain peace and normality in the hills. “He (Gurung) is not in our syllabus. We did not discuss anything about him,” the Morcha leader said, swatting away the Gurung factor that many believe may change the political landscape in the hills. Sources in Nabanna said that the meeting in the presence of chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and state ministers Aroop Biswas and Firhad Hakim, lasted for about 20 minutes. “Issues related to the continuation of development work carried out by the GTA were mainly discussed,” said a source. Ever since Mamata invited Tamang and his faction’s general secretary Anit Thapa, who also chairs the board of administrators at GTA Anit Thapa, speculations were rife. While some said she called the duo as part of an attempt to strike a balance among both rival factions, others pointed that Tamang and Thapa were called to reassure them that Gurung would not affect their equation with the state government and Trinamul. “Mamata needs both Tamang and Gurung, but they are not willing to reconcile... So, it would be interesting to see how the Trinamul leadership manages to ensure support of both factions,” said a political analyst. Senior BJP leaders warned about the possibility of a fresh round of unrest in the hills because of Mamata’s politics. “The crisis in the hills has been created by Mamata Banerjee. It is on her to look for a resolution now. From whatever I heard Binay Tamang tell the media, I figure that if a permanent solution can’t be reached, the hills will again be on the boil,” said Mukul Roy, BJP national vice-president. Additional reporting by Pranesh Sarkar and Arkamoy Datta Majumdar in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-323
04-11-2020||West Bengal||Decline in active cases makes govt ‘confident’ ||Bengal on Tuesday reported a drop in total active Covid-19 cases for the eighth consecutive day since the end of Durga Puja, prompting the Mamata Banerjee government to assert that this pattern since Durga Puja made it a little more confident. On Tuesday, Bengal logged  3,981 new cases and 4,058 recoveries. “Something that we find most notable…people went out during the Puja, the festival was celebrated. Despite that, in Bengal, the positive rate, weekly and overall average, as of today (Tuesday), has been on the decline. The weekly mortality rate...the rate of infection have been falling,” said chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, adding that this pattern “has given us a little more confidence”. Bengal’s total caseload went past 3.85 lakh, including over 3.42 lakh recoveries. In the eight days since the end of Puja, Bengal reported 32,047 recoveries, compared to 31,767 new cases. The total active cases dropped from 37,190 to 36,443. Bengal’s recovery rate on Tuesday rose to a new high of 88.73, nearing the national rate of 92.03 per cent. However, Bengal on Tuesday reported 56 deaths — 12 from Calcutta and 14 from North 24-Parganas — taking the total Covid-19 toll past 7,000 to 7,013. The first Covid-19 death in Bengal was reported on March 23. The state government attributed 5,893 deaths, or 84 per cent, to comorbidities. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.81, but still lags behind the national rate of 1.48 per cent. Bandyopadhyay added that the government’s efforts to augment health infrastructure had been steadily on the rise. A minister said: “What is very important to note is the fact that these are figures of infections during Puja days. Tuesday is Day 10 for someone who got infected on Mahanavami.” It is between days six and 10 of the infection that most Covid-19 cases get detected. According to the minister, these numbers were beginning to show how effective Calcutta High Court’s intervention, to keep unbridled revelry from worsening the outbreak into a full-fledged public health emergency, was. With 44,176 tests on Tuesday, Bengal achieved over 46.88 lakh tests, at 52,092 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.22 per cent now. The state reported 32.75 per cent occupancy in the 12,966 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 96 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides nearly 4.07 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-323
04-11-2020||West Bengal||Voter list revision faces pandemic posers||The electoral roll revision, an annual exercise to update the voter list, will start on November 18, but the state administration and political parties are worried over meeting the aim of an error-free voter list amid pandemic curbs. “Revision of the electoral roll is very important this year as Bengal goes to polls next year. The ECI and political parties would be keen on drafting an error-free roll. But it is still not clear if that is possible amid several restrictions because of the pandemic,” said a senior government official. According to sources, this year electoral roll revision would be a one-month affair, till December 15. Earlier, it used to take three months. Booth-level officers and agents of political parties have to follow Covid-19 protocols. “As roll revision in Bengal is to a great extent a political exercise, it is still not clear how political parties would be able to persuade new voters to apply for inclusion of names this year,” said an official. In Bengal, political parties visit homes, especially in rural areas, to encourage all eligible voters to apply for inclusion of their names on the voter list. A district magistrate (DM) said that representatives of political parties had contacted him, voicing concerns. “Even if representatives of political parties carry out this exercise by following Covid 19 protocol, they are not sure if villagers would allow them to visit their homes,” the DM said. In rural areas, representatives of political parties also help new voter applicants with collecting relevant documents from government offices. An official said political parties had raised questions on whether they could undertake such an extensive exercise given the strict protocols in government offices. “As an assembly of people is not allowed, political parties fear they won’t be able to help enough applicants secure the required documents,” said the official. These fears are not baseless, said sources, pointing out that the administration is facing trouble in pre-revision activities, which include trying to clean up the electoral roll by deleting voters who died or changed their address. “We could not undertake this process properly this year as we could not send teams to addresses of such voters for verification,” said an official. In case of electoral roll revision, authorities would need to hold hearings for inclusion or deletion of any name. “It is still not clear how it would be done in case a number of objections or claims are filed (demanding inclusion or deletion of names) as disposal of claims and objections have to be over by January 5,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-323
04-11-2020||West Bengal||Durgapur barrage repair delay impacts people, industry||The delay in repairing the damaged sluice gate of Damodar Barrage caused the state-run Durgapur Projects Limited (DPL) to shut down power generation from Tuesday morning over insufficient water supply, triggering power cuts in the town reeling from water crisis ever since the bent gate was spotted on Saturday. Officials of the power utility said they had exhausted its stored water on Tuesday and had to shut down the 300MW seventh unit. “At present, two of our units — 300MW seventh unit and 250MW eighth unit – generate power. The eighth unit was stopped for maintenance for a couple of days and today (Tuesday) we had to shut down our seventh unit in the absence of water,” said Swagata Mitra, a DPL spokesperson. DPL, merged with West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited two years ago, supplies power to domestic and bulk consumers in and around Durgapur town. “Durgapur’s daily power requirement is 250MW,” said a plant official. Mitra claimed there would not be any powr shortage in Durgapur as the WBSEDCL would route power to the region from other grids. However, some residents questioned Mitra’s claim as several parts of Durgapur started to witness power cuts. “Power went off twice for 30 minutes on Tuesday morning. We are already suffering from water scarcity and now power crisis has added to our woes,” said Vishnu Khaitan, a factory owner in Durgapur. The barrage crisis caused the Mejia Thermal Power Station of Damodar Valley Corporation in Bankura to drop power generation to 1,210MW from its capacity of 2,340MW. The plant shut two of its eight units and stopped supplying water to its township.“We urged rural body functionaries to ensure water supply through tankers to our township,” said an MTPS official. The plant supplies power to Indian Railways, Coal India, factories in West Burdwan, Bankura and Purulia and exports power to Bangladesh. The plant also supplies power to Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala. “We stopped supplying power to the three states,” the official added. Most small and medium scale industries in the region have reduced or stopped production since Monday. In Durgapur and Bankura, officials of PHE and civic authorities in the two towns supplied water for domestic use in around 400 tankers on Tuesday. “We are supplying water in 80 tankers in three shifts from Tuesday in Durgapur town. We are also supplying water pouches from mobile treatment units in various areas. There is scarcity of water at the moment,” said Dilip Agasty, Durgapur mayor. Durgapur town usually requires around 200 gallons of water per day. In Bankura, the civic body authorities supplied water in tankers and pouches. Despite Agasty’s claim, the CPM and the BJP blamed the “inefficiency of the Mamata Banerjee government” for the present crisis. “It is a manmade crisis. The government is spending money in organising religious festivals but cannot arrange money to overhaul the barrage. They also did not take lessons from the 2017 incident in which another gate was damaged,” said Pankaj Roy Sarkar, CPM West Burdwan district secretariat member. BJP state vice-president Raju Banerjee said: “The state government has money to spend on donations to clubs and puja committees but for public service they expect funds from the Narendra Modi government.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-323
04-11-2020||West Bengal||Over 5,000 fishermen miss their catch||A bend in the sluice gate No. 31 of Durgapur Barrage on Saturday that caused the upper catchment area of the Damodar river to dry up has rendered over 5,000 fishermen in Durgapur and Bankura’s Borjora jobless. Reason: most of the fish have been swept away to the lower catchment areas through the damaged gate. Many fish have died without water. The livelihood of fishermen in Durgapur and Bankura depends majorly on the Damodar river. Catch is better in the upper catchment area and meets about 30 per cent of the demand for fish in the Durgapur-Bankura region. Damodar is known for rohu, catla, tilapia, and small prawns. Durgapur fisherman Swapan Biswas said the damage to the Durgapur Barrage was a fresh blow to them just when they were struggling to come out of losses in the Covid-induced lockdown since March. “We haven’t been able to catch fish since Saturday. This has again hit our income after the prolonged lockdown,” he said. “The damage to the barrage is a fresh blow,” said Swapan, who sells around a quintal of fish to wholesalers in Durgapur and nearby. The damage to the Durgapur Barrage has hit fish supply to the markets of Durgapur and Bankura. “Local fishermen don’t have catch. We have to depend on fishermen from other districts like East Midnapore and North 24-Parganas, and states like Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh,” said a fish wholesaler in Durgapur. Goutam Biswas, another fish trader, who normally sells around one quintal fish to markets in Durgapur and sends consignments to Siliguri every day, remembered when in 2017 another sluice gate of the barrage was damaged. “We could not catch fish for three months,” said Goutam. In 2017, after the gate’s repair, the fisheries and irrigation departments had jointly released carp in the Damodar. It had taken three months for the carp to grow and be caught for sale. The Durgapur Barrage crisis has been compounded as the irrigation department missed its Tuesday deadline to start restoring the damaged sluice gate. An irrigation engineer said the area needed to be dry for repairs to start. “The work is not easy as the monsoon continued till September-end and it rained in early October too. Small rivers linked to Damodar are posing a challenge to our job,” he said.  Sources said even if work started it would need at least 36 hours or more to finish.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-323
04-11-2020||West Bengal||Charred bodies of cop, wife and kid found ||Police have recovered the charred bodies of a Railway Protection Force (RPF) constable, his wife and eight-year-old son, from their house at Baghasan village in East Burdwan’s Manteswar on Tuesday morning. Police sources said the constable was identified as Sudeb Chandra Dey, 39, his wife Rekha, 29 and their son Snehanshu, 8. The constable’s 11-year-old daughter, who had called up her uncle on Monday to seek help as the house was on fire, has survived but is admitted at Burdwan Medical College and Hospital with extensive burns. Dey was posted as a constable at Katwa railway station in East Burdwan for the past five years and his family used to live in his ancestral home at Baghasan village. He had come home on leave on Monday. Basudeb Dey, elder brother of the constable, said he had received the distress call from his niece. Basudeb suspected his brother had died by suicide. “The door was not closed from inside but an almirah was placed behind it to prevent anyone from entering easily,” he said. East Burdwan cops also suspect it to be a case of suicide. “We are investigating to know whether it was a case of suicide,” said a police officer in Kalna. RPF inspector Vivek Singh, who visited Sudeb’s kin at Kalna subdivisional hospital, claimed that he had no issues or problems at his workplace and had been a responsible cop during his tenure at Katwa RPF post. The police seized around 122kg of cannabis, valued at Rs 50 lakh, from a car, and arrested two persons in Birbhum’s Dubrajpur on early Tuesday morning. Police sources said that preliminary investigation revealed that the cannabis had been bought from Manipur and the consignment was routed to Birbhum through Jharkhand. The arrested duo — Tapas Garai and Dipak Garai — are residents of Dubrajpur. Shyam Singh, Birbhum police chief said there were three more persons in the car and the police have started a raid to arrest them. Police officers said the cannabis was hidden under the seat of the car.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-324
