05-11-2020||West Bengal||Calcutta HC bans firecrackers on Kali Puja||The Calcutta High Court on Thursday banned the use and sale of firecrackers on Kali Puja to curb pollution amid the Covid-19 pandemic. A division bench of justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee gave the direction while hearing two Public Interest Litigations (PILs). Kali Puja is on November 15. The court directed that the ban will also be in force during Jagaddhatri Puja, Chhath and Kartik Puja. The court said that the guidelines, which were in place during Durga Puja such as no entry to pandals, will also be in effect during Kali Puja. The bench lauded the state government for effectively implementing the court-directed guidelines during Durga Puja. It asked the police to ensure that the norms are strictly enforced on Kali Puja as well. Fifteen people will be allowed in the Kali Puja pandals having an area up to 300 sq metres, and 45 persons in the bigger ones, the court said. The bench also disallowed procession during immersion. The state government on Tuesday had appealed to the people to avoid bursting firecrackers during Kali Puja and Diwali in order to check air pollution, which is hazardous for Covid-19 patients. "With everybody's cooperation, we want to hold the Kali Puja and Diwali festivals avoiding firecrackers. The administration appeals to people to avoid firecrackers," Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay had said. An association of firecracker makers has already demanded compensation of Rs 2 lakh for each licensed fireworks dealers, numbering over 53,000. The 'Poschim Bango Atosbazi Unnayan Samity' has said that livelihood of around four lakh people in the state are at stake. A complete ban on fireworks will raise the possibility of illegal firecrackers flooding the market and flouting the existing noise cap of 90 decibel, it has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-321
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Face-off over land kills one, injures two in Bengal||The 54-year-old patriarch of a family in Murshidabad’s Samserganj was shot dead on Wednesday in connection with a dispute with neighbours over a five-decimal parcel of land. Imran Hossain, 54, was shot dead allegedly by family members of neighbour Zakir Hossain, 50, both of whom sources say had been embroiled in a two-year-old dispute over the five-decimal (around 2,200sqft) land. Eyewitnesses said that on Wednesday morning Imran’s group had come to erect a boundary wall when a face-off occurred between the two families. “There was a face-off between two groups, and we could hear people crying that they would rather die than give up their land,” said a resident of the locality. It is not yet clear how the clash escalated to firing, but Imran was gunned down and two of his family members — Mohammed Selim Ansari and Mobassar Sheikh — were injured by bullets fired from country weapons. They are undergoing treatment at Jangipur subdivisional hospital. On Wednesday afternoon, over 100 Trinamul workers backed by the local MLA Amirul Haque began a dharna in front of Jangipur police station demanding the arrest of all accused persons. The police have arrested four persons in connection with the murder in Dhulia municipality’s ward No. 13. “We responded to the incident immediately and scanned CCTV camera footage to make the arrests,” said Jangipur district police chief Y. Raghuvamshi. Residents said though both the parties supported Trinamul, there were no political undertones. MLA Haque echoed local sentiments and said: “Both the parties involved in the incident are Trinamul supporters, but we want the law to take its course.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-321
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid relapse combat OPD in Bengal||Health department officials in West Midnapore are undertaking an initiative to set up outpatientn facilities at district Covid hospitals, starting with the one in Salboni, to combat what sources are terming a “substantial rate of relapse” for recovered Covid patients in the district. The move comes in the wake of reports that several patients discharged from the district’s five Covid hospitals were suffering relapses, and in extreme cases dying owing to “lack of proper follow-up”, combined with “lingering stigma” from neighbours and even several private practitioners. The OPD facility at Salboni is set to commence twice a week starting next week, with officials saying the onus has shifted back to Covid hospitals for follow-up. “Many patients are being ignored or shunned once discharged owing to lingering stigma. This often works against them when they need proper guidance or follow up,” said chief medical officer Nitai Mondal. Though Mondal could not give an exact figure, he said deaths had also been reported. Last week, a health worker from West Midnapore working in a Birbhum hospital was found dead at his residence a few days after being discharged from Covid treatment. Sources said total cases in West Midnapore on Tuesday stood at 14,115 with 12,637 recoveries, 230 deaths and 1,864 active cases. Several patients who recovered from Covid reported a relapse of symptoms such as fever and weakness. “Those who recovered from Covid need to be under medical care for at least two weeks. This helps doctors take prompt calls,” said a doctor attached to a government facility in West Midnapore. “Patients complain of congestion in the lungs, loss of appetite and weakness shortly after recovering from Covid. These problems need to be addressed fast through follow-ups,” the doctor added. Speaking on the decision to inaugurate outpatient facilities at Salboni, district officials said it was a Level-IV hospital with intensive care and ventilation facilities as well as a large number of health workers. OPD operations will commence twice a week and will be expanded according to demand. A Debra resident and highway toll worker who recovered from Covid-19 welcomed this move. “I underwent Covid treatment for two weeks but there was a lot of monitoring needed following my discharge. Unfortunately, doctors in my area would not treat me so I had to make calls to doctors in Salboni,” said the 49-year-old. “I welcome the district health authorities’ move regarding follow-up treatment for recovered Covid patients,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-321
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri revenue plan||The board of administrators in Jalpaiguri municipality launched a drive in the town on Wednesday to shore up revenue. The municipality decided to take revenue from residents who have either not done mutation of their property with the civic body or are running commercial activities from their residential properties. “It has come to our notice that across Jalpaiguri town, hundreds of people have bought apartments but most of them have not done their mutation with the municipality. Also, there are some others who have put residential properties on rent for commercial use or are using such spaces for commercial activities themselves. That is why we have launched the drive so that the civic body can make some additional earnings,” said Sandip Mahato, a member of the board of administrators of the municipality. Any person owning a space — whether a shop or a residential apartment — needs to register the space with the civic body in his name by paying a fee. Later, the civic body us supposed to make an assessment of the property and fixes the municipal tax. In Jalpaiguri, around 400 multi-storey buildings have come up during the past few years. Most of the residents, who own apartments or commercial spaces in these buildings, are yet to carry out the mutation. “If any residential property is used for commercial purposes, the tax is less and thus, it is the civic body that loses out on the revenue. We have visited a number of locations on Wednesday and have alerted people so that they refrain from such practices. Also, there is a plan to serve notices to those who are yet to do the mutation,” Mahato added. An official in the civic body said that every month, they need to make different payments from the general fund, that is, the fund that is created through revenue collection. Among these include the salaries and wages of casual workers and pensions of former employees, which altogether is around Rs 65 lakh a month. “During past few months, the municipality’s revenue collection has dropped by around 60 per cent,” the official said. “We now need funds now to ensure that these payments are made at regular intervals. A preliminary assessment shows that we can collect around Rs 5 crore as revenue from these sources (mutation and tax). This is yet another reason for launching the drive,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-321
05-11-2020||West Bengal||3 held with gold worth Rs 4 crore||Police arrested three persons after gold bars worth around Rs 4 crore were seized from their possession in North Dinajpur on Tuesday night. Police sources said the trio was heading towards Malda from Siliguri in an auto. Among those arrested, two are from Maharashtra while the third hails from Bhaktinagar of Jalpaiguri district. “Our men were checking vehicles on the highway and intercepted an auto rickshaw. There was no registration plate on the auto. Three persons were travelling in the vehicle. All of them were frisked and the auto was also checked. The policemen then seized gold bars worth around Rs 4 crore. We need to interrogate them further to know whether they are carriers or are associated with a gold smuggling racket,” said Sachin Makkar, the superintendent of police, Islampur district. According to Makkar, 50 gold bars, each weighing 166 grams (8.3 kg in total), have been seized from the trio. Those arrested have been identified as Haridas Thanabode and Atul Ramesh Babar, both residents of Maharashtra, and Rezaul Ali of Bhaktinagar in Jalpaiguri. The police sources said as the auto was stopped on the highway, Ali told them that he was going to Malda from Siliguri to deliver the vehicle. “As we asked the other two passengers, they said they have taken the auto on hire and are also going to Malda. This further raised our suspicion as it is rare to travel such a long distance in an auto, when buses and trains are available between Siliguri and Malda,” said a police officer. On Wednesday, Thanabode, Babar and Ali were produced at the local court in Islampur. The trio had been sent to police custody for 10 days, said the sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-321
05-11-2020||West Bengal||BJP & CPM flay govt ‘inefficiency’ at Durgapur Barrage||The CPM and the BJP on Wednesday accused the Mamata Banerjee government of “inefficiency” and “corruption” over the Durgapur Barrage incident. They pointed out that the state irrigation department, entrusted with maintaining the facility, could not restore normality in the area even after five days of the sluice gate No. 31 getting damaged on Saturday. The BJP said that the government had shown “extreme inefficiency” in dealing with the situation, while the CPM said the connivance of a section of irrigation officials with the sand mafia had led to the incident. The damage severely affected water supply in Durgapur and Bankura. Since Tuesday there power cuts started in the region. These twin troubles have sparked a political outcry over the state government’s handling of the crises. The BJP said the government did not go beyond conducting a survey after a similar incident had led to a public outcry in 2017. “In 2017, the government had announced of replacing 11 gates of the barrage and repairing the remaining gates, but the announcement remained only in newspapers. Since Saturday, people are suffering because of shortage of water and power supply,” said S.S. Ahluwalia, BJP MP from Burdwan-Durgapur. Ahluwalia, in a news meet at his Durgapur residence on Wednesday, also accused the government of not providing adequate water to the people and alleged that some Trinamul workers were “black marketing water” to profit from people’s crisis. “I have spoken to the Eastern Coalfields and Durgapur Steel Plant officials to join the restoration effort… It (the crisis) requires collective effort and there should not be any ego or politics,” he said. Trinamul MLA Biswanath Padial questioned the MP’s criticism and said Ahluwalia should first explain the reason for his long disappearance when people were in distress. Padial said: “What he was doing when poor people were not getting food during the lockdown?” The CPM on Wednesday held rallies in Durgapur town demanding water and accused the state government of “inefficiency”. They also demanded that the government make public CCTV footage of the barrage gates when the incident occurred. “A section of irrigation employees, who operate the sluice gates, are hand in glove with the sand mafia. They lift the gates to let sand from the upper catchment area flow to the lower catchment. The gate that got damaged is usually lifted only in case of an emergency. The government should come clean on what led to the lifting of gate no. 31 and its subsequent damage,” said Pankaj Roy Sarkar, CPM West Burdwan district secretariat member. He said in 2017, gate no. 1 had been damaged. “That gate too is rarely operated. It is intriguing why only gates at the two ends get damaged,” Roy Sarkar said. “The government had ordered an inquiry after we raised the issue of corrupt practices in 2017, but we do not know the outcome of the probe,” he added. Local irrigation officials, however, refuted the charges of corruption levelled against them. “Twisting of the gate is a technical issue and happened because of lack of maintenance,” said an engineer of the irrigation department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-321
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Alipurduar identifies land for Cha Sundari homes ||The Mamata Banerjee government is laying stress on a housing scheme — as part of the Cha Sundari scheme — for tea workers of the state as part of its bid to woo the tea population at a time the BJP has been highlighting how it has tried to offer a better deal to tea workers by changing labour laws. At some 15 Assembly constituencies in north Bengal, votes of the tea population decide the results. Surendra Kumar Meena, the district magistrate of Alipurduar, said that the administration had identified land in tea estates for the houses to come up in the first phase. “The chief minister had announced the details of the scheme at the administrative review meeting that she held in Siliguri. The survey has been done and the state housing department soon will start construction work,” he said. In the district, houses will be built in Mujnai, Dheklapara, Toorsa and Lankapara tea estates. Among these four, other than Toorsa, the rest are located under Birpara-Madarihat Assembly constituency, a seat the BJP won back in 2016 Assembly elections and secured a lead in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Under the housing scheme, the state intends to provide free houses to all the three lakh-odd tea workers over the next three years, and is popularising the scheme with a catch line, “Cha Sramikder Sakol Dorkare Pashe Achey Sarkar” (the government is always by the tea workers’ side). In the tea belts of north Bengal such as Darjeeling, Terai or the Dooars, the BJP had always harped on the issue of minimum wage in the tea sector to embarrass the state government. The issue has, sources said, often affected the poll prospects of the ruling Trinamul. Though the state government constituted a committee to recommend minimum wage rate for tea workers back in 2015, wage rate has not been fixed yet. Added to it, the BJP is now highlighting the new labour law where it has been stated that maximum 15 per cent of the total wage can be provided to workers as non-cash component. In the tea industry, planters have time and again pointed out that they spend a considerable amount on non-cash benefits to workers. “BJP leaders are trying to prove that if the new labour law is implemented, planters cannot provide non-cash components of more than 15 per cent of the wage and must pay the rest in cash. They are claiming this would increase the wage rate of tea workers,” said a senior trade union leader. With the BJP emphasising on those issues, Mamata seems to be banking on the housing scheme. Home and land rights have been a longstanding demand of workers and their families. Additional reports by Avijit Sinha in Siliguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-321
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Chapter not closed, Gurung says in audio clip||Founder-president of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha Bimal Gurung on Wednesday released an audio message and asserted that his “political chapter” cannot be closed by Binay Tamang, who helms the party’s rival faction. Gurung also asserted that he was in Calcutta. His message bore significance as Tamang and his deputy Anit Thapa met chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna in Calcutta on Tuesday for the first time after Gurung in late October announced his decision to dump the BJP-led NDA and support Trinamul in the upcoming Bengal polls. After the meeting, which was purportedly on administrative matters, Trinamul ally Tamang called Gurung a non-entity. A Tamang aide had hinted that Gurung’s political chapter was closed. “Today, I am in Calcutta and keeping tabs on all developments. These so-called leaders are indulging in cheap politics. Be simple with your politics and don’t lie,” Gurung said in the audio release circulated by his supporters. Gurung asserted: “Our (Bimal Gurung’s and Roshan Giri’s) chapter will not be closed when you say. You (Tamang) did not give birth to our party. We gave birth to this party.” A political observer said that Gurung’s assertion that he was “in Calcutta” and his confidence about his political career meant that the battle for supremacy in the hill politics was likely to continue for the time being. Gurung, purportedly still on the run following the various cases slapped on him during the Gorkhaland agitation, raised questions on Tamang’s decision to address the press at Gorkha Bhawan in Calcutta and not at Nabanna, to drive home the point that Tamang’s statement had not been endorsed by Mamata. Accusing Tamang and Thapa of not disclosing the core issue discussed with Mamata, Gurung dared the duo to disclose “the truth.” Gurung also raised questions about celebrations in the Tamang camp. “People are supporting you just for formality, the results of previous elections are before you. Don’t try and confuse the public when you cannot disclose the real details of the meeting,” said Gurung.It was clear that Gurung was trying to send out a message that he was confident about his future, a day after Tamang dropped hints that he had filled the void in the hills after Gurung ran away in 2017. A political observer said that Gurung’s assertion that he was “in Calcutta” and his confidence about his political career meant that the battle for supremacy in the hill politics was likely to continue for the time being. “Bimal (Gurung) is trying to send a clear message that he is still confident even after the Binay-Anit meeting with Mamata Banerjee,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-321
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Chapter not closed, Gurung says in audio clip||Founder-president of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha Bimal Gurung on Wednesday released an audio message and asserted that his “political chapter” cannot be closed by Binay Tamang, who helms the party’s rival faction. Gurung also asserted that he was in Calcutta. His message bore significance as Tamang and his deputy Anit Thapa met chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna in Calcutta on Tuesday for the first time after Gurung in late October announced his decision to dump the BJP-led NDA and support Trinamul in the upcoming Bengal polls. After the meeting, which was purportedly on administrative matters, Trinamul ally Tamang called Gurung a non-entity. A Tamang aide had hinted that Gurung’s political chapter was closed. “Today, I am in Calcutta and keeping tabs on all developments. These so-called leaders are indulging in cheap politics. Be simple with your politics and don’t lie,” Gurung said in the audio release circulated by his supporters. Gurung asserted: “Our (Bimal Gurung’s and Roshan Giri’s) chapter will not be closed when you say. You (Tamang) did not give birth to our party. We gave birth to this party.” A political observer said that Gurung’s assertion that he was “in Calcutta” and his confidence about his political career meant that the battle for supremacy in the hill politics was likely to continue for the time being. Gurung, purportedly still on the run following the various cases slapped on him during the Gorkhaland agitation, raised questions on Tamang’s decision to address the press at Gorkha Bhawan in Calcutta and not at Nabanna, to drive home the point that Tamang’s statement had not been endorsed by Mamata. Accusing Tamang and Thapa of not disclosing the core issue discussed with Mamata, Gurung dared the duo to disclose “the truth.” Gurung also raised questions about celebrations in the Tamang camp. “People are supporting you just for formality, the results of previous elections are before you. Don’t try and confuse the public when you cannot disclose the real details of the meeting,” said Gurung.It was clear that Gurung was trying to send out a message that he was confident about his future, a day after Tamang dropped hints that he had filled the void in the hills after Gurung ran away in 2017. A political observer said that Gurung’s assertion that he was “in Calcutta” and his confidence about his political career meant that the battle for supremacy in the hill politics was likely to continue for the time being. “Bimal (Gurung) is trying to send a clear message that he is still confident even after the Binay-Anit meeting with Mamata Banerjee,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-322
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Durgapur barrage gate repair starts||Work to restore the damaged gate at Durgapur Barrage on Damodar river started around 2pm on Wednesday after 100 hours went into trying to drain the riverbed at the upper catchment area. Irrigation department officials said the restoration, during which they would either replace or repair the damaged gate, would take at least 20 hours. Only then can they ask the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) to release water from its dams in Jharkhand. “The water will reach the barrage in phases and it will take at least 24 hours to get water to the required level to supply it to water treatment and power plants,” said an irrigation department official. Gate 31 of the six-decade-old barrage got twisted on Saturday from water pressure, resulting in water gushing out to the lower catchment area. Severe water supply crisis and disruption in power generation followed. Engineers and technicians of the irrigation department and SAIL’s Durgapur Steel Plant have joined hands to carry out the restoration. First, they set up temporary barricades with sandbags and soil near the damaged gate and later pumped out the water that had accumulated between the gate and the barricade. The irrigation department took the help of heavy-duty pumps from the Eastern Coalfields to drain out water that had accumulated near the gate. Some structural engineers in Durgapur said the flow of water could have been stopped much earlier if temporary barricades using iron sheets had been put up to stop the flow of water. “Using only sandbags to stop the flow in the Damodar when monsoon has ended late was poor judgement. Along with sandbags, they should have used iron sheets for the job,” said an engineer. He added that pumps should have been used simultaneously while setting up the barricade. “That could have also saved time,” he added. As the crisis clocked more than 100 hours and the supply of water remained far less than the demand, people in the towns of Durgapur and Bankura put up roadblocks in several areas demanding water. Many took to social media to vent their ire against the administration. In Ward 17 of Durgapur, people manhandled workers of the local civic body when they reached the area with only one tanker. “What will we do with only one tanker? We are at least 400 people waiting here since morning for water and the administration has sent only one tanker,” said Laltu Biswas, a resident. A tanker can carry around 3,000 litres of water and scenes of scuffling among people while collecting water from tankers have been reported in several areas of Durgapur. The scene was no different in Bankura. People demonstrated with empty buckets to demand water. “I have two aged people and one baby at home. We have been buying water since Saturday. I do not know how long we can afford to buy costly packaged drinking water for domestic use,” said Shipra Chatterjee, a resident in Bankura town. She said the tankers were inadequate to meet the demand of the people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-322
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Sops to steal Shah’s thunder||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday, hours before Union home minister Amit Shah’s arrival in Calcutta, tried to woo the backward classes and communities of Bengal who had apparently sided with the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. In a meeting at state secretariat Nabanna with representatives of backward and marginalised peoples of the state, Mamata gave freehold land rights to refugees in colonies, eased norms for caste certificates and widened the ambit of the state-run health scheme. For over 80 minutes in the evening, she listened to the demands of the representatives, ordering the formation of development or cultural boards for communities such as Matuas, Bagdis, Bauris, Dules, Majhis and Kirtaniyas. “Her exercise was aimed at not only stealing some of Shah’s thunder but also to do some damage control among key sections of the south Bengal electorate,” said a Trinamul Rajya Sabha member. Sources said the move was significant as it was indicative of the Trinamul Congress chief’s eagerness to regain the support that the party enjoyed among the masses in the semi-urban and rural working class in the state. Also, Trinamul insiders added that the initiative was aimed at countering the BJP’s CAA-oriented campaign in Bengal — something Shah is likely to re-ignite during his visit — to woo Hindu refugees such as the Matuas. Matuas have the power to swing poll outcomes in at least 74 of the 294 Assembly seats in Bengal. “We have given pattas (long-term settlement rights on government land) to 3.5 lakh families since we came to power in 2011. We will give land rights to another 1.5 lakh families living in the refugee colonies,” Mamata said during the meeting at Nabanna. In Bengal, there are 94 refugee colonies on state government land and 237 colonies on central government land, where almost 1.5 lakh families, who crossed over from Bangladesh 40-50 years ago, reside. The state government has regularised 94 colonies on its land, and started the process to give freehold land rights to colony residents. Of late, the state government has started the process of giving similar rights to residents of 119  colonies on central government land. “We have recognised all the colonies in the state and we are trying to recognise all the central and private colonies as well…. We will give rights to all families living in colonies. The process has started today and 25,000 families would get the rights now. The remaining families would get it soon,” said the chief minister. “We ensured that these people are citizens of India. It was a longstanding demand of the Matuas as well as other communities,” she added. “Anybody who lives in a refugee colony will get a patta, which will be issued in phases. We will ensure that people do not have to face the problems regarding certificates and documents. No one can take away land from the locals. We will also ensure that caste certificates are issued at the earliest and documents from the 1950s are not required,” she added. A minister said that with the backing of Matuas alone, the BJP wrested the Bongaon and Ranaghat Lok Sabha seats. “These initiatives by the CM will help us go to people with the message that Trinamul actually fights for the cause of Matuas,” the minister said. Mamata also announced a development board for the Matuas and allotted a sum of Rs 10 crore to it. Sources in the administration said the purpose of the board would be to bridge the development gap in the Matua-dominated areas. “For example, if there is a need to install a drinking water source in an area immediately, the board can do it on its own without depending on the government,” said an official. “When (deceased Matua matriarch) Boro Ma was there, I used to look after her, for the last 20-25 years of her life…. Now, there are new self-proclaimed champions (the BJP) of the Matua cause, who don’t even know what it’s all about,” she said. “I was the first (prominent political leader) to go to the Matua households. We improved the condition of the railway station near Thakurbari (the Matua Mahasangha headquarters). We constructed a college for the Matuas…,”she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-322
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee woos youths with bike loan plan||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said that her government would give loans to 2 lakh youths to buy motorcycles and start “some sort of business or trade” on their own. “We are working on the plan and loans would be disbursed from state cooperative banks,” Mamata said. Sources in the state government said the bikes could be used to deliver goods or hawk items. “If needed, a box will be fitted on the pillion to enable the rider start some business like delivering goods to doorsteps. Once the scheme takes final shape, the government will announce the scheme in detail,” said an official. Youths will get soft loans to buy the bikes for which the government was working on modalities such as subsidy on EMI or down payment. State government sources said Mamata was eager to help lakhs of unemployed youths earn a living as the scope of jobs in Bengal was limited in the absence of major industries. The chief minister, sources said, was encouraged by a similar scheme called Gatidhara launched a few years ago in which jobless youths were aided to buy cars and run them as taxis. “The scheme was a grand success and nearly a lakh youths had started earning under the scheme,” said an official. A bureaucrat said that demand for home delivery of groceries and food items surged significantly during the pandemic even in remote parts of the state. “If bikes could be given to youths on easy terms, it would help them earn, particularly at a time when there is a demand for the (home delivery) service,” he said. Trinamul insiders said that if the scheme is launched ahead of the Assembly polls, they might be able to avoid uncomfortable questions during the campaign. “Wherever we go, we receive hundreds of requests for jobs. It is not possible (for us) to arrange jobs for so many people. If the scheme is launched soon, we can ask job-seekers to apply under the scheme,” said a Trinamul MLA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-322
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Sikkim bans firecrackers||The Sikkim government on Wednesday imposed a blanket ban against bursting any type of firecrackers in the state so as to safeguard the health of Covid-19 patients and those who have recovered from the infection. A notification signed by state chief secretary S.C. Gupta in Gangtok noted that the number of Covid-19 cases has been on the decline in the state of late and it was felt the use of firecrackers would increase air pollution that could prove hazardous for Covid patients. “There shall be a complete ban on the bursting of firecrackers in the state till further orders,” the notification  read. Bengal had earlier this week issued an advisory against the use of firecrackers during the ensuing Kali Puja and Diwali festivities in view of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-322
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid recovery rate reaches 88.88 % in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday, for the ninth consecutive day after Durga Puja, logged a drop in its total active Covid-19 cases, helped by a below-4,000 rise in new infections. The state reported 3,987 new cases, 55 deaths — 12 from Calcutta — and 4,129 recoveries. The record for daily recoveries was reset for the 15th time in 16 days, helping Bengal re-enter the list of top 10 states with the most recoveries, at eighth spot. The state’s total Covid-19 cases crossed 3.89 lakh, including over 3.46 lakh recoveries and 7,068 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate is 88.88 per cent, while the national rate is 92.08 per cent. Its mortality rate is 1.81 per cent, behind the national rate of 1.48 per cent. In nine days since the end of Puja, Bengal reported 36,176 recoveries, which outweighed the 35,754 new cases detected. The total active cases dropped from 37,190 to 36,246. Though Bengal has over 6.77 per cent of India’s total active cases, it dropped from fourth to fifth on the list of states with most active cases, swapping places with Delhi. “Wednesday was Day 10 for someone who got infected on Vijaya Dashami,” said a minister, crediting the high court’s intervention to curb crowds during festive days for preventing the outbreak from worsening. It is between days six and 10 of infection that most cases get detected. “With these figures that we have been getting, from around Lakshmi Puja, one can start concluding that Calcutta High Court’s intervention (to keep unbridled revelry from worsening the outbreak into a full-fledged public health emergency) was quite effective,” said the minister. The state government attributed 5,935, or 84 per cent, to co-morbidities. With 45,213 tests on Wednesday, Bengal went past the 47 lakh milestone in testing, with over 47.33 lakh tests, at 52,595 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.23 per cent now. The state reported 33.04 per cent occupancy in the 12,966 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 96 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 4.1 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-322
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri municipality body revenue plan||The board of administrators in Jalpaiguri municipality launched a drive in the town on Wednesday to shore up revenue. The municipality decided to take revenue from residents who have either not done mutation of their property with the civic body or are running commercial activities from their residential properties. “It has come to our notice that across Jalpaiguri town, hundreds of people have bought apartments but most of them have not done their mutation with the municipality. Also, there are some others who have put residential properties on rent for commercial use or are using such spaces for commercial activities themselves. That is why we have launched the drive so that the civic body can make some additional earnings,” said Sandip Mahato, a member of the board of administrators of the municipality. Any person owning a space — whether a shop or a residential apartment — needs to register the space with the civic body in his name by paying a fee. Later, the civic body us supposed to make an assessment of the property and fixes the municipal tax. In Jalpaiguri, around 400 multi-storey buildings have come up during the past few years. Most of the residents, who own apartments or commercial spaces in these buildings, are yet to carry out the mutation. “If any residential property is used for commercial purposes, the tax is less and thus, it is the civic body that loses out on the revenue. We have visited a number of locations on Wednesday and have alerted people so that they refrain from such practices. Also, there is a plan to serve notices to those who are yet to do the mutation,” Mahato added. An official in the civic body said that every month, they need to make different payments from the general fund, that is, the fund that is created through revenue collection. Among these include the salaries and wages of casual workers and pensions of former employees, which altogether is around Rs 65 lakh a month. “During past few months, the municipality’s revenue collection has dropped by around 60 per cent,” the official said. “We now need funds now to ensure that these payments are made at regular intervals. A preliminary assessment shows that we can collect around Rs 5 crore as revenue from these sources (mutation and tax). This is yet another reason for launching the drive,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-322
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Amit Shah’s visit highlights: twin lunches ||The highlight of Union home minister Amit Shah’s Bengal visit — he reached Calcutta on Wednesday night — is likely to be two luncheons, one with a tribal family in Bankura on Thursday and another at a Matua home on the outskirts of Calcutta on Friday. A BJP source said that the luncheons were part of an outreach plan that Shah has for Bengal. The selection of the communities is significant as the saffron surge in Bengal is often linked to the inroads that party could make into large clusters of tribal and refugee communities. Multiple leaders in the state unit said that they were asked to arrange Shah’s lunch in two households which represent these communities. “Some Matuas are unhappy since the CAA hasn’t yet been executed in Bengal. Amitji’s visit will send a reassuring signal to these groups,” said a party source. In the last Lok Sabha polls, the BJP wrested six parliamentary seats in the Jungle Mahal area where the tribal electorate comprise a significant proportion, and bagged the Bongaon and Ranaghat seats where a bulk of voters of the Matua community reside. Over the years, several political parties — starting from the Left to Trinamul — have tried to woo the community, backward Hindus who were the last to leave Bangladesh, for electoral gains. The Matuas play an important role in many seats in North 24 Parganas, Nadia and parts of north Bengal. On Thursday, Shah will have lunch with the family of tribal farmhand Bibhishan Hansda in Chaturdihi village, 13km from Bankura town. On Friday, Nabin Biswas, a Matua, will host Shah. “If I can meet him, I will thank Amitji for the amended (citizenship) law,” Nabin said on Wednesday. “I will also request him to implement it in Bengal as soon as possible.” Though the Matuas had switched their loyalty to Trinamul since the change of guard, a significant section of the community have gone under the BJP fold and the ruling Trinamul has been trying to win them back with a slew of sops. “That’s why a special focus will be on Matuas in this visit,” said a source. On Wednesday, a group of BJP leaders headed by Bishnupur MP and party’s state Yuva Morcha president Saumitra Khan camped at Bibhishan’s home in Bankura’s Chaturdihi village, renovating it before Shah’s visit. Both Bibhishan and Nabin have been asked to prepare “humble Bengali vegetarian food” for Shah. Trinamul, in turn, put up around 500 party flags and 250 cut-outs of Mamata Banerjee across Bankura town and on the way to Chaturdihi. TMC started a “Go Back Amit Shah” campaign on social media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-322
05-11-2020||West Bengal||Three held with gold worth Rs 4 crore||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-322
