06-11-2020||West Bengal||Statue jinx stalks Amit Shah in Bengal||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday offered flowers amid much fanfare to a roadside statue in Bankura the BJP had identified as that of tribal freedom fighter Birsa Munda. But local tribal people said the statue had been erected not to the 19th-century hero but to an anonymous tribal hunter. While the faux pas outraged tribal communities that consider Munda their foremost icon, Trinamul claimed it was fresh evidence in support of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s allegation that the BJP is ignorant of Bengal’s culture and history. The BJP had tried to make amends by placing a picture of Munda at the foot of the statue after tribal leaders had highlighted the mistake, but this was construed as a “gesture of disrespect” by some. Thursday’s PR disaster for the BJP comes 18 months after people allegedly from a Shah road show in Calcutta barged into a college and vandalised a bust of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar towards the close of the programme. That incident had allowed Mamata to portray the BJP as a “bohiragato (outsider)” to Bengal, a charge that has become a staple of her speeches in the run-up to next year’s Assembly polls and one that she repeated shortly after Shah’s gaffe on Thursday. Sangiri Hembram, a leader of the prominent tribal outfit Bharat Jakat Majhi Pargana Mahal, said: “In the official programme schedule circulated by the BJP, it was specifically mentioned that Shah would offer ‘floral tribute at Bhagwan Birsa Munda’s statue’.” “He then goes and offers tribute to that random statue of a tribal hunter. It clearly betrays a lack of knowledge of the basics of our culture and an unwillingness to learn.” Support from tribal voters had been key to the BJP’s surprising success in the Lok Sabha polls in Bengal last year. A senior BJP leader acknowledged that a key objective of Shah’s Bankura visit was to court Bengal’s tribal communities and that the howler could create an “unnecessary problem”. The statue, which stands at a crossing on National Highway 60A at Powabagan, 7km from Bankura town, has no plaque or signage. Local tribal groups said the National Highways Authority of India had erected the statue to an unknown hunter four or five years ago as part of a beautification drive. The NHAI could not be reached for confirmation or comment on why the statue was left unnamed. Munda (1875-1900), who died in jail after leading a rebellion against the British, was a religious leader and folk hero too. He spearheaded a tribal religious, millenarian movement in the Bengal Presidency, in an area that now falls in Jharkhand. “This is unacceptable from the BJP. This is unacceptable from Shah. How is it (the mistake) even possible?” Hembram said. “He (Munda) is the only tribal leader whose portrait hangs in the Parliament museum. An international airport (in Ranchi) is named after him. This is serious.” He added: “We came to know about this humiliation on Thursday morning. This is utterly condemnable from the Union home minister.” Hembram said he had called up Bankura MP and BJP leader Subhas Sarkar to inform him of the mistake. “After that, a picture of Birsa Munda was brought and placed at the foot of the statue. That is another gesture of disrespect.” Munda’s picture had been placed at the site about half an hour before Shah’s arrival on Thursday morning. The statue had already been garlanded. Shah threw flowers towards the concrete statue, immediately after which a district BJP leader requested him to garland the picture instead. “The fault is ours. Amitji is not to blame. The embarrassment is ours. We had briefed him wrongly. But we managed to control the damage at the last minute,” a senior BJP leader said. Shah later lunched at the home of Bibhishan Hansda, a tribal marginal farmer, in an attempt at an outreach. Bankura BJP president Vivekananda Patra cited the lack of signage indicating whose statue it was. “Some local tribal people told us it was a statue of Birsa Munda. However, after we came to know about the objections from a few tribal groups, we immediately placed a photograph of Birsa Munda there. Amitji garlanded the photograph,” he said. Biplab Saren, district secretary of the Bharat Jakat Majhi Pargana Mahal, said the BJP could have chosen better alternatives than placing Munda’s picture at the foot of the statue. “If they wanted to pay tribute, there were the nearby statues of Sidho-Kanho (leaders of the 1850s Santhal rebellion). They did not change the programme even after the mistake was pointed out,” he said. “Also, there is a statue of Birsa Munda at Birsa Bazar in Ranibandh, less than 60km away. Why could the programme not be held there instead?” Trinamul rubbed it in. “From Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar to Birsa Munda, the BJP and its leaders have no understanding of, or respect for, the Bengal pantheon of icons. They will forever remain a party of Hindi-Hindu-Hindustan,” Trinamul Bankura chief Shaymal Santra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-319
06-11-2020||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court bans use and sale of firecrackers in Bengal||Calcutta High Court on Thursday asked the Bengal government to “ensure that there is no use or display or bursting of firecrackers at all during Kali Puja and Diwali celebrations” and other upcoming occasions. “This direction as to firecrackers will be effective all over the state and will cover not only the Kali Puja and Diwali celebrations but also Chhath Puja, Jagaddhatri Puja and Guru Nanak’s birthday celebrations thereafter,” the division bench of Justices Sanjib Banerjee and Arijit Banerjee said. “Wax or oil-based diyas would have to suffice for the greater good of the citizens and in the larger public interest,” the court order added. The court lauded the efforts by the government and police to ensure a less crowded Durga Puja. The word “firecrackers” in Thursday’s order includes “all types of sparklers and the like, whether or not the use or burning thereof involves any sound or light being generated”. The court has ordered police to maintain “strict vigil to ensure that there is no sale or purchase of firecrackers of any form in the state between now and the end of the month. The police should make every effort to confiscate firecrackers and any kind of like material which have the potential to pollute the air”. Any violation of the order should be dealt with through “immediate” and appropriate measures, the court said. The state “will ensure that no firecrackers of any kind are brought into the state, except for immediate transit to another state”. The bench issued a slew of directives for Kali Puja and Jagaddhatri Puja organisers. “All pandals will continue to be no-entry zones” as with the Durga Puja but the barricaded area outside has been reduced. The state government had advised people to lay off crackers this Diwali and Kali Puja. The court said: “It is evident that there has been an endeavour on the part of the state to protect the air quality so that the respiratory problems that arise as a result of the infection are not aggravated because of the noxious fumes brought about by the use of firecrackers.” Complimenting the government and the police, the court said: “For a start, the state government and the state police need to be commended for the admirable conduct of the Durga Puja, despite the late directions issued by the court. By and large – there were some ugly exceptions – the Durga Puja celebrations all over the state, including in the city, were in accordance with the directions issued by the court, and both the police and the administration made serious attempts to ensure that the Covid protocol was maintained and hygiene was not compromised. Indeed, the usual crowding at Puja pandals during the Durga Puja was, more or less, absent.” The court said “it will be for the state to consider whether appropriate compensation or other measures can be taken” for cracker manufacturers. “For the greater good, a small number of persons involved in the firecracker business may have to suffer losses. The overwhelming public interest cannot be compromised,” the order said. The day’s directive followed a PIL by Ajay Kumar De seeking a court order on maintaining the pandemic protocol during the upcoming festivals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-319
06-11-2020||West Bengal||Mamata focus on creating livelihoods||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday underscored employment opportunities under the 100 days’ job scheme and Matir Srishti, and focused on grievance redress while chairing the 475th administrative review meeting at Nabanna. Her focus indicated that the state government was trying to address the lack of job opportunities in the backdrop of the pandemic and public grievances ahead of the 2021 Bengal polls. “Though we are No. 1 in (implementing) NREGA (as the 100 days’ job scheme under MGNREGA is colloquially called) in the country, there are some districts where it has to be improved,” Mamata said, naming districts like East Burdwan, Cooch Behar and Nadia, where the scheme has to be implemented more seriously. Sources said that primarily the chief minister is dependent on the scheme to create job opportunities across districts with many people lacking scope to earn post-lockdown. “Overall, the state has created more than 24 crore mandays in the past eight months, which is the best performance in recent past... Now, the chief minister wants everybody to get a chance to earn a livelihood in the difficult time and that’s why she cautioned some districts lagging behind,” said a senior government official. Mamata said that under Matir Srishti only two districts, Jhargram and Purulia, had done some work. Under the scheme, barren land in districts such as Purulia, Jhargram, Bankura, West Midnapore, West Burdwan and Birbhum would be used to set up horticulture, poultry and fishery projects. “In all, 50,000 acres have been identified and if schemes are implemented properly through self-help groups, more than one lakh employment opportunities can be generated,” an official said. However, only 10,400 acres could be used so far and 320 cooperative or farmer groups engaged. Mamata asked officials to organise fairs —  following Covid-19 protocols — to help rural artisans display their wares and earn some money. She also asked district authorities and departments to address grievances lodged with them or with the CMO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-319
06-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal active cases drop for 10th day||Bengal on Thursday reported for the 10th consecutive day since Durga Puja a drop in the total number of active coronavirus cases, reports our special correspondent. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said it was “a supreme blessing of the Almighty”. On Thursday, the state reported 3,948 new cases and 54 deaths.  The state registered the highest single-day recovery of 4,187 patients, taking the total number of cured people to 3,50,449, the health department said in a bulletin. The discharge rate is now 89.05 per cent, it said. The toll mounted to 7,122 with 54 more fatalities. The number of active cases was recorded at 35,953. Of the fresh fatalities, 15 were recorded in Calcutta and 14 in North 24 Parganas district. The remaining deaths were reported from several other districts. In the last 24 hours, 45,467 samples were tested for coronavirus in the state, taking the total number of cases to 47,78,975, the bulletin said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-320
06-11-2020||West Bengal||Fatal fall for jumbo calf in tea estate drain||A one-and-half month old elephant calf died after it fell into a drain in the plantations of a tea estate located in the Nagrakata block of Jalpaiguri early on Thursday. Forest officers said the animal died as other members of the herd to which it belonged, tried to pull it out of the drain. As the elephants inched closer to the drain to drag the calf, the earth caved in and the calf got buried under the rubble. On Wednesday night, a herd of 20 to 25 elephants entered the plantations of Debpara while moving to the Reti Forest from Diana Forest. “While moving through the tea garden, the calf fell into a drain at the plantations following which other jumbos tried to rescue the calf. We could hear the elephants honking throughout the night. However, as the elephants moved near the drain, the earth on both sides of the drain gave away and buried the calf,” said Budhua Topno, a garden worker. On Thursday morning, some garden workers spotted the calf’s carcass and informed the managerial staff. Soon, they told the foresters. The workers mentioned that at dawn, the herd left for Reti Forest as they failed to get the calf out of the drain. Foresters from Diana forest range and Binnaguri wildlife squad reached the spot. Also, Sima Chowdhury, an honorary wildlife warden of the state forest department, visited the garden. “It is an unfortunate incident. It is evident that other members of the herd tried for hours to rescue the calf but failed,” said Chowdhury. During the past few weeks, incidents of elephant depredation have increased in Nagrakata block, prompting farmers of a number of villages to start harvesting paddy ahead of time. In total, around 500 farmers, who are based in places like Nagrakatabusty, Sukhanibusty and Khasbusty which are on the fringes of Gorumara National Park and Champramari Wildlife Sanctuary are cutting away paddy from their fields because every day, particularly in the evening and night hours, elephants enter their field, devour crops and also damage them. “As we are harvesting early, we could be able to salvage only one-fifth of what would have been the actual yield if we could harvest the paddy in appropriate time. But recurring incidents of elephant depredation have left us worried. We cannot risk keeping the semi-ripe paddy in the field as there is every chance that many of us would lose the entire crop if we wait for some more weeks,” said a farmer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-320
06-11-2020||West Bengal||She hosted lunch for Shah, got job from TMC||Gita Mahali, a tribal woman hailing from a dusty village in Naxalbari block of Siliguri subdivision, had served lunch to Amit Shah three years back. Almost like Bankura’s Bibhishan Hansda did on Thursday. On Thursday, Gita joined as a “special home guard” in Naxalbari police station, the employment opportunity coming her way on a day the Union home minister was on a similar tribal outreach mission in Bankura. Ranjan Sarkar, the Darjeeling (plains) district Trinamul chief, who along with other party leaders went to Gita’s house to congratulate her, accompanied her to the police station where she joined her job. Sarkar alleged Amit Shah and other BJP leaders visit tribal households only to earn political dividends. “Amit Shah and his party colleagues dined at Gita Mahali’s place but did nothing for her. It is the Mamata Banerjee government that gave her a job, provided a house to her family and stood by them in the hour of crisis,” said Sarkar. In April 2017, Shah, who was the BJP president then, had been into the house of Raju and Gita Mahali who live in South Kotiajote village of Naxalbari (around 30 kilometres from here) where Gita had served her lunch. Immediately after his visit, state minister and Trinamul leader Gautam Deb was quick to rush to Naxalbari. He inducted the couple into Mamata Banerjee’s party and later handed over financial assistance to them for a house under a state-run scheme. The couple — both of whom were daily wage earners — were caught by surprise by such proactive moves of Trinamul, which many feel were made to outwit the BJP. In Siliguri subdivision, there is a sizable population of tribals in Naxalbari and Phansidewa blocks. The Trinamul leadership ensured that either Raju or his wife get a government job. Finally, on Thursday, as Shah reached the Bankura hamlet, Gita, accompanied by Trinamul leaders, reached Naxalbari police station. “The Trinamul government provided us with a house and now, a job. We had served lunch to Amit Shah but after his visit, no one from the BJP came to us,” said Gita. District BJP leaders gave a different reaction. “It is good that Gita Mahali has been provided with a job. We want to invite the Union home minister in our state time and again for such visits so that at least one member of all families he meets get similar jobs from the Trinamul government,” said Anandamoy Burman, the general secretary of BJP’s Siliguri organisational district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-320
06-11-2020||West Bengal||At lunch, chat with tribal host not part of menu||Bibhishan Hansda, 47, was within whispering distance of home minister Amit Shah during lunch on Thursday. But the tribal farmer from Bankura, who hosted the lunch as part of the BJP’s  tribal outreach, didn’t get the chance to speak to Shah. If Bibhishan did, he would have told the minister about his daughter Rachana, a 16-year-old diabetic. Bibhishan lives in Chaturdihi village of Bankura, around 13km from Bankura town where Shah held an organisational meeting with party leaders. Meeting over, Shah visited Bibhishan’s home to partake of simple vegetarian Bengali dishes — rice, dal, roti, traditional bhajas (fries), and aloo posto. But if Bibhishan had hoped this proximity would help him approach Shah for help in treating Rachana, a Class XII student who needs insulin twice a day, that was not to be. In the span of the 45-minute visit, Shah, who came with state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh and BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, was surrounded by photographers and later by local BJP leaders, his family members said. Bibhishan said he and his wife can earn up to Rs 10,000 a month as farmhands, but spend over Rs 5,000 every month on Rachana’s treatment. A BJP supporter, Bibhishan said he was “proud” that Shah visited his home. “But I am unfortunate that I could not share with him my concern about my diabetic daughter.” “We did not get two minutes to tell him (Shah) about our daughter. Anyway, I was happy he came to our home,” echoed wife Manika, 36. Adhir Chowdhury, Congress MP and state unit chief, held a news meet on Thursday to slam the BJP for cosying up to tribal communities. “Nobody can forget the atrocities on Dalits, minorities and women in BJP-ruled states...Shah is eager to prove that his love for backward communities is greater than Didi’s. This brand of divisive politics of the BJP won’t work in a place like Bengal,” he said. The Behrampore MP, however, also blamed Trinamul for participating in “competitive communalism” in the state. “Both parties are now looking to take Bengal backward, to the path of casteism and exclusion…. In Bengal, caste was never a major issue. But that system is now being imported to a progressive state like Bengal,” he said. “The BJP and Trinamul are trying to create or deepen divisions for petty political dividends,” he added. Prior to the news meet, Chowdhury led a dharna in protest against alleged attacks on Dalits and women across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-320
06-11-2020||West Bengal||Stay civil: CM to pheyk do brigade ||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday lashed out at the BJP and home minister Amit Shah without naming either, advocating “basic decency” in politics. The chief minister, during an administrative review meeting in state secretariat Nabanna, broached the political subject hours after Shah attacked her in Bankura. “Nobody should cross the Lakshman rekha. I would expect and advise everyone to stay within their limits,” said the Trinamul Congress chief. “If I want to say, I also can say a lot of things. My Hindi vocabulary is not that limited…. “Uthakar pheyk do (Lift and throw away)”, I know what that means. If I say the same in reaction, will that be nice? Stay well, stay healthy, we wish the best for your families. Let good sense prevail before Diwali,” she added. Mamata was referring to the refrain of “Ukhadkar pheyk dijiye (Uproot and throw away)” that Shah and others in his party, such as its national president J.P. Nadda, resort to in rants against her government. Earlier in the day, Shah repeated the same in Bankura. Mamata also fell back on the BJP versus Bengal-and-Bengali theme yet again. “Always trying to defame Bengal, coming from elsewhere…. Everybody has regional, national pride. If that pride of Bengal is relentlessly attacked, people will not forgive easily,” she said. She accused the BJP-led Centre of intimidating IAS and IPS officers, referring to an alleged incident earlier this week when a BJP leader tried to intimidate a district magistrate and an SP from Bengal. She also accused the BJP-led Centre of overstepping constitutional bounds and trying to dismantle the federal structure: “This is not civil.” State police, the state government, they have rights and powers in their jurisdiction. The Constitution forbids the state from interfering with areas under the Centre and the same applies to the Centre, with regard to areas under the state,” she said. “We have been noticing...through various agencies, various people are being disturbed…If there’s anything according to the law that needs be done, there is a system in place, get in touch with the state police. Bringing police from the Centre and going on raids, without even informing us...this is unprecedented. This is not according to law, nor the Constitution. Both are elected governments,” she added. Mamata also attacked the Centre for delisting as essential commodities certain edibles, holding it responsible for surge in prices. “They have passed bills and removed onion and potato from the list of essential commodities, causing a skyrocketing of prices…. The poor are being deprived of basic food items. I am going to write to the Centre on this,” she said. Senior officials in the agriculture and agricultural marketing departments said Mamata raised the issue of deregulating commodities such as cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potato (by introducing Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020) to put pressure on the Centre in the backdrop of a sudden spike in prices of potato and onion. “Earlier, the state could have ensured no hoarding of such items. The chief minister pointed it out that the state can’t do anything after the Centre deregulated the items,” said an official. This, he said, was a smart move by the chief minister while her government was facing questions on the sudden hike in prices of agricultural produce. “The chief minister told the administration to conduct visits to the markets to take a note whether hoarding of such commodities is underway,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-320
06-11-2020||West Bengal||Poll bugle on tribal turf||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday told his party colleagues to take a vow of securing 200 seats in the Bengal elections, and bury all differences to achieve it. The target set by Shah at a closed-door meeting with party leaders in Bankura became public when one of the attendees mistakenly streamed a part of his speech live on Facebook. “This is apparently an organisational meeting. But this is actually an opportunity to take a vow that we will come to power in Bengal with 200 seats,” he said. Shah is in Bengal on a two-day visit to take stock of the party’s organisation against the backdrop of factionalism in the state unit. Sources in the BJP who attended the meeting said that Shah referred to such incidents as fights in a large family. “He said that even if a father and a son fight, they will finally come together,” said a party leader. Shah also indicated the state unit would also have to be “accommodative” of people from other parties, especially the CPM, a source said. The BJP’s central leaders have trained their eyes on Bengal, said a source, after informal surveys apparently indicated a growing disenchantment with Trinamul rule. “We will come to power in Bengal with a sweeping two-thirds majority. The death knell of the Mamata Banerjee government is ringing. I appeal to the people of Bengal to uproot this government and give the BJP a chance,” Shah told mediapersons earlier in the day. In Bankura, when asked who would be the BJP’s face in Bengal, Shah said: “When needed, the face will come.” Some BJP leaders said meeting the 200-seat target was easier said than done. “Organisationally, we still need to do a lot of work to be in a position to win 200 seats... But one can understand that he set the target as a leader so that the party supporters get enthused,” said a state BJP leader. The source said that the Shah told party colleagues to cash in on the discontent with the Mamata government and create a narrative that the central benefits don’t reach Bengal because of the state government. “The central government benefits that should have reached the poor, farmers, dalits and the people from tribal and backward groups have been stalled by Mamata Banerjee,” Shah said in the interaction with journalists and later repeated it in the closed-door meeting. Senior BJP leaders said that Shah’s words were carefully chosen. “He was speaking in an area that has huge tribal population and they have voted for us in the last Lok Sabha polls... He sent out a clear message that the Narendra Modi government is sympathetic towards them, but Mamata Banerjee isn’t,” a state BJP leader said. Shah met some 200 representatives of socially backward classes in the evening. The de facto No 2 of the Modi government asked leaders of the state unit to reach out to these social groups and inform them of central schemes that might benefit them and how the state government created hurdles to it. Sources said a committee headed by BJP’s co-minder for the state Arvind Menon and national secretary Anupam Hazra was formed to liaison with these groups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-320
06-11-2020||West Bengal||Bimal claims numbers, Binay counters them||Bimal Gurung on Thursday resurfaced in Calcutta and claimed 17 former Darjeeling municipality councillors who had joined the BJP were returning home to his Morcha faction. The announcement triggered a flurry of activities from the Binay Tamang camp in Darjeeling that paraded 16 councillors to prove Gurung wrong. Since Gurung announced his decision to dump BJP and join hands with Trinamul in Calcutta on October 21, the dynamics of politics has changed in the hills. The Tamang faction is with the Trinamul since September 2017. Both Gurung and Tamang are supporting Trinamul but at present hill politics is about consolidating supremacy among these two factions, despite both backing Trinamul. On Thursday evening, Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Gurung camp said that 17 Darjeeling municipality councillors had joined BJP on June 8, 2019 (after BJP candidate Raju Bista won the Darjeeling MP seat). Gurung, also present at the Calcutta media meet said: “We are welcoming the 17 Darjeeling municipality councillors who had joined the BJP, back home. We will hand them our party flags now.” Gurung reiterated that BJP had failed on their promise of finding “permanent political solution and granting tribal status to 11 hill communities”, which were stated in their 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto,  and said that his party would give a “befitting reply” to BJP during the Bengal elections by ensuring Trinamul’s win. In response, the Tamang camp paraded 16 councillors and said that one more councillor is still with them but could not be present at the parade ceremony because of his illness. “Do a head count,” said Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesman of the Tamang camp. “Bimal Gurung only lies.” Darjeeling municipality has 32 wards and in the 2017 civic elections the undivided Morcha had won 31 seats. Of the 32 seats, one councillor has resigned, while two seats are vacant on account of death. This means there are 29 functionally seats and the majority mark is 15 as of today. Out of 29, one ward councillors is facing legal issues on her right to contest the election. Asked about Binay camp’s claim, Roshan Giri of the Bimal camp said; “17 councillors had joined BJP. Today, 11-12 councillors were present in Calcutta but many councillors are with us.” Technically, the Darjeeling municipality was dissolved, soon after the revolt against Binay Tamang camp civic body, in 2019 and an administrator has been appointed to oversee the functioning of the civic body. The state government had dissolved on grounds of “gross neglect or serious irregularity.” The state government’s decision has been challenged by some councillors and is pending before the Calcutta High Court , so the political control of the civic body cannot yet be discarded. Against this background, the developments centring on Darjeeling municipality, holds much importance, for hill politics. Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa, who were to return to Darjeeling today did not. This too has fuelled much speculations. Neeraj Zimba, GNLF leader who won Darjeeling by-election on a BJP ticket, however, gave a new narrative on the issue that might take centrestage in Darjeeling during next year’s Bengal election. “The next assembly election will be between Bengal centric politics versus Gorkha centric politics. Gorkha centric politics have won in the past (MP and MLA election in 2019) and the same will be repeated,” said Zimba while addressing the media in Mirik today. A hill observer said: “ Zimba’s narrative cannot be ignored.” Raju Bista, Darjeeling MP from BJP said that the councillors who joined them and left them had done for “personal convenience”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-320
06-11-2020||West Bengal||Durgapur Barrage repairs ‘over’ after 30-hour effort||Work to restore the damaged sluice gate no. 31 of the Durgapur Barrage ended on Thursday evening after a 30-hour effort and irrigation department officials said water from Damodar Valley Corporation’s Maithan and Panchet dams was expected to reach the barrage later in the night. Though the state government had not come out with an official statement on the status of the repair till Thursday evening, officials in the irrigation department who did not want to be named said that the job was over and that in keeping with the restoration deadline the government had requested the DVC to release water from its Maithan and Panchet dams from 6am on Thursday. It takes over 12 hours for water to reach Durgapur Barrage from these two dams in Jharkhand. Sluice gate No. 31 of the barrage got twisted on Saturday morning, resulting in water to gush out to the lower catchment area and severe water supply crisis and disruption in power generation. “We fixed the damage and sealed the gaps in the gate with iron sheets. We added more iron sheets to the old gate to strengthen it,” said an engineer of the irrigation department. The irrigation department began repair of the gate on Wednesday after 100 hours went into trying to dry the riverbed.  The state government had assigned the job to repair the damaged gate to three private agencies with around 100 technicians and labourers working since Wednesday afternoon. Irrigation department officials and engineers of SAIL’s Durgapur Steel Plant oversaw the process. The engineers said as the gate had been sealed it would not be operational till the government decides otherwise during the proposed overhauling of the sluice gates, the date for which has not been decided upon. In 2017, when the gate no. 1 of the utility was damaged in a similar incident the engineers had sealed it after strengthening it with additional iron sheets. The 692-m-long Durgapur Barrage has 34 sluice gates. An irrigation department official said there would be no problem if gate nos. 1 and 31 – both located on two sides of the barrage — do not operate. During monsoon 10 gates are operated to release excess water that accumulates in the upper catchment area of Damodar river. The gates are opened to release the water to the lower catchment areas that constitutes East Burdwan, Hooghly and parts of Howrah. DVC officials said that the Bengal government had requested them to release water from its dams in Maithan and Panchet so that the dry upper catchment area receives water. “We have released around 9,000 cusec of water from our two dams in Maithan and Panchet since Thursday morning,” said a DVC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-320
06-11-2020||West Bengal||4 held with fake mark sheets||Four job aspirants from two districts of north Bengal were arrested in Balurghat of South Dinajpur on Wednesday for allegedly furnishing fake mark sheets in an interview for a job with the postal department. Police are trying to find out how the quartet, including a girl, obtained the fake degrees. Sources said the postal department had sought online applications to recruit 23 Gramin Dak Sevaks in North and South Dinajpur. Based on marks secured by the candidates in secondary (Class X) exams, some candidates were called for an interview at the head post office in Balurghat on Wednesday. Among those were these four from North Dinajpur and Cooch Behar, who gave certificates with 98 and 99 per cent marks. But their poor performance at the interview made the panel suspicious. “It was eventually found that all four produced fake mark sheets,” said Rajiv Ranjan Jha, postal department superintendent in Balurghat. The cybercrime police station in Malda arrested a man on Thursday for allegedly duping a woman of Rs 3 lakh while promising her a government job and giving her a fake appointment letter to her.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-320
06-11-2020||West Bengal||Remove Durgapur mayor, CM tells Firhad||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday asked municipal affairs and urban development minister Firhad Hakim to remove Durgapur mayor Dilip Agasty from his post for alleged “negligence” in work. The chief minister was visibly annoyed over the “poor” performance of Durgapur civic body in solving public grievances and wanted to know about it from the municipal affairs minister present at the meeting. “(Almost) 95.5 per cent of the public grievances are lying unattended at Durgapur municipal corporation. What should be done?” Mamata asked Firhad during an administrative review meeting of the state government at Nabanna on Thursday. Firhad immediately told the chief minister that Durgapur mayor (Dilip Agasty) did not work properly. “In Durgapur, the situation is that the mayor himself does not work properly so what do we expect from his officials,” Firhad told Mamata at the meeting. Mamata immediately asked Firhad to replace the mayor. “If the mayor does not work, then change him. You call a meeting as there is an elected board. Do whatever the majority will decide,” Mamata said. Later, Mamata said she had also received several complaints against Agasty during her visits to Durgapur. “I cautioned him several times. If anybody does not work, he has no right to occupy the chair and responsibility,” she said. She later described Agasty as a good man. “I respect his age. He (Dilip Agasty) was a government officer and good man. I have to think otherwise if any good man turned out to be good for nothing,” she said. Mamata also said there was a new trend of switching parties whenever anyone is questioned. “This is a new trend… Let them go to wherever they want to,” she said. Mamata also said the job (of the mayor) should go to  those who deserve it. “Give the responsibility to those who deserve it. Is there any dearth of efficient people?” Mamata asked. Agasty refused to comment on Mamata’s outburst. “I am completely unaware of what the chief minister said at Nabanna. I only came to know about it from the media. No one in the party has told me anything about this yet,” he said. The industrial town has plunged into distress following the Durgapur Barrage sluice gate crisis since Saturday. For the sixth consecutive day on Thursday, water scarcity continued to plague residents in both Durgapur and Bankura. West Burdwan district magistrate Purnendu Maji said they had distributed over 8 lakh water pouches in Durgapur town on Wednesday and more were given on Thursday. “We are also sending tankers in shifts frequently to the localities to meet the demand,” Majhi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-320
