07-11-2020||West Bengal||Rally for ‘Kamtapur’ state ||Around 1,000 Rajbanshi youths took a rally under the banner of All Kamtapur Students’ Union (AKSU) here on Friday and gave a memorandum to the divisional commissioner, demanding a separate state of Kamtapur. The rally that started from near the palace of Baikunthapur Estate in Rajbaripara  moved through Collectorate Avenue to reach the divisional commissioner’s office. Some more supporters were stopped by the police, leaders alleged. “Our demand for separate statehood is a 70 years old. When the princely state of Cooch Behar was annexed by India, it was supposed to be a ‘D’ category state, but eventually was reduced to a district in Bengal. We want the Centre and the state to take initiatives so that appropriate status is conferred on Cooch Behar,” said Samaresh Roy, the convener of AKSU in Cooch Behar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-318
07-11-2020||West Bengal||Kidnapped boy rescued||Police of North and South Dinajpur districts rescued a 15-year-old boy on Thursday evening, who was abducted for ransom on November 3. The police also arrested alleged abductors Nawab Sajidur Reza, Sajjad Ali and Mohammad Kalimuddin, residents of Bhatol under Raiganj police station. The boy’s father, a poultry farm owner, was asked for Rs 6 lakh as ransom, said Deep Kumar Das, the subdivisional police officer of Gangarampur. Abductors asked the father to come with cash near Nagar river bridge on the outskirts of Raiganj in North Dinajpur district on Thursday. Plainclothes cops rescued the boy and arrested the trio.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-318
07-11-2020||West Bengal||Crash kills men and cows inside SUV||Two men and two cows inside an SUV were killed in an accident early on Friday on NH6 at Haldia More near East Midnapore’s Kolaghat. As the cows were tied up to the car seats of an SUV, prompted police to launch an inquiry into the incident following allegations of cattle smuggling by BJP leaders. Sources said the deceased were identified as Aditya Adhikari and Mohammed Mumtaz, South 24-Parganas residents. A third man, found critically injured, can’t yet give a statement, additional police chief (Tamluk headquarters) Syed M.M. Hasan said. The police said the incident occurred around 4am when the speeding Innova, coming from Kharagpur, rammed into a trash dumper waiting at a highway divider. A police officer blamed poor visibility for the incident. Prima facie, it appears that the cows were being smuggled from Kharagpur, he said. The police buried their carcasses. Local BJP leaders blamed involvement Trinamul for “widespread” and “inhumane” cow smuggling along the Odisha border of this district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-318
07-11-2020||West Bengal||TMC clash in Cooch Behar||Violence sparked in Salmara area under Dinhata II block of Cooch Behar on Friday early morning as two groups of Trinamul supporters clashed with each other. They lobbed bombs, fired shots and attacked each other with bricks, stones, bows and arrows, prompting police officials to rush to the spot. Three persons have been arrested in connection with the incident while a police picket has been raised in the area to keep the situation under control. According to local sources, in Dinhata-II block, two lobbies, headed by Dinhata MLA Udayan Guha and local leader Tarani Kanta Burman, are at loggerheads to get control of Salmara. On Friday morning, those apparently from Udayan’s lobby started the clash. Supporters of Tarani’s lobby retaliated, and one ended up with a fractured leg. In Cooch Behar, infighting within Trinamul has been seen in the past few years in different corners of the district. Even before the Parliament elections of 2019 and the panchayat elections of 2018, violent incidents which had even led to deaths have occurred time and again. Even chief minister Mamata Banerjee had alerted the district leaders to stop this.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-319
07-11-2020||West Bengal||Durgapur Barrage gives water to plants||The state irrigation department has begun supplying water to the treatment plants of Durgapur Municipal Corporation and public health engineering department from Durgapur Barrage after the water table at the upper catchment area of Damodar river reached 210 feet on Friday evening. Gate no. 31 of the barrage got twisted on Saturday morning resulting in water to gush out to the lower catchment area leading to severe water supply crisis and disruption in power generation. With the water reaching the desired height on Friday, the civic bodies in Durgapur and Bankura and the PHE department expect to start supplying water to households and factories from Saturday morning after treating raw water at the plants. “We are now loading the water at our plants for purification and will resume supplies from Saturday morning,” said Pabitra Chatterjee, mayoral council member (water supply) at Durgapur Municipal Corporation. He said the civic authority would continue to supply more water to the people from its usual frequency for the next few days. The PHE officials that supply water to Bankura also said the same. However, irrigation officials said the service could have been resumed earlier in the day but they noticed water seeping through gaps at the bottom of the damaged iron gate repaired on Thursday. “We have placed a floating gate in front of the repaired gate to stop the seepage. The outflow is completely stopped now and we have started sending water to the power plants, civic bodies and PHE department for supplying to the households and industries,” said Sanjay Singh, executive engineer, Damodar circle of the irrigation department. The repair work of the damaged sluice gate no. 31 was over on Thursday evening six days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-319
07-11-2020||West Bengal||Dip in active cases, minister Gautam Deb tests positive||Bengal on Friday continued on its path of an unexpected turnaround in the Covid-19 scenario after Durga Puja, as the state recorded a drop in its total active cases for the 11th consecutive day after the festival, aided by yet another highest daily rise in recoveries. “For the 11th successive day, the state reported less than 4,000 new infections, with 3,942. For the 17th occasion in 18 days, the record for daily recoveries was reset, with 4,283. For the 17th consecutive day, the state logged a rise in its recovery rate, which reached yet another new high of 89.25 per cent. What more could we have asked for at this stage?” said a minister. In 11 days since after Puja, Bengal reported 44,646 recoveries, which outweighed the 43,644 new cases detected. The total of active cases dropped from 37,190 to 35,557. Calcutta High Court, which on Thursday issued a set of instructions to keep the outbreak from worsening over Kali Puja, had intervened similarly before Durga Puja. The number of infections from Puja days has shown that the intervention was effective. Bengal now has over 3.97 lakh Covid-19 cases, but it includes over 3.54 lakh recoveries and 7,177 deaths. On Friday, Bengal reported 55 more deaths, including 13 from the city. Tourism minister Gautam Deb, a key leader for the ruling party in north Bengal, tested positive for Covid-19. On Thursday, he attended an administrative meeting at Nabanna with chief minister Mamata Banerjee and most of the top brass of the government. “He also took a flight out of Calcutta today and attended a political event in Siliguri. He has been hospitalised,” said a source in Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-319
07-11-2020||West Bengal||‘Cattle smuggler’ held in Delhi||The CBI on Friday arrested Enamul Haque, the alleged kingpin of illegal cattle trade in Murshidabad along the Bengal-Bangladesh border, from New Delhi. The central agency in September had booked Enamul along with Satish Kumar, a BSF commandant, and a few others in connection with its probe into illegal cattle-trade in Murshidabad. Raids had been carried out across parts of Murshidabad, Malda, Calcutta, Chhattisgarh and its capital Raipur in this connection. “He will be brought to Calcutta on transit remand for questioning,” said a CBI source. Enamul’s name cropped up when CBI officials questioned Jibu T. Mathew and  Satish Kumar, both BSF commandants posted in north Bengal. It appeared that Enamul sought their help in illegal cattle smuggling in exchange for money. “We would like to question Enamul about the role of other officers who appear to be involved in cattle smuggling,” said the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-319
07-11-2020||West Bengal||Varsity pay deduction disquiet||Visva-Bharati University’s decision to deduct half-day salary to repair the Upasana Griha has not gone down well with employees who had sent their written objections to the move. Disgruntled employees claim varsity authorities allegedly overruled their written objections to deduct the half-day’s salary. Sources said Visva-Bharati through a notice on October 3 informing its employees that half day’s salary would be deducted as voluntary contribution to the “Development fund of Upasana Griha”. The notice asked those willing to contribute to email their consent and those unwilling to do the same. “Around 200 employees, mostly teachers, had sent individual emails about their unwillingness, But varsity authorities in an unethical manner deducted half day’s salary from everyone,” said a senior professor. Varsity officials said it was due to a technical snag. They had received around 22 emails expressing unwillingness to contribute to the fund, authorities claimed. Officials said the money would be refunded to them with the next month’s salary. “There were technical reasons and being in the midst of the festive season we couldn’t prepare the list of those unwilling to contribute. Those who appealed will get the deducted amount refunded with their next month’s salary,” said a varsity official. Protesting teachers termed illegal the way of deducting salary by overruling objections and said they would move court. “The issue is not whether the varsity will reimburse or not. We will move court over the manner in which salary has been deducted without consent,” said a teacher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-319
07-11-2020||West Bengal||Mission accomplished, says Binay Tamang||Binay Tamang, who met chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday, reached Darjeeling on Friday to say the “mission has been accomplished”, but stopped short of explaining what he meant. “The mission has been accomplished. This (statement) explains a lot,” said Tamang in Darjeeling, adding that details would be made public after talks at the party’s central committee meeting. The politics of consolidation between the Tamang and Bimal Gurung rival factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha are on full swing ever since Gurung, surfacing after three years last month, announced his decision to snap ties with the BJP-led NDA and support Trinamul. Now, both rival factions are Trinamul allies but have publicly refused to share any platform with each other. Instead, these two factions have started mobilising their own supporters. Hundreds of Binay Tamang supporters on Friday reached the Bagdogra airport near Siliguri, to receive Binay and his deputy Anit Thapa, who returned after spending three days in Calcutta. The Tamang camp also mobilised supporters who waited for the convoy along the route to Darjeeling, shouting slogans in support of Tamang and Thapa. A Gurung camp leader said they were not bothered by this show of strength. “Our units have been activated across the hills. Even after three years of lying low we don’t have to work hard to set up new units as they are being activated automatically,” the Gurung supporter said. The Bimal camp leaders maintained that political equations would immediately change once Gurung returns to the hills. Tamang had been a trusted leader of Gurung till 2017. But in the aftermath of the violent agitation of 2017 in the hills over the demand of a separate Gorkhaland, Gurung had to leave the hills with a slew of cases against him, and Tamang allied with Trinamul. Tilak Chand Roka, a lawyer and leader of Gurung camp said that they are expecting their leader in the hills any time after “a fortnight”. “There is a legal process to be completed and we have already started work on this. We guess it should be completed within a fortnight,” said Roka. The lawyer explained two processes to be completed. “We are looking at the administration to withdraw cases against us. However, there can be cases filed by individuals which cannot be withdrawn by the administration. For cases filed by individuals, we have to look at bail,” said Roka. The memorandum of agreement of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, which was signed by the Centre, state and Morcha, in 2011 had also agreed to withdraw all cases, except murder, registered by the state government during the Gorkhaland agitation phase between 2007 and 2011. Clause 29 of the MoA signed on July 18, 2011, reads: “A review will be done by the State Government of all the cases registered under various laws against persons involved in GJM agitation. Steps will be taken in the light of the review, not to proceed with prosecution in all cases except those charged with murder. Release of persons in custody will follow the withdrawal of cases.” However, these cases have not been withdrawn till date. Additional reporting by Bireswar Banerjee in Siliguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-319
07-11-2020||West Bengal||Two CRPF battalions to leave Jungle Mahal||The home ministry has withdrawn two battalions of CRPF from Jungle Mahal and shifted the units to Chhattisgarh, the move coming as a surprise for the state administration as there have been intelligence reports of Maoist regrouping in the area in the last few months. The companies of the two battalions were posted in strategic locations in Purulia, Bankura and Jhargram. The order reached the Bengal headquarters of the CRPF late on Thursday evening with a directive to release battalion Nos. 50 and 165 within November 20. The Bengal headquarters was directed to inform the chief secretary and the DGP. CRPF sources said the battalion No. 50 was posted in Lalgarh of Jhargram and No. 165 in Tangasol, West Midnapore. Senior CRPF officers said it was the first such move to withdraw two entire battalions from Jungle Mahal at a go. Senior CRPF and state government officers have commented that the order was rare. One senior state government official even termed it “wrong” ahead of Assembly polls. Local Trinamul and BJP leaders, both, have not agreed with the order to withdraw the CRPF from such strategic locations. Local Trinamul leaders said that the withdrawal of the forces was part of a larger plan of the BJP to create unrest in the area in the run-up to the state polls. “BJP always wants violence and the decision to withdraw the CRPF battalions is nothing but to create trouble in the Maoist-hit zones. The order came at a time when our home minister Amit Shah came to the state, that’s quite significant,” said Dulal Murmu, Trinamul’s district president in Jhargram. Local BJP leaders also said that the decision to withdraw the force could prove costly ahead of the Assembly polls. The Lalgarh unit of BJP’s Yuva Morcha said that they would write to their senior leaders requesting not to withdraw the battalions. “The presence of the CRPF is needed in Jungle Mahal areas like Lalgarh as we are getting information about the rise of Maoist activities. We will discuss it with the CRPF officers as well as our party leaders,” said Debasish Dey, block Yuva Morcha president in Lalgarh. The IG of CRPF’s West Bengal circle Pradeep Kumar Singh did not take calls from this newspaper. However, a CRPF officer in Calcutta said that apart from Bengal three more battalions from Bihar and Jharkhand were withdrawn and the decision was pending for the past two months. There were eight battalions posted in different Jungle Mahal districts since 2009 when the Maoist activities were at their peak in Bengal. Though the activities of the banned outfit declined after the change of guard in Bengal, there has been a rise in Maoist presence in the Jungle Mahal districts in recent months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-319
07-11-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul flays BJP for Birsa faux pas||Trinamul on Friday launched a campaign against the BJP for its Birsa Munda faux pas in Bankura on Thursday, claiming that the saffron party had no regard for tribal sentiments. On Thursday, Union home minister Amit Shah offered floral tributes to the statue of a tribal hunter in Bankura, which his party leaders had mistaken for that of freedom fighter Bhagwan Birsa Munda, who is considered to be one of the foremost tribal icons of the country. Multiple Trinamul leaders this correspondent spoke to said Thursday’s faux pas gave them a chance to reach out to the tribal community ahead of next year’s polls on the BJP’s “ignorance and disregard” about tribal culture and icons. “We are taking up the issue among tribal communities, especially in Jungle Mahal districts of Bankura, Purulia, Jhargram and West Midnapore. Our leaders have been asked to campaign on the issue immediately. Mixing up tribal hero Birsa Munda with a hunter proves right chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s allegation that the BJP is unfamiliar with the culture and history of the state,” said a Trinamul leader. Shah started his tour of Bengal from Bankura with floral tributes to the statue. Controversy erupted when hours before the programme a tribal body objected to identifying the statue of a hunter as that of Birsa Munda. To salvage the situation, BJP leaders hurriedly arranged a picture of Birsa Munda and placed it at the feet of the tribal hunter’s statue for Shah to pay floral tributes. Some BJP sources said that the incident had come as an embarrassment for the party as it involved someone of the stature of Shah. “The local unit of the party should have been more careful,” said a source, adding that Thursday’s mistake was discussed in detail in Delhi and Calcutta. Trinamul leaders in Bankura, Jhargram and Purulia said they had already informed their tribal leaders to start a campaign against the BJP over the “humiliation of our hero”. In Bankura on Friday, Trinamul staged a protest at the site of the statue accusing the BJP of distorting the identity of the tribal hero. Around 200 Trinamul activists, including party leaders from the tribal community, gathered near the statue at Powabagan, around 7km from Bankura town, and they demonstrated for 30 minutes to “expose the BJP’s unfamiliarity with tribal culture”. “It was shocking to see Union home minister offering tribute to the statue of an anonymous tribal hunter...the BJP did not cross-check before deciding on the statue,” said Mrityunjay Murmu, a tribal leader of Trinamul and sabhadhipati of Bankura Zilla Parishad. “Even after they came to know about the blunder, they placed Birsa Munda’s portrait at the feet of the statue. This is nothing but an insult to the tribal icon. The tribal community will raise their voice (against the incident),” Murmu added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-319
07-11-2020||West Bengal||‘Special focus’ on Bengal: Shah ||Amit Shah on Friday asserted that his party has “special focus” on Bengal, as he wrapped up his two-day visit to the state with a news meet. In response to a question on why he was not seen in Bihar where Assembly polls are underway but was in Bengal, the home minister said: “It is true, Bengal is a special focus for us. Hence we want to fight for Bengal and want to win (power in the state).” On Friday, Shah mounted yet another no-holds-barred attack on Mamata Banerjee, her party Trinamul and the state government, accusing her repeatedly of politics of appeasement, to bolster his party’s allegedly divisive campaign for Bengal. “She has politicised the administration, criminalised politics, and institutionalised corruption…. Any one of these is a recipe for disaster. Only in Bengal will you find that all three have been carried out,” said Shah in a news meet on Friday evening. Shah accused Mamata of having allowed the rule of law to disintegrate in Bengal. “There is a separate set of laws for nephew (Abhishek Banerjee), a separate set of laws for appeasement, for her vote-bank… you know very well what I am talking about. There is a separate set of laws for the common man…. Such is her appeasement that a large number of people have started considering themselves second-class citizens,” said Shah. He recounted the unprecedented success of his party in the Lok Sabha polls in Bengal last year. Shah also said no journalist was smiling now over his assertions of the BJP winning 200 seats in Bengal. “When I had said we will win 22 Lok Sabha seats here, last year, many of you smiled incredulously. After we won 18, my forecast (200 seats) for the Assembly polls has not brought on any smiles, I can see. Now, it is my turn to smile,” he said. Shah raised questions on the quality of governance delivered by Mamata, as he kept appealing to the people of Bengal to give the BJP a chance. However, he apparently ruled out President’s rule in Bengal, something many in his party and governor Jagdeep Dhankhar have been talking about repeatedly. “It (the President’s rule) is not something to be discussed in public…. It depends on the reports of the governor…. But it will not be necessary. Because there will be a change of guard here in April next year,” said Shah, before defending Dhankhar against allegations of abuse of the constitutional post to favour the BJP. Earlier in the day, he told the state unit of his party — an intensely divided house — that nobody would be projected as the chief ministerial candidate for Bengal polls next year. “You need not worry about it. The chief ministerial candidate will be decided by the central leadership. You do your job,” Shah was quoted as saying, before laying out a 23-point plan of action for the party in the state. “If you work hard for five months you will rule for 50 years,” a source quoted Shah as saying. Unlike his previous addresses to the people of Bengal, Shah spoke very little on the CAA during this visit, and on Friday evening told journalists that the execution of the law was being delayed for the coronavirus pandemic and would be implemented soon. But the CAA issue gained relevance when Shah on Friday afternoon had lunch at the home of Nabin Biswas, a member of Matua Mahasangha, at Gouranganagar in New Town. BJP sources said that the party put special emphasis on an outreach among the Matuas because of the community’s electoral relevance in North 24-Parganas, Nadia and parts of north Bengal. The party also wants to make CAA a poll issue in Bengal by projecting its potential benefits for the Matuas, lower-caste Hindus who came from Bangladesh. Biswas said he thanked the home minister and prime minister for introducing the CAA, because “citizenship for Hindu refugees from Bangladesh has been a long-standing demand of our community”. “I requested him to implement the law in Bengal to which Amitji said that as the law has been enacted, it would be implemented as well,” Biswas said Late on Friday, Trinamul issued a formal statement, accusing Shah of visiting Bengal with a “baggage of lies” to “defame and insult” the state. “… why does he always make wild personal accusations against Mamata Banerjee...? What credentials does Mr. Jay Shah (Shah’s son) have to suddenly hold one of India’s top administrative cricket posts?” asked the party. “… why does he always misuse agencies? … His dirty tricks in politics is legendary,” it added. Trinamul mocked Shah’s 200-seat prediction for the BJP in Bengal. “… people have seen before how his prediction are! In the previous elections of Bihar in 2015, Delhi in 2015 and 2020, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh his predictions, his numbers were all totally wrong...“People will see it again in Bengal in 2021…. Bengal has and always will stand up to protect India’s soul,” it added. Party leaders Saugata Roy and Sukhendu Sekhar Roy condemned Shah for “blatant communalism”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-319
