08-11-2020||West Bengal||Dilip’s defence angers tribals||Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh on Saturday said his party considered the hunter’s statue in Bankura as that of tribal icon Birsa Munda because home minister Amit Shah had paid floral tributes to it. Tribal residents and leaders, however, did not endorse Ghosh’s claim and said it “added insult to injury”. Shah on Thursday paid floral tributes to the statue of an anonymous tribal hunter that the BJP leaders mistook as that of Birsa Munda. The statue was garlanded by BJP leaders 30 minutes before Shah’s arrival and a portrait of Birsa Munda placed at its feet following calls from tribal representatives to the saffron leadership about the mistake. “We see him (Birsa Munda) as a freedom fighter...Home minister has garlanded the statue. We also kept a portrait of Birsa Munda there and he (Shah) garlanded it. We considered the statue as that of Birsa Munda and paid our tribute. The statue will be of Birsa Munda from today after the announcement by our home minister even if they (the state government) did not name it... everyone has to accept it,” Ghosh said at a news meet. Ghosh also claimed the area had been named Birsa Munda More by the Trinamul-run zilla parishad, and a small statue of Birsa removed and the new one installed. “It would be better for BJP leaders to admit their mistake,” said a member of tribal outfit Bharat Jakat Majhi Pargana Mahal in Bankura, Sangiri Hembram. For the 12th successive day since Durga Puja, Bengal on Saturday logged a drop in total active cases. Bengal logged 3,928 new cases and 4,339 recoveries on Saturday. It reported 58 deaths, including 20 from Calcutta, taking the toll to 6,069. Though the total number of infections went past 4 lakh, at 4.01 lakh, there are 35,088 active cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-317
08-11-2020||West Bengal||NFR plans to resume Toy Train services||Officials of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) have started taken initiatives to resume toy train services of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR), as tourists have started visiting the hills. Toy Train services had been suspended since March this year because of the Covid-19 induced lockdown. On Saturday, R.K. Verma, the divisional railway manager of Katihar division of the NFR, visited Kurseong, the hill town that houses the headquarters of the DHR. “Toy Train services had stopped because of the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown that was clamped across the country. During this period, we have regularly carried out maintenance works of the rail tracks and other properties. As the tourists are gradually turning up in hills, we want the Toy Train services to resume and are waiting for necessary consent from the state government. We have already communicated with the state on the issue,” he said. On Saturday morning, Verma reached New Jalpaiguri from Katihar and inspected the DHR tracks and the rolling stock at the NJP and Siliguri Junction. He then left for Kurseong. Sources said that Sanjive Roy, the general manager of the NFR, would also visit the hills next week to inspect the tracks, the DHR workshop and other infrastructure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-317
08-11-2020||West Bengal||Onus to strengthen BJP on MPs||Union home minister Amit Shah asked 18 BJP MPs from Bengal to take charge of one Lok Sabha seat each in addition to their own constituencies to bolster its organisation ahead of the Bengal Assembly polls. “Amitji is giving a lot of responsibility to the elected MPs and at times more than the state unit leaders,” a senior BJP leader said. “He has asked all party MPs to visit all Assembly segments in their constituencies.... Besides, sitting MPs will take charge of at least an additional Lok Sabha seat where we had lost in 2019. He wants the MPs to take the responsibility of expanding the organisation in the state,” the source added. This instruction was passed on Friday when Shah met the MPs and the MLAs of his party along with other state committee members. Shah has set a target of at least 200 seats for the BJP in the upcoming Assembly polls and predicted a victory with a two-thirds majority. Though the Union home minister sounded bullish about the party's prospects in the state, Shah was apparently not happy with the organisational strength of the party. A source said that the extra responsibility to the MPs was an indication of his dissatisfaction with the existing state of the party’s organisation. That the central leadership acknowledges the lack of organisation in Bengal was explicitly stated by the party’s national general secretary B.L. Santosh, who was in Calcutta with Shah. Sources said that during a closed-door meeting on Friday, Santosh said that the BJP doesn’t have the election machinery, which once belonged to the CPM and is now under Trinamul’s control, that is a prerequisite to win elections in Bengal. “Santoshji said we need people, who can play a role in winning elections for us...,” a source at the meeting told this paper. A sense of urgency was visible in 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane, the party’s state headquarters, on Saturday. The party’s state president Dilip Ghosh, national vice-president Mukul Roy, party’s minder and co-minder for Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya and Arvind Menon, and national joint general secretary (organisation) Shivprakash met representatives from all the Morchas. “We will set up committees in all booths with 50 member each by the end of November,” Ghosh said. “We are a bit weak in minority dominated areas, but everything will be done,” Ghosh added at a news conference. It was decided in this meeting that the party’s state youth wing will invite PM Narendra Modi to address a public meeting in January next year. The event will mark the birth anniversaries of Swami Vivekananda and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, which are on January 12 and January 23 respectively. “We have decided that there will be several programmes marking these two events. Modiji’s programme is being planned sometime between January 20 and 23. ” said the wing’s vice-president Shankudeb Panda. Another programme to be initiated by the youth wing is to incorporate 11 youth in every booth committee of the state. “The programme is called ‘one booth 11 youth’ and this will strengthen our party’s booth level structures,” Panda added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-317
08-11-2020||West Bengal||Spot the Blind ||If this were just another regular year, by now the non-profit organisation, Society for the Welfare of the Blind, would have kick-started its diamond jubilee celebrations. But then the coronavirus struck and there was a need to tweak the plan. “We have decided to forego ostentation and mark 60 years of our existence by pledging to help 600 people with visual impairment,” says Biswajit Ghosh, the secretary of the society. Ghosh, who is himself blind, is also principal of the Narendrapur Blind Boys’ Academy (BBA), which is grand banyan to the society. The society gives lessons, provides Braille equipment, extends financial support for blind school and college students, gets volunteers to translate books into Braille and so on and so forth. “Donating a part of the salary to the society is normal for BBA teachers,” says Dilip Raha, who is the current president of the society. Sukdev Biswas has experienced the munificence of the society. He explains how in 2006, when the state government ruled that colleges could no longer offer higher secondary courses, he and his classmates at the Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, were left in the lurch. BBA did not have a higher secondary section and most mainstream schools were not keen to take in blind students. That year, many students dropped out. But those who decided to stick it out found a ready and steady support in the society. Today, the 33-year-old Sukdev works as a senior clerk at the Kharagpur railway station. He has cleared the NET and SLET exams — national and state level eligibility tests for lectureship — and is hoping to teach in a college sometime soon. To return to the society’s Covid-19 pledge, it started distributing relief kits among the impoverished blind in West Bengal in association with the NGO Goonj. Each kit contained 15 kilos of rice, pulses, potatoes, oil, soybean nuggets and biscuits. Much help also hinges on the kindness of strangers. The way it works is this — having identified around 60-100 beneficiaries in a particular area, Ghosh and company hit the road on a Sunday. A single trip from Dankuni to Memari would mean stopping at Seoraphuli, Srirampur, Chandernagore, Bandel. Typically, those accompanying Ghosh are society members, friends, relations, well-wishers or contacts who would like to help; there are also people from other NGOs. Since the majority of the distressed happen to be hawkers who lost their livelihood when local trains stopped plying, the society tries to do the kit and token cash distribution some place near the railway station they are so familiar with. That is where the people gather, some accompanied by a family member or friend to help carry the kits home. Pratima Karmakar used to sell chocolates and candies on local trains, Santu Modak sold papads outside a school in Arambagh. Mrinmoy Chakraborty — an alumnus of BBA and Ghosh’s student — is a door-to-door salesman who peddles incense sticks and soaps, also in Arambagh; at times he doubles as a music teacher. Pratima took the lockdown special staff train from Purbasthali in east Burdwan to Bandel, 73 kilometres away. Santu wasn’t as lucky. He had to go to Seoraphuli. But the passengers of the special train did not let him board it. Later, he contacted Mrinmoy and the duo took a bus to Bandel. So far, the society has covered 14 districts of southern Bengal. And to think it all began with Ghosh’s personal efforts to help individuals in and around Narendrapur who had approached him. As news spread through word of mouth, he began getting calls for help from far and near. That is when the society stepped in. The services of the Blind Hawkers’ Union were roped in too — to verify the authenticity of the distress calls and also to brief the society on who else may need help. Says Santu, “Not many people think about us. Help for education does trickle in, but that Biswajit Sir thought about us and our survival has touched me deeply.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-317
08-11-2020||West Bengal||Cheaper government stall potatoes trigger row||Some vegetable sellers allegedly abused officials of the agriculture marketing department who were selling potatoes at a cheaper government rate near Amin Bazar market in Krishnagar town, Nadia, on Saturday morning. Vegetables sellers forced officials, who along with members of a self-help group had set up a mobile stall to sell potatoes at Rs 25 a kilo, to leave the spot. The market rate of potatoes is Rs 40 a kilo. Subdivisional officer of Krishnagar (sadar) Manish Varma said: “This is most unfortunate. We are looking into it, and will take strict action.” “Since the Essential Commodities Act has been amended, the price of potatoes can’t be controlled anymore. Nevertheless, the state government has been trying to provide relief to the common people by selling potatoes at fixed price through mobile stalls. In such a situation, such incidents are not expected,” the SDO added. The district administration started selling potatoes at fixed rate since last week through mobile stalls. Women from self-help groups have been engaged, along with the officials of the agricultural marketing department, in the job. A buyer can get up to 4 kilos of potatoes at fixed rate. On Saturday’s harassment, an official of the state agricultural marketing department said: “Irresponsible behaviour of local sellers ultimately affects the common man.” A potato seller in Krishnagar’s Amin Bazar, however, denied charges of harassment. “I had only appealed to the officials running the mobile potato stall to do it from another location, saying our business is suffering,” he said. On Friday, in a bid to stop hoarding and price rise, the state government issued a directive that no wholesale dealer could store more than 25MT of potatoes and onions. For small traders, the cap is 2MT.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-317
08-11-2020||West Bengal||Piped Dream||Nothing can be more shameful if a government that has been in power for 18 years cannot even provide basics like clean drinking water.” So said Union home minister Amit Shah in 2018, when he was in Odisha in the run-up to the Assembly elections. A year later, after the Lok Sabha win, Prime Minister Narendra Modi promised safe and adequate water to all households of rural India by 2024, courtesy the Jal Jeevan Mission. This, after he acknowledged on the occasion of India’s 71st Independence Day that half the country’s households did not have access to piped water. In West Bengal, after some tarrying, the Mamata Banerjee government finally agreed to embrace the central scheme. Water is a state subject but the Union government influences its supply — there are three Union ministries in charge of water. For the success of the Jal Jeevan Mission too, the Centre and the states have to work in tandem. The Jal Jeevan Mission is about supplying potable water to rural areas. Anurag Gupta, who is regional manager, east, of the NGO WaterAid India, says this is because the coverage of piped water supply in rural India is only 18 per cent as compared to 80 per cent in the urban areas. But Bengal’s potable water issue is much more complex. Of course, there is the accessibility issue as Aparna Mondal will testify. Aparna lives in Satjelia Island in the Sunderbans with her husband, two sons and father-in-law. She wakes up at 5 every morning and walks to the nearest tubewell two kilometres away. She carries back 10 litres of water in a large clay pitcher. She makes a second trip soon after. “I use the water for cooking and drinking. There is a greater requirement (for water) in the first half of the day than in the second half.” She makes another trip in the evening. Her husband, Dipak, says, “My mother and even my grandmother would do the same.” Seema Murmu lives on the other side of Satjelia, where the drinking water story is the same: there is no ready availability. There is a rivulet — Datta — that slices the island. Seema takes a kheya, or country boat, once every four days to fetch water from the tubewell that Aparna also accesses. After the boat ride, Seema walks down another five kilometres. “We carry back 8-10 jerrycans of water (about 200 litres) and that lasts us four days. It is just enough for a family of four,” she tells The Telegraph. It is Dipak who explains that these women have to brave long distances to fetch water because in these parts the water is brackish and unfit for drinking. He says, “The tubewell we use is very deep. It possibly goes down 1,500 feet, which is way below sea level.” Brackish water, dying rivers — the potable water problems in almost all of coastal Bengal are of the same nature. Debasis Shyamal, a 40-something resident of East Midnapore, another coastal district, says, “When I was a child, we got our drinking water from a pond. Till 2010, that was how it was and then came the tubewells.” Jharna Acharya is a resident of Jhargram district that was formed in 2017, after the bifurcation of West Midnapore. Until about 30 years ago, people here depended on pat kuas or deep wells. Says Jharna, “Only one out of six tubewells in Nayagram block had water fit for drinking. The Trinamul has provided the option of submersible pumps under the Sajaldhara scheme but that is not for everyone.” CPI(M) leader Goutam Deb points out that the scheme was first launched in 2002 at the time of the Left Front government when he was minister of the public health engineering department, but that’s another story. The thing to note is that offering a solution in the form of submersible pumps did not end the water problem. Why? Because it was and remains a paid scheme. Says Jharna, “In my locality, the government has fitted a pump in a local school. People who use it share the electricity bill. But there are Lodhas and Sabars here [local tribal communities] who cannot afford to pay anything.” The Sunderbans clutch at the rear end of the Bengal map like a many-fingered hand. To its left are Jhargram, East Midnapore, and to its right is South 24-Parganas. In South 24-Parganas, the water is high in arsenic and chlorine content. It has been this way since the mid-1980s, confirms Satyadeb Bhattacharya, who is the retired chief engineer of the state public health engineering department. It is the same with North 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly, Burdwan, Nadia, Malda and Murshidabad. Pronoy Roy, a schoolteacher from Champahati in South 24-Parganas, narrates how in his house the borewell had to be shifted four times in two years to find a spot that was arsenic-free. The Jal Jeevan Mission addresses only rural areas, but the capital city of Bengal too faces a drinking water problem. One would find that difficult to believe of a city that got its first drinking water pipelines in 1864, but there it is. In Santoshpur in south Calcutta, there are vendors who fill carboys, or blue plastic jars, with water from corporation water taps and sell them door-to-door. Swapna Das, who stays on the fourth floor of an apartment building in Santoshpur, has to buy drinking water. She says, “The water supplied by the [Kolkata Municipal] corporation is not sufficient for all 12 flat owners and their families.” Chaitali Halder, who lives in a rented place in Ajaynagar, also in south Calcutta, has to buy jars of water in the summer months. There are households in Bhowanipore — Girish Mukherjee Road, Gangaprasad Mukherjee Road, Townsend Road — that have to depend on bhistis, or water carriers, for drinking water in the absence of piped water supply. Move from south to central to north and you will see that this is true of many households on A.J.C. Bose Road, Doctors Lane, Wellesley Square, Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road, Entally, Alimuddin Street — even the CPI(M) party headquarters is rumoured to have a chronic water problem — College Street, Muktaram Babu Street and Sukia Street. According to Amal Nayek, who has an NGO that works towards providing safe drinking water, “Local distributors collect water from the tubewell, filter it and sell it as mineral water.” The cheapest unbranded variety sells at Rs 30 or Rs 40 per 20-litre pack. No one is willing to come on record about the quality, but going by the sheer numbers the demand is huge. As of today, there are 350 certified packaged drinking water plants in Bengal. Even three years ago it was only 200, according to a source in the Bureau of Indian Standards, the body that provides certification to the companies. Many-headed and overwhelming it might be, but Bengal cannot be blamed for lack of enterprise in addressing its water issue. The Tala Tank was built in the 1900s by the British and it was only then that “natives” got a regular supply of piped drinking water. In the subsequent years, many  treatment plants and pumping stations were built. Arsenic treatment plants came up in the mid-1980s. The CPI(M) leader and former mayor of Calcutta, Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, says, “The treatment plants came into existence largely during the Left rule but the booster pumping station that is required to pump out the water from the reservoirs with some pressure happened much later.” According to Satyadev Bhattacharya, even before he joined the public health engineering department in 1981, the drinking water system was being addressed under the Rajiv Gandhi National Drinking Water Programme. The state had one called the Minimum Needs Programme. From 1990 onwards surface-based water supply schemes were floated. Two big projects came up — one in Malda, another one in the South 24-Parganas. Later more projects have come up under the current government — one in Bankura, the other in Asansol. Bhattacharya, who rattles off one milestone after another, cites small schemes executed by local bodies. He say that in 2017, the piped water scheme in West Bengal already covered 58 per cent of the people in the state. If all this was done, and Bhattacharya tells us water is plentiful in Bengal, why has piped water supply not reached those living beyond the state capital? Replies Nilangshu Bhusan Basu, the former principal chief engineer of Kolkata Municipal Corporation, “Piped water projects depend on rivers. To supply water from the Ganges to very far off locations is expensive.” And so we return to the question we started with — is the Jal Jeevan Mission possible to achieve? No one seems to think so, but no one wants to say as much. Anurag Gupta of WaterAid India, however, states, “This is a very ambitious project considering that it has to be implemented by the local bodies such as the panchayats. They do not have the technical expertise or the manpower. The quality of water has to be treated and the problem in each area is unique. So if you ask me, it is a project nearly impossible to achieve in the coming four years.” In the meantime, the absence of water continues to make for canny politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-317
08-11-2020||West Bengal||13 Bangladeshi intruders held||The Border Security Force (BSF) detained around 13 Bangladeshi nationals while they were trying to sneak into the Indian territory at three different locations in North 24- Parganas district on Saturday. BSF sources at the South Bengal Frontier headquarters in Calcutta said that the jawans attached to Battalion-112 apprehended the Bangladeshi nationals, who include women and children, from Hakimpur, Tarali and Bithari border outposts located close to the India-Bangladesh border in North 24-Parganas. The sources added that the Bangla nationals were held after they crossed the unfenced borders at three different locations at Swarupnagar in the district. “Out patrolling team nabbed five Bangladeshis from Bithari, six from Hakimpur and two others from Tarali border outposts when they were trying to cross the international boundary illegally from the neighbouring country in a bid to enter India,” a spokesperson for the BSF’s South Bengal Frontier said. Later, all the 13 Bangla nationals were handed over to the Swarupnagar police. They have been charged under the Foreigner’s Act for infiltration into the Indian territory. A police officer said: “During preliminary investigation the arrested Bangladeshi nationals said that they sneaked into India in search of jobs and had planned to travel to Bangalore with the help of touts.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-318
08-11-2020||West Bengal||Lockdown days not lost to season tickets||The Eastern Railway authorities have decided to extend the validity of season tickets to match the days passengers lost in the lockdown. Passengers whose validity of season tickets expired during the lockdown because local train services had been suspended amid the Covid situation can revalidate their tickets from the unreserved ticketing systems (UTS) counters from 8am on Monday. Notification in this regard will be issued soon to appraise the passengers so that they can take the local train service without hassle when it resumes service from Wednesday. A senior official in the office of the chief commercial manager’s office (passenger marketing division), Eastern Railway, said: “For validation of the expired season tickets passengers will have to visit the UTS counters at the station from which they had booked the ticket.” “Validation will begin from November 9 to ease the pressure at UTS counters that will begin selling daily tickets from November 11,” the official added. The local train service had been suspended in March amid the Centre’s nationwide lockdown owing to the Covid situation. Last week, railway authorities announced its resumption from November 11 after the state government gave its nod. Last week the ER authorities said that on Monday it would announce a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) to resume the service in all the three divisions (Sealdah, Howrah and Kharagpur) with only about 10-15 per cent trains maintaining precautionary measures. As part of its preparedness, ER authorities began cleaning and sanitisation of train coaches that had remained unused for the past seven months at the car sheds and various terminal stations. An ER official said, “Such cleaning of coaches is a routine job. However, because of the Covid situation it has assumed special significance.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-318
08-11-2020||West Bengal||Shah lunch sows delayed windfall||Bankura’s tribal farmer Bibhishan Hansda, who hosted lunch on Thursday for home minister Amit Shah but could not get a word in about his diabetic daughter, is now being courted by both Trinamul and BJP. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Saturday said that  Shah had instructed local MP Subhas Sarkar to take the 16-year-old chronic diabetic to AIIMS, New Delhi, for her treatment, the proposal coming within hours of local Trinamul leaders reaching out to the family to extend “all types of help” for the girl’s treatment. “Amitji instructed our MP (Sarkar) to take that girl to AIIMS for her treatment,” said Ghosh at a news meet in Calcutta on Saturday. Bibhishan, 47, a resident of Chaturdihi village, 13km from Bankura town, had told The Telegraph after Shah’s visit that he was upset as he did not get the opportunity to convey his concerns to the home minister about the treatment of his daughter Rachana, who needed insulin twice daily to keep her sugar levels under control. Shah had spent more than 45 minutes at the modest home of the tribal farmer. On Saturday, Ghosh said it was not right to claim that Hansda could not speak to the home minister. “Some people are criticising Amit Shah’s visit to the house of an Adivasi family. It was not right that Bibhishan could not speak to the home minister. There might be some miscommunication because of language issues...This might have dissatisfied Hansda,” he added. Sources said the BJP’s announcement came after Trinamul leaders reached out to the family, promising help and Rachana’s treatment. Trinamul sources said that tribal leader Amulya Hansda of the same village had been asked to keep regular contact with the family. “I have spoken to Bibhishan and assured him that the state government and Trinamul would be with him always,” said Amulya. Senior Trinamul leaders wondered why it took the BJP leadership two days to pledge its support for the family when Bibhishan had made his displeasure known on Thursday afternoon. “We don’t know what BJP will do. But we have communicated with the family and assured help for everything including treatment of his daughter,” said Shyamal Santra, the Bankura Trinamul chief and a minister of the Mamata Banerjee government. Told about Ghosh’s announcement, Bibhishan said: “I am happy and I express my gratitude if treatment for my daughter is arranged. However, neither the MP or anyone has else contacted me about this so far.” He added that he was happy with multiple offers of help but did not want to be involved in any politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-318
08-11-2020||West Bengal||Gurung’s exit prompts balancing act by Bista||Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling who reached here on Saturday, said that the Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha might have had its own compulsions for severing ties with the BJP, but the Gorkhas were natural allies of the saffron party. “They (Gurung camp) might have had some compulsions... But I think the Gorkhas have a natural alliance with the BJP. Here, we have an alliance with the people of hills, Terai and the Dooars,” Bista said at the Bagdogra airport. “Also, the BJP always meets its commitments,” he added, referring to decisions of the Narendra Modi government such as the abrogation of Article 370, construction of Ram Mandir and amendment of labour laws. On Gurung, Bista said he was upset. “It is upsetting for me that Bimalji (Gurung) has withdrawn his support from BJP…. But I still have good relations with him,” the MP said. In the hills, the political situation has been volatile ever since Gurung resurfaced in Calcutta on October 21 after three years to announce that he was deserting the BJP for Trinamul. Gurung said the BJP leadership had done nothing for the statehood demand. In 2019, Bista had won the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat with a huge margin, riding on the Gurung faction’s support. “Mamata Banerjee has taken the strategy of ‘divide and rule’ for the hills...separately appeasing both Gurung and Tamang. But such tactics will not work,” Bista said. The BJP leadership, sources said, would now campaign in the hills that they never ruled out the demand for a separate state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-318
08-11-2020||West Bengal||Hill ally GNLF issues ultimatum to BJP||The Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), the BJP’s largest ally in the hills right now, on Saturday said that unless the BJP took concrete steps for a permanent political solution for the hills before the 2021 Bengal polls, the GNLF would strike on their own. Ajoy Edwards, president of the GNLF Darjeeling branch committee, said the GNLF could not stand with the BJP “before the people” based only “on promises.” “The BJP government must fulfil the promises before the 2021 election….They must come clear on a permanent political solution and must also take concrete steps. Else, our party will be forced to chart our own way,” said Edwards. His statement came in the wake of the Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s decision to leave the BJP-led NDA alliance and support Trinamul in the election. Edwards said the BJP government had “not convened a single meeting on the “permanent political solution”. The GNLF’s statement is bound to put pressure on the BJP, a hill politics analyst said. Before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP promised a permanent political solution for the region and tribal status to 11 Gorkha communities. The BJP was then supported by the Gurung faction, the GNLF and others, which ensured Raju Bista’s win from Darjeeling. The GNLF criticised the Morcha’s Gurung and Tamang factions, saying that the “silent majority” would not vote for those who betrayed the Gorkhaland demand, alluding to the camps choosing to back Trinamul. In a separate development, on Saturday, a bulk of GTA pay-band employees from Kalimpong joined the TMC in the presence of Rajya Sabha member Shanta Chhetri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-318
