09-11-2020||West Bengal||WB CM urges Modi to intervene on price control of essential items||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to urgently intervene to control hoarding, increase supplies and bring down the skyrocketing prices of essential commodities. She also urged the Prime Minister to restore the states’ power to control the prices of essential food items like potato and onion. “In the view of the seriousness of the matter, I would urge the Central government to urgently step in to control hoarding, to increase supply and to bring down the rising prices of essential commodities, as the public is facing an acute crisis. Otherwise, the power of the state government be restored for exercising control over the production, supply, distribution and sale of agricultural commodities,” she wrote in a four-page letter to the PM. Banerjee also urged Modi to permit the states to bring about appropriate legislation in regard to their exercising control over the production, supply, distribution and sale of the agricultural commodities. “...The state governments being now devoid of its powers cannot be expected to remain a silent spectator to the ongoing sufferings of the common people due to extraordinary price rise of potato and onion-like essential commodities,” the letter said. The Parliament had on September 23 passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill to remove cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes from the list of essential commodities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-316
09-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal police, administration must be politically neutral, says Dhankhar||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday said the state police and administration must be "politically neutral" and warned that "outrageous departures spell serious consequences". Dhankhar, who is currently in Darjeeling, said in a series of tweets that his alerts to "politically motivated public servants" have been partially impactful as some are still in defiance, unmindful that such "misconduct" has serious career and criminal consequences. Cautioning public servants that political alignment is "illegal and criminal wrong", the governor said it is time to "flush out" extra constitutional authorities and illegal intruders from corridors of power to protect democracy. "My alerts to politically motivated public servants @MamataOfficial have been partially impactful as some are still in defiance, unmindful that such misconduct has serious career & criminal consequences. They must heed 'Be you ever so high, the law is always above you!' and amend," he tweeted. "Police and Administration @MamataOfficial must be 'political neutral'. Must adhere @IASassociation @IPS_Association AIS (Conduct) Rules, 1968. Every member of the Service shall at all times maintain 'political neutrality'. Outrageous departures spell serious consequences," he said in another Twitter post. The governor said the only "escape route" for violators is to dump the political hat and serve as per law. "Public servants @MamataOfficial political alignment is illegal and criminal wrong. Time to flush out Extra constitutional authorities & illegal intruders #MAP of power corridors to protect democracy. Only escape route for violators is to dump political hat & serve as per law," the governor tweeted. Dhankhar, in a letter to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in October, had called for "sanitising power corridors of non-state actors and (to) ensure that the state security advisor and principal advisor, internal security, do not boss over the statutorily structured police apparatus, thereby reducing the DGP and other police officials to abject subordination and to insignificance." The state government has engaged retired IPS officers Surajit Kar Purakayastha as the state security advisor and Rina Mitra as principal advisor of internal security.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-316
09-11-2020||West Bengal||Costly potato poser on midday plate at West Midnapore schools||The rising price of potatoes has created a funds poser for midday meals — rationed to students as schools are closed amid the pandemic — in West Midnapore. The district chapter of the State Forum of Headmasters and Headmistresses has submitted a deputation with the district magistrate demanding enough funds to procure potatoes for midday meals for roughly 6.27 lakh students. The deputation was given on Thursday last week following weeks of uncertainty over how schools would meet the price gap between Rs 45 per kg of potatoes sold in markets and Rs 32 for a kg that the state education department had allotted. On Friday, a day after the deputation, the district magistrate allotted Rs 35 per kg, but headmasters and teachers called it “insufficient”. “Ever since the lockdown we are providing monthly supplies to students as opposed to daily meals. This entails additional costs, including public announcement systems (informing people about the distribution of ration) and PPE (for those delivering the ration), which the government is not paying for,” said district president of the association Amitesh Chowdhury.
He added that monthly midday meal parcels include a ration of 1kg potato, 1kg chhola (chickpea), 2kg rice and a bar of soap. “While chickpea and rice are provided by the state, schools have to buy the other two items,” he said. Teachers’ associations said this week that for the past month, they had been meeting an “over Rs 10,000 price gap” on an average per school in the case of potato through donations and from their pockets. “We supply midday meals to around 1,000 of 1,800 students in our school. While buying potatoes in the market we have been often undersold or given bad stock for our inability to pay bulk rates,” said Bhupal Prasad Chakraborty, headmaster of Ishwarchandra Majhi Memorial School in West Midnapore’s Khukurdaha. District magistrate Rashmi Kamal on Saturday acknowledged the rise in potato prices but said officials were unable to increase the allowance beyond Rs 35 per kg “owing to state-enforced limitations on spending”. “We have raised the allotment to Rs 35 per kg from Rs 32 per kg in the light of this (Thursday’s) deputation but can’t go beyond that,” she said. Potato traders in Bengal have blamed the recent central amendment to the Essential Commodities Act for the rise in potato prices in retail markets as it allows barrier-free trade of the tuber. With the amendment, commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion and potato have been removed from the list of essential commodities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-316
09-11-2020||West Bengal||Fresh from crisis, Durgapur mulls backup water plan||The municipal corporation has decided on a blueprint for robust water supply backup plan in the town, which faced severe water scarcity for a week after a snag developed at Durgapur Barrage on Damodar that feeds water to the civic body’s treatment plants. Pabitra Chatterjee, mayoral council member (water supply) of the civic body, said the feeder canal from where they fetch water to the treatment plants needed desilting. “This is the second time since 2017 that we have faced such a water crisis for days following a snag at the barrage. We supplied water in tankers from 11 deep tube wells that we set up after the 2017 incident but that is not enough for a crisis of such magnitude,” he said. “We fetch water from the feeder canal and supply it to our water treatment plants in Durgapur. The water is then supplied across town. But the canal’s water carrying capacity has reduced because of silt deposit,” said Chatterjee Civic body engineers said the canal is 8.5km long and 3m deep but silt deposit has shrunk its capacity to almost half. “If we can increase the depth of the canal, it can hold more water and we could maintain normal water supply to our plants for at least five to six days if a crisis occurs,” said Chatterjee. He added that water treatment plants also needed an upgrade. The civic authorities have sent a draft proposal to the municipal affairs department for approval and sanction of funds. “De-siltation is a costly job that we can’t do with our own resources. We need funds from the government and for that we need the department’s nod,” said Chatterjee. Engineers at the water supply department of the civic body said they pay an yearly fee of Rs 12 crore to the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) as maintenance and water charges. “The DVC a few months ago carried out partial desiltation but that is not sufficient,” said the engineer. DVC officials in Durgapur said silt accumulation is natural in rivers and canals. “Encroachment along the banks of the canal and dumping of trash by encroachers create more trouble,” said a DVC official. The civic body supplies around 20 million gallons per day of water to the town for domestic and commercial use. Civic authorities have started exploring other options for water, instead of depending on Damodar alone, like the Ajay river on West Burdwan-Birbhum border. Water supply has resumed in Durgapur after a week but residents of some areas complained of inadequate supply. In Durgapur’s Bidhannagar housing, residents blocked the local road for an hour after not getting water on Sunday. “We have not yet received water despite assurance from local civic authorities. We will not withdraw our protest until we get water,” said Haradhan Haldar, a resident. Local Trinamul councilors Dipen Maji and Dipankar Laha got involved in altercation when local BJP workers joined the protest. Later, councillor Maji said a communication gap between housing functionaries and the civic authorities caused the chaos, which was then sorted out. Water supply was severely affected in Durgapur and parts of Bankura for a week after sluice gate no. 31 of Durgapur Barrage got bent resulting in water gushing out to the lower catchment area, leaving the upper catchment almost dry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-316
09-11-2020||West Bengal||Cancer patient and 4 of family found dead in South Dinajpur village||Five members of a family, including two children, were found dead at their home at a village in South Dinajpur district on Sunday. Police suspect Anu Burman, 33, a farmer and sole breadwinner of the family in Jamalpur village under Tapan police station, murdered his mother, wife and two daughters before taking his own life. South Dinajpur SP Debarshi Dutta said primary probe revealed Anu was suffering from cancer and was depressed. “It appears that he murdered the other four and then committed suicide. A probe is on. We are waiting for autopsy reports,” Dutta said. On Sunday morning, some workers hired by Anu to harvest paddy on his field came to his house and called out for him before heading for work. When no one responded, they became curious. One of the farmhands scaled the boundary wall and entered the house to see the body of Anu hanging from the ceiling. The bodies of his mother Ulubala, 60, wife Mallika, 28, and daughters Beauty and Snigdha aged 10 and 6, lay nearby with multiple injury marks. A police officer said Anu had been undergoing cancer treatment and had sold a major part of his ancestral land to fund it. “Recently, he was finding it tough to arrange money for treatment. Also, he was the only breadwinner in the family. We have initiated a probe and are exploring all possible angles,” the police officer said. Many of Anu’s relatives and neighbours refused to buy the murder-suicide theory and said that Anu couldn’t have taken such a step. “We suspect all five were murdered. Anu was a calm and quiet man. We can’t believe he took such a step,” said neighbour Gautam Burman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-316
09-11-2020||West Bengal||BJP sidelines old guard to focus on Bengal poll win||The Union home minister Amit Shah’s two-day visit to Bengal, with comments on accommodating those who want to join the BJP, may have ended up cementing the positions of turncoats in the party, many in the state party unit believe. Since the BJP started expanding in Bengal “inorganically” by inducting defectors from other parties, especially Trinamul, the party has seen a power struggle between the old guard and newcomers. Over the last few months, the tussle intensified, but members of the old guard believed they had an edge. “That myth seems to have broken...during his visit, Amitji made it clear that the party values those who can contribute towards winning the polls in Bengal and also sent out a message that those coming from other parties would have to be accommodated. If that is the consideration, turncoats clearly have an edge,” an old BJP worker said. Shah’s message that the party would get 200 seats has set the momentum for the polls, which means winning elections is now the sole focus. “So more people will join the party from Trinamul and the relevance of BJP’s old guard will decline. New inductees from the ruling party will be seen as assets in the BJP in view of their ability to manage elections,” said a source. The old BJP worker said that during important events such as Shah’s visit in the past, the party’s old guard played an important role. This time, it appeared that the whole event has been “captured” by the turncoats from Trinamul. “If you remember television footage, leaders like Mukul Roy and Anupam Hazra were seen in (more) close proximity to Amitji than our state president Dilip Ghosh,” another source said. 
Defectors from Trinamul, Roy is now a national vice-president of the BJP, while Hazra is a national secretary. Citing an instance of the change, this source referred to the visit of Shah to the home of Nabin Biswas, a representative of the Matua community. Mohit Roy, a saffron old guard and a prominent leader associated with the refugee movement, was not invited. The Matuas are a large populace of refugees from the erstwhile East Pakistan and an important vote bank for the party. “The Matuas are refugees and a leader like Mohitda wasn’t invited. Instead, Sabyasachi Dutta (MLA and defector from Trinamul) took charge of organising the event,” the source said. This source added that since Dutta has influence over the Rajarhat-New Town Assembly segment, and a few adjacent seats, he was given priority at the Matua home under the Rajarhat-New Town area. During his trip, Shah met three sulking party old-timers, former state presidents Tathagata Roy and Rahul Sinha and former general-secretary (organisation) Subrato Chatterjee. “They were looking for rehabilitation, but it seems they will have to wait,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-317
09-11-2020||West Bengal||13 days of dip in active cases in Bengal||Bengal for the 13th consecutive day since Durga Puja on Sunday, logged a drop in its total active cases. There were 3,920 new cases and 4,383 recoveries within the 24-hour window till 9am Sunday. Bengal’s recovery rate climbed a new high of 89.67, close to the national rate of 92.48 per cent. Bengal’s total active cases dropped from 37,190 to 34,566 in 13 days since the end of Durga Puja, and has gone back to where it stood on October 19. The state reported 53,368 recoveries in the 13 days, outweighing the 51,492 new cases detected during the same span. However, Bengal reported 59 more deaths on Sunday, including 16 from Calcutta. With these, Bengal’s total Covid-19 cases are 4.05 lakh, including over 3.63 lakh recoveries and 7,294 deaths. Of the total toll, 6,114, or 83.8 per cent, were attributed to comorbidities. Bengal’s mortality rate stands at an improved 1.79, but behind the national rate of 1.48 per cent. “It can now be said with certainty that the outbreak did not worsen over Puja. The credit has to be given to the high court for its order (against overcrowding) and administration for implementation,” said a minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-317
09-11-2020||West Bengal||Adhir praise for rival Suvendu Adhikari, dig at Mamata||State Congress president and Behrampore MP Adhir Chowdhury on Sunday lavished praise on Trinamul leader Suvendu Adhikari and his family, attributing to them a large chunk of the credit for Mamata Banerjee’s rise. Chowdhury went on to justify their “revolt” — it is being speculated for months that transport minister Suvendu might join the BJP — allegedly over Mamata’s bid to elevate nephew Abhishek. “Let me state in no uncertain terms that without the Adhikaris, Mamata Banerjee would not have become the chief minister. Suvendu risked his life to conduct the Nandigram movement, which was the key to her rise. When he started that movement, neither was she there nor was her nephew (Abhishek),” said Chowdhury, also the leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha. The anti-land acquisition movements in Singur and Nandigram proved pivotal to Mamata’s political career and propelled her to power in 2011. Suvendu, 51, is the state transport minister, one of Trinamul’s tallest leaders and a part of its seven-member apex steering committee. His father Sisir Adhikari is the Contai MP, one of his brothers Dibyendu is the Tamluk MP, and another brother Soumyendu is Contai’s civic chairman. Chowdhury’s comments added a new dimension to murmurs that Suvendu is likely to join the BJP. During Amit Shah’s recent Bengal visit, the first question hurled at the Union home minister at a news meet was about Suvendu’s switch to the saffron camp. Shah dodged it. Chowdhury has in the past attacked Suvendu. But on Sunday, Chowdhury said he felt the urge to speak the truth despite political differences. “When the Nandigram movement was on, I had gone there with relief. I have seen very closely how he led the movement, how much the masses, the poor, the farmers trusted him. I can’t lie about that,” he said. He added he did not know which party Suvendu would join, but “he clearly did not get his due in Trinamul”. “If something like this keeps happening to someone with ability, sooner or later there would be revolt. That revolt would be just,” Chowdhury added. Rumours over Suvendu’s possible defection to the BJP or forming a separate political party that joins the NDA have been afloat since 2013. Sources close to him attributed it to Mamata singling out Abhishek as her political heir, not Suvendu. A political observer said Chowdhury was “a known Mamata baiter”. “He may have broached Nandigram and Suvendu’s contribution to embarrass her.” The transport minister has been silent about this shift of political allegiance, but over the past month or so, many of his remarks, absence from many state government events, and comments on him by the BJP leadership have caused speculation. Suvendu attended a gathering of party workers in Murshidabad for the first time since his removal as the district observer in July. He was in Khargram for a memorial service for the party’s block president Mafizuddin Mondal, who succumbed to Covid-19. BJP state unit chief Dilip Ghosh said Trinamul was now like a cabbage: “Leaves keep coming off...eventually, Trinamul will have nobody other than those two (Mamata and Abhishek).” Additional reporting by Alamgir Hossain||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-317
09-11-2020||West Bengal||Political do-gooders compete for goodwill||Tribal farmer Bibhishan Hansda, who hosted lunch for Amit Shah on Thursday but couldn’t ask the Union home minister for help regarding his diabetic teen daughter, had a busy Sunday, with back-to-back visits from the BJP and the state government. Sources said chief minister Mamata Banerjee ordered district officials to tend to Bibhishan’s daughter, after his being “upset” at not getting a chance to speak to Shah came to light. BJP’s Bankura MP Subhas Sarkar, also a physician, visited Hansda’s house on Sunday, shortly after which a team of district health officials arrived with medicines for Rachana, a 16-year-old chronic diabetic and a Class XII student. “One after another, teams met us and expressed their concern about my daughter’s health. A team led by the MP assured us of treatment in Delhi. Later, a team of (government) doctors came and gave us insulin and other medicines for my daughter,” said Manika, Rachana’s mother. “We just want help for my daughter’s treatment and her medicines. We are not with any political organisation.” Hansda, 47, of Chaturdihi village, 13km from Bankura town, had told this newspaper after Shah’s visit that he was “upset” he did not get the scope to convey his concerns to the home minister. Rachana needs insulin twice daily to keep her sugar levels under control, something the farmer can ill afford. On Saturday, BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh said his party would arrange Rachana’s treatment at AIIMS, New Delhi. Ghosh’s party colleague Sarkar on Sunday went to the Hansda home and told Bibhishan about arrangements for the girl’s treatment at AIIMS if needed. Sarkar also arranged her tests later in the afternoon. “We’ve received the reports and her sugar levels are high. We will take her to AIIMS in Delhi, if necessary, after a few medical tests...,” said Sarkar. A little after Sarkar’s visit, a team of health officials headed by the BDO gave the girl medicines. “We will take care of her treatment,” said S. Arun Prasad, district magistrate.
Shyamal Santra, Trinamul district president and a minister of state in the Mamata Banerjee government, accused the BJP of damage-control. “It was very unfortunate that the host of the Union home minister’s lunch could not speak to him...there is no need for the BJP here as our chief minister will take care of the girl’s treatment,” said Santra. Sarkar made light of the state government’s help: “They sent a team today (Sunday) but hadn’t taken care of the health of the little girl before this.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-317
