10-11-2020||West Bengal||3 held over WhatsApp scam in Rajasthan||The Jangipur police in Murshidabad district have arrested three members of a gang allegedly involved in a WhatsApp racket from Rajasthan’s Bharatpur late last week. A local businessman and a bank employee had lodged police complaints on September 29, alleging that they had repetitively been scammed of amounts ranging between Rs 2,000 and Rs 5,000 by a fake WhatsApp profile. Acting on the complaints, a police team led by assistant superintendent of police, Sandip Karra, arrested Shabbir, Rajpal Singh and Chiranjit Singh from Bharatpur in Rajasthan on Friday. The trio were brought on transit remand from Bharatpur and produced at a local court in Jangipur on Monday. They have been sent to police custody for a week. Explaining the gang’s modus operandi, a member of the investigating team said that they used to trap their victims by becoming friends on Facebook. “They used to pose as women and contact the victims via Facebook and then access the their phone number and contact them through WhatsApp. They used to lure the victims by sending obscene images and then blackmail them for extortion. Their phone numbers were associated with fake image of a woman,” the officer said. He mentioned that the extortion amount would range from Rs ,2000 to Rs 5,000 every month. “We tracked the culprits through the bank accounts where the complainants had transferred cash,” the officer added. Jangipur police chief Y. Raghuvamshi on Monday said: “This is a nationwide scam. We have recovered devices with over 570 inappropriate images, 75 videos and 100 phone numbers, all of which were used to blackmail targets. People should be alert and avoid interacting with such unknown numbers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-315
10-11-2020||West Bengal||Elephant calf separated from herd, sent back to forest||An elephant calf, which had separated from its herd to enter a tea estate in the Dooars on Monday, was sent back to the forests of Gorumara National Park and Chapramari Wildlife Sanctuary. Foresters are keeping watch on whether the herd accepts the calf. The elephant calf, around six months old, strayed into the plantations and the factory of Bamandanga-Tondu tea estate and even entered the premises of the manager’s bungalow. Residents informed foresters and a team from the wildlife squad in Khunia intercepted the animal and steered it back to the forest. “We feel the herd will accept the calf. Still, our men are keeping a watch on it as there are instances that once a calf comes in contact with humans, the herd does not accept it,” said a forest official. Within the past three days, this is the second time that an elephant calf separated from its herd. Last Saturday, an elephant calf was spotted in Redbank tea estate, located in Banarhat area of the Dooars. Foresters tried to take it back to the herd but the herd did not accept it. It was eventually taken to the pet elephants’ enclosure in Gorumara. At the enclosure, Matirani, an adult female pet elephant, along with the mahouts, are taking care of it. “It is a challenging task to re-induct a (separated) calf back into the herd. If the herd does not accept the calf, it is equally challenging to nurture it at the enclosure. Last Saturday, we had to bring the calf to the enclosure. On Monday, another calf was found. If the herd comes back and takes it away, it is fine. Otherwise, foresters will take it to the enclosure,” said Sima Chowdhury, an honorary wildlife warden of the state forest department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-315
10-11-2020||West Bengal||Siliguri municipality wants 2 new civic bodies||Rapid urbanisation in large stretches of the Siliguri subdivision that fall outside the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) area (outside city limits) have made the Left-run Siliguri Mahakuma Parishad (SMP) board pass a resolution seeking two new municipalities be formed. If so, civic services can be extended to lakhs of people who dwell in these areas which still bore the rural tag. Last Friday, the SMP board passed the resolution and decided to forward it to the state panchayat and rural development department, and state municipal affairs and urban development department. The decision made by the Left-run board a few days before the expiry of its tenure (the board’s tenure will end on November 15) has come as a fresh poser for the Mamata Banerjee government. Many believe it is a part of the Left’s strategy to underscore the issue that has been a longstanding demand of the residents living in adjoining areas of Siliguri ahead of the upcoming Assembly elections. In Siliguri subdivision, there are four blocks — Matigara, Phansidewa, Naxalbari and Kharibari — along with the SMC area. While there are 47 wards in SMC area (out of which 33 are in Siliguri subdivision and the rest 14 fall under Jalpaiguri district), the rural area spread over these blocks or four panchayat samitis are under 22 panchayats, covering 837.45 square kilometres. Over the years, there has been steady urbanisation in most areas of Matigara and also in some areas of Naxalbari block like Bagdogra. Whether it is the Bagdogra Airport or the North Bengal University or the North Bengal Medical College & Hospital, all are still officially located in rural areas. Also, some shopping malls, multiplexes, several prominent hotels and even the entire Uttarayon Township are outside the SMC area. Tapas Sarkar, the sabhadhipati of SMP, said they want the state to constitute two new municipalities. “One would cover the areas of Matigara block while the other would cover Bagdogra. There has been rapid urbanisation and it is not possible for a panchayat or a panchayat samiti to extend civic amenities to people residing in these areas like a municipality or a municipal corporation. The residents have time and again flagged this issue before us and so we have passed this resolution. These areas should be taken out of the SMP area and new civic bodies should be constituted. The state government should take a call on the issue,” said Sarkar. At the meeting where the resolution was made, all nine members of SMP and heads of all the four panchayat samitis were present, he said. Another member of SMP said it was not possible for rural bodies to extend drinking water to households, develop roads across the region, install street lights, develop sewerage systems and introduce solid waste management systems across such a vast area. “This is where a civic body is needed. Municipal elections are due in most civic bodies of the state and also, from November 16, rural elections will be due in the mahakuma parishad and in rural bodies of the lower tiers across Siliguri sub-division. It is an appropriate time for the state to make a decision and carry out necessary demarcation,” said the member. Trinamul leaders are not ready to buy the theory. “The Left-run board has failed to carry out development across rural areas of the subdivision and are now trying to hide their failure by passing this resolution,” a Trinamul leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-315
10-11-2020||West Bengal||BJP MP Tejasvi Surya charges 4 Bengal police officers with assault||BJP MP Tejasvi Surya moved a breach of privilege motion against four officers of Bengal police on Monday for allegedly physically assaulting him and two other MPs on October 8 at a protest march to the state secretariat that the youth wing of the BJP had organised. “The police threw crude bombs at us, attempting to murder activists and MPs…a gross violation of the privileges of the MPs has been committed,” Surya, also the national president of the youth wing, said during a news conference at Delhi on Monday. The motion names four police officers, including Anuj Sharma, the commissioner of Calcutta Police and Kunal Agarwal, the commissioner of Howrah Police Commissionerate, as perpetrators. Surya said that a representation has been submitted to Om Birla, the Lok Sabha Speaker. “He promised us that he will consider our plea (the breach of privilege motion) and will forward our representation to the privileges committee for further appropriate action,” Surya added. For efficient discharge of their functions, MPs enjoy certain privileges and immunities. When such rights and immunities are disregarded, it is an offence under the law of the Parliament and is called a breach of privilege. Any member from either House can move a notice in form of a motion against the person or group responsible for the breach. Surya said that after the march was over, he visited the Jorasanko police station with MPs Nisith Pramanik and Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato, to file a complaint for attempt to murder MPs. He alleged his complaint wasn’t registered and all three of them were manhandled by the police. “On the same day, Locket Chatterjee, a female MP, faced police brutality,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-315
10-11-2020||West Bengal||GTA workers switch to TMC||Many employees of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), who have been for years demanding permanent jobs, joined Trinamul on Monday by de-affiliating themselves from the Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. Both Bimal Gurung and Tamang factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha are now allies of Trinamul. The switch-over started on Saturday, when most GTA employees from Kalimpong decided to join Trinamul. On Monday a similar event was seen in Darjeeling. Anil Rai, president, United Employees Union (UEU), which was affiliated to Binay Tamang camp of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, had earlier said they would remain independent. He, however, rolled out a different logic on Monday. “Why should we detour instead of taking a straight route? We will support chief minister Mamata Banerjee as she is the one who can solve our problem,” said Rai. There are 4,565 pay-band employees in GTA, which constitute nearly 90 per cent of the workforce in the hill body. Some have been working for more than 30 years. Many have served under Gurung’s GTA, and under Tamang, the former GTA head who has now been replaced by Anit Thapa. Calcutta High Court had directed the state government in June 2015 to convene a meeting with GTA in four months to decide how it would set in motion the process of absorbing these employees in permanent posts, but there was not much progress. N.B. Khawash, coordinator, TMC (hills), said: I think willpower…was lacking (from hill parties to solve the issue).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-316
10-11-2020||West Bengal||Murder whiff in South Dinajpur family tragedy||South Dinajpur police have filed a murder case in connection with the Sunday deaths of five members of a family in Jamalpur village. Police initially suspected farmer Anu Burman, a cancer patient who was finding it tough to arrange money for his treatment, killed his wife, mother and two daughters, and then committed suicide. But now, “new information” has made the police suspect that the family might have been killed by outsiders. Police found names of three persons written on Anu’s hand and a chopper from a pond next to the house, which might be the murder weapon. Also, Anu had recently sold some of his land for Rs 3 lakh — apparently for his treatment — and the cash was supposed to be at home, sources said. But cops found neither cash nor around 30 grams of gold that his family was supposed to have at home. Anu’s cell phone was switched off. “We found that his call list has been deleted,” a police source said. “We have filed a murder case on Sunday night,” Debarshi Dutta, the SP of South Dinajpur, said. “The house has been sealed. We are getting fingerprint experts to find out whether any outsider had been to the home. Our officers are also waiting for post mortem reports.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-316
10-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid: 2-week dip in active cases in Bengal||For two straight weeks since Durga Puja, Bengal on Monday reported a drop in its total of active cases. Total active cases dropped from 37,190 to 34,021 in 14 days, going back to the level of October 18. This apart, Bengal logged 3,907 new cases and 4,396 recoveries. The state reported 57,764 recoveries in the 14 days after Puja, outweighing the 55,399 new cases detected. Calling this a “spectacular defiance of apprehensions”, a state minister said: “It brought a lot of relief to the state government and made the chief minister (Mamata Banerjee) very happy.” Bengal’s total Covid-19 caseload is 4.09 lakh now, including nearly 3.68 lakh recoveries and 7,350 deaths. Fifty-six deaths were reported on Monday, including 13 from Calcutta. The minister reminded that Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja and issued a similar set of instructions over Kali Puja-Diwali. “If we can manage to pull that off, we will have secured a major improvement by Christmas,” he said. Bengal’s recovery rate, a new high of 89.89 per cent now, inched closer to the national rate of 92.58. But the state’s mortality rate is 1.79 now, lagging behind the national rate of 1.47 per cent. Of the state’s total toll, 6,157, or 83.8 per cent, were attributed to comorbidities. With 44,346 tests on Monday, Bengal’s test total went past 49.59 lakh, at 55,101 tests per million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-316
10-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal Opposition parties seek error-free voter list||Opposition parties in Bengal on Monday urged the Election Commission of India to ensure the sanctity of the electoral roll revision process, curtailed this time because of the pandemic, to ensure free and fair polls. During an all-party meeting convened by the EC, all major Opposition parties — the BJP, the CPM and the Congress — raised concerns over the alleged misuse of the state machinery during the special summary revision process. Trinamul also urged the poll panel to ensure an error-free roll and ruled out the possibility of foul play from the state’s end. Trinamul, which went out of its way to help returning migrant workers stranded for months, stressed the need to add migrants to the roll. “Booth-level officers play a pivotal role in the revision process. An error-free role is of foremost importance for free and fair polls. Booth-level officers are usually contract teachers, under total control of the state government, specifically, under education minister Partha Chatterjee (Trinamul secretary-general),” said BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar. “We voiced those concerns in the presence of Parthada.” Chatterjee, however, dismissed the suggestion. “All state government officials are directly under the supervision and control of the commission during poll-related processes. The possibility (of foul play) does not arise,” he said. “We specifically told the commission about the need for proper addition to the roll of the lakhs of migrant workers who have returned to Bengal,” he added. Trinamul sources said they were keen that such people vote as they are likely to be angry at the BJP-led Centre. Roll revision is a crucial annual exercise for accurate update of the voters’ list, usually carried out over three months from September. Because of the pandemic, this time, it will start on November 18 and end on December 15. The disposal of claims and objections would be allowed till January 5. The roll would be published on January 15. “The pandemic has complicated matters, but if elections are being held despite the pandemic, roll revision must be done properly,” said CPM central committee member Rabin Deb. Roll revision in Bengal is to a great extent a political exercise, as political parties visit homes, especially in rural areas, to encourage all eligible voters to apply for inclusion of their names on the voter list. In rural areas, representatives of political parties also help new voter applicants with collecting relevant documents from government offices. Given the pandemic constraints and the narrower window, it is unclear how far the parties would be able to carry that out. Besides, there are concerns over the accuracy of removal of absentee, shifted and deceased (ASD) voters this time. “Even in normal years, after ASD voters are dropped during the revision, 40-100 ASD names remain for each booth. Most parties here try to take advantage of the flaw by sending dummy voters. If a party can get 50 ASD votes per booth in a constituency with 2,000 booths, it can get a head-start with one lakh votes even before a single (genuine) vote is cast,” said a source. “So, there are apprehensions, especially in the Opposition, over how effective the ASD clean-up will be this time,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-316
10-11-2020||West Bengal||Affordable AC bus link  to Salt Lake IT hub||The Khardah Municipality in North 24-Parganas, jointly with the state transport corporation, on Monday rolled out an affordable air-conditioned bus service to connect the town and nearby areas to Sector V in Salt Lake, Bengal’s IT hub. Trinamul MP from Dum Dum Saugata Roy flagged off the bus service from Khardah Municipality Ground in the presence of the members of the civic body’s board of administrators and transport department officials. A transport official said that it was for now a single-trip service. The bus starts at 8.30am from Khardah and leaves Sector V at 5.15pm to return to Khardah. After assessing demand, the number of trips will be increased. Sources said around 200 youths from Khardah work in private firms and IT companies in and around Salt Lake. In the new normal, with the dearth of transport facilities, the AC bus would alleviate commuting woes for youths working in Salt Lake, said a municipality official. “Though local trains will roll out from Wednesday, most of the youths said they would like to avail of the bus service as they want to avoid the rush in trains,” said Kajal Sinha, who chairs the board of administrators at Khardah Municipality. A municipal official said that they would ensure that Covid protocols were adhered to by bus passengers. He added it was a direct bus service to Sector-V and no one would not be able to board the bus midway. “However, they can get down at their respective destinations,” he said. “The new bus service was launched between Khardah and Sector V after repeated appeals from Khardah municipality,” said Rajat Kanti Biswas, the joint managing director of West Bengal Transport Corporation. Khardah commuters said they had to spend Rs 250 on one trip to their Salt Lake workplace, around 20km from the town. Rajib Mukherjee, an employee with an engineering company in Sector V, said the AC bus had come as a big relief for his budget. “For the past three months I have been spending huge sums on commuting to my workplace in Salt Lake and back. Each trip cost me Rs 250. It is a huge relief that we will be paying only Rs 55 for a one-way trip to office,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-316
10-11-2020||West Bengal||Mamata asks Modi to act to bring down essential items prices||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to intervene in bringing down the prices of essential items, while alleging that recent changes brought in through farm bills only encouraged hoarders at the expense of the masses. She said that amendments in the Essential Commodities Act removed cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onions and potatoes from the list of essential commodities. “The amendments are seriously encouraging hoarders in hoarding and profiteering on essential items like potato, onion etc thereby resulting in price rise and consequent sufferings...,” Mamata’s letter reads. Her letter holds political significance as it hints a campaign to accuse the BJP-led Centre for the rise in prices. The state BJP has already blamed the Mamata government for the price rise. Mamata wrote to Modi that the amendments were hurried and went against the interest of farmers and consumers. “We had raised our serious concerns that these enactments were hurriedly made without adequate thought process or discussion...with the states. The adverse impact of these new Central Acts upon the farmers and consumers in terms of availability and prices of essential agricultural commodities is already visible now,” she wrote. Citing that masses were suffering amid the pandemic, she urged the Centre to step in immediately or allow the state to do so by restoring federal authority. “...I would urge the Central government to urgently step in to control hoarding, to increase supply and to bring down the rising prices of essential commodities...Otherwise, the power of the state government be restored...,” Mamata wrote. She cited examples of how the state had controlled prices using Essential Commodities Act in 2014 and 2015. A Trinamul minister said the letter was timely. Potato sells for Rs 40 and onion at Rs 80 a kg. “People are angry, but should know the Centre is at fault, not the state, whose powers have been seized.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-316
10-11-2020||West Bengal||Factors behind potato price rise in Bengal||The potato, a kitchen essential in Bengal that retailed at Rs 28 a kilo even a month ago, is now selling for Rs 40 in most markets of Calcutta amid murmurs that the price would keep climbing northwards. The issue took a political turn after the BJP accused the Trinamul-led state government of failure to control the situation, while Trinamul blamed the Centre’s decision to curb the state’s authority on enacting the essential commodities Act to prevent inter-state trade of agriculture produce, and thus curb the spiralling prices. The Telegraph spoke to government officials, potato traders and cold storage owners to assess the network of reasons behind the situation. High demand Besides domestic demand, Bengal’s potato is in high demand in neighbouring states. The early variety from Punjab, which usually arrives in markets by early November, is yet to reach this year. Over 1 lakh tonne of Bengal’s potato is going to states like Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Jharkhand, Bihar, Chattisgarh and Assam every month. Demand for potatoes went up in Bengal from 5 lakh tonnes a month to about 6 lakh tonnes when vegetable prices shot up after Cyclone Amphan. “We are bringing out 7 lakh tonnes from cold storage owners instead of 6 lakh tonnes in other years. Even that’s not enough,” said a member of West Bengal Potato Traders’ Association. “Until fresh produce from Punjab arrives, the price won’t come down. The market could be stable by November-end,” said a trader. Lack of state control Senior state government officials said that during supply snags earlier, the state government could restrict potato trade to other states by enacting essential commodities Act. But this year it could not do so because the Centre curbed the state’s authority by removing potato from the list of essential commodities via the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. “The state’s authority was curbed on June 5 when the Centre had promulgated an ordinance. As a result, we cannot take steps even if people of the state are suffering,” said Pradip Majumdar, agriculture adviser to the chief minister. A senior government official said the immediate effect of the farm bills led to prices shooting up for potato and onion. “But farmers for whom the bills were introduced did not benefit. Some traders enjoyed the benefit and common people suffered,” he said. Storage challenges This year, Bengal produced around 90 lakh tonnes, less than usual. Fewer potatoes reached cold storages with the nationwide lockdown coming into effect from March 24. “Cold storages could not work properly because of labour shortage...they could stock 57 lakh tonnes of potato this year compared to 64 lakh tonnes in 2019 and 70 lakh tonnes in 2018,” said a cold storage owner. Sources said if stock is less, traders are not in a hurry to release extra stock in the market. In the last few years, extra supply made traders hurry and clear stocks. This year, there is no extra supply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-316
