11-11-2020||West Bengal||Flouting of Covid norms on local trains worry doctors||Doctors expressed concern over flouting of Covid safety norms in suburban trains that resumed services in Kolkata and other parts of West Bengal on Wednesday, warning that the pandemic situation would deteriorate. People jostled at several stations to catch the trains with compartments crammed as services resumed after seven months in the morning. Doctors said that such violations are ideal for the spread of the virus, diminishing the gains made over the past few weeks in the fight against the contagion. "We can clearly see people are not abiding by the Covid-19 safety protocols and this is definitely a matter of concern for us," said Dr Anirban Dalui, a public health specialist. "The problem is that those who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms are travelling on the trains, risking the lives of people who are not taking proper precaution," he said. Dr Hiralal Konar of the Joint Platform of Doctors blamed improper planning by the state government and the railways for the violations. "The situation is quite alarming. I fear that if it goes on, the virus will spread to a level where it will be beyond control," he told PTI. "More planning was required keeping in mind that different people travel on the trains for different purposes. Those travelling to visit their relatives should not have been allowed. The government and the railways got ample to do the planning, but they could not," Dr Konar said. Senior physician Dr Syamasis Bandyopadhyay, however, said that it will take a couple of days for the commuters to understand and practice the safety norms while travelling on the suburban trains. "The situation is a concern for us but the government or the railways cannot be blamed. The common people have to show some responsibilities to maintain the physical distancing and follow the protocols while travelling," he said. "I believe the sense of responsibility will grow in a couple of days. We have to wait and see," Dr Bandyopadhyay said. The local train services under the jurisdiction of the Eastern and the South Eastern Railways have resumed. They were suspended in March as the nation went into a lockdown with the detection of COVID-19 cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-314
11-11-2020||West Bengal||GPS-fitted sound monitoring devices to track violators of firecracker ban ||The West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) is distributing over 1,000 GPS-fitted sound monitoring devices among different police stations in the state to track people violating the firecracker ban during Kali Puja. The Calcutta High Court has banned the sale and bursting of firecrackers during Kali Puja and other upcoming festivals. "The devices will help the Calcutta and Bengal police forces pinpoint the spot and track the offender immediately," WBPCB Chairman Kalyan Rudra told PTI on Wednesday. The display board of the device shows the spot, date and time of the firecracker bursting along with the decibel level. A thermal printer embedded with the device enables the printout of the details for documentary evidence and prosecution, he said. "We have taught the police to run the devices. The WBPCB team in each zone will coordinate with the local policemen and offer assistance if needed," the official said. The GPS-fitted devices, developed by a state-run IT undertaking, are being used by the police and the WBPCB since Kali Puja last year. Earlier, the police used sound monitoring gadgets without GPS tracker and tried to nab violators after recording noise pollution in an area. The new devices will also be used to record decibel levels from loudspeakers and sound boxes blaring during the festival and take action if required.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-314
11-11-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul youth leader ‘assaulted trader’ in Malda’s Harishchandrapur||A youth Trinamul leader in Malda’s Harishchandrapur has been accused of demanding money from a local hardware trader, assaulting him and abusing his family after he refused to pay up. The incident that occurred on Sunday came to light on Tuesday when a trade body of Malda threatened to launch a business strike and demanded accused Durjoy Das be arrested. Sources said hardware trader Pawan Kedia had recently built a wall on his land. After some days, some elected representatives of the panchayat — the land is under Harishchandrpaur panchayat of Harishchandrapur-I block — asked him to demolish it. “They claimed the land belongs to the panchayat and told me I would have to demolish the wall in three days. I did not do it as I have documents to prove I own the land, and I readied my papers,” said Kedia. But before Kedia could approach panchayat authorities with papers, Durjoy, a youth Trinamul leader and son of elected panchayat member Basanti Das, met him on Sunday, the trader said. “He and some aides asked for money in exchange for settling the land issue. When I said no, they assaulted me at home and abused female members of my family.” Kedia filed a complaint against Das and some others with the police. “So far, the police have not taken any step against him,” added Kedia. Jayanta Kundu, secretary, Malda Merchant Chamber of Commerce, said the alleged attack on the trader and police inaction had left the business fraternity disappointed. Trinamul leaders tried to distance themselves from the incident. “We have no connection with it,” said Jiaur Rahman, youth Trinamul president of Harishchandrapur-I block. Chanchal SDPO Sajalkanti Biswas said police were probing the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-314
11-11-2020||West Bengal||Jute-growing village gets a taste of tea||A new sight — that of a lush green tea plantation — greets people at Bajejama Pakhihaga village of Cooch Behar these days. So far, the village under Matalhat panchayat of Dinhata never had a tea plantation. This area in north Bengal has primarily been known as an agrarian belt, with tobacco and jute its main crops. The credit for the change in the crop basket goes to Partha Pratim Sarkar, a resident of Bajejama Pakhihaga and social worker. Sarkar not only introduced tea plantation in the area by taking a plunge himself, but is also spreading awareness on how to grow tea leaves — a cash crop — among local farmers and migrant workers. Around four years back, Sarkar started working on his plan to develop a tea plantation over 50 bighas that he owns in the village. “The plantation is ready in around 30 bighas while work is going on in the remaining land. From the plantation, I started getting around 6,000 kilos of tea leaves a month from this season. I am sending the leaves to a tea factory in Madarihat and these days, I am earning Rs 18 to 20 per kilo,” said Sarkar. There has been a decline in the yield of tea leaves in large tea estates of north Bengal. This has led to the emergence of the small tea sector, and for the past few years, the small tea sector is contributing around half the total tea produced in the region. “I believe that in the coming years, small tea plantations like the one I have will be the major supplier of tea leaves. It can provide an opportunity to farmers who often suffer losses by cultivating traditional crops and can also be a means of employment for migrant workers of our district,” he said. As of now, there are some tea plantations in Cooch Behar district but most of those are in Mekhliganj subdivision close to tea belts of Jalpaiguri. The tea plantation has also created an opportunity for daily wage earners of the village, particularly those who are old and cannot do physically demanding work. In small tea plantations, around three workers get around 200 to 250 days’ work (of tea plucking) for every acre of land. “My plantation is spread over around 10 acres of land and I am engaging around 30 workers these days. Many of them are middle-aged or old, and find it convenient to pluck tea leaves,” Sarkar said. If more plantations come up in the rural pockets of Dinhata, it would create direct employment for many people, he pointed out. Sarkar’s plan has encouraged a number of other farmers of his village and some others who are from adjoining areas. “Many of them have approached me to know how they can start the plantations. I have provided them some guidance and have also asked them to visit the tea board’s office in Jalpaiguri and talk with small tea growers,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-314
11-11-2020||West Bengal||Lost elephant calf in Malbazar sent to rescue hub||An elephant calf was rescued from near the New Mal railway station in Malbazar subdivision of Jalpaiguri on Tuesday. This is the third elephant calf rescued in four days. Sources said on Tuesday morning, morning walkers spotted the jumbo calf that had strayed near the station. It is around one-and-a-half years old, foresters said. As more and more people gathered, the elephant got tense and started running around. Soon, a team from the Malbazar wildlife squad arrived and intercepted the calf. They tried to send it back to the forest but could not locate its herd. “It has been sent to the rescue centre in Gorumara National Park,” said Bibhuti Bhusan Das, range officer of the wildlife squad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-314
11-11-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee looms large in omission ||On Bihar poll results day, a political drama of a possible rift in Trinamul played out in Bengal through parallel events in Nandigram held in memory of martyrs of the anti-land acquisition movement. Differences in Trinamul became apparent as state transport minister and party heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari and his followers appeared on the “apolitical” dais of the Bhumi Uchhed Pratirodh Committee (BUPC) to pay tributes to the martyrs, staying away from a hurriedly organised event by Trinamul for the same cause later in the afternoon. Suvendu, who is apparently disgruntled with Trinamul for apparently not getting his due, did not mention chief minister Mamata Banerjee in his speech. From the Trinamul dais, senior leaders Firhad Hakim, Purnendu Bose and Dola Sen obliquely attacked Suvendu, who was the main draw at the BUPC event. At 11am, Suvendu took the BUPC dais at the Gokulnagar High School Ground, Tekhali in Nandigram. The event, announced weeks ago and carried out annually since 2008, saw a turnout of around 35,000 to 40,000 people. Referring to the separate — and inaugural — Trinamul event, Suvendu asked in a largely anonymous diatribe,  why Nandigram was being remembered after 13 years. The question was linked to absence of senior Trinamul leaders in the annual event that he has been presiding over for years. The minister, who played a key role in the anti-land acquisition movement in Nandigram, did not even mention Mamata Banerjee once, peppering his speech with remarks that seemed to be laced with sarcasm towards the ruling establishment. “If you come before the elections, you also have to come after them…. We will meet in the battlefield, on the platform of politics. That battle will be won by the people, by democracy. Suvendu Adhikari does not have fear,” he said. Land movements in Singur and Nandigram proved pivotal to Mamata’s political career and propelled her to power in 2011. Suvendu, now 51, is one of the tallest leaders of the ruling party and is part of its seven-member apex steering committee as a general-secretary. His father Sisir Adhikari is the Contai MP, one of his brothers Dibyendu Adhikari is the Tamluk MP, and another brother Soumyendu Adhikari is Contai’s civic chairman. “BUPC zindabad, Nandigram zindabad, Joy Bangla, Bharat Mata zindabad…. Political analysts have been craving for a political statement from me from here. But I will not say anything political from this holy dais,” said Suvendu, flanked by brother Dibyendu, Khejuri MLA Ranajit Mondal, Contai North MLA Banasri Maity, Nandakumar MLA Sukumar De and Moyna MLA Sangram Dolui. Panskura West MLA Firoja Bibi, however, attended both events. “I will say what I have to say from an appropriate platform. Which path I can take smoothly, without falling into the gutter, I will specify from such a platform. Where I have been tripping, where my road is filled with potholes, where I have been facing difficulties, I will say everything, but not today,” said Suvendu. ‘Don’t aid BJP’ At 3.30pm, in Nandigram’s Hajrakata, the Trinamul event began. Organised on a 24-hour notice, it was attended by around 8,000 people. On the dais were urban development minister Firhad Hakim, technical education minister Purnendu Bose, Rajya Sabha member Dola Sen, Ramnagar MLA Akhil Giri, Patashpur MLA Jyotirmoy Kar and East Midnapore zilla parishad’s deputy chief Sheikh Sufian. Contai MP and Trinamul chief in East Midnapore Sisir Adhikari, Suvendu’s father,  was conspicuous by his absence despite receiving an invitation. “Never before was Mamata Banerjee ignored on the BUPC platform. For the first time, not only was her picture missing, even her name was not mentioned. That’s why we had to organise a separate programme here…. The BJP only divides, the BUPC should do the opposite,” said Sen. Bose said the Nandigram movement was historic and the crème de la crème of civil society from across the country had joined it because of Mamata. “Her leadership sustained the movement. Those who dare to omit her dare to forget history,” said Bose. Bose said everybody ought to remember that Mamata’s picture over their head and its absence made a great deal of difference. Hakim, like Adhikari a general-secretary and member of the seven-member apex steering committee of the party, said he and the others would have attended the BUPC event had they been invited, like in the previous years. “Don’t do anything to strengthen the BJP, which is what you do if you try to weaken Mamata,” warned Hakim. “Like there cannot be India without Mahatma Gandhi, China without Mao Zedong, Russia without Vladimir Lenin, one must never forget that there cannot be Bengal without Mamata Banerjee.” Murmurs of Suvendu’s dissatisfaction with Trinamul, coinciding with the rise of party chief Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek, have been doing the rounds for some time now, with many BJP state unit leaders claiming that it was only a matter of time that he would join the saffron camp. Some sources however said that Suvendu might form a separate political party that joins the NDA. Last week, when asked about Suvendu at a news meet in Calcutta, Union home minister Amit Shah dodged the question.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-315
11-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal’s recovery rate past 90%||Bengal’s recovery rate on Tuesday went past 90 per cent for the first time, to reach 90.11 per cent, aided by a drop in the state’s total active cases for 15 days on the trot since Durga Puja. The state logged 4,415 recoveries, resetting the record for daily recoveries for the 21st time in 22 days, 3,891 new cases and 53 deaths, 15 of them from Calcutta. The total of active cases dropped from 37,190 to 33,444 in these 15 days, and has gone back to the level of October 17. The state reported 62,179 recoveries in the 15 days after Puja, outweighing the 59,290 new cases detected. With 15 days of continuous dip in active cases, Bengal matched its previous best spell that ended on September 7. Bengal’s total of novel coronavirus cases is 4.13 lakh now, including over 3.72 lakh recoveries and 7,403 deaths. “With a recovery rate of 90-plus, we are back on track. Before the setback of the first three weeks of October, we were en route to getting there a lot quicker. But now, we are chasing the national rate (92.68 on Tuesday) again,” said a minister. In yet another milestone, with 44,117 tests on Tuesday, Bengal’s test total went past 50 lakh, to touch 50.03 lakh, at 55,591 tests per million people. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja. The numbers of infections from the Puja days, largely available by now, has shown that the intervention was effective. The high court has issued a similar set of instructions to keep the outbreak from worsening over Kali Puja and Diwali. Of the total death toll, 6,200, or 83.7 per cent, were attributed to co-morbidities. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.79 now, still behind the national rate of 1.47 per cent. The state reported 33.61 per cent occupancy in the 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 101 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 4.32 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-315
11-11-2020||West Bengal||Cop held over custody death in Bolpur||An inspector of police formerly posted in Bolpur, Prabir Kumar Dutta, was on Tuesday produced at a Bolpur court through videoconferencing for allegedly beating to death a man in police custody in September 2016. Additional chief judicial magistrate of Bolpur Ayan Kumar Bandopadhyay remanded him to seven days in judicial custody and ordered his production at the court of the additional district and sessions judge on November 18. Dutta, who so far was posted as an inspector in East Burdwan, was brought in an ambulance outside Bolpur court, but stayed in it as he was ill. The court also ordered his treatment in custody, said his advocate Swagata Biswas. Dutta was produced before court on charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder in the 2016 death of truck driver Raju Thandar, 26, causing disappearance of evidence of offence, among others. His name was in the supplementary chargesheet filed by the CID on October 5. “He surrendered at Narendrapur police station on November 8 as there was an arrest warrant against him,” said Phiroj Kumar Pal, assistant public prosecutor, who opposed Dutta’s bail plea. Pal had reminded the court that it was “worst crime” as a man died in police custody. Sources said the police had allegedly arrested truck driver Raju on September 11, 2016, but cops claimed they had rescued him from near the Bolpur sub-divisional hospital with head injuries a few days before. The police said Raju had been taken to the hospital where doctors declared him dead on arrival. Some people accused the police of beating Raju to death in custody. A mob ransacked the police station. Dutta was the inspector-in-charge of Bolpur police station when the incident occurred. The police stuck to their claim and lodged a case of unnatural death. Soon, activists of the Association of Protection for Democratic Rights (APDR) circulated a purported email sent to then district police chief and other senior officers by Dutta. The email said Raju was arrested. What emerged later was that the case filed following Raju’s arrest had been replaced by the name of one Babar Sheikh of Nanoor in Birbhum. What cops forgot to change were emails exchanged on Raju’s arrest. The case was handed over to the CID. “The police first claimed Raju was not arrested and later we discovered documents related to his arrest. Dutta, then inspector-in-charge of Bolpur, had tried to suppress the event of Raju’s death in custody. We demand his punishment,” said Sailen Mishra, the APDR secretary in Birbhum. The police said apart from section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), Dutta had also been charged with 166 (public servant disobeying law, with intent to cause injury to any person), 167 (public servant framing an incorrect document with intent to cause injury), 323 (voluntary causing hurt), 325 (voluntary causing grievous hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 343 (wrongful confinement for three or four days). Advocates said that all the charges established that Raju had been killed without the intention to murder in police custody and he had been confined illegally for four days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-315
11-11-2020||West Bengal||Haven’t sold pride: Bimal Gurung on new pact||Bimal Gurung’s supporters on Tuesday packed a community hall at St Mary-Tung area near Kurseong with people for him to address them from Calcutta through videoconference. Gurung explained in detail the need for a new pact with Trinamul and tried to flag off issues to his core constituency in tea gardens. Gurung’s party office at Patlebas, Darjeeling, also opened on Tuesday after a gap of more than three years. The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader (Gurung faction) has started addressing large gatherings of party supporters through videoconferencing after three years, in an apparent bid to recover lost ground amid his prolonged absence from the hills after the Gorkhaland agitation of 2017. “Till now we have not sold the pride, the self-respect of our community,” Gurung said, emphasising he had told in “clear-cut” terms (to Trinamul) that his party could not forget the Gorkhaland demand. This statement acquires added significance as Gurung resurfaced on October 21 in Calcutta after three years to declare he was severing ties with the BJP-led NDA and support Trinamul in the upcoming Bengal polls, a party which has been against the separate-statehood demand. Though Trinamul does not support the statehood demand, Gurung’s speech showed he was committed to the cause of Gorkhaland. “I explained during a news meet (in Calcutta) that during the 2024 Lok Sabha election we will support whichever party that takes forward the Gorkhaland demand,” added Gurung. Politically, Gurung said, it was a do-or-die situation. “We were of the opinion that 2021 was most important and we had to take a swift decision keeping in the mind the (Bengal) election,” said Gurung, adding that a wrong decision would mean “the party would have died and along with it the issue (of Gorkhaland)...” Without taking names, Gurung alluded that the political chapter of rival Binay Tamang would “close” within a few days. Launching a multi-pronged attack on Tamang, who heads a breakaway faction of the Morcha, Gurung said that there were allegations of corruption in appointment of teachers and the interest of tea workers had not been taken care of. “During my tenure we always ensured a 20 per cent bonus at one go (this year the tea gardens decided to pay bonus in two instalments of 15 and 5 per cent). After I return I promise tea workers that you will get a 20 per cent bonus in 2021,” said Gurung. The 87-odd tea gardens in the hills employ around 70,000 tea workers. Along with the welfare of tea garden workers, employment would be another core area of focus, he added. “Difficult times” faced by his supporters on the run — Gurung said he too was on the run for the sake of the “community” despite having lived like a king (in Darjeeeling) — was another key point of his speech on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-315
11-11-2020||West Bengal||Tailoring skills for wives of Sunderbans migrant workers||A social outfit at Sandeshkhali in the northern Sunderbans has started skilling the wives of jobless migrant workers amid the pandemic. The Sandeshkhali Maa Saroda Women and Rural Welfare Society has chosen 50 women from financially underprivileged tribal families and distributed among them sewing machines, cloth lengths and thread rolls. The outfit aims to equip homemakers with tailoring skills. But as an immediate solution to lessen their financial woes, the women are being trained to make face masks and skull caps that are in demand during the pandemic. Last Friday, members of the welfare society handed over sewing machines funded by Linde Global Support Services Private Limited. Following the the nation-wide lockdown in March, many migrant workers from parts of Sandeshkhali-1 block returned home from mainly southern states where they worked as construction workers. On May 20, Cyclone Amphan made their lives worse. Despite unlock phases, many workers could not go back. Their wives, mostly homemakers, had no skills that could help them earn. Subhasis Mondal, secretary of the welfare society, said: “In such a situation, we decided to empower the women. Men can return to work at a later stage, but women can start earning at home.” To implement the idea, the organisation, supported by the Sandeshkhali-1 block administration, selected one member each from the 50 tribal women groups. Madhabi Sardar, 36, wife of a migrant worker from Metiakhali, said this training was a ray of hope after Covid and Amphan. “They will be trained in cutting, knitting, and sewing garments. We have requested the district administration to let them make school uniforms once their training is over,” an official of the welfare society said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-315
11-11-2020||West Bengal||Bankura starts off Jungle Mahal outreach||Bankura district magistrate S. Arun Prasad on Monday launched an outreach programme named “Weekly Grievance Day” to find on-the-spot solutions to grievances of people living in a district that is part of the state’s Jungle Mahal region. Sources said the move came a week after Prasad surveyed tribal villages in the vicinity of the district headquarters on foot to witness first-hand the problems of the people. In this initiative, Prasad is following his predecessor Uma Sankar S., who introduced the idea, but had to stop it following the Covid-19 outbreak, said an official of the district administration. The grievance day event kicked off on Monday at Rabindra Bhavan auditorium, the same venue where Union home minister Amit Shah held a political meeting on November 5. “We are intimating all the block level and departmental officials to address grievances on the spot. On the first day, around 40 persons came to us with grievances,” Prasad said. “The DM will visit different areas, mainly in pockets of the Jungle Mahal as part of the outreach programme every alternate Sunday,” an official said. The initiative is significant as the ruling Trinamul Congress had fared poorly in the area in the 2021 Lok Sabha polls. The BJP bagged five out of six parliamentary seats and the Trinamul lagged behind the BJP in 31 of 40 Assembly segments in the Jungle Mahal area. In the Ranibandh Assembly segment, the Trinamul had also lagged behind the BJP. In Bankura, ruling Trinamul lagged behind the saffron party in all 12 Assembly seats. Sources said chief minister Mamata Banerjee has asked district magistrates and other officials to reach out to remote areas of Jungle Mahal in order to address people’s demands and grievances. In her recent administrative meeting in Jhargram—one of the Jungle Mahal districts — Banerjee directed district officials to reach out to tribal hamlets and meet villagers to know what they want. Sanatan Kundu, an 82-year-old retired chemistry professor from Bankura’s Chhatna, met the district on Monday regarding an ongoing land related dispute. “I am facing severe torture by one of my relatives over land. I approached the district magistrate requesting him a solution for it. He assured me of help.” Senior officials said that earlier, such meetings or public grievance days used to take place in the office of the district magistrate. But now, authorities had chosen the Rabindra Bhavan auditorium to maintain Covid protocol.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-315
