12-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal BJP chief’s convoy attacked in Alipurduar, greeted with black flags||Stones were hurled and black flags were shown at BJP state president Dilip Ghosh's convoy in Jaigaon area of Bengal's Alipurduar district on Thursday, where he had gone to attend party programs, police said. Several Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) activists were seen raising slogans against Ghosh, asking him to leave. Ghosh's vehicle was partially damaged in the attack, sources in the BJP said. A team of police officers, however, brought the situation under control, after forcing the protesters and saffron camp supporters to disperse. Ghosh later told reporters, “The TMC and their friends are getting desperate as they can sense defeat in the upcoming assembly polls. However, such tactics won't work. People are with us.” He also claimed that the incident goes on to show that law and order have completely collapsed in Bengal. After a Chai Pe Charcha session, we were on our way to another program, when our convoy was pelted with stones. Black flags were shown. “Such attacks by the ruling party and its allies prove that law and order have collapsed in the state. In a democracy such things don't happen,” he stated. District TMC chief Sourav Chakraborty, however, said that Ghosh was trying to foment trouble in north Bengal, and none of his party activists was involved in the incident. The GJM, led by Bimal Gurung, recently joined hands with the TMC, while the Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha outfit has always been an ally of the ruling party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-313
12-11-2020||West Bengal||BJP worker found dead, party accuses TMC||A BJP worker’s body was recovered from a forested area in West Bengal’s Purba Medinipur district on Wednesday night. The incident soon triggered tension in the area as the saffron party accused Trinamool Congress ‘goons’ of murdering him. The ruling party however denied the allegations, saying they were "baseless and bereft of truth". According to a police officer, the deceased Gokul Jana’s body was found at the Itabedia area in the district on Wednesday night, following which an inquiry was initiated. The state unit of the BJP, in a Twitter statement, said, “Gokul Jana, BJPs booth worker from Kanthi Bhagabanpur assembly, was brutally murdered by TMC goons. His crime? He requested the husband of a TMC panchayat member affected by Corona to stay in quarantine!" "Is this how a democracy is supposed to survive under Mamata Banerjee's TMC in Bengal?" the tweet adds. BJP leader Sayantan Basu alleged that the police was trying to shield the murderers by hushing up the matter, adding that Jana was a victim of political rivalry. "Hundreds of our workers have been killed by the TMC in West Bengal and the police are not taking any action. The ruling party doesn't believe in democracy," he said. BJP national secretary Arvind Menon in a tweet condemned the “brutal murder” and posted a picture of Jana. The TMC, on the other hand, said that none of its workers had any connection to the death, and described the saffron party’s allegations as a “bunch of lies”. "We demand a thorough probe into his death. It seems the BJP has resorted to politics over dead bodies in the run up to assembly polls," a district leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-313
12-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid: longest spell of dip in active cases in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday reported the longest spell of uninterrupted drop in its total active cases, the 16-day streak bettering the previous record of a similar 15-day phase that ended on September 7. The state, with 4,431 recoveries in the day reset the record for daily recoveries for the 22nd time in 23 days, aiding the drop in total active cases from 37,190, 16 days ago, to 32,836 now. The total has now gone back to the level of October 16. The number of new cases reported on Wednesday was 3,872, below 4,000 for the 16th successive day, since the end of Durga Puja. Bengal also reported 49 deaths, the day’s toll less than 50 for the first time in weeks. The state’s total toll stands at 7,452. “A fall of around 5,000 (total active cases) in just about a fortnight that included infections during Durga Puja…is something to be proud of,” said a minister. He added that Bengal’s recovery rate was now at an all-time high of 90.34 per cent and had not dipped once since October 22. “We are close to surpassing the national rate (92.8 per cent) soon. There have been a lot of positives in this post-Puja spell of drastic improvement in the Covid-19 situation, but the spike in recoveries is the most crucial,” said the minister. The state reported 66,610 recoveries in these 16 days, outweighing the 63,162 new cases detected. Bengal’s total novel coronavirus cases is nearly 4.17 lakh now, including over 3.76 lakh recoveries and 7,452 deaths. “We have undone so much of the damage from that alarming spell of the outbreak that ended just before Durga Puja. Having successfully handled the major festival, we are a lot more confident about the weeks to come,” said the minister. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja. The numbers of infections from the Puja days, largely available by now, has shown that the intervention was effective. The high court has issued a similar set of instructions to keep the outbreak from worsening over Kali Puja and Diwali. Bengal’s overall mortality rate improved to 1.78, but it is still behind the national rate of 1.47 per cent. Of the total death toll, 6,240 or 83.7 per cent were attributed to co-morbidities. The state reported 33.61 per cent occupancy in the 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 101 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 4.36 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-313
12-11-2020||West Bengal||Binay supporter stabbed, FIR names Bimal sympathisers||The Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha voiced fears over the law and order situation of the hills after one of their supporters was stabbed and injured allegedly by supporters of the rival Bimal Gurung faction at Barnesbeg tea garden, some 8km from Darjeeling town, on Tuesday evening. According to an FIR filed by Chetan (Thapa) Chhetri, 32, supporters of the Gurung faction had held a meeting in the garden and soon some of them took out weapons and started chasing everyone on the road. “One amongst them stab me to kill me at the back and I felt unconscious (sic),” the injured Chetan said in the FIR where he named eight Gurung supporters. Ever since Gurung announced his decision to dump the BJP-led NDA and back Trinamul last month, his supporters are organising meeting across the hills. Now, both the warring Morcha factions are aligned to Trinamul. Anit Thapa, general secretary of the Tamang faction, slammed “politics relying on weapons” and added “if provoked we will respond appropriately.” The Gurung faction has not issued any statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-313
12-11-2020||West Bengal||Election Commission of India’s central force query raises eyebrows ||The Election Commission of India asked the Bengal government to send an estimate on central forces needed for 2021 Assembly polls, the query coming as a surprise for Nabanna. An official said it was tough for the administration to ascertain the requirement now as the final voter list was yet to be published and the number of booths not yet fixed. Electoral roll revision will start from November 18. The final roll is likely to be out by January 5. “The police directorate will assess the requirement and then only a reply would be sent to the ECI,” said a senior government official. He termed the letter “a routine exercise”, but other officials felt otherwise as this was the first time the poll panel started deliberations on central force needs so early. According to sources, the ECI sent the letter through the Bengal CEO’s office on Tuesday evening and the letter was sent to home secretary H. K. Dwivedi. “The state was asked to furnish requirements by Wednesday. Till evening, the state hadn’t sent a reply,” said a source. Some Trinamul insiders said the letter could be the result of the narrative that some state BJP leaders are spinning on the so-called worsening law and order in the state. “We think that the ECI should not be influenced by BJP leaders but judge for themselves,” a minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-313
12-11-2020||West Bengal||BJP hopes for Bihar rerun in Bengal polls||Jubilation erupted in front of the state BJP headquarters here on Wednesday, a day after the NDA emerged victorious in Bihar, with supporters hoping for a rerun of the victory in Bengal in 2021. Party workers converged at the central Calcutta office with a newly-coined slogan “Ebar Bangla, parle samla (Now it’s Bengal, defend if you can)”. Though no senior state leader was present at the 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane party headquarters on Wednesday morning, supporters distributed sweets, vermillion powder and urged the groups of dhakis to drum up celebrations. The mood was similar to that of May 2019 when the BJP pulled off stunning numbers — 18 parliamentary seats — in the Lok Sabha polls. “We are here to celebrate the win in Bihar. Now it is time for the people in Bengal to cast their votes and bring the BJP to power here,” said Narayan Chatterjee, a local BJP leader, standing amid a crowd of raucous supporters with boxes of orange-coloured sweets. Encouraged by Bihar, Bengal’s BJP workers and leaders on Wednesday took to social media — Twitter in particular — to emphasise the victory’s implications for Bengal. The trending hashtag #Now Bengal gained traction on social media by late Wednesday afternoon after being tweeted and retweeted by several senior leaders. Beneath the euphoria, some senior BJP leaders said in hushed tones that the battle for Bengal was more difficult. According to a party leader, the biggest challenge here would be that the party would be fighting it alone. There was no JD(U) here. Also, it is also no secret that the old guard led by state party president Dilip Ghosh and newcomers from other parties led by national vice-president Mukul Roy do not see eye to eye. Challenges posed by the ongoing pandemic were not lost on leaders either. Bengal has around 78,000 polling booths. The ECI plans to cap the number of voters per booth to 1,500, which would lead to an increase in the number of booths, but the BJP already has many unmaned booths, the leader said. In his recent visit to Bengal, even home minister Amit Shah had stressed the party’s weak booth-level organisation in the state. The party has to ensure that every counting table has one of their representatives, who is supposed to be present through the entire process irrespective of how long it takes. “We have so many euphoric supporters. But I doubt how many of them actually understand the technicalities of elections,” the leader added. “Work hard for five months and rule for 50 years," Shah had reportedly said in a closed-door party meeting. A source added that it was important that all internal differences were resolved immediately. “Under Sushil Modi, the Bihar BJP was able to put up a united fight. The petty quarrels that exist in the state unit here in Bengal are harmful for our future,” a state vice-president said on condition of anonymity. The BJP’s Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee, in Bihar to campaign for the party during the second and the third phase of the polls, however sounded upbeat about her party’s prospects in Bengal following the Bihar win. She added that even if her party had lost in Bihar (which did not happen), winning Bengal was near certain because people have “rejected the Trinamul Congress”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-313
12-11-2020||West Bengal||Eight years on, reunion hope for Bangla girl||A Bangladesh girl who eight years ago had crossed the international border and stepped into India by mistake, will be handed over to her parents at the India-Bangladesh border in Petrapole of North 24-Parganas on Friday. The girl, then aged 12, had crossed the border and then somehow reached Siliguri. She was found roaming in the streets by police and shifted to a government-run home for destitute girls in Jalpaiguri and then to another shelter at Kamakhyaguri in Alipurduar. For some years, district administration had been trying to locate her parents, contacting the Bangladesh Deputy High Commission in Calcutta. “It was only recently that we came to know she is from Sirajganj district of Bangladesh. Her parents and two siblings are back home. We then took up the task of cross-verification with authorities of Bangladesh. While she identified her parents’ photographs here, her parents identified her there (in Bangladesh) too,” said Surendra Kumar Meena, the district magistrate of Alipurduar. The administration pursued the matter with the Bangladesh government through agencies of the state and the Centre. Finally, it was decided that the parents would be brought at the Petrapole-Benapole border on Friday where she would also be taken and handed over to them in presence of officials of both countries. “We are happy that she will finally return home. Last week, she underwent Covid-19 test and was found negative. On Thursday, she will be accompanied by our officials and reach Murshidabad from here. On Friday, she will be taken to the border for necessary formalities,” Meena said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-313
12-11-2020||West Bengal||After Bihar election results, Trinamul flutter in Left||A day after the Left’s best poll performance in Bihar in two-and-a-half decades, CPI-ML general-secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya expressed his disappointment at the Left Front’s stand vis–à–vis Trinamul in Bengal. The CPI-ML chief, whose party won 12 of the 19 seats it contested in Bihar, said the Left in Bengal should identify the BJP and not Mamata Banerjee’s party as the enemy. “So far, many in the Left have been treating Trinamul as the Number One target because it is in power. But the BJP is the growing danger in Bengal,” he said. “Rather than competing with the BJP in opposing Trinamul, it should be the other way round…. the BJP has to be recognised as the biggest threat to democracy across the country and in Bengal. One of the problems in Bengal is that many of our comrades there are not viewing state politics in the context of national politics.” Given its unflinching  stand of equidistance from the BJP and Trinamul, Alimuddin Street did not take this kindly. “It is ridiculous, what he said. Solely on the basis of one decent performance in the Bihar polls, such sweeping statements should not be made,” said a CPM central committee member. Front chairman Biman Bose, in Malda on Wednesday, told journalists about the allegedly communal nature of both the BJP and Trinamul. “Therefore, the question of forming an alliance with Trinamul in Bengal, for elections or otherwise, does not arise. The Left will fight both the BJP and Trinamul here,” said Bose, without taking Bhattacharya’s name. “We don’t need to blindly emulate the Bihar model.… Trinamul has no ideology, morality or ethics. It brought the BJP to Bengal.” CPM politburo member Mohammed Salim was caustic. “Sorry to say this, those who see Bengal with a telescopic view might have a different understanding, far removed from reality…. Trinamul was created to join the NDA and facilitate the BJP’s entry to Bengal and eliminate the Left.” CPM general-secretary Sitaram Yechury said it would be wrong to assume that joining forces against the BJP in Bengal would benefit anybody but the saffron camp. “Without fighting Trinamul, the BJP cannot be fought in Bengal,” said Yechury. “Trinamul has been in power in Bengal and there is massive popular discontent against it. If all non-BJP forces stand with Trinamul in Bengal, with the BJP in the Opposition, who other than the BJP will benefit from it?” However, Trinamul spokesperson Saugata Roy welcomed Bhattacharya’s suggestions. “Fighting on two fronts is a grave strategic error. Napoleon and Hitler understood that the hard way. Will the Left in Bengal also realise that after it is too late?” asked Roy, adding that indirectly or directly, the Left in Bengal should help Mamata in the fight against the BJP “for the nation’s sake”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-313
12-11-2020||West Bengal||By Jan 31, 3 new police battalions||The state cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal to raise three police battalions for three different areas in Bengal. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who made this announcement after the cabinet meeting at Nabanna on Wednesday, gave out the details. “The Narayani Battalion will be set up in Cooch Behar (district) and the Gorkha Battalion would be set up for the hills. There will be another battalion for Jungle Mahal district whose name would be the Jungle Mahal Battalion,” the chief minister said. “The process of creation of the battalions would be completed by January 31, 2021,” Mamata added. Senior government officials said that each of the battalions would have 1,000 personnel. A total of 3,000 personnel would be recruited to set up these three battalions. The primary target of the ruling establishment, sources said, was to create jobs in all these three areas. Lack of employment opportunities still remains a major issue in these areas. A source said that it was being assumed that eligible youths hailing from these areas would get a chance to be recruited in the new battalions soon. “Even at least 20 per cent of the local youths are selected in the battalions, the issue of local unemployment would be resolved to some extent,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-313
12-11-2020||West Bengal|| Gyari Dolma in fray for chief||Darjeeling’s Gyari Dolma, 56, who earlier served as the home minister of the Tibetan government-in-exile, is vying to be the Sikyong (President) or the political leader of the exiled government, a responsibility that was discharged by His Holiness Dalai Lama until 2011. If Dolma does go on to win the election, it would be a historic moment as a woman has never been elected a “political leader” of the Tibetan government, hence the community. The two-phase “worldwide” election is slated on January 3 and April 11, 2021, and Dolma is the only women candidate for the highest post of the Kashag (cabinet), the apex executive body of the exiled government based in Dharamshala, Himachal Pradesh. The 1.5 lakh-odd Tibetan diaspora scattered across as many as 30 countries will on January 3 will write the names of people they would want to see as President. The present President of the exiled government is Lopsang Sangay, a Harvard Law School alumnus, also from Darjeeling. “I feel I am fit to handle this responsibility,” Dolma said, adding that her decision to contest was prompted by her desire to strengthen the democratic process initiated by His Holiness, utilise her experience – she has served as deputy speaker of the parliament for three terms apart from being the home minister — and make way for a woman leader for the Tibetan community. “As women, we have equal rights according to the Tibetan charter and being a woman who has served as deputy speaker, I feel it is my duty towards Tibetan woman today and for the future that I come forward to contest,” she said. Born to a Tibetan refugee family in Kalimpong that settled in Darjeeling, Dolma spent her schooling days in this hill station at Central School for Tibetans. Her family ran a restaurant in Darjeeling. Dolma pursed her graduation from Punjab University and obtained a law degree from Delhi University. An activist for the community, Dolma was elected to the exiled Tibet parliament at age 26. A community member said anyone can propose their name. “Technically there can be thousands of candidates but this is not how it works. So far eight names are doing the rounds.” Two candidates who get the most endorsements will face each other in the final round of the April polls. Then, the Sikyong in turn will nominate six others for the Tibetan cabinet. A similar process will elect the 45-member Tibetan parliament. Thus, two ballot papers — one for President and the other for Tibetan MPs — will be cast on the two voting days. Dolma is currently touring the region to campaign. Expressing deep gratitude to India, Dolma said that the future of Tibet and India was interlinked. She hoped India would take a proactive political decision regarding Tibet. She ideally wants the Indian Parliament to recognise Tibet as “an occupied nation”, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-314
12-11-2020||West Bengal||Local trains run, social distance tossed out ||Eastern Railway and South-Eastern railway resumed suburban train services from Wednesday after a gap of about eight months. On the first day, Eastern Railway authorities operated 472 and 202 suburban trains in Sealdah and Howrah divisions, respectively, and South Eastern Railway operated 81 EMU trains. The Telegraph takes look at how the day panned out for railway staff and passengers in the new normal. At every station, the administration formed a team consisting of health workers, civic volunteers, police and railway officials to ensure that only those wearing masks entered the station and no one evaded thermal scanning. At Naihati in North 24-Parganas, police refused entry to two passengers after their body temperature was found above normal. The police in Nadia’s Chakdah and Barasat in North 24-Parganas did not allow entry to many passengers without masks. “I was allowed into the station after thermal scanning. If this is strictly followed chances of spread of the virus will be less,” said Mousumi Das at Naihati station. At many stations, passengers jostled to board trains. “People ignored safety norms when it came to grabbing a seat,” said a cop at Ranaghat station. Daily passengers stood in long queues at many stations to buy season and daily tickets. The trouble of passengers increased as the mobile ticketing app of the Indian Railways malfunctioned. Eastern Railway authorities couldn’t say when the app would work. “I had to stand in a long queue to get a ticket to Sealdah,” said Chakdah resident Siben Dey, who works at a mall in Calcutta. The first day was marked by low passenger turnout at most stations. The usual peak-hour rush was missing. Calcutta High Court and Kalyani resident, Rivu Dutta, said: “I avoided a train trip fearing a heavy rush since it could end up to be a risky affair.” Though railways had marked out every alternate seat not for use, passengers preferred to overrule the Covid protocol of physical distancing. A commuter said: “Asking passengers to leave a seat in a local train is an absurd idea.” An ER official in Sealdah said: “We don’t have any mechanism to ensure social distancing on board at this moment.” Railway hawkers demonstrated demanding permission to run their kiosks on station premises and sell their wares on board. Hawkers led by the CPM’s trade union wing Citu, staged demonstrations at Barrackpore, Ichhapur, and Barasat stations. The Citu leadership submitted a deputation to the divisional railway manager, Sealdah, demanding licence for hawkers against a fee. Citu leader Gargi Chatterjee said: “When everything is normal, the livelihood the of Bengal’s 60,000 rail hawkers remains jeopardised.” A recent promise by Sourav Chakraborty, Trinamul MLA of Alipurduar, that land rights would be given to those who dwell on railway land in the town has drawn rebuttal from officials of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR). “We have come to know that the MLA of Alipurduar has declared that he will issue special land rights to people on railway land. I don’t know how it is possible without making any correspondence with the railways,” said S. Chanda, the chief PRO of the NFR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-314
12-11-2020||West Bengal||Siliguri mayor  faces protest||Asok Bhattacharya, Siliguri mayor and chairperson of the board of administrators of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), on Wednesday faced protest from a section of residents as he went on a visit to the Mahananda bank to look at arrangements ahead of Chhath Puja. Local people said that the civic body’s decision to put railings on the riverbank would cause inconvenience for devotees during the Chhath Puja. The civic body has taken up a beautification project on the left bank of the Mahananda that moves through Siliguri. As part of the project, railings have been put on a stretch of the bank. The Siliguri MLA alleged that local Trinamul leaders had orchestrated the protests. “I had been to the riverbank to examine the arrangements when some people approached me. They misbehaved with me and protested, while alleging that the ongoing beautification work would cause problems for the devotees. Their claim does not have any logic and soon, I realised that they are backed by Trinamul,” Bhattacharya said. Soon, he left the spot. Ranjan Sarkar, Darjeeling (plains) district president of Trinamul, denied the charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-314
