13-11-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra's health worsens, doctors worried ||The neurological condition of actor Soumitra Chatterjee deteriorated on Friday and a doctor attending on him said it is the worst in his over one month stay at the hospital where he is admitted.

An EEG has shown that there is very little activity in the brain, the doctor said.

Though Chatterjee did not suffer any convulsion, his heart conditions too are not good, he said.

His oxygenation requirement has gone up and his kidney function has deteriorated.

"Chatterjee's condition has actually deteriorated. His neurological condition is worst in the entire period of his stay. It deteriorated in the last 48 hours. We did an EEG but there is very little activity within the brain itself," the doctor said.

The neuro board will be closely monitoring Chatterjee for the next 24 hours. "As of now the situation is grim but may be by God's grace he will come out of this", the doctor said.

On the few positive side there has been no bleeding while his liver function and other parameters are stable, the doctor said in the bulletin.

"Overall it seems his situation won't be good in the coming 24 hours. For the first time we are expecting unfavorable outcome of the entire thing. We are giving our best but it seems our best may not be adequate for full recovery of Mr Chatterjee," he said.

The 85-year-old had undergone the first plasmapheresis on Thursday and tracheostomy on Wednesday.

The legendary actor, who debuted in Satyajit Rays masterpiece "Apur Sansar", has been under treatment in the hsopital since October 6 after testing positive for COVID-19.

He later tested negative for the infection but Covid- 19 encephalopathy set in and various other complications surfaced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-311
13-11-2020||West Bengal||First plasma exchange conducted on Soumitra||Doctors treating iconic actor Soumitra Chatterjee on Thursday conducted the first plasmapheresis on the veteran for raising his plasma count and his condition was stable but critical, one of the physicians of the private hospital said in a statement Thursday. The "first episode" of plasmapheresis was done on 85- year-old Chatterjee and it went off well, with no external bleeding, the doctor said. "Though there was a little bit of drop in blood pressure that was easily corrected and in the afternoon, we had repeat CT scan which didn't show any abnormalities. He is stable and his blood pressure is now fine," the doctor said. Chatterjee had fever, the doctor said. "That could be the reason of plasma being given. That may be the cause for temperature. We were worried about some substantial bleeding may happen during plasma. That did not happen," he said. The doctors are going to repeat the procedure of plasmapheresis and dialysis on the veteran actor on alternate days, he said. Plasmapheresis is a process in which the liquid part of the blood, or plasma, is separated from the blood cells and replaced with another solution such as saline or albumin, or treated and returned to the body to treat autoimmune disorders. On the previous day, Tracheostomy was successfully performed on the legendary actor. Tracheostomy is an opening surgically created through the neck into the windpipe to allow direct access to the breathing tube. The legendary actor, who debuted in Satyajit Rays masterpiece "Apur Sansar", has been under treatment since the first week of October after testing positive for COVID-19. He later tested negative for the infection but COVID- 19 encephalopathy set in and various other complications surfaced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-311
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Tamang  waves ‘green flag’ dare at Gurung||Binay Tamang on Thursday announced that unless he “waves the green flag” his archrival Bimal Gurung would not be able to return to the hills. Tamang, in the same vein, asked Gurung’s supporters not to be excited too soon. Ever since Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Gurung, who was on the run for the last three years, surfaced in Calcutta on October 21 and announced his decision to sever ties with the BJP and support Trinamul Congress in the upcoming Bengal assembly, both he and Tamang, the leader of the rival faction of the same party, have refused to share any platform. Tamang is also an ally of Trinamul. With tensions intensifying,  the most talked-about topics in the hills are the return of Gurung and the law and order situation. “Unless Binay Tamang waves the green flag from here, he (Gurung) cannot move from Calcutta,” said Tamang and urged Gurung’s supporters not to be “too excited.” “We know what has transpired in the meeting (between Gurung faction and Trinamul leaders),” claimed Tamang. Following the October development in Calcutta, Gurung’s supporters are holding meetings across the hills. Tamang claimed that the fate of Gurung would be similar to former Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) leader Subash Ghisingh. Soon after Gorkha Janmukti Morcha gained popularity in the hills, Ghisingh was forced to stay in Jalpaiguri and Siliguri for nearly five years at a stretch from 2008 onwards following opposition by Morcha leaders, including both Gurung and Tamang. “Then the green flags (GNLF cadres) used to say that he (Ghisingh) will climb the hills next week. I tell you the fate of Bimal Gurung will be like Appa (as Ghisingh was addressed by his supporters). They (Gurung’s supporters) will say he will come and then they will give another date,” said Tamang. Leaders of the Gurung faction are now saying that Bimal Gurung would climb up the hills after following due legal processes which they claim should be completed “within a fortnight.” The other issue that Tamang raised was the possibility of a law and order problem on Gurung’s return. “Even before Gurung’s return his supporters are trying to create unrest,” said Tamang and referred to a Darjeeling incident where a Tamang supporter was stabbed and injured allegedly by Gurung’s supporters. Reacting sharply these claims, Mani Gurung, leader of the Gurung faction, accused Tamang of “day dreaming.” “I think he might be daydreaming, we have nothing to say (to these statements),” said Mani. Mani refuted the claim of violence and instead said that Tamang’s supporters tried to disturb their meeting. “They are trying to provoke our supporters and trying to muddy the waters in the wake of our leader returning to Darjeeling. Even last night (Wednesday) they tried to create disturbance,” said Mani. The Tamang faction has also decided to hold a public meeting in Tukvar, Gurung’s bastion, after Diwali. Tamang said a notification to conduct a survey on tea gardens to grant land rights would be issued soon by the state government. “I would also like to thank the chief minister on her decision to raise a Gorkha battalion with a strength of 1000 personnel,” said Tamang.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-311
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Sixth arrest in BJP leader’s murder||The CID team probing the murder of BJP leader Manish Shukla arrested another alleged assailant from Bihar on Thursday. Based on information revealed by those arrested in the case, the CID team picked up Amar Yadav, 25, early on Thursday from an undisclosed place in Bihar. Amar is likely to be produced before a court in Barrackpore on Friday. With this, police have so far arrested six persons in connection with the case. Manish, a former councillor of Titagarh Municipality in North 24-Parganas, was gunned down on October 4 in Titagarh by four bike-borne assailants. Amar had allegedly been sent by Subodh Singh, the alleged mastermind, as a technical hand. Amar’s job was to check firearms, a CID officer said. Earlier, CID took into custody Sujit Rai, 26, and Roshan Yadav, 26, sharpshooters from Punjab. Police had arrested Subodh, who allegedly planned the murder from a jail in Nalanda, and a Titagarh businessman as suspect for his enmity with Shukla. BJP MP Arjun Singh iterated Trinamul’s hand in the murder. “Shukla’s murder was a planned conspiracy. We suspect some ruling party leaders and policemen were involved. We think the real culprits are being protected.” Trinamul has denied the allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-311
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul worker shot over ‘smuggling feud’||Dharamveer Nonia, 42, a Trinamul worker was shot dead and two others sustained bullet injuries when two factions of the ruling party allegedly clashed over wresting control of smuggled coal and sand in West Burdwan’s Andal on Wednesday night. The two injured — Pannalal Nonia, 40, and Maheshram Nonia, 37 — were admitted to a private hospital in Durgapur.  All the three run brickfields in Andal. Sources said supporters of the two rival factions of the Trinamul Congress got involved in an argument over taking control of smuggled coal transport at Khash Kajora in Andal around 11pm on Wednesday. “The argument snowballed into a clash with iron rods. Suddenly one of them opened fire at Dharamveer and the other two,” said a source. As Dharamveer, who received three bullets in his head and chest, and his two associates slumped to the ground, the attackers fled on bikes. Police reached the spot and sent the three of them to hospital. Dharamveer was declared dead on arrival by the doctors. Sources said the two groups — one backed by Trinamul youth wing district president Rupesh Yadav and another one led by Vishnudeb Nonia member of the West Burdwan zilla parishad — are at loggerheads over control of illegal sand and coal trade. Dharamveer and the two injured are close to Vishnudeb, while attackers are from the Rupesh Yadav faction. The police said they arrested six persons, including the prime accused Bidyut Nonia, in connection with the case so far. Sources said Bidyut is close to Rupesh Yadav. Sources said Vishnudeb’s faction was active and leading the illegal trade in the area since rural polls in 2018. However, after the recent change in the Trinamul district functioning committee, Yadav and his followers were trying to take control of the area. “The supporters of Rupesh Yadav got a boost after he became Trinamul youth wing president recently. He is now trying to take control of the area,” said a Trinamul source. Both Rupesh and Vishnudeb denied the charges. “Two groups of criminals had clashed in which one person was killed and two were injured. The police are looking into the matter. It is not a political matter nor is the Trinamul involved in it,” said Rupesh and ruled out any factional feud. “We will not tolerate such law and order problems in our area. We are against illegal activities, including coal and sand smuggling,” Vishnudeb added The BJP and the CPM held Trinamul responsible. “Ruling party factions are involved in fights over control of coal and sand smuggling here,” said Lakshman Ghorui, BJP president in West Burdwan. CPM district committee member Tufan Mandal echoed Ghorui.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-312
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Murder slur on health worker kin in East Midnapore’s Gazipur village ||An elderly man was beaten to death allegedly by the husband and brother-in-law of an ASHA health worker in East Midnapore’s Gazipur village on Wednesday evening after he visited their house to report the activities of a Covid patient in the area. Gokul Jana, 62, had reportedly gone to the home of Minati and Sankar Jena to report that the husband of a local panchayat member, diagnosed with Covid-19 and confined to home quarantine, had been roaming in the town and going to public gatherings and functions including weddings. “Apparently an argument broke out when he accused Minati of neglecting her duties. This enraged her husband and brother-in-law Subhash,” said an eyewitness, adding that the senior citizen was beaten on the spot and left lifeless. “Sankar Jena slapped Gokul hard on the side of his head and he fell to the ground and died,” said a villager. Later, the body of the sexagenarian was sent to Contai sub-divisional hospital for post-mortem. Local sources denied political undertones to the incident though BJP workers later claimed that Gokul was their party worker. “Both persons named in the FIR have already been arrested and an investigation has started,” said additional SP (rural) Vidit Raj Bhundesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-312
13-11-2020||West Bengal||NIA visits Birbhum to probe year-old blasts||A team of officials from the National Investigation Agency (NIA) visited Birbhum’s Lokepur and Sadaipur on Wednesday and Thursday in connection with a probe into two blasts last year. The visit assumed importance as the ruling Trinamul leaders said it was a motivated entry by the central agency while the BJP welcomed it. The first blast occurred on August 29 last year and the next on November 21, both in homes of Trinamul functionaries. Sources in NIA said the agency took up probe into these twin blasts following a home ministry directive on August 31 and on September 3. The central agency drew up a formal FIR after registering a case. The case was filed at the NIA police station in New Delhi. “The visits are a part of our preliminary inquiries,” said a senior official of the NIA. Sources said that there was more into the proactive approach of the central agency. Some Trinamul leaders see in this another attempt by the Centre to enter into the heartland politics at the local level. On August 29, the cowshed adjoining a room of Hitunnessa Khatun, chief of Sahapur gram panchayat, was blown to bits and a villager was injured by splinters in Renguni village of Sadaipur. Police arrested Sheikh Badruddoza, the gram panchayat chief’s father, for allegedly stockpiling crude bombs. Three months later on November 21, the tin shed of the Lokepur house of Bablu Mondal, a Trinamul worker, blew off. Police arrested his two sons but Mondal is absconding. Police said the explosion was from stockpiling crude bombs. The NIA team first visited the house of Mondal and interacted with his family. Sources said they wanted to find out about his two sons Mritunjoy and Niranjan as they were allegedly involved in storing materials for the bombs. The team then visited Sheikh Badruddoza. “I don’t know what they (NIA) want to find. They stayed for an hour. I told them the bombs were kept at my home a year ago as a result of a factional feud. They took details of my contacts,” said Badruddoza, also a Trinamul booth president. The NIA has already stepped up activities in Murshidabad in connection with its probe into alleged al Qaida operatives. Trinamul leadership in Birbhum now sees the NIA’s entry as yet another reason to create a flutter ahead of the Assembly polls. “This move reconfirms what our chief minister's said about how the Centre has been trying to engage central agencies to create a sense of fear,” said Anubrata Mondal, the Birbhum Trinamul chief. “It’s surprising the NIA has come to probe into an incident that happened a year back.” His BJP counterpart hyamapada Mondal welcomed the NIA. “Bengal police always try to suppress incidents if Trinamul is involved.” “We need a violence-free Bengal,” said Mondal. “The crude bomb culture is not new in Birbhum, Murshidabad, East Burdwan and adjoining districts. Police have recovered at least 10 thousand crude bombs in the past two years. However, the NIA may want to probe it separately,” said a police source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-312
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court prod on teen death ‘in custody’||A division bench headed by Justice Harish Tandon of Calcutta High Court on Thursday sought reports from the state home secretary and director-general of police on the alleged custodial death of a 15-year-old boy in Birbhum’s Mallarpur on October 30. The home secretary was directed by the court to state if there were child-friendly corners at every police station in Bengal. The DGP was asked if there were closed-circuit television cameras at police stations and how many of them work. Both the home secretary and DGP have been told to submit their reports by November 25, the next hearing. The boy, arrested on suspicion of theft, was found hanging in the toilet of the Mallarpur police station on October 30, triggering villagers to accuse cops of custodial death. The order was passed during hearing of the case demanding protection of minors in juvenile homes amid the pandemic. During the hearing, the petitioner’s lawyer had stated the Mallarpur incident, which prompted the court to seek the home secretary’s report. A lawyer said: “Under the Child Rights Protection Act, there should be at least one child-friendly corner to keep a minor accused between the period of arrest and production before Juvenile Justice Board.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-312
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal doctors blame festive revelry for Covid spike||At least three north Bengal districts have reported a surge in Covid-19 cases during the past one-week, a trend that has been dubbed as an “after effect of Durga Puja” by doctors of the region. Ahead of Durga Puja, doctors and others associated with healthcare had anticipated that coronavirus cases might rise after the festivities if people do not adhere to the health safety protocols. After the Puja days, the district health department had come across some data that indicated a surge because there had been overcrowding in the marketplaces. “We had pointed it earlier that it would take a couple of weeks after the Puja to know the extent of infection. It is unfortunate but our apprehensions have proved to be correct. In the past seven days, over 1,000 new cases have been reported in Darjeeling district which is nothing but an after effect of Durga Puja,” said Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed in north Bengal for Covid-19. Similar is the situation in Jalpaiguri and Malda districts, where over 100 new cases were reported in most days the last week. As per the data available with the state health department, 12,980 cases — highest in north Bengal — have been reported in Darjeeling district till November 10. Also, Malda and Jalpaiguri recorded 10,565 and 10,245 cases, respectively. “Diwali and Chhath Puja celebrations are ahead and if people still remain lackadaisical, Covid-19 cases would surge further from the end of this month,” said Roy. According to sources, the state health department has decided to open a dedicated Covid hospital at the North Bengal Medical College & Hospital located on the outskirts of Siliguri. “The NBMCH has a new building on the campus which is isolated from other buildings. We have space for around 130 beds in that building. We are also planning to set up around 16 critical care units (CCUs) at the facility. We are working on the proposal and will launch the hospital after receiving approval from the state,” said an official of the district health department. Also, the distinct health department has decided to conduct tests of all shop owners and their employees across Siliguri on a regular basis to ensure that the contagion does not spread in marketplaces. “The shop owners and their employees deal with hundreds of people every day. That is why, after every seven to 10 days, their tests will be conducted. This would help us segregate those tested positive and those visiting shops will be sure that there is little risk of contamination from the shop keepers or their staff,” the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-312
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Raiganj chef has cracker of an idea ||Fireworks are banned by the high court this Diwali, but not taste bombs. Subhadip Modak, a professional chef, and his wife Sudipta, who reside in Collegepara of Raiganj town, have hit upon a cracker of an idea. The chef, helped by his wife, are shaping chocolates — both dark and milk — modelled on crackers to help people celebrate Diwali. Subhadip, who used to work as a chef at a hotel in Goa, had returned home after the Covid-19-induced lockdown was clamped across the country. Since then, he has been staying at home. It’s been a strange year for him, but he pointed out that amid the Covid-19 pandemic, doctors and environmentalists had time and again asked people to abstain from bursting crackers this time during Diwali. Calcutta High Court also imposed a ban on the sale and use of crackers because of the pandemic. Subhadip said the situation made him put on his thinking cap. “I thought of making cracker-haped chocolates. Also, to pack the chocolates, I am using wrappers and stickers similar to wrappers and stickers of normal crackers. These are packed in boxes that look like those that contain crackers. I want children and people who will miss the crackers to get a feel of them,” said the chef. Along with his wife Sudipta, Subhadip is now busy making and wrapping chocolates that look like chocolate bombs, charki (light spinner), tubri (flower pot) and tarabati (sparkler sticks). A box “cracker chocolates,” Subhadip said, comes for Rs 250. “There will be an assorted collection of chocolates. “We offer doorstep delivery,” he said. Those who eat chocolates sparingly or are on a diet can safely store chocolates for four to five months in the refrigerator, added the chef. This innovative initiative has earned the appreciation of Raiganj residents. “It is evident that many children would feel disappointed without crackers this Diwali. These chocolates are a good alternative for them during the coming festivities,” said Dilip Pal, a trader based in the town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-312
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Wary of Owaisi, Trinamul finds an ally to consolidate votes||The minority cell of Trinamul has joined hands with the All India Minority Organisation (AIMO), an umbrella outfit for the cause of minorities, to intensify their activities across Bengal, particularly in districts with a significant minority population. Nasir Ahmed, the state working president of Trinamul’s minority cell, and all-India president of the AIMO, who was here on Thursday, said the primary aim of the minority cell would be to consolidate minority votes in favour of Trinamul. His comment is significant in the backdrop of the just-concluded Bihar elections, where Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM drew support of the Muslims, which cost the anti-BJP Mahagathbandhan dear. “We will launch a comprehensive campaign among minorities, keeping in mind the upcoming Assembly elections. Our leaders in all districts have been instructed to reach to the grassroots and apprise people as to how they have benefited through social welfare schemes and the decisions formulated by the state government since 2011,” Ahmed said. In Bihar, the AIMIM bagged five Assembly seats among which include Baisi and Amour in Purnea district and Kochadhaman and Bahadurganj in Kishanganj district. Both these districts are at the interstate border. “There are indications that the AIMIM will field candidates in some districts of Bengal such as Malda, Murshidabad, North Dinajpur and North 24-Parganas, where there is a high concentration of minorities. It is evident that the AIMIM has acted as a spoiler for the Mahagathbandhan in Bihar. That is why Trinamul is on the alert and intends to engage its minority cell to retain its support,” said a political analyst. That the cell has taken up political activities in minority belts is evident in Malda, a district where Trinamul’s performance has not been up to the mark compared to most other districts of Bengal, both in past Assembly and Parliament elections. In Malda, representatives of the cell have started a campaign in villages, asking voters to choose Trinamul over the AIMIM and are proactively trying to help the minority populace. “We are making it clear to the minorities that it is not the AIMIM but Trinamul that can help in their development. Our leaders are moving into every village with this message. They are also listening to people’s problems, particularly from the economically weaker sections, and trying to solve them with the help of our party and the administration,” said Mosharraf Hossain, Malda district president of the minority cell. Additional reporting by Avijit Sinha in Siliguri and Soumya De Sarkar in Malda||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-312
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee picture defaced in East Burdwan||A picture of chief minister Mamata Banerjee was defaced with cow dung allegedly by BJP workers in East Burdwan’s Raina on Wednesday night. Asim Pal, Trinamul block president in Raina II, lodged a complaint against six local BJP workers in this connection. “The BJP workers of the area started sloganeering against Trinamul after the result of Bihar elections was declared. We did not react to avoid a confrontation but later we found out that the picture of our chief minister put up near our party office had been defaced with cow dung. We have lodged a police complaint,” said Pal. BJP leaders, however, denied the allegation, and claimed that party workers were not involved in the incident as it was not the culture of the party. “Mamata Banerjee is chief minister of the state apart from being the Trinamul chief. We don’t have a culture of defacing someone’s picture,” said a BJP leader. Police said they have started a probe into the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-312
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid recoveries outrun new cases since Dashami||Bengal on Thursday, continuing with the longest spell of an uninterrupted drop in total active Covid-19 cases, logged 3,856 new cases and yet another new high in daily recoveries at 4,453, spurring the recovery rate to rise to 90.57 per cent. Since the end of Durga Puja, the state has seen 17 consecutive days of a drop, bringing the total active cases down from 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami to 32,185 on Thursday. In the 17 days, Bengal reported 71,063 recoveries and 67,018 new Covid-19 cases, reversing the alarming trend of more infections than recoveries witnessed over several weeks in the run-up to the festival. Bengal’s total novel coronavirus cases is over 4.2 lakh now, including over 3.81 lakh recoveries and 7,506 deaths. On Thursday, Bengal reported 54 more deaths, including 17 from Calcutta. The recovery rate has been on an unbroken streak of rise since October 22, inching closer to the national rate of 92.86 per cent. A minister called it an “incredible momentum”. “If we can sustain this, the total active cases will fall below 25,000 by November-end. It will be a good place to be for a state like us at this stage of the pandemic, heading into the next year,” he added. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja. The numbers of infections from the Puja days, largely available by now, has shown that the intervention was effective. The high court has issued a similar set of instructions for Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. Of the state’s total death toll, 6,285, or 83.7 per cent, were attributed to comorbidities. “There has also been an improvement in mortality data since Puja. On Vijaya Dashami, Bengal’s mortality rate was 1.85, with 2.09 in infected males and 1.45 in infected females. On Thursday, it was 1.78, 2.03 in males and 1.37 in females,” said the minister. The national rate now is 1.47 per cent. In these 17 days, there have been 960 deaths, including 771 (80.31 per cent) comorbid deaths. The state reported 33.05 per cent occupancy in the 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 101 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 4.39 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-312
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Stones thrown at Dilip Ghosh convoy ||Stones were hurled at SUVs, black flags waved and “Go Back Dilip Ghosh” slogans rent the air as the convoy of the BJP state president moved through Asian Highway 48 and reached Jaigaon, a town  on the India-Bhutan border, on Thursday. Two cars in Ghosh’s convoy were damaged, prompting the BJP to accuse Trinamul of orchestrating the attack. BJP supporters, led by MP Saumitra Khan, demonstrated in Calcutta, burning an effigy of Mamata Banerjee. Trinamul leaders denied the charges and called the incident a “spontaneous outburst” of people. On Thursday, Ghosh who is touring north Bengal, headed for Khoklabusty of Jaigaon for a public meeting. As his convoy rolled on AH48, some 100 people with black flags and posters saying “Go Back Dilip Ghosh,” assembled at GST More on the way to Jaigaon, shouted slogans and waved black flags. At Jharnabusty, another 6km away, another group started pelting stones at the vehicles. Ghosh’s SUV was hit by pebbles but escaped major damage. The SUV next to his — that of Kalchini MLA Wilson Champramary — was hit and its windscreen damaged. Flying stones hit another SUV, that of the Alipurduar district president of BJP’s ST Morcha. Police brought the situation under control. At the meeting, Ghosh directed his ire at Trinamul. “When the hills were on fire, (Bimal) Gurung was a criminal and forced to leave the hills. But recently, Gurung is in the good books of Didi because he is supporting Trinamul. This is all Didi’s gameplans and she intends to use Binay (Tamang) in hills and Gurung in the foothills. She is trying to fool the Gorkhas...” Accusing Trinamul of the attack, he said the party was panicking at the thought of losing to the BJP. Mridul Goswami, Alipurduar district Trinamul chief, called the protests “a spontaneous reaction” of people. “They are fed up with BJP’s hollow promises.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-312
13-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal brew belt seeks Assam sops ||Stakeholders of the Bengal tea industry have demanded monetary benefits from the Mamata Banerjee government, close on the heels of the BJP-run government in Assam announcing a slew of incentives for its tea belt. The demand has come as a fresh poser for Mamata, particularly because Assembly elections will be held in the state in a few months, around the same time state elections are due in Assam as well. On November 6, the finance (institutional finance) department of Assam came up with a notification, announcing the “Assam Tea Industries Special Incentives Scheme (ATISIS), 2020.” Under the scheme, Assam will provide a 3 per cent interest subvention on working capital, 25 per cent one-time subsidy on purchase of plant and machinery meant for the production of orthodox and speciality teas, a production subsidy of Rs 7 per kilo against each kilogram of orthodox and speciality teas and a complete holiday on agricultural income tax from the last financial year to 2021-22 fiscal. Sources in the tea industry said that of the total tea produced in Assam, around 89 per cent is CTC while the remaining 11 per cent happen to be orthodox and speciality teas. “It has been found that the average price realisation of orthodox teas is higher than CTC tea. Also, the cost of manufacturing the orthodox teas is around 20 to 25 per cent higher than CTC tea. To encourage the industry so that more orthodox teas are produced, the scheme incentivises manufacturers,” said a planter who owns tea estates in Assam. These decisions by the neighbouring Sarbananda Sonowal government have prompted tea planters’ associations of Bengal and those in the small tea sector in the state to raise similar demands. So far, the Trinamul government has waived cess and agricultural income tax, raised the ceiling of land that can be used for tourism purposes in tea gardens and created a corpus of Rs 100 crore for the tea industry. These are not being deemed sufficient by many stakeholders, especially in a year wracked by the pandemic and consequent lockdown. “Other than these waivers, the tea industry (in Bengal) has not received any cash benefits in the form of subsidy and neither there has been any subvention on interest. It would largely help the industry if the state comes up with a similar incentive scheme like in Assam,” said Bijoygopal Chakraborty, who is the president of the Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Associations. “In Bengal, the industry also gets a waiver of the agricultural income tax. But as far as other components are concerned it would be good if the Bengal government comes up with such assistance,” echoed Prabir Bhattacharjee, secretary general, Tea Association of India. In Bengal, much like Assam, orthodox teas to the tune of 10 million kilograms are made only in Darjeeling hills, a fraction of the total production of over 300 million kilograms of tea. Time and again, tea experts have underscored the need to augment the production of orthodox and organic teas, a move they feel can help in growth of the industry. The pandemic-induced lockdown from March hit the tea industry in Bengal and Assam hard. Tea gardens in both states lost their “first flush”, a major revenue spinner, that is usually harvested in March.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-313
