14-11-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra Chatterjee critical, put on life support||Actor Soumitra Chatterjee was put on life support on Saturday as his condition remained critical on Saturday, officials said. The actor, who was admitted there over a month ago, remained in the same condition for the last 24 hours, a doctor attending him said. "He is on different life support systems ... It seems that our almost 40 days' fight is not enough to make him well," he said. "Let's all pray he gets better, but it seems unlikely he will have a favourable outcome. We have informed all the family members and with a saddened heart they have accepted that nothing less than miracle can get him out of this situation," a bulletin released by the doctor says. "His situation is really grave and critical,” the doctor informed, adding that the 85-year-old has seemingly not responded to ongoing therapies. An EEG has shown that there is very little activity in the brain, the doctor said on Friday. He had added that the thespian’s oxygenation level had gone up and his kidneys were not functioning well. Chatterjee had received plasmapheresis on Thursday and tracheostomy on Wednesday. The legendary actor, who debuted in Satyajit Ray's masterpiece "Apur Sansar", has been under treatment in the hospital since October 6 after testing positive for COVID-19. He later tested negative for the infection but Covid- 19 encephalopathy set in and various other complications surfaced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-310
14-11-2020||West Bengal||TMC busy keeping flock united in Nandigram and Singur||The ruling party is trying to keep its flock together in Nandigram and Singur, two of the most emotive and politically significant landmarks of Mamata Banerjee’s political career. Although trouble on both fronts had been brewing for some time, Trinamul started damage control over the past couple of days. “These past couple of days has seen hectic parleys behind the scenes so that the BJP is unable to take advantage of the opportunities arising out of the situation...in Singur and Nandigram,” said a Trinamul Rajya Sabha member. The niggling pain in Nandigram is because of transport minister Suvendu Adhikari and his influential clan, Trinamul sources say. On Thursday in Nandigram, Suvendu — who is widely speculated to defect to the BJP or start a party of his own — referred respectfully to Mamata and the party. He returned to the belligerence that has come to characterise his political statements, deemed critical of Trinamul, on Friday. On Tuesday, at a martyrs’ day tribute in Nandigram, Suvendu had not mentioned Mamata at all at a parallel event, skipping the party event later that afternoon. “After the devastation of Cyclone Amphan, nobody came to Nandigram. But I was by your side,” said the 51-year-old leader, allegedly negotiating terms with the BJP. “We will keep marching forward. Without looking back. Nobody will be able to stop us,” said Suvendu, a day after poll strategist Prashant Kishor handling Trinamul in Bengal spent a couple of hours at his Contai home speaking to his father, MP Sisir Adhikari. Speculation over the minister’s possible defection to the BJP or forming a separate political party that joins the NDA has often emerged since 2013. Sources close to him have attributed his displeasure to the elevation by Mamata of nephew Abhishek as her political successor, which Adhikari had aspired to be. Trinamul sources said Mamata spoke to Suvendu over the phone, after which Kishor travelled from Calcutta to meet him at his home. Kishor spoke to 79-year-old Sisir, who has been a lot more amenable. “Both sides are more keen to negotiate now. Among the offers being made are for Suvendu to replace Subrata Bakshi as the state president of the party. But a deal is yet to be sealed,” said a source, who pointed out that Suvendu had, in the past, not taken kindly to Kishor and his methods. But after Trinamul’s Serampore MP Kalyan Banerjee issued a public criticism of Suvendu, some of the progress was laid to waste. “Kalyan has been cautioned. Talks with Team Adhikari are still underway,” said a minister, before adding that he was expecting a repeat of the Singur truce that leadership struck with Haripal MLA Becharam Manna, at the forefront of the anti-land acquisition movement in Singur. Manna submitted his resignation to Speaker Biman Banerjee on Thursday from the membership of the Assembly, but withdrew it later in the day after Mamata and Bakshi intervened. Manna and Singur MLA Rabindranath Bhattacharjee – known for testy ties over the years -- have been sparring over the posts of the party’s Singur and Haripal block presidents, both wanting their favourites to occupy them. "Becharam resigned as he was upset with Rabindranath-babu... But it has been settled at least for the time being. The factional fights in Hooghly are proving costly for us," said a source. Trinamul won 16 of the 18 Assembly seats in Hooghly in 2016, while the BJP had none. But in the Lok Sabha polls, the BJP secured leads in eight of them, including Singur, which Mamata had expressed intense displeasure over in internal meetings. After the state leadership’s emissary, Uttarpara MLA Prabir Ghosal, met Manna at his residence on Friday, the Haripal MLA issued a statement denying the resignation drama, reaffirmed his allegiance to the chief minister and played down his differences with Bhattacharjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-310
14-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Post-Puja, active cases dip by 5,689 in Bengal||Bengal, backed by 4,468 new recoveries on Friday, continued with its longest spell of uninterrupted drop in its total active Covid-19 cases. The state reported a total drop of 5,689 active cases in 18 days since the end of Durga Puja. “On Vijaya Dashami, total active cases was 37,190. Today, it is 31,501, back to the level of October 14,” said a minister. Bengal also logged 3,835 new infections and 51 deaths, 10 from Calcutta. The state has a caseload of 4.24 lakh, including over 3.85 lakh recoveries and 7,557 deaths. The state’s recovery rate rose to a new high of 90.8, inching closer to the national rate of 92.99 per cent. The state’s Covid-19 mortality rate improved to 1.77, but remained less than the national rate of 1.47 per cent. In the 18 days since the end of Puja, Bengal reported 75,531 recoveries and 70,853 new infections, undoing much of the damage from a major spike in infections for six weeks before the festival. “We are now fifth on the list of states with highest mortality rates, after Punjab, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Sikkim. We aim to drop out of the top 10 in a fortnight,” said the minister. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja. The numbers of infections from the Puja days, largely available by now, has shown that the intervention was effective. The high court has issued a similar set of instructions for Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. With 44,312 tests on Friday, the state’s total test count went past 51.36 lakh, at 57,067 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.27 per cent now. The state reported 32.53 per cent occupancy in the 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 101 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 4.43 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-310
14-11-2020||West Bengal||December meet on tea pay hike||The Mamata Banerjee government will look into the demand for pay hike of the staff and sub-staff in the tea industry of Bengal. A meeting will be held in Calcutta on December 3 and 4, Md Rizwan, additional labour commissioner of north Bengal zone stated in writing. In his letter to the tea planters’ associations and tea trade unions, he said that the two-day meeting would look into the demands of the staff and sub-staff. These employees play an important role in tea gardens by acting as the bridge between the managerial staff and workers in the gardens. There are around 10,000 such employees in the brew belt seeking the government’s intervention as their salaries have not been revised since 2014. During the past few months, these set of employees in tea gardens have time and again raised the demand for pay revision. “It will be a tripartite meeting where discussions would be held on their demands, one of which is revision of their salaries,” said a source in the state labour department. On September 14 this year, these employees had reiterated their demand and had abstained from joining their duties. Their absence had affected regular activities in the garden. As they had threatened to intensify their movement, state labour minister Moloy Ghatak had a meeting with a delegation last month and he had assured that their issue would be dealt soon. “We welcome the initiative taken by the state labour department. It seems that finally, our demand would be met. Our representatives will be at the meeting,” said Partha Lahiri, a representative of the joint committee of staff and sub-staff. He said that usually their salaries are revised after every three years. “As there has been no revision in six years, we are earning much less than what should be our current salaries. A sub-staff is earning around Rs 3,000 less a month while a staff is losing at least Rs 8,000 a month,” added Lahiri. In the tea belt, the salary of a sub-staff ranges from Rs 5,000 to Rs 7,000 while a staff earns between Rs 17,000 and Rs 25,000. The move, tea trade union leaders said, indicates that the Trinamul intends to resolve all possible issues pertaining to the workforce serving in the tea sector to draw support from them in the Assembly elections scheduled next year. In north Bengal, there are at least 15 Assembly seats where votes of the tea population swing the polls. “On one hand, the state is working on the free housing scheme announced for tea workers while on the other hand it has picked up the pay revision issue of the staff and sub-staff. It is evident that Trinamul is desperate to secure support of the tea population,” said a senior trade union leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-310
14-11-2020||West Bengal||Key role for BJP IT cell chief in Bengal||BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya was appointed the party’s minder for Bengal for the third time, with national secretary Arvind Menon retained as his deputy. The party’s national IT chief Amit Malviya was appointed as a second co-minder to assist them. On Friday evening, BJP announced many changes in the list of minders who look after the party’s affairs in various states. Several state BJP leaders said Malviya’s appointment was significant as it hinted that social media would be a prime tool that the saffron camp would use in its mission Bengal for the crucial state in the first half of 2021. Many BJP leaders said that the reappointment of Vijayvargiya, who is close to Trinamul turncoat Mukul Roy, will strengthen the latter’s position in the party. “Things will get a bit more difficult for state party president Dilip Ghosh, who has already lost his key associate Subrata Chatterjee from the position of general-secretary (organisation),” said an insider. In the faction-ridden BJP Bengal unit, Ghosh and Vijayvargiya-Roy belong to different camps. “The party will now be under direct scrutiny of the central leadership,” this person added. On Vijayvargiya, a BJP leader said: “Kailashji has worked hard for our party in the state and we have got positive results...His reappointment proves that the central leadership has faith in his ability to steer the party’s affairs in Bengal till Assembly polls.” Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar became observer for Sikkim. Party national secretary Anupam Hazra, also a Trinamul turncoat, and Bankura MP Subhas Sarkar were appointed co-observers for Bihar and Jharkhand, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-311
14-11-2020||West Bengal||Malda migrant shot dead in Manipur||A migrant worker from a Malda village was gunned down earlier this week in Manipur capital Imphal, prompting his coworkers to hurry back home on Thursday evening in fear. Sabir Sheikh, the victim, who was from Baidyanathpur village under Baishnabnagar police station, had migrated to Imphal for work at a construction site with other residents some time ago. He was reportedly gunned down by an unidentified attacker on November 9. Their friend’s murder, returnee migrants said, reminded them of the horrific killing of another Malda migrant worker Afrazul Sheikh in Rajasthan in December 2017.  Sabir’s friends said they did not want to go back again. “Last Monday (November 9), Sabir went out in the morning. As he did not return after a long time, we started searching for him all over town (Manipur capital Imphal). Some local people advised us to contact the police station. There, we came to know that Sabir was shot by some unidentified attacker and had instantly died,” said Sabir’s friend and co-worker Abdul Alim. Local Trinamul leaders met Sabir’s bereaved family, and accused the BJP of failing to uphold law and order in states where it was in power. Amirul Islam, Sabir’s uncle, has demanded a CBI probe into the death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-311
14-11-2020||West Bengal||Mason shot in South Dinajpur||A 17-year-old mason was shot by unidentified assailants when he was returning home from work at Hathkhola in South Dinajpur district on Thursday night. Sources said Tinku Burman, who hailed from Ashrampara in the Nayabazar area, had left his studies and worked as a mason to make earnings for his family. “He was shot near a local club by some unknown attackers. Hearing gun shots, we came out and found Tinku lying on the ground. The attackers had fled by then. We soon informed police,” said Gopal Sarkar, a local resident. Paresh, the deceased’s father, said he had no idea as what has led to the murder. “Tinku did not have problems with anybody.” Police suspect that the murder was a fallout of old rivalry or dispute. Debarshi Dutta, South Dinajpur police chief, said a probe was on. “We are in search of the attackers and have detained two friends of the victim to obtain information.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-311
14-11-2020||West Bengal||Four beaten to death in rage||A man in West Burdwan’s Jamuria thrashed to death four persons early on Friday allegedly to take revenge on three of them for filing a complaint of theft and assault against him with the police a few days ago. Sadhu Hembram, 35, who the police called “mentally unstable”, was arrested from the spot after the incident. The deceased were Subodh Bauri, 62, Amoj Mandal, 45, and Prashanta Saha, 57, all residents of Bankura and workers of a country liquor shop in Jamuria’s Poniati village, and Kaliya Bhuniya, 64, of Kulti, who had come to Jamuria to visit a relative. On Tuesday, Sadhu, a habitual drinker, assaulted the employees of the liquor shop that he used to frequent. In a drunken state, he ransacked the shop. Later, he was arrested by the police based on complaints filed by shop manager Dhiman Mandal, but granted bail by the court on Thursday. Just around midnight, Sadhu scaled the boundary wall of the country spirit shop and entered the room where the three employees were sleeping. “First, he hit them with a boulder and then repeatedly with a stick. I was also sleeping in the room but managed to escape,” said Dhiman. “I came out of the shop and started yelling for help. People, including Kaliya rushed out hearing my shouts. The police were informed. Sadhu, armed with the stick, came out of the shop and started chasing people. Kaliya came in Sadhu’s way and was badly beaten up with the stick. He did not survive,” added Dhiman. He mentioned that he, as the shop’s manager who often refused Sadhu liquor on credit, was perhaps the prime target. “I woke up in time and fled or else I also could have been killed.” The police arrested Sadhu but residents were angry with them. “Kaliya was thrashed in presence of the cops but they did nothing to stop the killer,” said a resident. The police refuted the charge and said they acted swiftly and arrested Sadhu, stopping his rampage. “The police had reached the spot immediately after getting information and arrested accused Sadhu Hembram. He had beaten four persons to death. We are now investigating the incident,” said Tathagata Pandey, assistant commissioner of police (central 1). The police have sent bodies to Asansol district hospital for autopsy. Bereaved kin demanded Rs 10 lakh each from liquor shop owner Paresh Mandal as compensation. Mandal said he did not have that kind of money. “If they want, I can engage one member from each of the family in my shop,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-311
14-11-2020||West Bengal||Nadia’s soldier killed on LoC||Subodh Ghosh, 24, an Indian soldier from Tehatta’s Raghunathpur, posted on the India-Pakistan border was killed on Friday during shelling by Pakistan’s army. Subodh, two other soldiers and a BSF jawan were among the 10 killed during Pakistan’s multiple ceasefire violations along the Line of Control between Gurez and Uri sectors. Subodh, who joined the army in 2016, returned to the border in July after a vacation. A few days later, his wife Anindita gave birth to their daughter. An inconsolable Anindita said that less than five hours before his death, Subodh had called her up and advised her to buy woollens for their baby girl and planned her annaprasan next month. A neighbour of Subodh said: “It was the failure of the Centre that led to deaths of soldiers in Pulwama. What happened on Friday is almost a repetition of Pulwama.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-311
14-11-2020||West Bengal||One held with deer horns||The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) in association with the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) have seized a pair of horns and skull of a sambar (a species of deer) from Bagdogra on the outskirts of Siliguri on Friday. A resident of a nearby tea estate has been arrested in this connection. “We had information that a person, who is from a nearby tea estate, has a deer’s horn and that he is looking for a buyer for it. He was roaming around in Bagdogra forest area. We conducted a joint raid with the SSB and apprehended him with the horn,” said a WCCB officer. The arrested person identified as Shankar Sabar hails from Tirrihannah tea estate. The horn weighs around 3.5kg, said sources. Later, WCCB officials handed over Sabar and the horn to foresters of Bagdogra forest range that functions under the Kurseong forest division. Charges under Wildlife (Protection) Act would be brought against Sabar. Amal Roy, 35, a resident of Maynaguri, died when a truck carrying boulders along NH27, flipped sideways and fell on a roadside tea stall near the local BDO office on Friday morning. Local residents blocked the road alleging absence of policemen to control traffic in the area. The roadblock was lifted when police promised all necessary help. Excavators were engaged to remove the truck. The victim, found under the truck, was pronounced dead after being taken to the local rural hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-311
14-11-2020||West Bengal||Centre’s Amphan aid, tranche two||The Centre on Friday allotted Rs 2,707.77 crore to Bengal for taking up development and restoration work in Amphan-hit areas amid questions from the state administration on whether the fund was “too little, too late”. “The high-level committee under the chairmanship of the Union home minister, Shri Amit Shah, has approved additional Central assistance under the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) to six states... For cyclone Amphan, Rs 2,707.77 crore has been approved for West Bengal,” read the news release issued by the Press Information Bureau on Friday. The Centre released a sum of Rs 1,000 crore to help the state meet immediate needs in the aftermath of Amphan on May 20, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi aerially surveyed devastated areas. The Bengal state government has spent Rs 7,000 crore on Amphan relief and restoration, a source said to put central and state funds in perspective. Cyclone Amphan hit Bengal’s three coastal districts — South and North 24-Parganas and East Midnapore — on May 20 and ripped apart homes, trees, large stretches of river embankments and farmlands. Sources in Delhi said that the inter-ministerial central team had visited the cyclone-hit areas in the first week of June and submitted its report on the damage. “The report was tabled before the high-level committee that takes decisions on the release of additional central assistance to states that suffer natural calamities. The committee met after several months because of the ongoing pandemic and took the decision to give funds to Bengal on Friday,” said a source. While senior officials in Nabanna welcomed the decision, some bureaucrats wondered if the aid was “too little and too late”. “The central funds should have come much earlier as the money was meant for people who lost everything in the cyclone,” said a source. Another official said Rs 2,707.77 crore was too meagre. A senior state government minister said that the central allotment announced through a release seemed to be a political move as state BJP leaders were getting embarrassed amid questions on why the BJP-led Centre was not extending financial assistance to the state even after such a devastating natural calamity. With this announcement, the Bengal BJP leadership could claim that the Centre had also done its bit, without going into questions like why the quantum of money was so little and why it took almost six months for the Centre to announce it. “Besides, the state is yet to receive any communication about the central allotment. It has to be seen if the Centre sets any precondition to the state before releasing the fund,” he said. Ruling Trinamul has accused the Centre of not been being forthcoming in helping Bengal after major natural calamities. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee publicly said that the Centre did not release funds even though the state submitted a claim of Rs 23,000 crore after cyclone Bulbul in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-311
14-11-2020||West Bengal||Dwindling numbers of Indian Gorkha in army||Indian Army veterans in Darjeeling hills have blamed changes in recruitment criteria and socio-economic factors for the recent trend of vacant Indian Gorkha berths in the country’s seven Gorkha regiments. A career in the armed forces had traditionally been a matter of pride for Indian Gorkhas. India has seven Gorkha regiments with around 40,000 Gorkhas. For these regiments, 60 per cent vacancies are reserved for citizens of Nepal while the rest 40 per cent for Indian Gorkhas. Lt. Colonel (retd) Keshab Rai, who recently flagged off this issue of vacancies to defence minister Rajnath Singh, pointed out the change in minimum qualification that the Indian Army was a major drawback for Indian Gorkhas. “In 2001, while fellow Indians needed to be Class X pass with a minimum aggregate of 45 per cent, Gorkhas needed to be Class VIII pass,” said Lt. Col (retd) Rai. In 2019, the criteria for Gorkhas was that they had to be Class X (matric) pass with 45 per cent marks aggregate and 33 per cent in each subject. Lt Col (retd) Rai feels that the “environment” from where the Gorkhas come must be emphasised. He, however, admitted that young Gorkhas, even from rural areas, are not as hardy as in the past. The decline in Indian Gorkha recruits in the Indian Army has come as a matter of concern for defence analysts as the contribution of Gorkhas in the armed forces is unmatched. The association of Gorkhas with the army in India dates back to over 200 years. The issue of few takers for army jobs among Indian Gorkhas came to the fore following media reports that the Indian Army is considering recruiting youths from Uttarkhand in Gorkha regiments. The reports drew sharp criticism from politicians like Gaurav Gogoi, deputy leader of Congress in Lok Sabha, who felt that such a move “will be a departure from the guiding philosophy of the Gorkha Rifles.” Shanta Chhetri, TMC Rajya Sabha member, Darjeeling leaders like Anit Thapa and veterans like Rai have opposed the reported move.  Lt. Gen (retd) Gurung, a Gorkha to occupy one of the highest positions in the India army, listed many reasons for the declining interest of Indian Gorkhas in the army. “This is because the physical fitness has gone down and they are also not being able to clear medical and written tests,” he said. “The first test is a one-mile race and one has to complete in 5.40 minutes. One has to run like a horse and even if you jog for 10 paces you are finished,” the veteran armyman said. “But physical fitness (among Gorkha youths) has gone down.” During recruitment, Gorkhas get physical relaxation in terms of height and weight but other tests stay the same. Another reason is greater awareness of other careers, Lt. Gen (retd) Gurung said. “Our children are now increasingly looking at engineering, IT, civil services and other sectors. Becoming a soldier is no longer a career option high on the list,” he said. He made some suggestions to the Centre through The Telegraph: But the numbers of Indian Gorkhas taking up army careers are dwindling. Lt Gen (retd) Shakti Gurung, a former director general (recruiting) of the Indian Army, while speaking to The Telegraph over phone from Dehradun recounted an anecdote to substantiate this. “I once got a complaint from Uttarakhand that Gorkhas are not being recruited adequately. I was requested for a special rally only for Gorkhas,” he said. He decided to provide 40 vacancies for Gorkhas, but only 600 to 700 youths turned up, he said, out of which only 15 got selected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-311
