15-11-2020||West Bengal||Filmmakers, co-actors friends mourn the demise of Soumitra ||The film fraternity paid tribute to legendary actor Soumitra Chatterjee, who passed away on Sunday at a Calcutta hospital after over a month-long battle against multiple ailments, including Covid-19 encephalopathy. Remembering him as a great cultural icon and a loyal friend, actors, politicians and close ones paid home to the icon. The demise of Chatterjee is being seen as a loss of an era amid the film fraternity. Veteran actor Sharmila Tagore said, “ We thought he would win the fight. It’s a really sad day. We have lost a close, loyal friend. But he will live among us.” “Can't accept his death, veteran actor Shabitri Chatterjee, who worked with the 85-year-old in several films, said. Filmmaker and the son of Satyajit Ray, Sandip Ray, said, “My father loved working with him. I have lost a family.” Soumitra was the hero of my first film. He was a family friend. I have lost a parent today. We cannot accept his death at all,” said filmmaker Aparna Sen. “He will live among people for years”, said veteran actor Sabitri Chatterjee. “I first met Soumitra Kaku 45 years ago, during my first film ‘Sonar Kella’.Then on, we had an association for years. He had never let anyone feel that he was a person of such stature. He was the torchbearer of an era,” said Bengali actor Kushal Chakraborty, who played Mukul in Sonar Kella when he was 6 years old. Ranjit Mallick, a Bengali actor, mourned Chatterjee’s death. “Have worked in many movies with him and learned a lot. I feel really sad today,” he said. Actor Parambrata Chatterjee called him a “dear, dear friend”. “In the last one and-a half years we had grown fond of each other, not as if there weren't minor disagreements now and then, like the way it happens between friends. but respect and love only grew abundantly. A big piece tears away from my existence today, a precious tie severed. Impossible to articulate how it feels to lose a friend who also is a teacher," he wrote. Political leaders, too, paid homage to the actor. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled his death in a Twitter post. "Shri Soumitra Chatterjee's death is a colossal loss to the world of cinema, cultural life of West Bengal and India. Through his works, he came to embody Bengali sensibilities, emotions and ethos. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti." "Deeply pained to learn about the demise of legendary Soumitra Chatterjee ji. An iconic actor, who took Bengali cinema to new heights. In Soumitra Da, Indian silver screen has lost a gem. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and countless followers. Om Shanti Shanti Shanti," Home Minister Amit Shah tweeted. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said that the state will give the actor a 21 gun salute on Sunday, adding that he will live among people through his work and love. "I had spoken to him (Soumitra Chatterjee) over phone when he was admitted on October 6 after testing positive for COVID-19. He was very confident. Although he has passed away COVID-19 could not defeat him as he had already recovered from the deadly disease,” she told reporters. Starting his career in acting with Satyajit Ray’s Apur Sansar, the thespian’s career spanned over 50 years. Thereafter, the actor and the director continued to collaborate for several other films, including Charulata , Ghare Baire , Devi and Aranyer Din Ratri. He  was admitted to the hospital after testing positive for Covid-19 on October 6. Chaterjee’s body will be taken to Calcutta’s rabindra Sadan for two hours, following which the last rites will be performed at 5:30 pm. Soumitra Chatterjee is survived by his wife, daughter and son.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-309
15-11-2020||Calcutta||Visits to Lake Avenue, books on acting and Chhabi Biswas||Soumitra Chatterjee did as many as 14 films with Satyajit Ray, among the most celebrated of collaborations in the history of cinema. At 5 feet 11.5 inches, he turned out to be a bit too tall for Ray’s Aparajito, and hence his debut was with Apur Sansar, the third and concluding part of the Apu Trilogy based on two Bibhutibhushan Bandopadhyay novels. How did Ray end up choosing Soumitra? Was it the screen test? Was it the actor’s diction? And when did he finally tell him that he was to play Apu? Here’s Soumitra in his own words. Excerpts: Manik da used to live on Lake Avenue those days. He was sitting in the room with the familiar kurta-pyjama. The moment I entered, he said, 'Oh dear, you've turned out to be much too tall.' Restraining himself immediately, he said, 'Please come in, take a seat.' I was shaken. How engrossed he must have been in his work to be able to say something like this. It only meant that he was looking for Apu everywhere, all the time. He had already received international recognition, and even won several awards. I was touched by the fact that he spoke to a nondescript stranger like me for such a long time and on such a variety of subjects. I had noticed all his life that he spoke to everyone freely and with complete sincerity. His baritone and his towering figure inevitably projected the image of a unique personality, but he never tried to create a distance between himself and others. Still, no matter how many funny things he said or light subjects he touched upon, playing the fool with him was unthinkable. And yet, when the time was right, he used to laugh and joke with many of us - just as we do with our friends - including me. I didn't realise it then, but I learnt later that Manik da would size up new actors and actresses for certain specific abilities during the course of his first conversation with them. Qualities such as their manner of speaking, their voice and pronunciation, what their expressions were like, and if they could speak Bangla fluently. I had noticed from the beginning that he put particular emphasis on their ability to speak Bangla – the sort of words they used during their everyday conversation. I have worked with many other film directors afterwards, but none of them usually paid much attention to this aspect. Everyone who's worked with Satyajit Ray knows the importance of dialogue delivery in his films. He had asked me two specific questions in the course of our tête-à-tête that day – whether I really loved acting, whether I was ready to act in films, if necessary. In other words, he wanted to observe just how keen I was on acting. Given my immense fascination for Pather Panchali and the identity of the person asking the questions, my response was exactly as it ought to have been. 'Exactly how tall are you, Soumitra babu?' Manik da asked suddenly as I was about to leave. 'Five feet eleven and a half,' I said. Summoning his production manager Anil Chowdhury, he said, 'Would you please stand next to him for a minute, Anil Babu?' When I left, he repeated, ‘Do come again, keep in touch.’ After that first meeting, I didn't go back very often although he had asked me to. Why disturb such an important man while he was busy with his work? I did take two or three friends of mine to see him in case he found any of them suitable for Apu. He didn't, though. Eventually, he picked Smaran Ghoshal. There was a stir again after the release of Aparajito – all of us loved it; it was indeed an extraordinary film. We discussed the distinctiveness of many of the scenes over and over again- the ghats of the ganga in Kashi, Harihar's death, Apu plucking grey hair off the old man's head and then racing away as soon as he was paid, Apu screaming 'Africa!' dressed as an African child, Apu missing the train deliberately so that he could go home, Apu's first visit to Calcutta and many other scenes which are still preserved carefully in my memory. I used to recollect these scenes every now and then, and do so even more so now. Youth lorded over our lives those days, with endless adda at the Coffee House. Another of Manik da's assistants, Subir Hazra, used to join our Coffee House sessions. He would often tell me, 'He hasn't forgotten you, he's going to send for you soon...' and so on. And I would say, 'Forget it, why should he send for me...' Naturally, I assumed these were just empty promises. I joined All India Radio soon afterwards _ the office was in Garstin lace, the year, 1957. I spent some time in bed with chicken-pox that year. When I had recovered, I was home one day, running my hand over the mementos of my illness, when Subir arrived. 'Come with me, Satyajit Ray has sent for you.' I went a few days later. As soon as I entered he exclaimed, 'There you are, please come in. But everything seems fine, I don't see any marks on your face! Someone was saying you have developed pockmarks. This is nothing, it should be fine.' After a pause, he added with a smile, 'I hope you're still as keen on acting as you once were.' Lowering my eyes, I said, 'yes, of course, I am.’ Anyhow, after we had spoken about some other things, Manik da said that he had decided to make another film taking cue from the second part of Aparajito, and that he might need me for it. Although he was always straightforward in whatever he said, he was also very careful; so he added immediately, ‘I am not giving you my word at the moment, but I want you to be prepared.’ A natural reserve prevented me from telling him at once that I had been waiting impatiently for one opportunity to work with a film-director like Satyajit Ray. ‘I’ll take a screen test soon,’ he continued. ‘A very simple affair.’ Then we talked about other things for quite some time, after which he said, ‘Why don’t you come over to the studio when I’m shooting?’ He was shooting two films virtually simultaneously – Parashpathar (The Philosopher’s Stone) and Jalsaghar (The Music Room). Even today, after all these years, I’m astonished when I consider the energy and the genius needed to make two films of that quality at the same time. Parashpathar was the first to be completed, followed by Jalsaghar. He had somehow found out that I was in regular contact with Sisir Kumar Bhaduri. He had even come to know that I visited Sisir Kumar frequently, borrowing books from his collection and getting him books to read. He would ask after Sisir Kumar during our conversations – what kind of books he read, what kind of books he enjoyed reading, what kind of discussions we had about acting – and so on. When he learnt that I was a student of literature, Manik da would sometimes discuss books with me. Such discussions with a new actor – and that too about literature – were unthinkable in the environment of Bengali cinema. Besides two or three cultured, well-educated film-directors, I have never met another person like him ever again. On the appointed day I went to the studio to watch Parashpathar being shot. I was dazzled by Bansi Chandragupta’s sets. Was it humanly possible to create such sets? I couldn’t even imagine such a thing at the time. I should mention that we had become instant fans of Satyajit Ray’s cameraman Subrata Mitra and art director Bansi Chandragupta after watching his very first film. We used to discuss them intensely, for both of them were like demigods for us. They’re just the kind of people a great director’s unit should have, we’d say. The sets hadn’t been completed yet, with the finishing touches still being put. I went up close and began to watch, practically open-mouthed. Manik da was preparing for the shoot. He caught sight of me devouring the scene with my eyes. Later I realised that Manik da had arranged all this for my convenience, opening all the windows to the special world of cinema to me so that I could get familiar and comfortable with it. The famous party scene of Parashpathar was to be shot that day. Virtually every famous actor of Bengali cinema was present for the shoot. Manik da gave me the opportunity to watch how renowned actors perform in front of the camera, how natural their behaviour is. In short, he was preparing me not to get nervous when it was my turn. Manik da still used the formal ‘apni’ with me at the time and hadn’t yet told me that I was to act as Apu. I had expected to be asked to play a minor character. Or perhaps he had hinted at something that I had not grasped. The practical aspects of shooting a film gradually became clear to me during my visits to the studio. I worked at the radio station and went off to watch Manik da shoot whenever I could. One day, I was there to watch a scene from Jalsaghar being shot, with Manik da giving me a vantage point as usual. After the shooting had ended for the day, I had to go off for my radio job. So I went up to him and said, ‘I have to go now Manik babu.’ Even if it was without any awkwardness, the words ‘apni’ and ‘babu’ did exist between us till that time of 1957. But both words vanished forever soon afterwards. The ‘apni’ that I did use with him till recently was just like ‘tumi’ in nature and in terms of intimacy. As I was about to leave, he said, ‘Let me introduce you to Chhabi Biswas, you haven’t met him, have you?’ I shook my head. But why did he suddenly want to introduce me to the legendary actor Chhabi Biswas? I was astonished as I was pleased. Going up to Chhabi Biswas, he said in his customary baritone, ‘Chhabi da! This is Soumitra Chattopadhyay, he is playing Apu in my next film, Apur Sansar.’ The penny had dropped! The chandelier on the sets of Jalsaghar began to sway in front of my eyes; my feet left the ground – I was flying, holding hands with the stars. That was when I realised for the first time that he had always thought of me as Apu. On the bus to the office, I wandered why it wasn’t speeding like a meteor – it was a feeling of pure, irresistible joy. The days that followed went by in a blur, flying past like the pages of an open book put down by the window. The affectionate relationship that developed between us right then led Manik da to protect me all his life with the love of a father. Visiting him at his Lake Avenue house was no longer a special effort on my part. He had personally taken several photographs of me in his room – stills which he spread out in front of his wife, whom I addressed as Boudi, and other members of his unit for discussions. He discussed my photographs with me too. He advised me to read Aparajito carefully once more in order to transform myself into Apu, and discussed all the books about acting that I had read. He also told me to read certain books I hadn’t read. I had already read Stanislavsky’s My Life in Art and Building a Character. One day he asked me during a conversation, ‘Have you read Stanislavsky’s An Actor Prepares, Soumitra?’ ‘No, I couldn’t get my hands on it,’ I said. He immediately gave me his copy of the book to read. I never saw Manik da being pedantic in his life, although there was no scope for doubt that he could have given classroom lectures on a number of subjects if he had wanted to. He always said what he needed to succinctly. Handing the book to me, he said, ‘When you read this you will realise how useful it is for beginners.’ He lent me other books of the same kind afterwards. Someone who had read so much, possessed such a superb collection of books, and was so immensely intelligent still exercised extraordinary restraint when speaking, never saying anything more than the essential – this too was a real sign of greatness. Every experienced connoisseur of the arts knows just how many people in India were capable of speaking or writing both Bangla and English the way Satyajit Ray did – my endorsement is unnecessary. He hated displays of erudition and the pretence of punditry. Excerpted with permission from translator Arunava Sinha Book: The Master and I, Soumitra on Satyajit Author: Soumitra Chatterjee (translated by Arunava Sinha) Publisher: Supernova Publishers Price: Rs 395||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-309
15-11-2020||Calcutta||A tree that never stopped growing||The craft of Soumitra Chatterjee, a screen actor of unmatched timbre, hinged on two distinct poles. At one end was his personality that radiated charm and gravitas, at the other was his magical ability to dissolve into a role so completely as to become one with the fictional character he played. That apart, he straddled the two streams of Bengali cinema – artistic and commercial – with equal ease. No wonder Soumitra Chatterjee had an extraordinarily varied film career. He was a thinking man’s screen performer who combined deep thought and awe-inspiring creative dexterity with deceptive ease to flesh out many a memorable character that will live on as long as cinema exists. His worldwide reputation — few Indian actors can match it because it isn’t mere movie stardom that we are talking here — is obviously intertwined with that of the trailblazing Satyajit Ray. If Ray was an imposing banyan, Soumitra was one of its sturdiest branches, which eventually spread out and grew its own roots to itself become a flowering tree that never stopped growing and blooming. In the late 1990s, French filmmaker Catherine Berge made a documentary in tribute to Soumitra and titled the work Gaach (Tree). We have lost the tree; the flowers and fruits it bore will stay with us forever. In India, outside of Bengal, Soumitra’s name might ring at best a faint bell except in informed circles. This has as much to do with the distance he kept from the pan-Indian Hindi cinema – into which his great contemporary Uttam Kumar forayed with a fair amount of success – as with the kind of films he generally championed. Soumitra had no peer in India. He worked with Ray until the very end of the latter’s life, from 1959’s epochal Apur Sansar (the actor’s screen debut) to the maestro’s second last film, Shakha Prosakha (1990), building a 14-title body of work that would have ensured him immortality even if he hadn’t done anything else in life. But as things panned out, he did an immense amount of work not only in the movies, but also in theatre, poetry, publishing and art. Soumitra was in his early 20s when Ray decided to cast him in Apur Sansar. He was a visitor to the set of Jalsaghar, Ray’s fourth film, when the director introduced the youngster to Chhabi Biswas as “the lead actor of my next film”. Soumitra was taken by surprise. In fact, even after filming of the last part of Ray’s fabled Apu Trilogy began, the actor wasn’t sure he had chosen the right calling. He spent the first ten years of his life in Krishnnagar. He was a diffident boy. The stage – to begin with, his mother’s bed was the arena around which he used her saris and bedcovers as wings and curtains – was his big refuge. It allowed him to hide behind assumed personas and express himself. For one, Krishnangar, poet, playwright and musician Dwijendra Lal Ray’s hometown, had a flourishing theatre culture. Two, his father, a practising advocate in Calcutta High Court, was an amateur actor. His grandfather, too, had links with the performing arts. The shift to Calcutta for a post-graduate degree in Bengali literature exposed the young man to the city’s professional theatre, then dominated by Sisir Kumar Bhaduri. Soumitra learnt acting under the tutelage of another doyen of Bengali stage, Ahindra Choudhury. Ray, on his part, was quick to recognise the actor’s potential. He gave Chatterjee the first draft of the Apur Sansar script well ahead of filming. Ray had already made four films but never had he given any actor the entire script to read and well before the shoot had begun at that. The director also gave the debutant two sheets of paper that spelled out the profile of the film’s titular character down to the minutest detail. Another first! Ray’s faith paid off in a way that quickly became the stuff of legend. The Ray-Soumitra partnership was, in terms of output and impact, on par with the iconic director-actor combinations that Akira Kurosawa and Toshiro Mifune, Ingmar Bergman and Max von Sydow, Federico Fellini and Marcello Mastroianni and Yasuziro Ozu and Chishu Ryu forged. The films that Ray and Soumitra made together put Bengali and Indian cinema on the world map like nothing else ever has before or since. But Ray was only one chapter of the eventful career of the Dadasaheb Phalke Award-winning actor who was in the business for well over six decades and died literally with his boots on. Only late last year, he had two new films, Barun Babur Bondhu and Sanjhbati, out in the multiplexes. It is easy to forgive those that believe that Soumitra’s reputation rests solely on the work he did with Ray. But nothing could be further from the truth. The iconic thespian held his own under many other directors and in several other strains of Bengali cinema. He also collaborated felicitously with Tarun Majumdar (Sansar Simantey, Ganadevata), Ajoy Kar (Saat Paanke Bandha, Parineeta) and Dinen Gupta (Basanta Bilap, Sangini), among many others. Soumitra’s association with Sharmila Tagore began in Apur Sansar, which was the latter’s debut too. Ray subsequently cast the two enduring Bengali stars together in two films made ten years apart – Devi (1960) and Aranyer Din Ratri (1970). The Soumitra-Sharmila screen pairing, thanks to the sheer collective critical acclaim the three Ray films garnered, remains unparalleled in the history of Indian cinema. Soumitra forged a hugely successful screen pairing with Aparna Sen, who debuted opposite him in the third segment of Ray’s Teen Kanya (1961) – Samapti. Soumitra and Aparna were also cast as a pair by Mrinal Sen in Akash Kusum (1965), by Dinen Gupta in the 1973 romantic comedy Basanta Bilap, and by Ray’s assistant Nityananda Dutta in Baksha Badal (1965). The last-named film had music by Satyajit Ray. With Tanuja, who had an active stint in Bengali cinema in the late 1960s and early 1970s, Soumitra featured in three major films – Protham Kadam Phool, Teen Bhubaner Paare (both 1969) and Aparna (1972). Teen Bhubaner Paare, in which he played a drifter who falls in love with a woman way out of his league, had him jiving to the timeless hit “Jibone ki paabona bhulechi shey bhabona”, sung by Manna Dey. The song led into the interlude “Ke tumi Nandini aage toh dekhini”, which quickly passed into film music folklore. The number ranks alongside Ei poth jodi na shesh hoye, the Uttam Kumar-Suchitra Sen duet from Saptapadi (1961), as the most unforgettable musical set piece ever mounted in a Bengali film. Rarely, if ever, was Soumitra not on song as an actor. The range of roles he played was nothing if not phenomenal. Two films come instantly to mind – Goutam Ghose’s Dekha (2000), in which a he played an ageing glaucoma-stricken poet who goes nearly blind, Suman Ghosh’s Podokkhep (2006), for which the veteran actor won a long overdue National Award for the best male lead performance of the year, and the more recent Mayurakshi, directed by Atanu Ghosh, who cast the seasoned actor as a dementia-afflicted retired professor of history. Soumitra’s early triumphs were primarily in films made outside of the Bengali cinema mainstream – besides Ray, he worked with Mrinal Sen (Akash Kusum, 1965) and Tapan Sinha (Kshudita Pashan, 1960). But he eventually established himself as a major commercial movie star, starting with the success of Sinha’s Jhinder Bondi (adapted from Anthony Hope’s The Prisoner of Zenda), in which he shared screen space for the first time with Bengal’s reigning matinee idol Uttam Kumar. Soumitra’s life did not begin and end with cinema. He remained active in theatre, co-edited a literary journal for 18 years (Ekkhon, 1961-1979, with Nirmalya Acharya), authored a dozen books of poetry and also produced paintings of no mean quality. Do we know any other film actor who can boast such a range of creative pursuits? Soumitra’s acting technique was a fine blend of minimalism and meticulousness. As a result, his histrionic sleights were often invisible to the naked eye. At their best, they could only be felt. It was the subtlety of his art that made it possible for the incredibly versatile Soumitra to internalise Apu, Amulya (Samapti) and Narsingh (Abhijan), three dissimilar characters he played for Ray in a span of four years, without the effort showing. For another Ray classic, Charulata, Soumitra changed his Bengali handwriting for good. He spent six months practising the letters and strokes of a pre-Tagore era and emerged, at age 27, with an all-new running hand. Didn’t we mention his ability to merge himself with a screen character? It bordered on the miraculous. Saibal Chatterjee is a cinephile who has been writing on films for over three decades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-309
15-11-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra Chatterjee passes away after over a month in hospital||Thousands of people walked behind a flower-bedecked hearse carrying the body of actor Soumitra Chatterjee to Keoratala Mahasashan where his mortal remains were consigned to flames with full state honours on Sunday evening. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, along with her ministerial colleagues and a host of film personalities, walked in the procession with others singing Tagore's "Aguner parashmoni chhoao praane". Hundreds of people also stood along both sides of the road and crowded rooftops in nearby houses to have a last look at their favourite actor. As the last journey ended at the crematorium, Chatterjee was given a gun salute in presence of the chief minister and other dignitaries. Chatterjee, known for his career-spanning collaborations with celebrated director Satyajit Ray who cast him in 14 of his films, passed away at a city hospital on Sunday afternoon after a prolonged illness aggravated by a bout of Covid-19. He was 85. ​He is survived by his wife, Dipa Chatterjee, daughter Poulami Bose and son Sougata Chatterjee. ABP Ananda, quoting Belle Vue Clinic sources, said the end came at 12.25pm. "We declare with heavy heart that Shri Soumitra Chattopadhyay breathed his last at 12-15 pm at Belle Vue Clinic today (15 November 2020). We pay our homage to his soul," an official statement read, reported NDTV. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who reached the hospital after the news broke, declared that the actor would be accorded a state funeral. His mortal remains were taken to his house at Golf Green at 2pm and then to the Technicians’ Studio in Tollygunge where he spent most of his five-decade-long career shooting. Chatterjee's body was kept at Rabindra Sadan in the afternoon to enable his fans and admirers to pay their last respects. The funeral cortege then left for the burning ghat in a procession. Chief minister Banerjee had said the procession would proceed amid strict adherence to Covid-19 safety measures. The actor, who was admitted at Belle Vue here for over a month ago, remained in a “very, very critical” condition for the last 48 hours, a hospital update issued at on Saturday night said. His physiological system is not responding” despite all efforts, the hospital said. “He is still on different life supports and holding on. But it is almost a point of no return… from where he can come back and survive,” Arindam Kar, one of the doctors treating Chatterjee, said. Chatterjee, 85, was admitted to Belle Vue on October 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. He recovered from Covid-19 but could not overcome Covid encephalopathy, a post-Covid complication that can trigger coma, drowsiness, disorientation and multiple other complications, and lead to multi-organ failure. “We have done everything possible in the past 40 days, but it is the encephalopathy that has undone every effort of ours,” said Kar, who is among a huge team of neurologists, nephrologists, cardiologists, critical care specialists, and infectious diseases specialists from both private and government hospitals that had been put together for Chatterjee’s treatment. Sharmila Tagore, who debuted in films along with Soumitra in 1958 in Apur Sansar, describes him as a treasured friend. In the foreword to The Master and I, the actor’s memoirs about his time with Ray, she talks of how like Ray, Soumitra wasn’t propelled by commerce. “Eternally childlike and hopelessly romantic at heart, like Ray, he is also a multifaceted talent,” she writes. Chatterjee and Ray enjoyed a partnership of over three decades, leaving the world of cinema with timeless gems _ Apur Sansar, Devi, Charulata, Aranyer Din Ratri and Ghare Baire have all been, and continue to be, admired and rediscovered by generations. “We were, to a great extent, Apus of our time,” Soumitra once said, about his joining the cast of Apur Sansar after Ray found him to be “too old” to play the role in Aparajito. Many critics rate his performance as Amal in Charulata as one of his best in the 14 films by Ray he appears in. The scene where he is lip-syncing to “Ogo Bideshini”, sung by Kishore Kumar, while playing the piano is one of cinema’s most cherished moments. Soumitra immortalized the role of Feluda, Ray’s famous detective, who like Sherlock Homes had a Watson too _ in the form of his young nephew Topshe, whom children growing up in the Calcutta of the ’60s and ’70s identified with. Ray started writing these Feluda novels circa 1965, and long before Sonar Kella was conceived of as a film, the look and demeanor of this tall, strapping handsome man was revealed to readers in the form of illustrations that many said were modelled on Soumitra. While discussing Gantokey Gondogol (Trouble in Gangtok) with Ray, the actor had pointed out how the illustrations in the book resembled the filmmaker. But a smiling Ray replied. “Really? Several people have told me that I’ve drawn him with you in mind.” Later, Soumitra talked about it with many others all of whom agreed that the line drawings looked more like him! Yet, personally, Soumitra writes in The Master and I, that he always felt the resemblance was closer to Ray.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-309
15-11-2020||West Bengal||Kali Pujas unite hearts ||Social harmony pervades two popular Kali Pujas celebrated in two villages of Malda. Every year, unlike the pujas held in most places, Hindus and Muslims join hands to celebrate these two Kali Pujas. In Habibpur block, a Kali Puja initiated by a Muslim woman is joined by thousands of Hindus. In Manikchak, members of the Muslim community outnumber Hindus in a Kali Puja committee, the venue being a temple near a mosque. The Kali Puja at Madhyam Kendua in Habibpur block, some 20km from Malda town, is extremely popular, with “going to see Shephali Kali (Puja)” being a byword among residents. Shephali Bibi, who started this Kali Puja 34 years ago, did not care for resentments articulated by various dogmatic members of both the Hindu and Muslim communities. Eventually, the determination of Shephali Bibi won over orthodoxy, and over three decades on, Hindus and Muslims join hands to organise the puja and maintain a gigantic crowd. Many residents recount a tale that they have heard for decades now on Shephali Bibi started the Kali Puja. She was only 21 when she suddenly fell very ill, recounted a resident. No medicine worked. Then, apparently she shared a dream with villagers, claiming she was directed by goddess Kali to worship her to get cured. Initially, her claim was denounced by both communities. Brahmins refused to worship the idol. But an undaunted Shephali, then a young girl, went ahead with the preparations. Eventually, a priest appeared claiming he received orders from the goddess in his dream to worship the idol. This is how the Kali Puja had started. “Call it a miracle or whatever, Shephali got cured then,” Siddhartha Sarkar, a resident of Habibpur, said. Shephali Bibi, in her late fifties now, still heads the Kali Puja with people’s support. The idol is huge, so are the crowds. This year, the pandemic pared down celebrations, but otherwise this continues to be one of most popular Kali Puja celebrations in the region. Another Kali Puja held in the vicinity of Manikchak police station, some 30km from town, is also special. Around 120 years back, this Kali Puja was started by Fudina Singh, then head constable, in a temple facing a mosque. “Mutual respect is the key factor here,” said Sagar Singh, Manikchak resident. “At the time of the Namaz, the temple’s microphone is turned off. Mosque authorities ask people of the Muslim community to refrain from noise during Puja,” he said. Not just that, most members in this puja committee are Muslims. The committee has 11 Hindus and 13 Muslims working together every year to host the Kali Puja. So if Gour Mandal, the sabhadhipati of Malda Zilla Parishad happens to be the president of the puja committee, Jamal Khan is the secretary. “We have perceived the basics of every religion. All religions preach tolerance, peace and respect for other religions. Those who try to divide us in the name of religion, do so for their vested interest,” said Khan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-309
15-11-2020||West Bengal||Dark Diwali for Binnaguri tea estate workers||Diwali came with gloom for Binnaguri tea estate in the western Dooars under Jalpaiguri district as its management announced suspension of operations in the garden on Saturday in the wake of sustained demonstrations by some workers over a series of demands. The decision left around 1,400 workers jobless during Diwali celebrations. On Saturday, as workers assembled near the factory to join work, they found the work suspension notice issued by the manager. “For past few days, a section of workers, under the banner of a couple of tea trade unions, have been organising protests in the garden on certain demands. Such activities were affecting regular activities. Also, there were indications that even after the Kali Puja and Diwali, they will continue such protests. The management was apprehensive that law and order can deteriorate in the garden any time. That is why this decision was made,” said a source in the management. Trade union leaders are not ready to buy the theory. They said workers demanded non-cash facilities such as housing that the management is supposed to give workers under the Plantations Labour Act. “The management has closed down the garden under some flimsy pretexts. We want the state labour department to intervene and facilitate the garden’s reopening,” said Mani Kumar Darnal, the joint general-secretary of Intuc-backed National Union of Plantation Workers. Niren Mitra, the manager, said he had been working here for the past 23 years, and “there had been no problem”. “In recent times, some leaders of a union are trying to mislead workers,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-309
15-11-2020||West Bengal||Fire from oven razes 23 homes||Around 23 mud and brick houses of marginal farmers were destroyed in a fire that started from a clay oven at Kailashpur village in East Burdwan’s Kalna on Saturday morning. A villager said Kachinoor Biwi, a homemaker, was cooking rice in a clay oven when a burning jute stick she had used to light the fire flew and set her thatched roof on fire. He said a strong northern wind was blowing at that time and it helped the fire spread fast. “The fire spread so fast to the adjoining houses that the residents could not take out their essentials, including cash and gold ornaments,” another villager said. The fire services department was alerted but by the time the fire brigade arrived the villagers had put off the blaze. Twenty-three houses were razed to the ground. Khurshed Sheikh, an onion farmer, said he had kept Rs 40,000 at his hut to buy seeds but the entire cash had been burnt. “The flames spread so fast that I couldn’t run out with the money,” said an inconsolable Khurshed. A villager claimed many of them had lost thousands of rupees in cash in the fire. The BDO of Kalna-I, Sebanti Biswas, rushed to the spot and arranged tarpaulins and other relief materials for the affected families. “All the affected households belonged to marginal farmers. We have supplied tarpaulins, rice and other relief packages from our relief fund. The local panchayat is also taking care of the 23 families and have set up tents for livestock,” said Biswas. The chief of Kakuria gram panchayat, Reshma Begum, under which Kailashpur falls, said they were serving cooked food to the affected family members. “The families need to be rehabilitated. I have already got in touch with the local administration and the MLA,” Begum said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-310
15-11-2020||West Bengal||North Bengal seeks local trains||Resumption of local train services on suburban routes of Calcutta and south Bengal spurred commuters of north Bengal to demand local train services to restart in the region. The Bengal government and the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) — almost the entire north Bengal, the northeast and nearby areas of Bihar come under this railway zone — have been requested to resume local train services by trade bodies and leaders like Siliguri MLA Asok Bhattacharya. “A large number of people in north Bengal and adjoining areas of Bihar and Assam are largely dependent on local trains. Among these are vegetable vendors, daily commuters and others...They have been facing huge problems for months...I have written to the general manager of NFR, seeking necessary initiatives from their end (to resume the service),” said Bhattacharya. The Federation of Chamber of Commerce and Industries, North Bengal (Focin), one of north Bengal’s largest trade bodies, also wrote to the state government. “We wrote to the additional chief secretary of home and hill affairs department last week, urging him to talk to NFR officials to restart the services,” said Biswajit Das, Focin secretary. An NFR official said the state government would have to take the call. “We can start services only after the state approaches us. We need to plan for the new normal and maintain health protocols,” said an official. Under the NFR, over 80 pairs of passenger trains and another 60 pairs of DEMU rakes ran across the region before the pandemic’s outbreak. Nearly 2.5 lakh passengers used these trains daily.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-310
15-11-2020||West Bengal||Active cases in Bengal slide to 30,792 ||Bengal’s recovery rate in the Covid-19 pandemic on Saturday crossed 91 per cent, its rise unbroken since October 22 as the state hit yet another peak in daily recoveries with 4,479, aiding the 19th consecutive day of drop in total active cases. “Our recovery rate was 87.44 on October 22. This is now a 23-day spell of surge (in recovery rates). Today, it is 91.04. We are only slightly behind the national rate (93.03 per cent) now,” said a minister. The minister added that total active cases dropped by 6,398 since Vijaya Dashami, to 30,792 on Saturday. “It (the figure) has gone back to the October 12 level. This ongoing 19-day spell of drop in total active cases is the best so far (in the state) in this pandemic. Right after Puja, it could not have come at a better time. The record for daily recoveries has been reset 25 times in 26 days,” he said. The state on Saturday reported 3,823 new Covid-19 cases, less than 4,000 for the 19th consecutive day since the end of Durga Puja. Bengal reported 53 deaths, 13 each from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. Bengal now has a total of 4.28 lakh Covid-19 cases, including over 3.9 lakh recoveries and 7,610 deaths. In the 19 days since Dashami on October 26, Bengal reported 80,010 recoveries and 74,676 new infections, undoing much of the damage from a major spike in infections — and relatively fewer recoveries — for six weeks prior to the festival. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja. Infection data from Puja days, largely available by now, showed the intervention was effective. The high court issued similar instructions for Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. With 44,127 tests on Saturday, the state’s total test count went past 51.8 lakh, at 57,557 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.27 per cent. Of the total death toll, 6,370, or 83.7 per cent, were attributed to comorbidities. The state’s mortality is 1.77, still less than the national rate of 1.47 per cent. The state reported 31.19 per cent occupancy in the 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 101 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 4.46 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-310
15-11-2020||West Bengal||East Midnapore tightens screws on child marriage ||The East Midnapore district administration, in a written directive to all block-level officials, has mandated  that persons involved in the marriages of underage girls must be reported to police without delay. This marks a departure from the longstanding practice of the district administration accepting written undertakings from parents of girls pledging they would not get their daughters married before they turned 18. The new and more stringent directive — where FIRs must be slapped on the groom’s family and the Hindu priest or imam involved in the marriage — is being seen as a big step by this district administration towards curbing child marriage. Written deputations are commonly accepted by other Bengal districts, including Birbhum and West Midnapore. East Midnapore district sources said the decision was taken in the wake of a spike in child marriages during the lockdown in East Midnapore, and reports that out of 37 halted marriages in which written undertakings were accepted, nine marriages did take place a few days later. Sources said that the order empowered BDOs, joint BDOs, block welfare officers, deputy magistrates and social welfare officers to file the FIRs. “Through experience, we have seen that written undertakings are an eyewash and are not honoured. In many cases, the hands of the girl’s family are tied for social and economic reasons, and these marriages are eventually solemnised in secret,” said East Midnapore social welfare officer Purnendu Pouranik. “So from now, the very first step against the culpable persons will be an FIR,” he added. According to the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, the bride and her parents are not culpable for the offence of child marriage. The law dictates that the groom is liable to be imprisoned for two years or fined Rs 1 lakh or both. Last week’s directive by the East Midnapore DM made clear that priests and imams would also be liable to the same penalties dictated by that law. “The offences are cognisable and non-bailable,” said legal provision officer Alok Bera. Sources said block and social welfare officials had been asked, starting this week, to conduct awareness events at religious places where marriages are held to make clear that age verification would be introduced in the process. A meeting of panchayat pradhans was held in Tamluk earlier this week on the ways to implement the directive. “If a potential bride’s age is ever in doubt, priests or marriage officials are compelled from now to do an Aadhaar check for age,” said a source. Bids by desperate parents to get their underage daughters married off continue, especially in rural areas. Last month in Howrah, the marriage of a 16-year-old girl from Tamluk was stopped by social welfare officials who took a written statement from the parents. Two weeks later, they got a tip-off that her wedding reception was taking place in the town. They took custody of the girl, who’s now at a Tamluk welfare home, and arrested the groom’s parents. “The onus should be on the groom’s family to not take such a step,” said a source. In late August, families of two sisters in Moyna were asked to submit the same undertaking. A month later, their neighbours reported them both missing. Both the girls were rescued from underage marriages and are currently at a safe home. “These incidents were the final straw in determining that legal action must be a part of the campaign against child marriage," said an officer. The secretary of a Nandakumar NGO, Naba Kishore Sangha, which operates a safe home, welcomed the step. “The district’s initiative in light of child marriage is long overdue. Strong legal action is the only way. It’s a good wake-up call,” said NGO secretary Amal Manna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-310
15-11-2020||West Bengal||Graft finger at Bhutia board||A section of Bhut­ias in the Darjeeling hills has alleged corruption in the wo­rks executed by the development board formed by the Mamata Banerjee government for the community in 2015. Palden Bhutia, the chairman of the Bhutia Development Board, denied the charge and issued an open invitation to check documents and verify the works through field visits. The government had for­med 16 development boards for various hill communities since 2013 as part of its outreach to different sections of the society. Allegations of corruption have been levied aga­inst some other boards, too, in the past. Recently, the chief minister announced that a monitoring committee would be constituted under the GTA to look after the development boards. Dawangla Bhutia, the working president of the West Bengal Bhutia Joint Action Committee, alleged that each beneficiary of a housing sch­eme — implemented by the board for the community — was supplying materials wo­rth just Rs 96,450 while the actual allocation was Rs 2 lakh. “After obtaining the signatures of beneficiaries on blank papers, house building materials worth Rs 96,450 are supplied and the documents are forged to show that the entire Rs 2 lakh has been provided to them,” said Dawangla. The committee also issued a detailed list of materials purportedly provided by the board and its cost. The committee alleged that there was corruption in a Rs 21 lakh drainage work executed by the Bhutia board in the Jorebunglow-Sukhiapokhri area. “In Mirik, Rs 24 lakh was sanctioned for a community hall but the board only constructed a small community hall measuring 20 X 20 feet,” said Dawangla. Allegations of corruption in a development work worth Rs 17 lakh in Sonada were also levied against the board. “There has also been corruption in a work undertaken at the Singsha Bhutia centre situated on Ghoom Monastery Road. The three-storied building had been constructed through funds sanctioned by then Rajya Sabha member Dawa Lama and contributions made by community members in 2004-05. Some minor works were undertaken at this building and funds have been misappropriated,” said Dawangla. Palden Bhutia swatted away the charges and said the board had constructed 2700-odd houses in Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts till date. “The list they have issued is wrong. They have mentio­ned that we only supply 15 it­ems but we provide 23 materials. We supply materials worth Rs 1.65 lakh and provide Rs 25,000 as labour costs. The remaining Rs 10,000 is spent on transporting materials,” said Palden. The chairman said he “was ready for any inspection, including on-the-spot verification of the works” undertaken by the board. “The projects are also supervised by government departments. We have photographs of projects before and after the construction. Let there be an independent verification. Once this is done, we will take appropriate action,” said Palden. The chairman alleged that Dawangla was raising the graft charges as he was eyeing the development board. “Every allegation levelled by them is baseless and wrong. Dawangla’s credentials are also questionable,” said Palden.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-310
15-11-2020||West Bengal||Mandatory Covid tests at rural hospital||The district health department has made itmandatory for patients and those accompanying them to the Maynaguri rural hospitalto undergo Covid-19 tests in the wake of a surge in the infections after Durga Puja celebrations. Sources said swab samples were being collected from patients visiting the outpatient departments (OPDs) at the hospital and those who went with them in the past few weeks. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by thestate health department for Covid management in north Bengal, said the novel coronavirus had spread during Puja and there had been a surge inthe Covid cases in most districts of north Bengal, including Jalpaiguri. “We are also apprehensive that during Diwali and Chhath Puja celebrations, the number of cases will go up again. That is why all hospitals have been asked to increase the number of tests and this has prompted the authorities of Maynaguri block health administration to make the test mandatory for all the patients visiting the hospital and also those accompanying them. It would help us keep a tab on the Covid situation in the block,” said Roy. The move, however, has not gone down well with the residents and many of them have pointed out that even though they had been to the hospital with some other ailment, their Covid tests had been conducted. “My wife was having a pain in the abdomen. I took her to the hospital where both of us had to go for rapid antigen tests. It is surprising that though none of us had any other symptom, the paramedics insisted on the Covid tests,” said Prashanta Biswas,a local resident. Semanti Neogi, another Maynaguri resident, had a similar experience. “I took my aged mother to the OPD for a check-up as she had pain in the waist and knee.The staff collected our samples and said we had to undergo Covid tests. If it is made mandatory, I think people will fear visiting the hospital,” said Neogi. Hospital sources hinted that the number of patients had come down at the OPDs in the past few days. “Usually, 600 to 700 patients visit the OPDs at the block hospital a day. But the number declined to 120 or so in the past few days,” said a source. A health department official said it was evident that a  section of patients was avoiding the hospital because of the mandatory Covid test. “There are reports that some of them are visiting Jalpaiguri hospital or consulting private medical practitioners. They should get out of this fear and help the department keep a watch over the Covid situation. The tests are made compulsory to curb the infection in the block,” said a health official. Lucky Dewan, the Maynaguri block medical officer, said the health department was conducting Covid tests at six other primary health centres in the block as well. “Till November 3, 11,437 people had been tested in the block and 1,158 of them were detected with Covid. So far, 14people have died in the block because of Covid. We will continue to conduct tests and it would help us keep things under control,” said Dewan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-310
