16-11-2020||West Bengal||Three friends die as car plunges into waterbody||Three friends died when the car they were travelling in apparently veered off the Egra-Beta state highway and fell into a pond on Saturday night. Subrata Jena, 22, Subhadip Burman, 27, both businessmen, and Rajendra Bar, 40, a migrant worker, were returning from a Kali Puja event when the accident occurred at Battala in East Midnapore. The trio lived in and around the Balighai area in Egra, East Midnapore. “They had left home around 8pm for sightseeing and had hired a driver. Prima facie, it seems the car was at a high speed and skidded while trying to avoid an oncoming vehicle. The spot where the crash took place is fringed with waterbodies on either side,” said a police officer. According to the police, the driver is yet to be identified and he fled as soon as the vehicle plunged into the water. The car belonged to Subhadip. “The youths were in the back seat and did not have enough time to escape. It seems the back doors were locked and the youths couldn’t open them because of pressure from water,” said the officer. The bodies were fished out around 1am on Sunday after local people spotted a portion of the floating vehicle. Retired bank official and Subhadip’s father, Bibhuti Bhushan Burman, said: “I began to grow worried when my son did not return home by midnight. Shortly after, we heard of a nearby incident involving a car. I went to the spot only to see that it was my son’s car.” The bodies were taken to the Egra Super Speciality hospital early on Sunday. “We have started an investigation and will trace the driver of the vehicle soon,” said officer-in-charge of Egra police station, Kashinath Chowdhury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-308
16-11-2020||West Bengal||BSF jawan held in Assam over girl’s kidnap||Police have arrested a 50-year-old BSF constable from his home in Assam for allegedly kidnapping a minor girl from North 24-Parganas last week. The accused is attached to the BSF’s 160-Battalion and posted in Malkangiri, Odisha. Sources in the 15-year-old girl’s family said the jawan had visited her home in North 24-Parganas on November 11 and abducted her. On the basis of a complaint lodged by the Class X girl’s father, police tracked the accused man’s phone to a location in Assam. A police team went to Assam and brought him and the girl to Bengal on transit remand on Sunday morning. After the girl underwent a medical examination, she was  produced in court where she recorded her statement. Later, the girl was handed over to the parents. Local sources said the jawan was an acquaintance of the girl’s family going back to his previous posting in North 24-Parganas. “He used to visit our home during his posting here. So, his visit to our home did not create any suspicion. He said he was taking my daughter to the local market to buy grocery,” said the girl’s father. “When she did not turn up after a considerable amount of time, I sensed trouble and informed police,” he added. The court remanded the constable in judicial custody for 10 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-308
16-11-2020||West Bengal||BJP force-feeds ‘Birsa statue’ on anniversary||BJP MP from Bankura, Subhas Sarkar, on Sunday paid floral tributes at the statue of an unidentified hunter here, claiming it to be that of Birsa Munda on the tribal freedom fighter’s birth anniversary. Born on November 15, 1875, in Uihatu village now located in Ranchi, Jharkhand, Bhagwan Birsa Munda, as he is called, is among the foremost tribal icons. Earlier on November 5, Union home minister Amit Shah, in Bengal for a two-day visit, had in his tribal outreach event in Bankura offered floral tributes to the statue of a tribal hunter with tree branches on the head. BJP sources had claimed the statue was a likeness of Munda. Tribal residents countered the claim, saying it was of an anonymous tribal hunter. The BJP had hurriedly organised Munda’s picture and placed it at the statue’s feet. Tribal organisations and Trinamul had slammed the move. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said this was another example of the BJP’s “outsider” syndrome. Some tribal outfits called it “humiliation”. The BJP stayed adamant. The party’s Bankura MP’s tribute on Sunday came in the wake of comments by state party president Dilip Ghosh two days after Shah’s tribute. Ghosh told journalists that his party considered the statue to be of Munda as Shah paid tributes to it. “We see him (Birsa Munda) as a freedom fighter. The home minister has garlanded the statue. We also kept a portrait of Birsa Munda there and he (Shah) garlanded it too. We considered the statue as that of Birsa Munda and paid our respective tributes. The statue will be of Birsa Munda from today, after the announcement by our home minister, even if they (the state government) do not name it. Everyone has to accept it,” Ghosh said. On Sunday, the district wing of ST Morcha organised an event where MP Sarkar paid tribute to the tribal freedom fighter. Sarkar then said: “It is well known that the statue is of Birsa Munda and Trinamul is still trying to politicise the issue. This programme has been hosted by the tribal community of Mundas...” The chief of the party’s ST Morcha in Bankura, Baidyanath Hansda, confirmed the event was hosted by his wing and claimed the statue was Munda’s. Many tribal leaders pointed out that many had called this move “dirty politics with a hero” on social media posts. “It is dirty politics played by the BJP to establish an untruth. I can’t understand why BJP leaders are making the issue bitter by calling the tribal hunter Birsa Munda, that too on his birth anniversary. We have never seen a statue of Munda with tree branches on his head,” said Biplab Saren, district secretary of the Bharat Jakat Majhi Pargana Mahal. Trinamul leaders said that despite knowing the truth about the statue, BJP was trying to “establish” BJP state president Dilip Ghosh’s comments. “It was not only low, BJP intentionally hurt the tribal sentiments by making a hunter’s statue into that of Birsa Munda. We will set up a larger statue of Munda near the hunter’s one. No one can then ignore the tribal hero,” said Shyamal Santra, Trinamul chief in Bankura and state minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-308
16-11-2020||West Bengal||Celebs, politicians and social activists take on to pay tribute to the legendary actor||Legendary actor Soumitra Chatterjee breathed his last on November 15 at Calcutta’s Belle Vue Hospital. He was 85. The most celebrated cine icon of the Bengali film industry died on Sunday afternoon, 40 days after being admitted to the hospital. He had tested Covid positive and had even undergone plasma therapy in the hospital. The actor had contracted the deadly virus while shooting for his biopic titled Abhijaan. The actor is survived by his wife and daughter. Soumitra starred as Feluda in Satyajit Ray’s Sonar Kella and Joy Baba Felunath. He has acted in 14 Satyajit Ray films and over 300 other films. His death left his fans including celebrities from both the Bengali and Hindi film industry shattered. Tributes began to pour in across social media, from people who mourned the loss of Feluda. Heartbroken fans expressed their grief on twitter. One of them tweeted that Feluda would be missed, while another asked the veteran actor to rest in power. For many cine stars like Swastika Mukherjee, Rahul Bose, Richa Chadda his death marked the end of an era. Taking to Twitter, actress Swastika Chatterjee wrote, “This year will take it all. Parents, legends, childhood, nostalgia. All of it. Merciless year. Swastika had worked with Soumitra in several Bengali films like - Rupe Tomay Bholabo Na, Hemanter Pakhi to name a few. Actor Rahul Bose,  in his tweet highlighted on how he grew up watching Soumitra's films. It was not just actors, who paid a tribute to the legendary actor, but also politicians and social activists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-309
16-11-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra’s family home deepened ties with Left ||Ties to one’s ancestral home and land run deep. But ties to one’s ideological community may, in some cases, run deeper. So proved the late screen legend Soumitra Chatterjee when in 2007 he coordinated his family efforts to sell their ancestral home — at a nominal price — to a charitable trust run by the Left. Long known for his outspoken Leftist views, residents of Krishnagar, where Chatterjee was born, remember the incident as representative of the actor’s “social commitment”. “Sudha Niloy”, Chatterjee’s childhood home located on RN Tagore Street in Krishnagar town was also an incubator of the veteran actor’s leanings by way of being home to his freedom fighter uncle Jatindranath Mukherjee (1879-1915) better known as “Bagha Jatin”. Though Chatterjee never met his uncle, the home remained a testament to Jatindranath’s memory — being wounded in a gunfight against the British Army and dying a martyr on September 9, 1915  —  and compelled Chatterjee in his later life to ensure that the legacy was not lost to commercial development. “Soumitra babu was immensely proud of his uncle and though they could never meet, his legacy contributed to Soumitra babu’s views,” said a resident of the area. Bagha Jatin succumbed to gun wounds suffered at a battle in Balasore on September 9, 1915. Local sources said that Chatterjee in 2007 spearheaded his family efforts to sell the property to the Amritendu Mukherjee Bhawan Trust, named in honour of freedom fighter and three-time Left Front-era minister. A popular mass leader, the Left’s Nadia dispensation took up the trust as a public welfare cause upon his passing. “Soumitra babu always wanted his childhood home to be used towards community development. He was worried about its dilapidated state but still did not want it sold to a developer,” said Sumit De, district secretary of the Nadia CPM. “When he (Chatterjee) expressed his concerns about the condition of his childhood home, and the need to sell it, we alerted him to the existence of the trust and he seemed eager. He successfully brought on board his cousins and nephews,” added De. On April 19, 2007, the deed for the transfer of the property — on 10 cottahs — was signed. “It was a great gesture on his part, to donate a part of his legacy towards a social cause,” said former CPM MLA Samsul Mollah. He used the term “donate” as the property was sold at a “very nominal price”, said sources. “It was a cherished moment for the party as well, because it contributed directly to Amritendu babu’s legacy. The gesture was wholly unexpected and came solely at Soumitra babu’s initiative,” added MLA S.M. Sadi, chairman of the Amritendu Mukherjee Bhawan Trust and CPM district secretariate member who in 2007 signed the deed as recipient in the presence of Chatterjee and his family. Sources added that owing to lack of funds, maintaining the former structure had proved difficult. “Plans are underway to construct a new structure as the old one has been deemed condemned,” said a source. “The building is still in a precarious state with many parts beyond repair. It has been this way since 1985. Our plan is to construct a new auditorium and guest house named after Amritendu Babu and with memorabilia dedicated to Soumitra Chatterjee and Bagha Jatin (freedom fighter and Chatterjee’s uncle Jatindranath),” added former MLA Samsul Mollah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-309
16-11-2020||West Bengal||Soumitra stood by Left till the end||In an industry where stardom is worn on the sleeves, Soumitra Chatterjee, considered second only to Uttam Kumar, never shied away from voicing his Marxist leanings till his last days. In a signed article published in this year’s Sharadiya Ganashakti, a publication of the CPM, the actor reasserted his ideological position when he wrote: “I believe if there has to be an alternative (to the Rightist forces ruling the nation), it has to be the Left.” In the same breath, he expressed concern over the rise of the global Right and lamented the Left’s inability to instil confidence in the people. His advocacy of the Left in Bengal was such that when several cultural luminaries began to disassociate themselves from the Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee government during Nandigram and Singur movements, Chatterjee openly supported the then CPM dispensation’s industrialisation drive. “Chatterjee was at the forefront of the rally that Left-leaning intellectuals had brought out in support of the Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee government in November 2007 to counter the one that had protested against the Nandigram massacre,” said a cultural activist close to the actor. Even in the face of criticism for supporting the Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee government, Chatterjee remained unwavering. “He is the one who actively took part in the food movement against the Congress government in Bengal in the 60s. His association with the Left movement goes back a long way. Therefore, his commitment towards Leftism goes far beyond support for a party or a government,” said Calcutta University teacher and minister in the Left Front government, Anjan Bera. His political and ideological positions had made him a strong critic of the Narendra Modi government, leading him to wonder how someone under whose chief ministership a pogrom had been carried out in Gujarat in 2002 could rule the country today. Never known to mince words against Rightist and communal forces, Chatterjee had publicly criticised the Modi government for forcing the Citizenship Amendment Act on the country. “What I gather (from news reports) is that this Act will oppress a large section of the people of this country,” he had told a news agency in December 2019. Deeply wedded to the democratic tradition and a politically conscious mind, Chatterjee had appealed to the CAA protesters not to resort to violence. “When people get angry, they do many things. Causing people to get enraged could have been avoided. I urge the agitators not to resort to violence while protesting the Act,” he had said. Since 2011, on several occasions, Chatterjee had voiced his criticism of the Mamata Banerjee government for trying to “silence voices of opposition” and the manner in which the present government organised the Calcutta International Film Festival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-309
16-11-2020||West Bengal||Sharmila Tagore mourns loss of a ‘rare’ friendship||Sharmila Tagore said on Sunday she had lost one of her oldest friends in Soumitra Chatterjee, with whom she had started her acting career in 1959. Sharmila and Soumitra made their debut in Satyajit Ray’s Apur Sansar, the final instalment of the “Apu” trilogy. They acted together in several acclaimed films, including Ray’s Devi (1960), Ajoy Kar’s Barnali (1963) and Aranyer Din Ratri (1970). In an interview to PTI, Sharmila, 75, recalled how they became friends. “I was 13 years old and he was 10 years elder to me when we started working in Apur Sansar. In the film, those beautiful dialogues that we spoke to each other also endeared us to each other. That was the beginning. I really respected, admired him and for what he stood for,” she said. “He was one of my oldest friends, after my husband Tiger (cricket legend Mansoor Ali Khan Pataudi) and actor Shashi Kapoor. He has been such a loyal and fun friend,” she added. Their bond, she said, wasn’t transactional. “We could lead our parallel lives and yet have a connection, somewhere because our thoughts, depth and loyalty was the same. Soumitra knew I’d never speak ill of him. There was no questioning of what we shared, we didn’t have to prove it. “If I didn’t talk to him or if he didn’t talk to me, I wouldn’t feel ‘Oh God he hasn’t wished me, he doesn’t remember my birthday’. It was just so organic. I can’t give it any name,” she said. Soumitra was a wonderful companion, Sharmila said, and their banter would be endless. Sometimes he would understand her point of view, at other times she would agree with his belief, she recounted. “We would talk for hours on sports, history, our vision of India. I find him irreplaceable that way because there’s nobody else I can share so much with. If I expressed a certain point of view, he’d agree and expand or shoot it down and give his reasons. That kind of friendship is so rare. To lose that is huge,” Sharmila said. His personality was so well-rounded, it reflected in all aspects of his life, she said. Sharmila recalled shooting for Ray’s Aranyer Din Ratri, where she shared a bungalow with Soumitra and her other co-star, Subhendu Chatterjee. One of Sharmila’s strongest memories of their time together is of her sipping her morning coffee and listening to the actor sing outside. “Soumitra’s interests went beyond acting,” she said. “He would paint, sing, was well read, had immense knowledge of theatre, he would write poetry and short stories for his grandchildren. His interests were vast and that’s what made him who he was — a man of all interests, a powerhouse talent.” “I know he will live forever in our memories because his legacy is so immense. It encompasses so much,” she said. Actor Shabana Azmi condoled the death of Soumitra Chatterjee. “Farewell Soumitra Da. I had the honour of playing your wife in La Nuit Bengali n your daughter in 15 Park Avenue. I was with you in Paris and saw the adulation you received at George Pompidou Centre but you were so nonchalant about it that it left me deeply impressed. RIP,” Shabana tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-309
