17-11-2020||West Bengal||Basirhat auto driver spends savings for his idol Netaji||The dream of a 39-year-old autorickshaw driver was fulfilled when Trinamul MLA Dipendu Biswas unveiled a horse-riding fiberglass statue of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose here on Sunday. Driver Ajay Kundu had long nursed a desire to install a statue of his idol Netaji in his hometown, Basirhat. Kundu spent his savings of Rs 1.10 lakh to pay the artisan’s fee for the statue and to meet the expenses of beautification, he borrowed money from his friends and relatives. Kundu’s wife Pampa and his two sons Biswajit and Shanu — both college students — supported Kundu. Kundu, who operates on the Basirhat-Talpukur route and is the secretary of the local auto operators’ union, is a Class IV dropout. However, in the few years he had spent in school, Bose became Netaji’s hero. “I spent only a few years in school. But by then, I had realised that Netaji was the real icon of our country. I later heard about him from many learned persons and concluded that without his initiative, Independence would have come late,” Kundu told The Telegraph. “I always felt that Basirhat should have a life-size statue of Netaji. The town has several half-bust models of the icon but Netaji’s statue at the five-point crossing at Shyambazar in Calcutta always fascinated me. I dreamt of installing a replica of that statue in Basirhat. Eventually, I expressed my desire to Dipendu da last year and he extended support,” Kundu added. MLA Biswas wrote to the PWD authorities to allot a plot for Kundu to install the statue. He also granted Rs 30,000 from his development fund to help Kundu realise his dream.
Sculpture artist Khokon Pal finished the 13-ft high statue. “It is a dream come true even though a lot of work, including beautification of the site, remains incomplete. I am grateful to Dipendu da and many of my friends who came forward to support me,” said Kundu. “It is a tribute to the real hero of the nation. We didn’t bother to spend from our savings for a noble cause,” Kundu said while Pampa nodded in agreement. MLA Dipendu Biswas, said: “It is indeed a great initiative to pay tribute to Netaji. I am really moved by his gesture and tried my best to extend all possible support to him”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-307
17-11-2020||West Bengal||Bimal camp to Gorkhas: Vote for Trinamul||The youth wing of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Bimal Gurung faction on Sunday said there would be worse days for the Gorkhas if the BJP came to power in Bengal and asked the community and adivasis to vote for the Trinamul Congress in the next Assembly elections. Prakash Gurung, the president of the Gorkha Janmukti Yuva Morcha (Gurung camp), alleged that the BJP was using the hill party as a scapegoat to hide its alleged failures. “It will be worse days for Gorkhas if the BJP comes to power (in Bengal). We want to remind the Gorkhas of this. We have known them (BJP) closely,” Prakash said in a video posted from Calcutta. “The BJP has no history of providing anything to the Gorkhas and we want to appeal to them and the adivasis to ensure Trinamul’s victory (in the Bengal Assembly polls),” said Prakash. The Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council — which was later disbanded — and the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration were formed and the Gorkha/Nepali language included in the 8th schedule of the Constitution when the Congress was in power at the Centre. Anil Lopchan, the vice-president of the Yuva Morcha (Gurung faction), accused the BJP of turning the Bengal governor, Jagdeep Dhankhar, into its activist. “The BJP has made the Bengal governor its worker. He is a constitutional head and he should not make political statements as it does not suit him. The esteemed post (of the governor) has been insulted,” said Lopchan. Much of the tirade was, however, reserved for Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista. “Raju Bista has said all political parties must unite for Gorkhaland. We want to ask the BJP and the MP (Bista) whether all parties had been consulted when Article 370 was abrogated in Kashmir and Ladakh given Union territory status or when Opposition leaders were kept under home arrest?,” asked Lopchan. The Gurung camp as well as the Binay Tamang faction of the Morcha now back Trinamul. The Gorkha population can influence verdicts in six to seven Assembly constituencies  in north Bengal. The other allegations by the Gurung faction were the BJP’s silence during the 2017 agitation, failure to grant tribal status to hill communities and start tripartite meetings on Gorkhaland and “double standards” on issues like law and order in different states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-307
17-11-2020||West Bengal||More celebrities to grace Darjeeling Hill Marathon||Celebrities from across the country are set to cheer runners during the Darjeeling Hill Marathon on Sunday. The marathon organised by Darjeeling Police is the biggest run in north Bengal and from this year, the event will feature in the international marathon calendar. After Milind Soman — India’s supermodel, actor, producer and one of the most well-known fitness promoters in the country — became the first person to register for the event, prominent singer Kailash Kher and his band Kailasa decided to perform live during the marathon. Kher is known for his soulful songs with a unique style influenced by Indian folk and sufi music. “I am super excited to be in Darjeeling. Srikant of Surfira (considered a promising talent in the country) will be opening for us at Chowrasta, Darjeeling. I would like to thank Darjeeling police and SP, Dr Santosh Nimbalkar, for taking the event to another level,” Kher said in a video message. It is not just Soman and Kher but former Indian team footballer Shyam Thapa and Everester Jamling Tenzing Norgay Sherpa will also cheer at the event. “Becky Pde, an ultra marathon runner from Shillong, is also our youth ambassador for the event,” said Abhishek Gupta, additional SP, Darjeeling. The marathon is attracting youths from across the region with nearly 1,600 runners having registered themselves for the Darjeeling event till date. Through the month, the organisers worked hard to ensure that the Sunday run is the most talked about event in the region. From releasing a theme song — Time to R-UNLOCK, sung by Darjeeling-based band Red Sky Pirates — to releasing videos of local icons, the Darjeeling police have left no stone unturned. “We want to promote a culture of fitness through running and we have noticed that the youths from Darjeeling are taking to fitness in a big way,” said Gupta. Promotional events are being organised regularly at Darjeeling, Kurseong and Mirik among other places. Hill runners like Premius Bhutia, a recovering addict, Sidharth Lama, Asish Subba, Jatin Chettri, Preeti Rai and 72-year old Gambahadur Tamang are providing pep-talks at the promotional events. “I want to encourage our youths to run and want to send a message that they should not lose their way by indulging in activities harmful to the society,” said Gambahadur. The marathon, which has two sections of 21.1km and 10km runs, will start and finish at Chowrasta and has been divided into six categories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-307
17-11-2020||West Bengal||Blockade against goons picking on women in Jagaddal||Goons beat up a few people and left two of them injured at Mondalpara in Jagaddal for protesting against their sleazy comments targeting women returning home after visiting Kali Puja pandals late on Sunday night. Sources said after beating up the youths, the goons in a bid to terrorise the local residents hurled bombs. To protest against the incident and demanding immediate arrest of the goons, the residents put up a blockade on the Mondalpara-Kankinara Road on Monday morning. The angry residents also observed a shutdown at the market against the deteriorating law and order in the locality. The three-hour-long blockade was withdrawn after a police team from Kankinara assured the agitators of action against the goons. While the women were passing through the Sthirpara area in Mondalpara on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, the goons passed sleazy comments targeting them. When family members accompanying the women protested against the abusive comments, the goons beat up the youths. Local resident Ajoy Mondal said: “The goons attacked the youths with bricks and threatened them at gun point. Two of the youths suffered head injuries and were taken to hospital. They have also damaged a few motorcycles.” Hearing the commotion, local residents rushed out of their homes but the goons terrorised them by hurling bombs. Sources said at least 10 bombs were hurled in the area but no one was injured. Local resident Shibam Bhattacharjee said: “The area is in the grip of armed goons who roam around freely. Bombing and terrorising local residents have become a regular affair here. Our lives are on the edge.” The police, however, called the incident as a clash between workers of Trinamul and the BJP over area dominance. Residents at several places of North 24-Parganas district say they often wake up in the middle of the night to the sounds of bomb and speeding motorcycles. “Nights have become horrifying for us. During the past three months bombs continue to be hurled by goons. It appears that the entire jute belt of North 24-Parganas has turned into a stockpile of bombs to which goons have easy access,” said a resident. An officer of Jagaddal police station said: “A case has been lodged over Sunday night’s attack. However, no one has been arrested so far.” Acknowledging the spate of bomb attacks in pockets of Barrackpore, a senior officer of Barrackpore commissionerate said: “We have arrested a number of goons in the recent past but in most cases the accused persons are granted bail.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-307
17-11-2020||West Bengal||Book store recalls Soumitra Chatterjee’s days||Bengal’s cultural icon Soumitra Chatterjee, who passed away on Sunday, had never wanted to miss one thing whenever he was in Santiniketan — an adda at the town’s popular book store and intellectual hub Subarnarekha. “It was a must for Soumitrababu to come to our adda whenever he was in Santiniketan. He enjoyed the conversations and interactions with several senior teachers, scholars and intellectuals of Santiniketan. The discussions covered a wide range of subjects and issues,” said Sujit Chatterjee, an 83-year-old resident of Santiniketan and president of the decade-old film society Bikhshan. Old timers, who used to frequent Subarnarekha, recalled that on several occasions, they had seen Soumitra engaged in animated discussion in the company of litterateur Sunil Gangopadhyay and poet Shakti Chattopadhyay. Samiran Nandy, a retired photographer of Visva-Bharati, said he had first seen Soumitra in Santiniketan in September 1978 and later he would frequently run into him at the adda sessions at Subarnarekha. “ I have spent so many memorable evenings with the legend in the adda sessions at Subarnarekha . We used to sit there as a listener and rarely commented. We tried to hear and absorb his erudition and knowledge on a wide range of subjects,” said Nandy. Nandy said what was endearing about him was that he never used to flaunt his stardom. “He was in every way a cerebral actor whose knowledge was immense. We could enjoy those sessions because the torture of autograph hunters and selfie-seekers was not there on those days,” Nandy added. “Soumitrababu did not speak about his profession at the adda sessions but used to spend time discussing various books, poems and what stood out was his sense of humour and wit,” he added. Soumitra also had personal ties with several persons in Santiniketan. In 2009, the veteran actor came to visit Rabindranath Tagore’s museum at Rabindra Bhavana for an interview with its special officer Nilanjan Banerjee for a radio programme on the bard. “He was really versatile as he had a deep knowledge about Tagore and his works,” said Banerjee who knew Soumitra for many years as he was a part of the production unit of a English film that was shot in 2001 in Santiniketan. “He was a really nice person. One day, he suddenly asked me to take him to the local cinema as he wanted to watch Aamir Khan’s film Lagaan. We took a rickshaw and went to Gitanjali auditorium to watch the film. He enjoyed the movie. He was so simple,” recalled Nilanjan Banerjee. Old timers, however, said Soumitra’s visits to Subarnarekha became less frequent after the death of the book store’s owner Indranath Majumder in 2013. Soumitra had visited Santiniketan for the last time in 2019 and told his close friends that he felt happy whenever he got a chance to visit Santiniketan. However, his last trip was not marked by a visit to Subarnarekha and from Sunday, the innumerable sessions that Soumitra had attended at the bookstore became a part of history.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-307
17-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal total Covid cases fall below 28,000||Bengal reported a drop by 2,895 in total number of active Covid-19 cases over Sunday and Monday, taking the tally of existing patients to 27,897 — close to the figure on October 5. The state on Monday logged 3,012 new infections, the least since September 4. There were 4,376 recoveries and 53 deaths also. The total of active cases has fallen for 21 consecutive days since the end of Durga Puja. The number dropped by 9,293 since Vijaya Dashami. “The total active cases fell by 1,478 on Sunday and 1,417 today (Monday). There were 6,065 infections and 8,856 recoveries in the past two days,” said a Bengal minister. The state reported 88,866 recoveries and 80,741 infections in the three weeks since the end of Puja, undoing much of the damage from a major spike in the positive cases, along with relatively fewer number of cured patients, for six weeks prior to the festival. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent the worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja. The numbers of infections during the Puja days showed that the intervention was effective. The high court issued a similar set of instructions for Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath to keep the novel coronavirus under check. “There have been many unexpected and almost miraculous positives in the past three weeks. But this steep drop in the total number of active cases over these two days is yet another big one,” said the minister. Asked if the lower number of cases being found on Sunday and Monday was because of relatively low tests — 38,000-odd instead of the current average level of 43,000-45,000, the minister said: “It could be one of the factors, but we are yet to conclusively ascertain what it is to be attributed to.” With 38,127 tests on Monday, over 52.56 lakh swab samples were examined. The number of tests per million people are 58,410 now. The positive confirmation rate is 8.27 per cent. The recovery rate, currently in an unbroken spell of rise for 25 consecutive days, touched another new high of 91.81. The current national rate is 93.36 per cent. The state has recorded a total of 4.34 lakh Covid-19 cases, including nearly 3.99 lakh recoveries and 7,714 deaths. The 53 deaths logged on Monday included 14 each from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. Of the total deaths, 6,454 (83.7 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. The state’s mortality rate is 1.77, still less than the national rate of 1.47 per cent. While 30.02 per cent of 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 101 dedicated hospitals in Bengal were occupied as of Monday, over 4.53 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided for the disease so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-308
17-11-2020||West Bengal||Hunt for plot to erect Birsa statue||Representatives of adivasi outfits in Bankura, backed by local Trinamul leadership, on Monday identified three plots, one of which they plan to use to set up a statue of tribal icon Birsa Munda in the next few months. The tribal freedom fighter, religious leader and folk hero has suddenly assumed the centrestage in the battle between Trinamul and the BJP since Union home minister Amit Shah paid floral tributes to the statue of an anonymous tribal hunter, which the BJP had identified as the statue of Munda. Although the faux pas by Shah drew criticism from tribal organisations, the state BJP put up a brave face and party president Dilip Ghosh said — much to the dismay of tribal organisations — that the party considered the statue of the anonymous hunter as that of the tribal icon because Shah had paid floral tributes to it. “The BJP has inflicted so much of insult on the tribal hero.... We want to undo the damage for the sake of the pride of the tribal people. Today, we went with tribal representatives and spotted three plots, where we plan to set up a statue,” said Shyamal Santra, a minister of state and Trinamul’s Bankura district president. Santra accompanied the team of the tribal people. According to him, the statue will be set up in “a few months” as the matter has become a priority for local people. All the three plots, which were inspected on Monday, are within 100 meters of the statue of the anonymous hunter. Multiple sources in the ruling party and tribal organisations said while the government would donate land for the statue, local tribal outfits would collect funds for a 20-feet statue of Munda. “The statue would be so tall that the BJP leaders would not miss it... They may be outsiders, but when they come to this part of Bengal, they should know Birsa Munda,” Santra added. The statue saga, however, is unlikely to stop for the time being as BJP MP from Bankura, Subhas Sarkar, visited the site of the anonymous tribal hunter’s statue on Sunday and paid floral tributes on the birth anniversary of the tribal icon. Repeating Ghosh’s stand, he asserted that the BJP considered the anonymous tribal hunter’s statue as that of Munda. Born on November 15, 1875, at Uihatu village, now located in Ranchi, Jharkhand, Bhagwan Birsa Munda, as he is called, is among the foremost tribal icons. Several people from the tribal community this correspondent spoke to said that they would be happy if a statue of Birsa Munda was set up as they think their hero was insulted when Shah paid tribute to an anonymous hunter. “The ignorance was so insulting for all of us... Then, they stuck to their stand and claimed it to be the statue of our icon. It is unfortunate that our hero Bhagwan Birsa Munda is being repeatedly insulted for the sake of politics. It is better to set up a statue of him at the place. So, I came here,” said Samir Munda, a representative of Munda community people. Local BJP leaders, though embarrassed because of the faux pas, have not admitted their mistake till now. On Monday, they blamed Trinamul for using the issue for political gains. “Everyone knows that Trinamul never cared for tribal people... Now, they are trying to play with tribal sentiment ahead of the Assembly polls,” said Vivekananda Patra, the Bankura district  BJP president. The local Trinamul leaders found the tribal outfits by their side in the statue saga. Dhananjay Sardar, a central committee member of the Bharatiyo Adivasi Bhumij Samaj, said: “The anonymous hunter’s statue can’t be Birsa Munda’s... I went there on Monday and welcomed the move to set up a statue of our icon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-308
17-11-2020||West Bengal||Kurseong player  made coach of Mohammedan||Crispin Chettri, a veteran soccer player from the Kurseong subdivision of the Darjeeling hills, has been appointed as the assistant coach of Mohammedan Sporting Club, one of the prestigious football teams in Calcutta which will participate in the upcoming I League. “It was a surprising call for me. I was vacationing in Kathmandu when I got a call from an official of the club. When he said the club wanted me to join the soccer team as an assistant coach, I immediately gave my consent,” Chettri told The Telegraph. A prominent face among the footballers in the hills, Chettri was the head coach of Lonestar Kashmir, a second division club team of I-League, before he got the offer from Mohammedan Sporting club. Chhetri, who hails from St Mary’s, a tiny hamlet nestled near Kurseong town, has completed the AFC ‘A’ License course offered by the FIFA for coaching youths. A former footballer who has represented the national team in the Asian Youth Championship, Chhetri also played for Mohun Bagan FC and Tollygunge Agragami in Calcutta. He also represented Bengal, Maharashtra and Sikkim in Santosh Trophy. “Our team has just entered the first division of the prestigious soccer tournament of the country, where many soccer giants like SC East Bengal and ATK Mohun Bagan of Calcutta and some other best teams will play. Our initial target is to be a tough contender in the league and also vie for the trophy,” Chettri said. Chhetri, who completed all formalities with the Calcutta club, is at home quarantine after returning from Kathmandu. “I will join my team in Calcutta on November 18,” he added. The achievement of the young coach is expected to give a boost to all budding soccer players in the hills. “Crispin Chhetri’s appointment as the assistant coach of the Calcutta team again proved that there is no dearth of football talents in the region. He has emerged as a footballer first and later become a deputy of an I League team, which is unique indeed,” said Suren Pradhan, a soccer enthusiast and one of the prominent organisers of football tourneys in the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-308
17-11-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul factions clash, 16 detained||The Tufanganj subdivision of the Cooch Behar district has been rocked by clashes between two groups of the Trinamul Congress. The violence that is the fallout of an alleged attempt to gain control of the area by the two lobbies prompted police to detain around 16 Trinamul supporters. Two groups, one headed by Majibur Rehman, Trinamul president of Deocharai panchayat, and the other by Farooque Mondal, his predecessor, clashed at Chulkanir Bazar on Sunday evening. Supporters of both the groups assembled with bricks, rods, stones and sharp weapons on Monday and clashed again. Two vehicles and some motorcycles were vandalised and supporters of the two factions suffered injuries. A police team reached the spot and dispersed the warring people. A number of Trinamul supporters, including Mondal and Rehman, were detained and whisked away to Tufanganj police station. Factionalism in Trinamul was one of the reasons for the party’s debacle in the 2019 general election in the Cooch Behar Lok Sabha seat. Senior Trinamul leaders, including chief minister Mamata Banerjee, has time and again asked district party functionaries and their followers to refrain from the infighting. “But the local leaders paid no heed to the directives. It is good that the police have taken action. We believe steps like arrest and registering police cases against them for triggering violence would discourage them to some extent. Also, it would send a good message to common people, who are disappointed with recurrence of violence,” said a senior Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-308
17-11-2020||West Bengal||5,000 pay tributes to soldier||The last rites of soldier Subodh Ghosh, who had been killed in unprovoked firing by Pakistani forces in Jammu & Kashmir last week, were held in full state honour at the Plassey ghat on the bank of the Jalangi river in the early hours of Monday. The mortal remains of the slain jawan had been brought home at Raghunathpur in Nadia’s Tehatta on Sunday night from Panagarh where the corpse had landed late in the evening. Around 5,000 villagers gathered at a school ground near the jawan’s home to pay their last tributes to the son of the soil. Local Trinamul MP Mohua Moitra, BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar, along with senior officials of the Nadia administration, laid wreaths on the soldier’s body. Later, the body was taken to the Plassey ghat, around 10km away, for the last rites. Subodh joined the army in 2016. He got married in November last year and became father of a girl child in July, a few days after he had left home to resume duty after a vacation. Last Thursday, he called up his wife Anindita about his plan to visit home to arrange for a rice ceremony of their daughter. But the following morning, Subodh, along with three other soldiers, and six civilians were killed when Pakistan indulged in heavy cross-border shelling along the line of control (LoC). Subodh’s father Gouranga Ghosh said: “It is high time that India gave a fitting reply to Pakistan so that no father loses his son in such a way. We have seen Pulwama; every day precious lives of our soldiers are being sacrificed.” “Hope this ends soon,” Gouranga added as he broke down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-308
