18-11-2020||West Bengal||Declare Netaji’s birth anniversary national holiday, Mamata to PM||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday and sought his intervention in making January 23, the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, a national holiday. She also asked the PM to personally intervene and see that his government takes appropriate measures to provide a conclusive picture regarding the freedom fighter’s disappearance on August 18, 1945. "Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose has a special place in our hearts. I would like to request your kind personal intervention to see that the Central Government declared 23rd January, Netaji's birthday, a National Holiday and also takes appropriate steps to give conclusive steps to give conclusive position to the issue relating to the disappearance of Netaji...(sic)", Banerjee wrote. The CM asserted in the two-page long that her state had been demanding the declaration of January 23 a national holiday for years now. She also urged Modi to give citizens the  "much-awaited opportunity to know what happened to their great leader - their inspiration and their passion". The 125th birth anniversary of Netaji, who was born in 1897, will be observed in 2021. While several reports claim that the freedom fighter died in a plane crash after a plane from Taihoku Airport in Taiwan, there is no confirmation of his passing. Experts have come up with various theories relating to his disappearance over the years. In the past, the Centre had commissioned three inquiries -- the Shah Nawaz Committee of Inquiry of 1956, the Khosla Commission of 1974, and the Justice Mukherjee Commission of Inquiry (JMCI) of 2005 -- to throw light on the matter. While the first two boards had concluded that Netaji died in a plane crash in Taipei, the third one claimed that he was alive after the accident. The Narendra Modi government in 2016 had declassified 100 files related to the leader, and in 2015, Banerjee had put 64 reports on him on public domain. However, none of them could reach any conclusions regarding Bose’s death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-306
18-11-2020||West Bengal||Amit Shah, JP Nadda to pay Bengal monthly visits till assembly elections||Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J P Nadda will visit the state every month till the end of Bengal Assembly elections next year, BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said  on Wednesday. Elections to the 294-member state Assembly are scheduled in April-May next year. The two senior BJP leaders will visit the state separately every month to take stock of the party organisation ahead of the elections. "Amit Shah and J P Nadda will visit the state separately every month till the assembly elections are over.The dates are yet to be finalised. Their regular visits will energise the party workers," Ghosh told reporters. Shah is likely to visit the state for two consecutive days a month and Nadda for three days, party sources said. Lashing out at the Congress-CPI(M) alliance, Ghosh said both the parties have been rejected by the people of the state long back. "The people of Bengal have given chances to the Congress, the CPI(M) and the TMC. All the three parties have failed to live up to the expectations of the masses, which will now be fulfilled by the BJP," he said. With an eye on the elections, the BJP on Tuesday divided the state into five organisational zones and put central leaders in charge of them, party sources said. Senior BJP leaders Sunil Deodhar, Vinod Tawde, Dushyant Gautam, Harish Dwivedi and Vinod Sonkar have been handpicked by the party top brass to head the North Bengal, Rarh Banga (south-western districts), Nabadwip, Midnapore and Calcutta organisational zones, they said. Deodhar, Tawde, Gautam and Sonkar are likely to conduct party meetings in their respective zones during the day. BJP national general secretary Dushyant Gautam, who has been given charge of the Calcutta zone, exuded confidence after arriving in the city that the saffron party will come to power in the state in the assembly elections. After having a limited presence in the politically polarised state for decades, the BJP has emerged as the main rival of the ruling Trinamul Congress by winning 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in Bengal in the 2019 general elections. With the BJP's strength increasing in the state in the last few years, party leaders have exuded confidence that it will be able to end Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's 10-year rule in the 2021 assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-306
18-11-2020||West Bengal||SpiceJet's trial flight to Sikkim a success||A Q-400 Bombardier successfully landed at the Pakyong airport — the sole airport in the Himalayan state of Sikkim located near capital Gangtok — on Tuesday during a trial run conducted by SpiceJet after a gap of around one-and-a-half years. Since June 1, 2019, the private airline company suspended its flights to Sikkim. On Tuesday, the flight circled over the airport for approximately an hour, made five required navigation performances and eight approaches, before finally landing at 12.18pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-306
18-11-2020||West Bengal||Statue sting awaits Amit Shah ||Trinamul in Bankura has decided to flood the letterbox of Union home minister Amit Shah with 50,000 postcards written by tribal residents of Jungle Mahal districts seeking an apology from the BJP leader for paying tribute to an adivasi  hunter’s statue by assuming it to be of Birsa Munda during his visit to the district on November 5. “We want to utilise the discontent among tribal people over the statue-issue. It will help us show how the BJP is ignorant about tribal culture and their icon,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Trinamul leaders said in the letters that the tribal people would send Shah, they would ask the home minister to stop BJP leaders from equating the unknown tribal hunter with Birsa Munda. “Even after the faux pas by Amit Shah, BJP leaders are continuously saying that the statue is that of Munda. This has hurt the sentiment of the tribal community,” said Shyamal Santra, minister and Trinamul’s Bankura president. BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh  said: “I want to ask those tribal brothers why they did not protest when the the old statue of Birsa Munda which was situated at the same spot was removed by the district administration? Why did they not demand the installation of a Birsa Munda statue at the same spot? Nobody has seen Birsa Munda.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-306
18-11-2020||West Bengal||Central leaders for Bengal BJP zones||The BJP has appointed five central leaders to look after the affairs of the five organisational zones of the party in Bengal amid murmurs that Union home minister Amit Shah deployed them to steer the saffron camp in the run up to the Assembly polls next year. Sources said four national secretaries — Sunil Deodhar, Vinod Tawde, Vinod Sonkar and Harish Dwivedi — will look after the Howrah-Hooghly-Midnapore, Nabadwip, Burdwan and north Bengal zones, respectively. BJP national general secretary Dushyant Gautam will oversee the Calcutta zone. “The party’s Mission Bengal is a project of Amit-ji and all the five appointees are his men. The five-men army hasn’t been given any specific designations, but the state BJP leadership has been told that they will look after the affairs of the five zones,” said a BJP source. Flying in five central leaders to look after the zones is unprecedented for the party, but multiple sources said direct control of Delhi was the need of the hour. “The polls are just five to six months away. Our leaders don’t want to risk our chances of winning because a few leaders in the state are still busy fighting each other,” a source said. Over the next three days, these five leaders will visit their respective zones and meet the leaders and workers there to assess the BJP’s organisational strength, said the source. “They will prepare reports on respective areas and submit them to Amit-ji and party president JP Nadda-ji after holding meetings,” another state leader said. The leader added that presidents of the district committees, zone observers, MPs and MLAs from the area and other leaders had been asked to attend these meetings. Delhi’s decision to despatch the five men to look after the affairs of the party in Bengal is part of a plan to take charge of poll-bound Bengal. As part of that plan, BJP national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh presided over a meeting in Calcutta on Tuesday in the presence of other central leaders like the party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya and his deputies, Arvind Menon and Amit Malviya. The discussions revolved around the programmes that the party will undertake till December and how they would be implemented, said the source. “From now on, even the nitty-gritty of the state unit will be under direct scrutiny of the central leaders as the focus has shifted to Bengal after the Bihar polls,” a source said. As part of the central command plan, it has also been decided that Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta will visit the districts and engage with people from the world of art and culture to expand the BJP’s support base. Several other central leaders will also be visiting the state regularly. Rinku Naskar, former CPM councillor of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s ward  102, joined the BJP on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-306
18-11-2020||West Bengal||Headwinds in Trinamul drive on Suvendu Adhikari||A senior Trinamul Congress MP called on Bengal transport minister Suvendu Adhikari on Monday amid murmurs that the meeting was held to break the ice with the 49-year-old who has been making his discontent with the party leadership clear for the past few months. Suvendu’s comments and his prolonged absence from cabinet meetings and party programmes since May have fuelled speculation that he is all set to chart a different political path for himself. The Trinamul leadership has been trying to reach out to him, albeit silently, for the past three weeks. “The senior MP spoke to Suvendu and reported back to the top brass. While all might not be lost yet, there was no breakthrough, nor any cause for more optimism,” said a source in the ruling party. The two are slated to hold another round of talks on Saturday or Sunday. The attempts to retain Suvendu — amid intense speculation over his joining the BJP or floating a new platform aligned to the NDA — are increasingly becoming a crucial consideration for Trinamul, as discordant voices from the party are now emerging in the public space. A significant majority of the voices are primarily those upset with poll strategist Prashant Kishor and his role in the party. “While Suvendu’s current position has little to do with PK, the minister’s disapproval of the strategist and his methods is no secret,” said a source. Suvendu did not stay to meet Kishor, who paid a visit to the Adhikari residence in Contai on November 13. The strategist spoke to Sisir Adhikari, the 79-year-old patriarch of the political family. “As the meeting with PK wasn’t held, the meeting with the senior MP was arranged to gauge Suvendu’s mood ahead of his proposed ‘mega’ rally at Ramnagar on Thursday,” said a source. A Trinamul minister said:  “Things seem to be a bit difficult for us at least for the time being for two reasons... The uncertainty over Suvendu’s next course of action is the primary concern while the discontent over PK’s way of functioning being the other woe.” According to him, the situation now, with leader after leader making public statements against PK — Cooch Behar South MLA Mihir Goswami, Sitai MLA Jagadish Barma Basunia and Hariharpara MLA Niamot Sheikh only on Monday and Tuesday — demands firefighting from the very top. “Didi has to handle this now, only her troubleshooting can work at this stage,” he said. According to him, Mamata, who steers clear of active political activity during the Kali Puja-Bhai Phonta phase, will step into the ring now. “Expect a make-or-break phase over the next 15 days or so, as she herself handles it. Most of us are waiting with bated breath,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-306
18-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal govt's one-stop land guide for investors ||The Mamata Banerjee government has made the West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation (WBIDC) responsible for providing information about plots available on industrial parks and estates across the state in a bid to make land scouting easier for potential investors. According to the plan, any potential investor — irrespective of the sector or the size — will have to visit the WBIDC office on Camac Street in Calcutta and he/she will be offered information on all available industrial plots. As of now, three agencies — WBIDC, WBIIDC (West Bengal Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation) and WBSIDC (West Bengal Small Industries Development Corporation) — have land in their possession for allotment to investors. “If an investor needs a plot in Nadia, he does not know which of the agencies has plots there. It is not possible for an investor to knock on the doors of all the three agencies to zero in on the right plot for his or her project. The government is trying to make land scouting easier for investors,” said a senior government official. Once an investor selects a plot after visiting the WBIDC office, it would have to take steps to ensure that the required land is allotted, said an official. If the selected land is possessed by any other agency, the WBIDC would send the requisition on behalf of the investor to the agency (WBIIDC or WBSIDC) concerned and it would make the allotment. The investor does not need to run from one agency to another to get the land, explained the official. Sources said that after compiling information on industrial plots possessed by the three agencies, it was found that there was enough land available in the state. According to the available figures, the state has a total of 1,411 acres on industrial parks or developed industrial estates, in addition to 27 lakh sqft space, for small and medium investors. Similarly, 4,630 acres are available for large industries and 4.5 lakh sqft space and 141 acres on 14 IT parks across the state. An official said there was a propaganda that the state did not have land for industries, which the figures contradict. “Perhaps, investors did not get a clear picture about the land available for them,” said an official. The sources said the government was eager to get some investment proposals in next two three months as they could be taken up as a major campaign item by the ruling party ahead of the Assembly polls. While the decision to make land scouting easier for industry is a welcome step, said a city-based industrialist, investment would not necessarily depend on availability of land. “Suddenly, the political environment in Bengal is getting violent and there is a buzz that it will become more volatile as the elections approach. Investors are generally disinclined to put in their money under such circumstances,” said a source. Besides, he said, several states offer incentives to attract investments and it affects Bengal’s development. “Over the past few years, the industries in the state are not getting any incentives from the WBIDC. Earlier, the agency used to have an equity participation in projects, which has also been stopped in recent years. As an industrial promotional agency, it has to reorient its focus to achieve the desired goals,” said another source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-307
18-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal Covid recoveries cross 4 lakh||Bengal achieved the milestones of going past 4 lakh in Covid-19 recoveries and the 92 per cent mark in recovery rate as 4,388 patients were reported cured during a 24-hour period till 9am on Tuesday. The total recoveries surpassed 4.03 lakh and the rate is 92.04 per cent. The state, which also reported 3,654 new infections and 52 deaths on Tuesday, recorded a drop in total active cases for the 22nd consecutive day since the end of Durga Puja. Having fallen by 10,076 since Vijaya Dashami on October 26, the total of active cases now is 27,111, almost at the level of October 3. “We crossed the 4 lakh mark in recoveries today (Tuesday), 12 days after the 3.5 lakh mark (on November 5). The first 50,000 recoveries were achieved on August 1, over a span of 137 days since the first case (detected on March 17),” said a Bengal minister. In the 22 days since Dashami, Bengal reported 93,254 recoveries and 84,395 new infections. The recovery rate, currently in an unbroken spell of rise for 26 consecutive days, inched closer to the national rate of 93.46 per cent. “When this spell of rise in the recovery rate began on October 22, the rate was 87.44. Now, we are over 92. We will overtake the national rate in a matter of weeks,” said the minister. The state has now total 4.38 lakh Covid-19 cases, including the 4.03 lakh recoveries and 7,766 deaths. With 44,238 tests on Tuesday, the state’s total test count went past the 53 lakh mark, at 58,902 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.27 per cent. The 52 deaths of the day included 13 in Calcutta. Of the total deaths, 6,490 (83.6 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. The state’s mortality is 1.77, still less than the national rate of 1.46 per cent. As of Tuesday, 29.15 per cent of 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients at 101 dedicated hospitals were occupied. Over 4.56 lakh people have availed themselves of telemedicine consultations on the novel coronavirus so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-307
18-11-2020||West Bengal||CBI arrests BSF officer for alleged cattle-smuggling||The CBI on Tuesday arrested Satish Kumar, a serving commandant of the BSF in Chhatisgarh, for his alleged involvement in the cattle-smuggling trade in Murshidabad during his posting at the bordering districts in Bengal. “He was questioned for several hours and then arrested,” saif a source. According to him, Satish’s involvement in illegal cattle trade date to his tenure as the commandant of 36th battalion of the BSF overseeing operations in Malda and Murshidabad between between December 2015 and April 2017. “During his tenure, Satish had seized around 20,000 cows during raids to prevent cattle smuggling along the border. But these cows were reportedly shown as calves in the record books. This meant when they were put up for auction, the animals fetched lesser amounts compared to cows,” said a source. The CBI has primarily learnt that Mursihabad-based businessman Enamul Haque and his gang would allegedly buy these cows at a lower price only to smuggle them back to Bangladesh. His team would reportedly pay Rs 2,000 for each of the cows that was auctioned at a lower price. CBI officers have learnt if a full grown cow fetched around Rs 60,000 a calf would attract half the amount. By showing cows as calves, the investigating agency said the government had lost several hundreds of crores in revenue. While cows were seized, the CBI has learnt neither the operatives nor vans carrying them were held, raising questions about the nature of raids that were carried out for those 16 months. Enamul was arrested on November 6 at Delhi. The CBI alleged Satish’s son had worked with Emanul’s company for sometime drawing Rs 40,000 every month. “We will seek his custody when he is produced before the court,” a CBI officer said. Tuesday’s arrest follows a series of summons to the officer over the last month-and-a-half asking him to appear before the central investigating agency for questioning in connection with its probe into the alleged cattle-smuggling trade in the bordering district of Bengal. The CBI had conducted search and raid operations at his office earlier in September besides his Salt Lake residence which was later sealed. A separate team of officers had also visited his house in Gaziabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-307
18-11-2020||West Bengal||Snake fear stalks nurses’ quarters in Kalyani||Nurses posted at the ESI hospital in Kalyani are being compelled to live with venomous snakes in their dilapidated residential quarters, prompting some to live in rented houses close to the hospital, shouldering the additional financial burden for their emergency service. However, many others such as the recent recruits, who are not in a position to afford rented homes, have been staying in the quarters despite the scare of the snakes. Concerned with the situation, hospital superintendent Banani Das Dutta last week wrote a letter to the ESI director, appealing for immediate renovations to the dilapidated quarters. Sources in the state labour department said the renovation work could be delayed because of the Covid-19 situation. “We have been living in total horror. These dilapidated quarters are no longer suitable for living…. Besides many other problems, these are infested with snakes. This is a matter of life and death,” said a nurse. “Snakes are often being found on our beds, on the dining tables, in the corners of our rooms, inside the windows. We are being compelled to stay there, risking our lives. The nights are especially scary as the darkness makes it more difficult to spot the snakes,” said another, adding that the nurses have been trying to get assigned night shifts to avoid staying at the quarters overnight. The hospital has a total of 36 dilapidated quarters for nurses and 36 others for group D employees. Cyclone Amphan caused further damage to the quarters. “The problems worsened since May, with walls collapsing, windows damaged, pipes broken and even a weak rood,” said a nurse. The nurses alleged that appeals for renovation work have been ignored by the state government. Superintendent Das Dutta said: “I am aware of the poor condition of the nurses’ quarters. Nevertheless, according to the standing order we are not in a position to take up any work except in emergency situations.” “At the same time, no minor repair work of these quarters would serve the purpose. It needs major renovation. So I have appealed to the ESI director to look into the problem,” she said. “I have also advised the nurses to submit a representation to the higher authorities from their end, so that the magnitude of the issue could be better understood,” she added. The hospital’s acting matron Shibani Choudhury said all the staff quarters of nurses and group D employees have been severely damaged and not suitable for living. “The girls have been telling me for long. I feel helpless. They joined the service from remote areas and have no option but to avail the quarters. The house rent allowance of 12 per cent is deducted from their salary. But, in return they are allotted are not at all suitable to live, which compelled many to leave and to stay on rent, which they can barely afford,” she said. The 266-bed ESI Hospital was set up in Kalyani in 1968. It is run by the state labour department as part of the Employees’ State Insurance Scheme, to facilitate medical care to industrial workers in Bengal. The scheme was introduced under the ESI Act, 1948, as a measure of social security with the primary objective of providing certain benefits to employees in case of sickness, maternity, and employment-related injuries. The hospital is popular and experiences a regular rush of patients, since it offers free services that include pathology, ECG, urology, radiology, ICCU and medicine to the patients, who are often admitted beyond hospital capacity. The hospital has currently has around 30 doctors and 56 nurses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-307
18-11-2020||West Bengal||Paddy helps remove border farming barrier in Malda||Around 250 farmers at different villages of Kaliachak 3 block in Malda district who have become migrant workers have smiles back on their faces. This is because they could resume cultivation on their land located beyond the fences of the India-Bangladesh border after a couple of years and could also provide employment to some other migrant workers who are landless and had been working in different other states. In the Kaliachak 3 block, there are around 250 traditional farming families who live at villages like Gopalnagar Shoshani, Chori-Anantapur, Mohabbatpur and Sukhdebpur. “All of us together own around 80 acres of land that is beyond the fences on the international border. For years, we had been cultivating maize and jute on our land. Things, however, changed for us a couple of years ago when officers of the Border Security Force (BSF) told us that we could not cultivate these items. They mentioned that anti-social elements might sneak through using the vegetation of our land,” said Tazmul Haque, a farmer from Gopalnagar. This restriction changed the life of the farmers, who then went on exploring other options as to how to make earnings to run their families. While their land remained unused beyond the fences, most of them moved out of their homes and headed for other states, working as migrant workers. However, after the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, they returned homes like millions of others. They were sitting jobless at homes when Haradhan Rajak, a local panchayat member of the CPM, took the initiative to resume the farming. “I narrated their plight to officials of the state agricultural department and put all efforts to find out how they can start farming on their land again. As crops of all sorts are not allowed to grow on their land because of security reasons, I solicited expertise from the officials as to which crop they could cultivate so that they did not face any objection,” said Rajak. His initiative worked and officials of the department suggested that they could go ahead and cultivate paddy. Abhishek Labar, an assistant director of the agriculture department, said as they learnt about the problem, they decided to utilise the land. “We helped the farmers with free seedlings, fertiliser and also mechanical aid to sow the seedlings. A high yielding variety of seedlings were sown and the farmers could harvest the crop within 95 to 115 days. This has opened a new avenue for them,” said Labar. According to him, around 80 quintals of paddy have been harvested from each bigha of the land. The first harvest has left farmers like Niranjan Mondal relieved. “It has never come to our mind that paddy can be sown on our land. We were in despair as despite having agricultural land, we had to work as migrant workers. After the lockdown, we were in utter distress but the initiative taken by the panchayat member and the assistance provided by the agriculture department has really helped us to get out of the situation,” said Mondal. Many others like him want to focus on farming again, instead of foraying for jobs in other states. The initiative, Rajak, the panchayat member said, has also helped many others. “Those owning land have started engaging otherswho do not have land and used to work in other states like them. Altogether, the initiative has helped at least 500 families of these villages,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-307
18-11-2020||West Bengal||Spike in Covid cases in Bengal four districts||A steady surge has been witnessed in the number of Covid cases in at least four districts of north and south Bengal in the past few days. While in north Bengal, more than 100 new cases have been reported every day in the districts of Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri, a similar trend has been seen in East and West Midnapore districts in southern parts of the state. Ahead of the Durga Puja, health officials had time and again mentioned that people should strictly adhere to health safety protocols to curb the spread of the pandemic. “However, after the festivities, we have seen how the number of cases climbed in all districts. The impact can be still felt in Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling districts where over 100 new cases were reported every day in the past seven days,” said Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by the state government to handle the Covid-19 situation. Sources in the state health department said from November 8 to 16, 1,248 people were infected in Darjeeling district while the figure is 1,157 in Jalpaiguri. So far, 13,697 cases have been reported in Darjeeling district, while 10,932 people have been tested positive in Jalpaiguri. “This indicates that the viral load is high in these districts, particularly in towns. Also, we are apprehensive that the number of super spreaders is on the rise,” added Roy. In East Midnapore, there had been 30 deaths and 2,066 new cases in these 15 days, while in the neighbouring district of West Midnapore, 32 people have died and 2,631 new cases have been reported during this period. “Even on November 16, 116 people tested positive in East Midnapore while 158 samples have been found infected with the virus in West Midnapore,” said Nimai Chandra Mondal, the chief medical officer of health of East Midnapore. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-307
18-11-2020||West Bengal||Diwali gift for manual labourer in Bengal: a rebuilt home||For the past six months, 42-year-old Babla Pramanik has been living under a tarpaulin shed with his wife Pinki and three-year-old daughter. The manual labourer, who is a known hand in the Haripur area here for his pandal-building expertise during the pujas, was rendered homeless in late May this year when Cyclone Amphan tore his house to shreds. This Diwali, amid a festival of lights stifled by pandemic prudence, youths and Good Samaritans from the area channelled their regular puja efforts into building a new home for Pramanik’s family. Members of the Santipur Purnima Milani Sangha were able to garner Rs 25,000 by redirecting fireworks expenditures, and instead procured bamboo and corrugated metal to rebuild Pramanik’s home to give him “ new beginning”. “I am speechless. I have had no work since March and have been wracked with worry. This is a priceless gesture,” said Pramanik, who was handed over the new home by Sangha members on Tuesday afternoon. Police officer Raja Sarkar was also present at the event, and handed over winter garments and dry food to the family, too. “This is truly a fresh beginning. I could not have imagined such a gesture, let alone do it myself,” said Pramanik. “The hopeless situation compelled my wife into working as a domestic help recently, but the income was too meagre to even buy enough food. The last six months have almost evaporated for me now. I am truly grateful,” he added. Members of the Santipur Purnima Milani Sangha said they were moved to action on behalf of the family upon hearing of their plight recently. “We conduct winter clothes drives a few weeks before Diwali every year. That is when we came to know about this family, and were shocked to see an infant sleeping under an open sky of rain. We quickly came to a collective decision that we must do something for them,” said club secretary Biswajit Roy. “We eventually decided to save the money that we usually incur for buying crackers and decorative lights during Diwali. We found that the approximate cost to rebuild the house using bamboo and corrugated sheet could be covered through the saved fund. We eventually took up the job earlier this month,” added Roy. Babla’s wife Pinki added: “It might be a renovated home, but to me, it is actually a new one. It provided me with a new lease of life today. I am grateful to all who made this possible and who gave me immense happiness.” Appreciating the endeavour, local gram panchayat pradhan Sova Mondal Sarkar said: “It is a fantastic job undertaken by the club members. If more people and clubs come up to extend support, many families could be rescued from such distress.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-307
