19-11-2020||West Bengal||Make Netaji birthday a national holiday: Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging his “kind personal intervention” to ensure Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary, January 23, is declared a national holiday, and take steps to clear the mystery behind the icon’s disappearance to the fore, both emotive issues for Bengal. In her two-page letter, Mamata asked Modi to get the national holiday declared as part of the start of Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary celebrations. Born on January 23, 1897, Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary celebrations are likely to begin from January 23, 2021, and last for a year. Mamata told Modi that they had been requesting the Centre for long for this, and the start of the 125th birth anniversary celebrations “would be a very appropriate recognition” to the “epitome of determination, courage, leadership, unity and love for motherland”. This apart, Mamata added: “We would once again request the central government to take decisive steps to find out what happened to Netaji and place the matter in public domain...” Several accounts claimed that Netaji — missing since August 18, 1945 — died of injuries from a plane crash near Taihoku airport. But there is no conclusive confirmation. “People of the country and especially of Bengal, have the right to know the truth about the matter (Netaji’s disappearance),” Mamata said. “West Bengal government has already declassified and placed in public domain (in September, 2015) many files relating to Netaji on this issue,” she wrote. Taking a cue from the Bengal government, the Centre had declassified a clutch of files related to Netaji in 2016, but the information therein failed to shed more light on his disappearance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-305
19-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal Covid count drops for the 23rd consecutive day||Bengal on Wednesday logged a drop in its total of active Covid-19 cases for the 23rd consecutive day since the end of Durga Puja, as the recovery rate rose further to 92.28 per cent. The state’s total count of active cases, which was 37,190 on Dashami, is 26,296 now. The recovery rate inched closer to the national rate of 93.51 per cent. On Wednesday, Bengal reported 4,429 recoveries, 3,668 new infections and 54 casualties. The state’s total of cases, since the first was detected on March 17, is over 4.41 lakh now. It includes nearly 4.08 lakh recoveries and 7,820 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-305
19-11-2020||West Bengal||Message to BJP ticket aspirants||BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya has asked aspirants to party tickets for the Assembly elections to behave properly amid reports that several state functionaries have started declaring themselves to be the potential candidates in particular seats. Vijayvargiya’s comments came at a meeting of state BJP office-bearers in Calcutta on Tuesday. “Do not preconceive that you’ll be fighting from a particular seat and start making plans accordingly. Focus on the party’s organisational work first,” Vijayvargiya said. Multiple sources in the BJP this correspondent spoke to said that the national general secretary was aware that several leaders were projecting themselves as potential candidates from constituencies they felt comfortable about. Some of these leaders have been visiting these areas regularly — sometimes even without the knowledge of the party leadership — to gain recognition and acceptance among the electorate. Although the BJP minder may have cracked the whip, it remains to be seen whether it will have the desired impact as there is likely to be a battle between the newcomers and old guard over party tickets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-306
19-11-2020||West Bengal||Mamata set to resume public programmes||Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to attend an administrative review meeting and a public distribution programme in Bankura next week amid speculation that she would now resume her district tours, which she had kept in abeyance because of Covid-19. “The chief minister is scheduled to hold a review meeting in Bankura on November 24 and a public distribution programme the following day. This would be her first programme where she would address the public after the nationwide lockdown was announced in March,” said a source aware of the chief minister’s itinerary. Senior Trinamul leaders, along with district police officers, visited a ground in Sunukpahari on Wednesday to finalise the venue of the distribution programme. “We inspected the ground today. The chief minister would address the public on November 25 afternoon. This is a very important meeting for us,” said Shyamal Santra, a junior minister and Bankura Trinamul chief. Mamata, sources said, is scheduled to visit Purulia, East Burdwan, West Burdwan and Birbhum by the third week of December. In all these districts, she would attend public distribution programmes, where several government facilities, including pattas, bicycles and caste certificates, are generally handed over to beneficiaries. “The chief minister likes to talk to common people during such tours and gets to know about the ground reality,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-306
19-11-2020||West Bengal||2 school boys drown in Damodar, one traceless||Police fished out the bodies of two 17-year-old boys from the Damodar on Wednesday but a search for their friend — the trio went missing in the river in West Burdwan’s Raniganj on Tuesday — is still on. The bodies of Abhishek Mishra and Abhishek Mahato were identified. Their friend Roshan Singh is still traceless. All three boys were students of Class XI at Gyan Bharti Vidyalaya in Raniganj. The police said that the trio had gone to the river on Tuesday afternoon to bathe. “Initially four boys had gone to the river bank but one returned. These three went into the river to bathe. Residents saw them struggling in the water and informed Mejia police,” said a police officer. The police found their clothes and Abhishek’s two wheeler on the riverbank. The disaster management team, which launched a search, recovered two bodies on Wednesday. One of Abhishek’s relatives said the three friends had gone to a tuition class on Tuesday morning but did not return. “I called up Abhishek on his cell phone to find out why they were late. Abhishek told me they were at the Damodar river,” he said. That was the last time he heard the boy. Sources said the boys knew swimming. But the river bed was uneven and with deep crevices at some points because of illegal sandlifting. “The boys may have got trapped in a hole underwater,” said a resident. A pall of gloom descended on Bhagat Para in Raniganj town where the boys lived. “We have lost hope of getting Roshan back alive,” said a neighbour. “After his friends’ bodies were found, there seems little hope for Roshan,” he added. Neighbours said that the trio would used to go to the river for bathing but had never expected such a tragedy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-306
19-11-2020||West Bengal||Cooch Behar BJP worker killed, party blames TMC ||A BJP worker was beaten to death at village in Tufanganj subdivision of Cooch Behar by residents on Wednesday morning when he tried to stop warring members of two local clubs. BJP leaders, including senior ones such as Kailash Vijayvargiya and Sayantan Basu, alleged that Kalachand Karmakar, 50, had been murdered by Trinamul backed criminals. The party announced a 12 hour strike in Tufanganj subdivision on Thursday in protest. Karmakar, a BJP booth committee president at Sikarpur village under Nakkatigach panchayat of the subdivision, was critically injured after being beaten up with fists and sticks. Rushed to the Tufanganj subdivisional hospital, doctors pronounced him dead. Sources said Karmakar was caught amid a heated exchange between members of two rival clubs with two Kali Puja pandals. On Wednesday, some members of both clubs were arguing when Biplab Karmakar, a neighbour of the BJP worker, was attacked. Karmakar rushed out to intervene and was attacked. As he collapsed on the spot, his attackers fled. The news sparked tension in the area with hundreds of BJP supporters accusing Trinamul of orchestrating the attack. A police team led by Rahul Talukdar, Tufanganj police station OC, brought the situation under control. Malati Rava, the BJP chief of Cooch Behar district, said: “A group of criminals backed by Trinamul brutally murdered Kalachand Karmakar.” She accused the police of “acting in a biased manner”. Jalil Ahmed, a district Trinamul leader, called the incident “unfortunate” but added: “It has no connection to our party. The BJP is unnecessarily trying to politicise the issue.” K. Kannan, the Cooch Behar district chief, said they had detained a person in connection with the case and were searching for others. “The incident occurred when the victim tried to stop the members of two clubs who had got into an altercation. Karmakar was attacked and later pronounced dead. We have detained a person in connection with the incident and are in search of some others,” said Kannan, the district superintendent of police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-306
