20-11-2020||West Bengal||Provisions in Constitution to deal with TMC’s ways: Babul Supriyo||Union Minister and Member of Parliament from Bengal’s Asansol Babul Supriyo said on Friday that the ruling Trinamool Congress should repair its approach and refrain from "intimidating voters", warning that there are provisions in the Constitution to deal with such things. He alleged that over 130 workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party have been killed in the state. "The TMC should mend its ways. Only a few months are left for the elections. If the TMC members think they can intimidate voters and engage in political violence, then there are provisions in the Constitution to take care of such things," Supriyo told a local news channel. The MP also claimed that the people of Bengal have decided to vote for his party, the BJP, in the next assembly elections, which is scheduled to be held in April or May next year. "We want the people who voted TMC to power to topple the present government through a democratic process," he said. The ruling party alleged that Supriyo was hinting at forcing President’s rule in the state. "If he was hinting at the imposition of Article 356 in Bengal, then he should first talk about the imposition of President's rule in Uttar Pradesh where rule of law has ceased to exist," said TMC MP Sougata Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-304
20-11-2020||West Bengal||CMC construct several makeshift ghats in waterbodies for Chhath Puja||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) has set up several makeshift ghats in water bodies across the city for members of the Bihari community to perform the Chhath Puja ritual. Civic authorities in Calcutta have set up several temporary ghats near 16 water bodies to avoid crowding during Chhath Puja celebrations on Friday. At least 44 temporary ghats have been erected along the water bodies in Kasba, Anandapur, Jadavpur, Patuli belts of the metropolis, a KMC official said. Apart from that, three large artificial brick-made pools have been arranged in Deshapriyo Park, Chetla-Rashbehari Avenue and Kadapara-Beleghata areas to enable devotees to perform rituals on the occasion of Chhath there instead of going to large lakes, he said. Another official of the Bengal Pollution Control Board said two other waterbodies in Dumdum area, on the northern outskirts of the city, have also been readied. As per the orders of NGT, Calcutta High Court and Supreme Court, to disallow Chhat rituals on Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar, the Calcutta Municipal Development Authority prevented the entry of people from November 19 midnight to 3 pm November 21 at both lakes. The KMDA has also locked the gates of both lakes and a large contingent of police has been posted, an official said. Unfenced portions along the boundaries of both lakes, were also barricaded with metal shades, the official said. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in a tweet said "Heartiest greetings to the people of Bengal, India and all over the world on the auspicious occasion of Chhath Puja. May Lord Surya fulfill all your wishes." Banerjee in a separate video message appealed to devotees to offer the Chhath Puja either from home or at neighbourhood ponds. If the devotees live near the river, they can go to ghats but without processions and in small groups, she said urging everyone to cooperate in the COVID-19 situation and honour the orders of the judiciary in this regard. Banerjee said around 1,300 waterbodies are there all over the state which have been kept ready for Chhat devotees in different areas. Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar in a tweet offered warmest greetings to everyone on Chhat puja. "Warmest greetings to everyone on the auspicious occasion of Maha Parv #ChhathPuja. May positivity of Chhath Puja spread in our life and fill it with good health, peace, prosperity and happiness as also well being of all. Let purest thoughts guide all our actions," Dhankhar posted on microblogging site. Environmentalists S M Ghosh and Sumita Bandyopadhyay, crusaders for 'Save Rabindra Sarobar' movement, said they were happy with the measures taken by state so far "but keeping fingers crossed about how things turn up in the afternoon, the time of Chhat puja." "We are apprehensive going by last year's experience when thousands broke open the locks and stormed inside the lake premises. We hope that won't be repeated this year," he said. A spokesman of Bihari Samaj said: "We urge our community members not to venture into Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar. Please either offer rituals at your respective homes by creating a basin on your rooftop or terrace and offer puja standing in water, or go to designated water bodies set up by the administration or to river ghat in small groups."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-304
20-11-2020||West Bengal||Include Dooars in solution: GNLF||Mann Ghisingh, president of the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), now the largest ally of the BJP-led NDA in the hills, on Thursday said his party would reject any political solution that excludes the Dooars. Ghisingh told journalists after meeting Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar in Darjeeling: “If the Dooars is excluded and the solution is only for the hills, we will not accept (the solution). It has to be together; if we are to be happy, everyone, from the Dooars, Terai and hills must be happy, or else we will protest.” Ghisingh’s statement has the potential to complicate the permanent political solution. All political solutions discussed for an administrative body for the hills left out the Dooars and big parts of Terai. The Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council was formed with Darjeeling, Kurseong and Kalimpong subdivisions in 1988. The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, formed in 2007, started a statehood agitation and the Morcha’s map of the proposed Gorkhaland demand included the Dooars and Terai. However, when they accepted the GTA in 2011, they excluded the plains but sought a way out by agreeing to the state’s demand to form a committee to look into the demand for inclusion of Gorkha-dominated mouzas from the plains. Of the demand for 399 plains mouzas, the committee recommended inclusion of only five mouzas in the GTA after which the issue went to the backburner. The GNLF is relying on the BJP to fulfil its two election promises to find a permanent political solution for the region and grant tribal status to 11 hill communities. The GNLF has said that the political solution should not be anything “less than the Sixth Schedule” provisions (under the Constitution for the administration of tribal areas in border states Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram). However, Gorkhas are not in a majority in the plains unlike in the hills. Political analysts believe that demand to include major parts of the Dooars in a new political settlement would come under immense pressure from the plains given this demography. Ghisingh, however, seems to be trying to convince the Gorkhas in Dooars to remain with the BJP. The statement probably is a fallout of the recent tie up between Bimal Gurung and Trinamul. The GNLF leader said that this was the right time to seek a political solution and that the party believes that BJP can solve the issue but for that the public must be “conscious” and “united”. The Gorkhas in the plains can influence about six to seven Assembly seats. “I am especially telling the people from the Dooars. They should remain united as they had done (earlier)…during the MP (Lok Sabha) election,” said Ghisingh. The BJP had won from Dooars in the last Lok Sabha election. Ghisingh did point out that there were “grievances” (over the exclusion) of the Dooars and Terai region when the DGHC and GTA were formed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-304
20-11-2020||West Bengal||Left outfits rally for local trains||The SFI and DYFI— CPM’s student and youth wings — on Thursday took out rallies and gave memorandums to station managers of nine important railway stations in Birbhum demanding the restart of local and express trains in the district. Halted in March because of the pandemic, local train services in Bengal have recently resumed under Howrah and Sealdah divisions, but don’t extend beyond Burdwan. Commuters in districts such as Birbhum are left out of the loop. There are at least 45 pairs of local and express trains ran on the Burdwan-Sahibganj loop line in the area. However, Nikhil Kumar Chakraborty, the chief PRO of Eastern Railway, said he did not know when train services on this loop line route would resume. SFI and DYFI leaders said Birbhum had two important tourist destinations — Santiniketan and Tarapith — and students and workers need to travel to Burdwan and Calcutta frequently. Without local trains, commuting is costly and tough, they said. Sources said there were at least a hundred villages and six towns in Birbhum dependent on train services. “Several Visva-Bharati students need to call on their teachers for issues related to research. Thousand have to travel to Burdwan and Calcutta to attend tuition classes for competitive exams. Lack of trains affects all of them and there is no talk about resumption of the facility,” said SFI Birbhum unit secretary Wasif Iqbal. “Hundreds of hawkers, traders and professionals are dependent on trains. They used to go to Burdwan or Calcutta regularly. Now they are paying Rs 500-1,000 to hire cars,” said Birbhum DYFI secretary Manotosh Majumder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-304
20-11-2020||West Bengal||BJP bandh on eve of Chhath irks residents||The SFI and DYFI— CPM’s student and youth wings — on Thursday took out rallies and gave memorandums to station managers of nine important railway stations in Birbhum demanding the restart of local and express trains in the district. Halted in March because of the pandemic, local train services in Bengal have recently resumed under Howrah and Sealdah divisions, but don’t extend beyond Burdwan. Commuters in districts such as Birbhum are left out of the loop. There are at least 45 pairs of local and express trains ran on the Burdwan-Sahibganj loop line in the area. However, Nikhil Kumar Chakraborty, the chief PRO of Eastern Railway, said he did not know when train services on this loop line route would resume. SFI and DYFI leaders said Birbhum had two important tourist destinations — Santiniketan and Tarapith — and students and workers need to travel to Burdwan and Calcutta frequently. Without local trains, commuting is costly and tough, they said. Sources said there were at least a hundred villages and six towns in Birbhum dependent on train services. “Several Visva-Bharati students need to call on their teachers for issues related to research. Thousand have to travel to Burdwan and Calcutta to attend tuition classes for competitive exams. Lack of trains affects all of them and there is no talk about resumption of the facility,” said SFI Birbhum unit secretary Wasif Iqbal. “Hundreds of hawkers, traders and professionals are dependent on trains. They used to go to Burdwan or Calcutta regularly. Now they are paying Rs 500-1,000 to hire cars,” said Birbhum DYFI secretary Manotosh Majumder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-304
20-11-2020||West Bengal||Poll target set for BJP leaders  in north||so been deputed as party’s co-observer in Bengal, set the the target after assessing Assembly seat-wise position of the party across all eight districts of north Bengal. According to party insiders, they have spoken with portfolio holders and elected representatives of all districts and have collected information from them on various issues. Among the issues are the current political scene in the hills after Bimal Gurung’s exit as an ally, the status of the BJP’s support base among Rajbanshis and tribals, demands which have remained unfulfilled  so far and political activities taken up by other parties. A few days back, the BJP leadership has assigned fresh responsibilities to some of their national portfolio holders, keeping in mind the 2021 Assembly elections of Bengal. “The leaders were very specific about the hills and the Dooars and thoroughly inquired about the prevailing situation, while asking the local leaders to mull over prospective strategies which can help the party draw support from people dwelling in these areas,” said a source. In course of the meeting, discussions were also held on the minority population in the region, particularly in districts like North Dinajpur and Malda, and leaders from these districts were quizzed to know as to what extent the BJP could garner support from these areas. “We have been asked to be in touch with state leaders and follow specific guidelines to build up support. It has been made clear that there should not be any internal differences, right from the district to the booth level,” said a leader based in Jalpaiguri district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-304
20-11-2020||West Bengal||Roadblock against NH ‘health hazard’||Irate villagers, mostly women, in Nadia’s Santipur blocked NH12 at a railway crossing in Govindapur in the town for an hour on Wednesday to protest the damaged road adjacent to tracks that connects their town with Krishnagar. Accusing the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the railways of negligence, villagers said the road adjacent to the railway crossing had turned into a muddy stretch full of rubble. They said apart from frequent accidents, the dust from the damaged stretch had become a public health hazard. “We have breathing troubles because of the dust,” said a villager who lives close to the road, and added that a few months ago an elderly woman living near the road allegedly died of respiratory distress. Subhash Mudi, brother of the deceased woman, said: “My sister was suffering from breathlessness and doctors said it was because of the dust she was forced to inhale.” The blockade lifted after the police convinced people that they would take up the issue with authorities of the railways and NHAI. For the past one year, the  100m stretch of NH12 from Barasat to Krishnanagar, which includes the railway crossing, is damaged. The NHAI recently started widening a 67km stretch of NH12 between Krishnagar and Jagulia. The damaged stretch at Govindapur remains unaddressed, with authorities of the NHAI and railways passing the buck. NH12 project director in Krishnagar Soutam Pal said: “At least 50m of land adjacent to both sides of any railway tracks is the property of the railways. The onus of maintenance rests with them. We are not authorised to undertake work on such stretches even if they are part of the NH.” Anil Karwan, assistant engineer of the railways in Ranaghat, claimed ignorance. “I have joined recently and am not aware of the issue. I will look into the matter soon and try my best to solve the problem.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-305
20-11-2020||West Bengal||Families of workers  ripped apart ||The death of Abdul Rehman, 17, in the plastics crushing factory blast on Thursday afternoon, rendered his mother Daloni Bibi and sister Rahima Khatun virtually dumb. The teenager was the sole breadwinner of the family. At their dilapidated hutment in Sujapur, around 12km from Malda, both cried inconsolably as their neighbours crowded around them. Abdur, his neighbours said, gave up his studies four years back after his ailing father Sariful Momin stopped working. The boy started working at the plastic crushing unit, barely 700 metres away from his house. “Only two hours before the explosion, I went to the factory and served him roti and vegetables. He gave me money to buy foodgrains and vegetables. I had no idea it was our last meeting,” Daloni wept. His sister Rahima said that Abdur had stopped going to school, but would encourage her to continue her studies. “He was the lone earning member of our family. We got a cheque of two lakhs from the minister but we really don’t know how to run the family,” said brother Rahim, a Class VIII student. Neighbour Monirul Islam said only a regular pension could help the family. Sariful Hoque, 25, another blast victim, went to the factory after promising his four year old daughter Ishana Parvin that they would have lunch together during his break. “My husband did not keep the promise made to his daughter. Ishana was his life,” wept his wife Shiuli Bibi. Villagers were shocked and stupefied as occasional wailings rent the air. Rupali Bibi, another resident, held her 14-year-old son Manzarul Sheikh tightly. The boy, who suffered multiple injuries on his face and limbs from the blast, was found shivering in fear. “On Wednesday, my son went to the factory alone and urged the owner to give him a job. It was decided that he would sort scrap plastics and be paid Rs 100 a day. Today (Thursday) was his first day at work. I am lucky he escaped with injuries,” said Rupali. Musha Sheikh, another injured, was discovered at the spot by his son Mustafizur Rahaman, a Class VIII student, and is under treatment at the MMCH now. “My father was a trader but started working at the unit after a major loss in his business. He works hard to ensure that I and my younger sister continue with our studies. All we can do now is pray.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-305
20-11-2020||West Bengal||BJP wants reversal of CRPF plan||The Union home ministry’s decision to withdraw two battalions of the CRPF from the Jungle Mahal has prompted BJP leaders in the region to send a mass petition to the party’s state president Dilip Ghosh seeking the reversal of the order as they feared the move would have an adverse impact on the performance of the organisation in next year’s Assembly polls. Senior state BJP leaders have already spoken to Union home minister Amit Shah and requested him to reverse the order. “We will write to him (Shah) soon to compensate the withdrawal of the CRPF from the Jungle Mahal,” Dilip Ghosh said. BJP leaders in Jhargram and West Midnapore said the resurgence of Maoist violence in the region would be seen as a fallout of the decision to pull out CRPF battalions. “Withdrawal of CRPF battalions at this point of time will adversely affect (BJP’s chances in the Assembly polls) … in Jungle Mahal from where seven MPs got elected (in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls),” the petition stated. BJP leaders in Jhargram and West Midnapore said the presence of the CRPF battalions had kept a check on Maoist activities and helped them strengthen the party’s organisation. “The people of the Jungle Mahal are fearing an increase in Maoist activities. If the extremists get control over the area, we will not be able to hold our organisation together. This will be detrimental to our interest as Trinamul’s induction of Chhatradhar Mahato in the area has become a major challenge for us,” said a BJP leader in Lalgarh. Intelligence sources said Maoist cadres had already started holding meetings at various pockets of Jhargram, Purulia and West Midnapore ahead of the death anniversary of Maoist leader Kishenji, who was gunned down by cops on November 24, 2011. “We have intelligence inputs that Maoists could try to prove their presence in the area on the death anniversary of Kishenji,” a police source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-305
20-11-2020||West Bengal||1 lakh Covid recoveries since Dashami||Bengal on Thursday reported a drop in its total active Covid-19 cases for the 24th consecutive day since the end of Durga Puja, recording 1,01,673 recoveries during this period that outweighed the 91,683 new infections found. On Thursday, the state logged 3,990 recoveries, 3,620 new cases and 53 deaths, among which 12 each were reported from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. The state’s total active cases, which was 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami (October 26), is 25,873 now, back almost to where it was on September 27. The state’s recovery rate, currently on an unbroken spell of rise for 28 consecutive days, rose to a new high of 92.43, nudging the national rate of 93.59 per cent. “Over a lakh recoveries in a short span is a huge morale boost, as is the total of active cases falling to the region of 25,000. We hope to be able to continue with this turnaround...,” said a state minister. The state’s total caseload is over 4.45 lakh now, including nearly 4.12 lakh recoveries and 7,873 deaths. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja. The numbers of infections from Puja showed that the intervention was effective. The high court issued a similar set of instructions for Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. “Prior to this post-Puja turnaround were those six relentless weeks of major spike in infections and relatively fewer recoveries. We hope we won’t see another such spell this pandemic,” said the minister. With 44,263 tests on Thursday, the state’s total test count is nearly 53.9 lakh, at 59,888 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate remained 8.27 per cent. Of the total death toll, 6,577, or 83.5 per cent, were attributed to co-morbidities. The state’s mortality rate is 1.76, still less than the national rate of 1.46 per cent. “In the 24 days since the end of Puja, there have been 1,327 deaths, including 1,063 (80.1 per cent) co-morbid deaths. The mortality rate has improved from 1.85 to 1.76,” said the minister. The state reported 28.97 per cent occupancy in the 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 101 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 4.6.3 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-305
20-11-2020||West Bengal||Machine explodes at plant, 6 die||An explosion ripped through a plastic crushing unit at Sujapur near Malda on Thursday afternoon, killing five workers and a partner of the plant, besides injuring 10 persons. The blast, which according to the state home department was related to “manufacturing process”, happened when a crusher weighing around 45 tons exploded. The tin-roof building was destroyed almost completely and the machine was blown into pieces, some of which fell in nearby areas. Malda district BJP president Gobinda Mondal said the party suspected bombs were being manufactured illegally at the unit and only the National Investigation Agency could unravel the truth. Police sources said the factory, located around 12km from the district headquarters, had a crusher in which scrap plastic items used to be smashed. “The crusher weighing around 45 tons is in the middle of the unit and it exploded, killing people,” said a police source. Around 100 labourers, mostly local residents, work at the unit in shifts. According to the police, work was going on in full swing when the machine exploded around 12 noon. Abu Sayed, one of the two partners of the unit, died while he was being taken to Calcutta for treatment. The other deceased, administrative sources said, were Abdur Rahaman, 17, Sariful Hoque, 25, Azizur Rahaman, Rajib Khan and Mostafa Sheikh. The age of three deceased persons could not be confirmed till late evening. “The injured are under treatment at the Malda Medical College and Hospital and some of them are in critical state,” said a doctor. Senior police officers reached the spot and started an investigation. The state government announced compensation for the family of the deceased. Senior minister Firhad Hakim took a chopper from Calcutta and reached Malda later in the afternoon. “Five persons have died and few others have been injured as a plastic crusher has exploded here. The state has announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each for families of the deceased and Rs 50,000 for the injured. We have handed over the cheques to the families,” said Hakim. Abu Sayed succumbed to the injuries after the minister’s arrival. Hakim rejected the BJP’s demand for an NIA probe and said the state police and intelligence agencies were competent enough to conduct the investigation. “The police are probing the case. Some other state departments like power, panchayat and fire services will also separately submit reports to the state government on the explosion,” he said. Sources said a forensic team would examine the site of the blast on Friday. “The Malda Sujapur plastic factory accident today is related to the manufacturing process and has got nothing to do with illegal bomb making, as suggested non-responsibly by some quarters. DM and SP on spot have been reporting to state officers after urgent inquiries and compensation steps have been taken,” the home department said in a tweet. “…..it is time to be factually correct. Government is helping the victims and their families,” said the tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-305
20-11-2020||West Bengal||Matuas prod Centre on CAA||The All-India Matua Mahasangha, which enjoys the BJP’s support, has urged the Narendra Modi government to announce a timeframe to implement the provisions of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), the request belying the community’s restlessness over its delay. “We had taken up the issue with the government before... Now we are again contacting the Prime Minister’s Office,” said Santanu Thakur, the BJP MP of Bongaon. The Matua Mahasangha raised the demand for implementation of the CAA as its leaders have been facing embarrassing questions from the community on whether the Act, billed by the saffron camp as a one-stop solution for citizenship issues faced by Hindu migrants from Bangladesh, would be implemented or stay on paper. On Thursday, Bongaon MP Santanu, with his brother Subrata, held a meeting in Nadia’s Bogula to reassert the demand for the rollout of the Act before some 10,000 members of the Matua community. Santanu earlier this year had written to home minister Amit Shah for an early implementation of the CAA. What could further embarrass the BJP is the Matua Mahasangha’s decision to launch a pan-Bengal campaign for the implementation of CAA. The Mahasangha will hold over a dozen meetings in south and north Bengal districts covering some 10 Lok Sabha seats. “The CAA was used as a major plank by the BJP to win over Matua voters in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls...the party won both the Bongaon and Ranaghat parliamentary seats (with a significant Matua population). Now, people want its implementation,” said an insider in the Mahasangha. The Mahasangha’s move comes close on the heels of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s recent outreach bids, such as the Matua Development Board with a grant of Rs 10 crore and pattas for Matuas to ensure their land rights, a move she said would eventually benefit 1.25 lakh families. At the Mahasangha rally, Santanu said only the CAA could solve the problem of refugees. “Some people are misleading refugees by offering patta, but that can never ensure them citizenship. We want the Centre to take initiative to implement CAA fast,” he said.  “The delay has made people restless,” he added. Mukutmani Adhikari, the Mahasangha’s Nadia south committee president, said a large number of community members are frustrated over the delay in implementing the CAA. “It has become tough for us to answer their questions on the issue. The promise to implement the CAA had helped the BJP win seats in Matua-dominated areas in the 2019 polls. The delay has embarrassed us. The Centre should announce when the process for implementation will happen.” Adhikari added that it would be difficult to hold back the support base if the CAA is delayed “since political rivals can misinterpret and misguide the Matuas”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-305
20-11-2020||West Bengal||Uncertainty hits irrigation projects||Several important irrigation projects in the state are on hold because of unavailability of funds amid speculation that the uncertainty over the political future of irrigation minister Suvendu Adhikari has cast a shadow over the schemes. “Files of important irrigation projects, which need to be started right now to complete them before next monsoon, have been gathering dust for about two months while funds for projects put forward by other departments are being released. It seems speculation about the minister’s political future has held his department hostage,” said a senior government official. According to a source, proposals to strengthen the Durgapur Barrage and restore and repair its sluice gates were sent to the finance department recently, but despite the emergency, required funds have not been released. Similarly, funds needed to strengthen some river embankments in the Sunderbans and restoration of the Muriganga have not been released either. “Projects worth a total of Rs 190 crore have been sent to Nabanna considering their importance. But the department has received no response yet even though only about seven months are left to complete the projects before the next monsoon,” said an official. Sources said the strengthening of the Durgapur barrage and repairing its sluice gates were of paramount importance as a large area depended on the reservoir for water supply. Besides, it also plays a vital role as water from Maithan and Panchet dams in Jharkhand are released into the barrage, which, in turn, is released in a calculated manner during the monsoon to prevent floods in several districts in south Bengal. The irrigation department officials are worried because the finance department has started releasing funds for projects like repair of roads and bridges which were put forward by the PWD. Projects related to water supply and solid waste management proposed by the municipal affairs and urban development department are also getting cleared by Nabanna. “It is a cause of concern that Rs 110 crore for the Durgapur barrage is not cleared. The department can wait for other projects for a few months, but projects related to Durgapur barrage need to be cleared immediately,” said an official. Sources in the government said while it was true that there was a crisis of funds because of the Covid-19 pandemic, important projects must be taken up without any delay. “ It seems the growing distance between the minister and the ruling party is the reason behind the sudden drying up of funds for the department,” said a source. Adhikari has not been attending cabinet meetings or party programmes since May amid murmurs that he is all set to chart a different political course for himself. A section of the officials said the top brass of the government were perhaps waiting to see the next steps of Adhikari before allocating funds. “The government wants proper utilisation of funds. If confusion remains on the minister’s political future, the utilisation may suffer and that’s why the funds are not getting cleared,” a senior official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-305
20-11-2020||West Bengal||‘She has not tossed me out’||Amid swirling speculation over his political future, Trinamul heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari on Thursday said he was still part of the Trinamul Congress and the Mamata Banerjee government. “Unio taranni, amio chharini (Neither has she thrown me out, nor have I quit),” said Adhikari, referring to the Trinamul supremo, to loud cheers from a 20,000-plus-strong audience at an event at Ramnagar in East Midnapore. “I am still a primary, active member of a political party. I am still a member of a cabinet. The chief minister has kept me as a minister…. Political statements cannot be made while being in the party, while remaining a member of the cabinet…. I am the son of the same soil as Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar. I will never do anything unethical,” added the 49-year-old state transport minister. Speculations over his possible switch to the BJP or creating a political party aligned with the NDA have been doing the rounds for years, intensified by the rise of Mamata’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee in the party as her political successor. Adhikari didn’t say anything about his plans at the rally, but did seem to admit there were rajnoitik mawtantawr (differences of political opinion) and bibhed (disintegration), which could lead to bichchhed (separation). “There are times, once in a while, when there are differences of political opinion, disintegration… from that disintegration, there can be separation. But for as long as one is in that party, in that cabinet… for as long as decision-makers have not thrown you out, or you haven’t quit yourself, till then statements like that cannot be made from such platforms (like these),” he said. His address, however, dripped with sarcasm. “All the posts I hold, to all of them I was elected, neither selected nor nominated, mind you. I have been in politics since 1996, from a very young age… as a passion, not as a profession,” said Adhikari. “I am not a seasonal bird. I am not here for a day or two, but 24x7. I have a relationship of the soul with the masses. I am there for them during Covid-19. I am there for them during lockdown. I am there for them after Cyclone Amphan. I am with each one of them, all the time, not confined to a room, I am found in the fields,” he added. “I hope this gamchha-clad, panta-fed village boy will continue to get your love and blessings.” Trinamul sources said it was clear that he referred to party strategist Prashant Kishor as seasonal bird and to Abhishek when he said he (Adhikari) was not selected. But the party welcomed Adhikari’s statements. “He has not decided on leaving the party…. If he stays, it is a matter of happiness,” said Saugata Roy, a Trinamul vice-president and Dum Dum MP. Roy on Thursday admitted he has been negotiating with Adhikari under Mamata’s instructions, that the two met on Monday evening and are likely to meet again next week. Sources said Roy’s talks with Adhikari are part of a last-ditch effort from Kalighat (read Mamata) to keep the heavyweight in the party ahead of a crucial perform-or-perish Bengal election. “He doesn’t have demands, he has some concerns. Those have been conveyed to the chief minister, who has some things to say as well. There will be more talks. Both sides are, as of today, willing to discuss and open to possibilities,” said a source, adding that Trinamul MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay was also negotiating with Adhikari over the phone. He said Adhikari is “bitterly displeased” with the loss of control as the party’s observer over six key districts of Bankura, West Midnapore, Jhargram, Murshidabad, Malda and North Dinajpur, other than his own. The post of observer was abolished in a major reshuffle on July 23. “Although she (Mamata) made the announcements, the designs were that of Prashant Kishor and Abhishek…. That Suvendu did not like. He made it clear that he would not take instructions from PK and Abhishek,” said the source. Rivals are keeping close watch on developments. Congress MP and state unit chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who welcomed Adhikari to join his party, mocked Trinamul. “Mamata Banerjee should go to him and fall at his feet, begging him to stay,” said Chowdhury. BJP state unit chief Dilip Ghosh iterated that Adhikari was welcome to join his party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-305
