21-11-2020||West Bengal||‘Bohiragawto’ BJP vs ‘Bhoomiputro’ Trinamul||The Trinamul Congress on Friday intensified its attack on the BJP over the theme of alleged bohiragawto (outsider) being sent to dictate terms to the bhoomiputro (son of the soil), which is likely to be a leitmotif of Mamata Banerjee’s campaign against the saffron camp in Assembly polls next summer. Trinamul spokesperson Bratya Basu held a news conference, adding a new dimension to the line of offensive launched against the BJP’s appointment of central leaders — Sunil Deodhar, Vinod Tawde, Vinod Sonkar, Harish Dwivedi and Dushyant Gautam — to handle affairs of its five organisational zones. “Outsiders are being brought in to attack Bengal. Some people with no understanding of Bengal or its culture, with no feeling of its pulse have been roaming our great state. This tandawb (rampage) by the bohiragawto is a follow-up to the smashing of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar’s statue, by those with no idea of Rabindranath Tagore and his legacy,” said Basu, state science and technology minister, who is also a theatre and film director, playwright and actor. “Even US president-elect Joe Biden is likely to include a Bengali — Arun Majumdar — in his cabinet. Even Biden understands the significance of Bengalis and Bengaliyana. But Delhi does not. The Centre does not. Narendra Modi does not…. Not one Bengali was ever an RSS chief…. Not one Bengali is a full-fledged minister in the Modi cabinet,” he added. Since the Lok Sabha polls last year, Trinamul chief Mamata has been trying to counter the saffron camp’s allegedly communal polarisation agenda with a “BJP versus Bengal and Bengali” spin. Gaffes or alleged excesses by the BJP have helped the chief minister reinforce the perception. In May 2019, people allegedly from Amit Shah’s road show in Calcutta barged into a college and vandalised a bust of Vidyasagar. Earlier this month, the Union home minister offered flowers to a roadside statue in Bankura wrongly identified by his party as that of foremost tribal icon Birsa Munda. Since Shah’a five-man army was given the charge of different BJP zones in Bengal, Mamata’s party has hurled at the saffron camp a barrage of volleys. “Since the time of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, there have been attempts to corner Bengalis with people from north and west India…. People of Bengal will never accept subjugation by non-Bengali outsiders…. History bears testimony to the fact that these attempts never succeed,” said Basu, going on to pepper his diatribe with a string of instances from India’s history over the past century to substantiate his core argument. The BJP, unsure of the impact this line of attack might have on the electorate, has asked whether poll strategist Prashant Kishor — a consultant to Trinamul now — is also not an outsider and whether Indians from other parts of the country are unwelcome in Mamata’s Bengal. The Vidyasagar statue incident came increasingly to be viewed as an inflection point in the Bengal chapter of the general election. The BJP won none of the nine seats that went to the polls after the incident. But the party bagged unprecedented 18 of the 33 seats where elections had already been held. “Trinamul and its supreme leader believe in taking everybody along, leaving none behind… unlike the BJP…. Non-Bengalis are loved and respected here, they thrive here, but the same courtesy isn’t accorded to Bengalis in other states,” said Basu. Later in the day, Mamata too broached the subject at a Chhath Puja event in the city. “There are some who come from outside only ahead of elections, deliver lofty speeches and leave…. Unlike them, we stay with the masses 24x7, 365 days a year,” said the chief minister, going on to pray for defeat of those who allegedly try to divide to rule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-303
21-11-2020||West Bengal||Darjeeling’s beloved professor dies||Dipankar Basu, a professor who had spent his lifetime in the hills and worked hard for the betterment of students, breathed his last in Calcutta on Friday morning. Basu, who was loved and revered in Darjeeling, was 79. His love affair with Darjeeling started in the autumn of 1968 when he came to join as lecturer of political science at Darjeeling Government College(DGC), and he made the Queen of the Hills his home. “During his career he was transferred four times — twice to Presidency College and to Maulana Azad and Chandernagore College. But he appealed against the transfers and managed to stay back in Darjeeling on all the four occasions,” said Uday Mani Pradhan, a student-turned friend of Basu. “His love for Darjeeling and his zeal to help young people in their career is legendary,” said Pradhan. Even after his retirement in 2001, he chose to stay at his two-room apartment at Judge Bazar here and continued to counsel students without taking a penny as remuneration. Basu was the first to start an “IAS coaching centre” at the DGC in 1975. Pradhan was a student in the second batch. “The government college centre died a natural death but he soon set up another coaching centre in Darjeeling,” said Pradhan. In 1990, Basu brought in Pradhan, Sunirmal Chakravarthi (former principal of La Martiniere for Boys) and other educationist C.B. Rai and Enos Das Pradhan to start Career Information Counselling and Coaching Centre (CICACC) in town. Amar Singh Rai, former Darjeeling MLA as well as the vice-principal of Loreto College, first met Basu through an organisation called Orchid. “This was an organisation formed by Bengali professors working in Darjeeling and they would involve themselves in theatre and other cultural activities,” said Rai. Basu’s wish to die and be cremated in Darjeeling was something well known in his friend circle. “He always wanted to die and be cremated in Darjeeling,” said Rai. Basu had left for Calcutta to meet his family members in June this year. “In fact, he had a November 17 ticket to Darjeeling. When he started coughing recently, he refused to see the doctors as he feared his family members would not allow him to travel to Darjeeling,” said Pradhan. On November 12, Basu collapsed at his Jadavpur residence and had to be rushed to hospital. “Darjeeling would have given him a grand farewell but alas,” said Rai. He is survived by his younger brother and three sisters, who all live in Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-303
21-11-2020||West Bengal||Blast bares flout of all rules at plastic crusher units||The blast at the plastic-crusher plant in Sujapur near here on Thursday brought under the scanner around 100 such units that mushroomed in the area fluting all safety and labour norms. Six persons had died when a machine had exploded at a plastic crushing unit on Thursday. A visit to some of the units, where plastic scrap is crushed for reuse, revealed that they lacked basic safety measures and employed children who work in difficult conditions. Although these units deal with combustible materials, barely 10 per cent of them have fire extinguishing mechanisms and abundant water supply. “Pollution control measures, proper safety and wages and insurance cover are distant dreams for the labourers,” a social worker said off record. “Still, such plants have an abundant labour supply.” Mofizul Sheikh, a Trinamul leader and the president of the Plastic Prakiyakaran Byabsayee Samiti (an association of the owners of plastic crusher units in the Malda district), said: “Sujapur alone has 100 plastic processing units. Around 30 of them have crushers (like the one that exploded on Thursday) on their premises. On an average, 30 to 100 workers serve at each unit on contract, depending on the scale of operations.” Sheikh as well as Hazi Ketabuddin, who is the president of the association and a member of the Trinamul-run Malda zilla parishad, admitted that only a handful of the units adhered to safety norms and measures. Some local people this correspondent spoke to said the units had come up as the returns were high. “Most of these units just obtain a trade licence from panchayats and start operations. Legislations like factory act and labour laws are not followed,” said a teacher at a local school. The residents of Sujapur said they feared more such accidents as some plastic-crushing units operated out of small enclosed spaces. “They don’t even have space to store the plastic scrap. Those are dumped just beside the national highway (NH12) for days and weeks,” said a resident. The Sujapur panchayat said it would check the plants before issuing trade licences. “The terrible accident has taught us a lesson. From now on, we will visit such units to confirm that all regulations have been met,” said Arif Ali, head of the Trinamul-run panchayat. The panchayat, however, can do little to monitor these units, many of which are owned by local Trinamul leaders. The teacher said there should be regular inspection of the plants and the state labour department should find out whether the workers were provided with adequate wages and proper working conditions and social security. “Some of the workers get just Rs 100 a day, which is a major violation of labour law.... The highest daily wage here is Rs 350,” said a source. Rajarshi Mitra, the district magistrate, said a minimum wages inspector had been asked to inspect the units and furnish a report within 15 days. The proprietors’ association, sources said, has also decided to hold a meeting soon and ask all the units to bring the workers under group insurance cover. Another schoolteacher said one or more person from every third poor family at Gayeshbari in Sujapur worked in the plants. “People here are so poor that they do not dare to lose the job by raising any demand. In fact, many workers do not even know about their rights. That is why the administration and local bodies should try and regularise the units, instead of taking any harsh steps like closing those down,” the teacher said. Officials of a number of state agencies like police, special task force (STF) and the intelligence branch (IB) visited the site of the explosion at Sujapur on Friday as part of their investigation. A team of STF officers inspected the spot around 2.30pm and found a piece weighing around 25kg and believed to be of the exploded crusher about 100m from the unit. After an hour, a team of the intelligence branch shot the video of the entire area, including splinters which were strewn all around. The investigating agencies declined comments. “In the initial probe, they have ruled out electrical short circuit triggering the blast,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-303
21-11-2020||West Bengal||Murshidabad police rear up for mounted force||Bengal’s tryst with mounted police will travel beyond Calcutta for the first time since 1840 if the state’s seat of power, Nabanna, gives the go-ahead to Murshidabad police to raise a force consisting of horses for crowd management. “We will shortly send a proposal to the state government to allow us to raise a mounted police force similar to the one in Calcutta. If we get the Nabanna’s nod, Murshidabad will become the first district to have a mounted police force outside Calcutta,” a senior officer of the district police told The Telegraph on Friday. Murshidabad police have taken the first few steps towards achieving its goal by procuring six horses to train cops in horse riding. The police have set up a horse-training academy on a 40 bigha plot on the outskirts of Behrampore. The academy has become the first police-run horse riding unit outside Calcutta. The Meghdoot Training School, an initiative of the district police and local non-government organisation Ashray, was inaugurated at Choapur on Sunday. The NGO will look after the maintenance of the horses. The district police had last month acquired four adult horses from Calcutta breeders at a price of Rs 1 lakh each. They are currently housed at the academy and have already been named Bhim, Arjun, Rani and Munni. Two more horses had been purchased from local sources and named Black  Diamond and Red Diamond. The police have appointed ex-army man Surinder Shekhawat, 55, from Rajasthan, to train students in horse riding. A police officer said Shekhawat was chosen for his experience in training army personnel in horse riding. “We had a plot lying with us on the outskirts of the town and thought it would be a good idea to set up a horse riding facility here as the area has a long history with the prized animal dating back to the time of the Nawabs,” said a district police officer, alluding to Murshidabad’s former status as the capital of the Bengal. The training session for cops will start from December 1 and the police have decided to throw open the facility to the public also. “Police personnel and their families will have access to this facility, as well as ordinary citizens looking to learn horse riding,” said a source. The source added that the current offering for a three-month-long, five-days-a-week training course had been priced at Rs 3,000 for adults, who are not associated with the police. Children can avail themselves of the same course at Rs 2,000 a month. “Such a venture will help keep police and populace safe and fit and will aid immensely in community building measures,” said district superintendent of police K. Sabari Rajkumar, when asked about the intention behind the initiative. Other police sources in the district force said though Murshidabad, as with other districts barring Calcutta, did not have a mounted police force, the initiative had been started with an eye on raising a horse-riding team of cops to manage crowds at bus terminus and other major events. “Our police will be learning the ropes here as to how to ride horses, and if needed, we can also support Calcutta Police if need arises,” said a source. The Calcutta Mounted Police, fabled at one time for its peace-keeping in tandem with mounted forces of other colonial and 19th century cities in the West, serves these days as a welcome relic, and is seen mainly in central Calcutta’s Maidan area for crowd control and as a fixture in parades and ceremonial visits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-303
21-11-2020||West Bengal||Video helps ease Nadia porter’s burden ||A viral video of an old man tugging sacks full of rice and food grains on his tricycle van has stirred a social organisation to arrange an alternative livelihood for Bishu Sarkar, a resident of Jugpur in Nadia’s Nakashipara. Sarkar, 72, who was struggling to stay afloat despite his ill health, had been delivering sacks of rice and food grains from the main market at Jugpur, near Bethuadahari, to retail shops. Before going out on his tricycle van to deliver the consignments, Sarkar had to carry the heavy bags on his back to load them onto his vehicle. He would earn around Rs 200 per day. A video of Sarkar struggling to carry a sack on his back to load it onto his van was shot by a resident of Jugpur last month and uploaded on social media. The video prompted members of the Chapra Manab Kalyan Sanstha to come forward in the aid of the old man. “After speaking to him, we realised that at 72 he was not in a position to continue his job as a porter-cum-delivery person anymore. As he needed to earn a living, we thought of an alternative job that does not involve too much physical labour. We asked him if could make tea and once he gave his nod, we offered to convert his tricycle into a mobile kiosk,” said Devdulal Biswas, secretary of the Chapra-based organisation who, along with other members, handed over the customised tricycle van to Sarkar on Friday. “I never expected such a gesture. Today, it appears that I can survive a bit longer,” said Sarkar in an emotional tone who took over the tricycle van that had been converted into a mobile tea kiosk at a cost of Rs 20,000. The kiosk has been equipped with an LPG cylinder, oven, utensils and cups. Local sources said Sarkar had two sons who live elsewhere and do not take care of their parents. “It often hurt us to see Bishu da toiling hard to carry heavy loads just for a living. But ill-health was not permitting him to undertake the job anymore. His problem had aggravated because of the lockdown as he had no work. Even in his worst times, Bishu da never sought help from anyone,” said a trader at Jugpur market. Biswas said: “We offered Bishu da our support only to ease his physical labour and ensure that he lived with dignity. We are happy that he agreed to accept our support. He will run the shop at the Jugpur market where he has toiled all his life.” “We have arranged all necessary utensils so that he can also go beyond selling tea and add bread toasts, fried eggs and other snacks to the menu. For a start, we expect him to earn around Rs 150 every day,” said a member of the organisation. Local resident Dhiren Biswas said: “The organisation has done a splendid job. This will help the man to live without stress further in life.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-303
21-11-2020||West Bengal||Drop in active Covid cases continues in Bengal||Bengal logged a drop in total active Covid-19 cases for the 25th consecutive day as number of patients fell from 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami on October 26 to 25,599 on Friday, lifting the recovery rate to a new high of 92.54 per cent. The total of active cases on Friday is almost back where it was 55 days ago, on September 26. The state reported 3,850 recoveries, 3,626 new infections and 50 deaths on Friday. In the 25 days since the end of Durga Puja, Bengal recorded over 1.05 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 95,309 cases found. “We now have a total of 4.49 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was recorded on March 17. But they include nearly 4.16 lakh recoveries, which is very good,” said a Bengal minister. The total also includes 7,923 deaths. The state’s recovery rate, currently in an unbroken spell of rise for 29 consecutive days, since the 87.44 of October 22, is bridging the gap with the national rate, now at 93.6. “We have to watch out over the next few days, to see if the Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath celebrations did considerable damage. There were all sorts of pessimistic estimates ahead of Durga Puja, but we saw it off with not only little damage but also this remarkable turnaround,” said the minister. The 50 deaths of the day included 10 in Calcutta. Of the total deaths, 6,620 (83.6 per cent) were attributed to comorbidities. The state’s mortality rate is 1.76, still less than the national rate of 1.46. “This is one area where we haven’t been able to meet our goals. The aim was to take it to less than 1.5 months ago, but the climbdown from 2 has been very sluggish,” said the minister. With 44,159 tests on Friday, the state’s total test count went past 54.34 lakh, crossing the milestone of 60,000 tests per million people, to touch 60,379. The positive confirmation rate remained at 8.27 per cent. The state reported 28.48 per cent occupancy on 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 101 dedicated hospitals. Over 4.66 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided on the pandemic so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-304
21-11-2020||West Bengal||Probe agencies survey site of explosion in Malda||Officials of a number of state agencies like police, special task force (STF) and the intelligence branch (IB) visited the site of the explosion at Sujapur near here on Friday as part of their investigation. Six persons had died when a machine had exploded at a plastic crushing unit on Thursday. A team of STF officers inspected the spot around 2.30pm and found a piece weighing around 25kg and believed to be of the exploded crusher about 100m from the unit. After an hour, a team of the intelligence branch shot the video of the entire area, including splinters which were strewn all around. The investigating agencies declined comments. “In the initial probe, they have ruled out electrical short circuit triggering the blast. Some of the agencies are waiting for the findings of the forensic team,” said a source. A team of forensic experts is scheduled to arrive at the site on Saturday. All six Congress MLAs of Malda district, including local legislator Isha Khan Chowdhury, visited the spot on Friday and demanded higher compensation for the blast victims’ kin. On Thursday, state minister Firhad Hakim had handed over cheques for Rs 2 lakh and Rs 50,000 to the families of the deceased and the injured. “The amount of compensation is too low. There should be much higher compensation for the deceased and the injured. A proper probe should be ordered to find out what exactly led to the explosion,” said Isha. Sreerupa Mitra Chaudhury, a state vice-president of BJP’s farmers’ front, was prevented from visiting the blast site by a section of local people. They demonstrated and alleged that the BJP was trying to create a fear of environment over the incident. Sreerupa, who was being accompanied by supporters,  left in a hurry, but reiterated the BJP’s demand for an NIA probe. Trinamul leader Moazzem Hossain, who surveyed the blast site, slammed opposition parties. “The state government has taken all possible steps. A minister came all the way from Calcutta within four hours of the incident and stood by the affected families. Those who are treated at the Malda Medical College & Hospital are being provided with best possible treatment. Also, the police and some other state agencies are conducting investigations and anybody found responsible will have to face legal steps. The Congress and the BJP leaders are trying to reap political dividend out of this unfortunate incident,” said Hossain. One of the two partners of the plant were among the deceased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-304
21-11-2020||West Bengal||North Bengal tour operators’ plea on trains||Stakeholders of tourism industry in north Bengal have requested the state government to take up their demand for re-introduction of more trains in north Bengal and resumption of toy train service in the hills. On Friday, a delegation of the Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network (HHTDN) — a common forum of the stakeholders — met Nandini Chakravorty, the principal secretary of state tourism department here, and requested her to take up the issue with railway authorities. Samrat Sanyal, the general secretary of HHTDN, said after the lockdown, the railways had introduced only one train between Calcutta and north Bengal. Ahead of Durga Puja, two more special trains were introduced but those are supposed to run till November 30. “It seems that from December 1, only one train will be available for tourists who intend to reach north Bengal from southern parts of the state. Unless the number of trains is increased, the inflow of tourists will not rise. That is why we have urged the principal secretary to mention the issue before senior state officials and then take up the matter with the railways. It is also necessary to resume the toy train services in the hills to draw tourists,” he said. This is because the railways have time and again clarified that the state government will have to make the approach for introduction of more trains and for resumption of services, including that of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR). Due to the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, the tourism industry here has taken a beating. Veterans associated with the sector have mentioned that the industry has faced a loss of around 21 crores per day from March to September. “Now that the restrictions have been relaxed, the industry must explore all options for its revival. There are tourists visiting the hills and the Dooars but the number is abysmally low as compared to other years. At this point, absence of adequate number of trains should not act as a deterrent,” Sanyal added. Sources said there are indications that some of the toy train services might reopen from next week. It is considered as one of the major attractions for tourists visiting Darjeeling hills. HHTDN has also planned to launch an extensive campaign to perk up the inflow of tourists in this region, said the representatives. “We have signed two memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Association of Domestic Tour Operators of India (ADTOI) and Association of Buddhist Tour Operators (ABTO) to promote the destinations across the country. Also, there is a plan to promote the Dooars region during the winter seasons,” said Raj Basu, a senior advisor to HHTDN.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-304
21-11-2020||West Bengal||Boat rallies for erosion fix in Nadia||The CPM on Friday took to the waterway in Nadia to demand a permanent solution to the erosion of embankments along the Hooghly and the Ganga which created a survival crisis for thousands of people in several districts of south Bengal. The party organised at least two river rallies on the Hooghly that has been marked by incidents of erosion along 119km at several places in Nadia, rendering thousands of people homeless. The boats, which were decorated with CPM flags and placards, sailed on the river that touched some of the erosion-hit stretches of Santipur, Chakdah, and Kalyani. The CPM activists, aboard the boats and those standing on the riverbanks, raised slogans demanding permanent solution to the erosion. Addressing a rally, which was attended by over 1,000 erosion victims, at Santipur’s Balagarh ghat, CPM MLA Rama Biswas said: “Erosion is merely not an election issue. It has become a permanent issue as it has put at stake the survival of many people living near the banks of the Hooghly and the Ganga. These people have lost their land and properties a number of times. They have shifted their bases more than once but their plight remained the same because of sheer apathy and negligence of the state and central governments.” “It is high time that both central and state governments acted to offer a permanent solution to the erosion,” said Biswas, who represents Ranaghat (South) in the Assembly. CPM leader and former chief of Nadia zilla parishad Meghlal Sekh pointed fingers at the sand mafia for triggering the erosion and aggravating the situation. “While erosion has made the life of people uncertain with fear of losing everything, illegal lifting of sand from river has doubled the impact. Nevertheless, the state administration has preferred to remain silent,” Meghlal said. In the districts of Malda, Murshidabad and Nadia, erosion of the embankment has remained a persistent problem. Experts have attributed erosion to the obstruction of natural flow of the Ganga following the construction of the Farakka Barrage. CPM leader said the erosion, which started in the early 60s with the inception of the barrage project, was often viewed as a long-term natural disaster with both the Centre and the state government shying away from coming out with a permanent solution. Sufal Biswas, a resident of Santipur Choudhuripara ghat, said: “We have lost all hopes. In the past five years, I shifted home three times. I have lost over two bighas of agricultural land. I am now landless and try hard to earn by working as a farmhand.” An official of the Nadia administration said: “Erosion is a natural phenomenon and we are helpless. Nevertheless, we try our best to reduce the vulnerability of those living adjacent to the river during the monsoon. We undertake preventive measures and work is underway at many stretches.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-304
