22-11-2020||West Bengal||480 CPM cadres cross over to BJP||Around 480 CPM supporters were among 500 people from multiple parties who joined the BJP on Saturday, according to sources. “Around 500 leaders and workers from the RSP, CPM, CPI, PDS, SFI, DYFI and INTUC of East and West Midnapore district joined the BJP today,” BJP state president Dilip Ghosh tweeted on Saturday. Sources in the party said as many as 480 of the 500 belonged to the CPM, which means only around 20 people crossed over from the other Left parties and the Congress-backed trade union. In Ramnagar of East Midnapore, about 1,000 supporters of former CPM MLA Swadesh Nayak, who joined the BJP in October, followed suit on Saturday. The party’s minder for Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya was present at the event. Niranjan Sihi said Saturday’s development would not hurt the party’s organisation in Haldia. “None of our prominent leaders has switched to the BJP. People of Haldia are with us,” Sihi said. However, another CPM leader said the exodus “should not be taken lightly before the polls”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-302
22-11-2020||West Bengal||‘Dead’ Covid patient found alive||A man from Birati, pronounced dead by a Covid hospital two weeks ago, was brought back home alive by his son on Friday evening, days after his “cremation” and on the eve of his shraddh ceremony. A data entry error at the Balaram Hospital in Khardah was behind this mix-up. A senior district official said family members of Sibnath Bandyopadhyay, 62, a resident of Birati, had performed his last rites after a covered dead body was handed over to them on November 13. “His shraddh ceremony was scheduled for Saturday. But, they were pleasantly shocked when they got a call from Balaram Hospital (on Friday evening) asking them to come and take their patient back home,” said the official. Sibnath’s son Sanjib rushed to the hospital and brought him back home. The North 24-Parganas district administration has been ordered by the state health directorate to conduct a probe. The district’s chief medical officer of health Tapas Roy said a four-member team formed to probe the incident had filed a preliminary report. “I have sent it to Swasthya Bhawan,” he said. A Balaram Hospital official claimed that “flawed entry of the home address against the name of another Covid patient, who had actually died”, led to the goof-up. Khardah resident Sudip Mukhopadhyay, the son of Mohini Mohan Mukhopadhyay, 75, who died and whose body had been handed over to Sanjib, was shocked and demanded punishment for the person responsible for the error. A source said the mix-up came to light on Friday evening when hospital authorities called Sudip to take his father back home. On Sudip’s arrival, hospital authorities produced Sibnath Bandyopadhyay before him. Sudip said the man was not his father. “Hospital officials insisted I accept the man as my father. The elderly man identified himself with another name, but officials did not accept it. Eventually, the elderly man arranged to call his son who was shocked to see his father alive,” said Sudip. It was then that Sudip realised that his father was dead and had been cremated by strangers. A relative of Sibnath said that on November 13 hospital authorities conveyed the news of his death. “We were shown the body from distance. The packed body was burnt following rituals under administrative protocol...” Hospital sources said Mohini Mohan, admitted on November 4, had to be shifted Kadambagachi Covid hospital in Barasat on November 7, where he died six days later. “While shifting to Barasat, the details of Mohini Mohan got mixed up with that of Sibnath. So, (when Mohini Mohan died) Sibnath’s family was told about the death,” said a source. Sudip said that it is surprising that since November 7, hospital authorities could not realise their mistake. “They kept giving me regular updates on my father’s recovery,” the bereaved son said. A huge crowd gathered at Sibnath’s Birati home to see him and greet him for his new lease of life. The administrator of Khardah municipality Kajal Sinha called the incident unfortunate. “I hope hospital authorities are careful to avoid such mistakes in future.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-302
22-11-2020||West Bengal||Blast probe hints at snag||A two-member forensic team inspected the Sujapur blast site in Malda on Friday and Saturday, its preliminary findings endorsing the state government’s view of mechanical fault in the plastic crusher machine leading to Thursday’s explosion that killed six persons. Forensic official Chitrarka Sarkar said: “Primarily, it appears that the incident occurred because of a mechanical fault. We have collected the machine’s samples and tests would be carried out before we reach a conclusion.” The BJP, which had been clamouring for an NIA probe into the blast, on Saturday seemed to change its stand, seeking Rs 1 crore for each bereaved family as compensation from the state government. The state government had paid Rs 2 lakh to each bereaved family on Thursday. The team examined the debris and parts of the machine that got strewn in the area. They asked a motor mechanic to open some of its parts and poured chemicals on the machine, which led to a small fire on Saturday, and even damaged the PPE of one of the experts, said a policeman at the site. Probe revealed that lubricants are used to run the machine and other chemicals are used to process plastic scrap before they are put in the crusher. “The team wanted to see if these chemicals are inflammable and can cause the explosion,” said a source. The team collected samples from the site and visited a neighbouring unit to see how a crusher unit functions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-303
22-11-2020||West Bengal||Pandemic hospital shut citing a drop in active cases||The West Midnapore health department on Saturday closed down one of the district’s Covid-dedicated facilities, citing a drop in active cases. The decision to close the hospital was taken by the district Covid-19 task force at a meeting earlier this week. A notice issued by the chief medical officer on Wednesday stated that the Ayush hospital at Tantigeria, one of five Covid-dedicated facilities in the district, would be temporarily closed starting Saturday, and reopen “as and when required”. Sources said the facility, formerly a home for vagrants, had seen a steep drop in admissions recently compared to the average of 150-200 admissions each day since April. “We did not even have a single admission this week. The average this month would be less than 100, closer to 50,” said a source in the health department. Existing patients at the facility would be moved to home isolation, he said. Sources said the 50-bed Ayush hospital was operating with four doctors, four nurses, and 16 staff sourced from state health facilities nearby. All personnel have been asked to return to their former duties starting next week. The Ayush facility apart, the other Covid facilities in West Midnapore are Salboni Multi Super Specialty Hospital, Ghatal subdivisional hospital and two safe homes in Debra and Kharagpur. There are less than 800 active Covid cases in the district now. “The last week has been notable at the Ayush hospital because there was not even one new case,” said chief medical officer Nitai Mondal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-303
22-11-2020||West Bengal||25,391 active Covid cases in Bengal||Bengal on Saturday logged a drop in its total active Covid-19 cases for the 26th consecutive day. There are 25,391 active cases now, a fall by 11,799 since Dashami on October 26. In the 26 days, the state logged over 1.08 lakh recoveries and 98,948 new cases. Bengal on Saturday reported 3,794 recoveries, 3,639 new infections and 53 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate is 92.63 now, rising for 30 consecutive days since October 22. The national rate is now 93.68. Bengal’s total caseload is nearly 4.53 lakh. “One must remember it includes 4.19 lakh recoveries (and 7,976 deaths). Also, the latest 50,000 infections took 14 days, compared to 12 days for 50,000 before this,” said a minister. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, and then Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. “We are beginning to get numbers of the Kali Puja-Diwali phase now. The number of infections has not yet shown signs of a surge,” said the minister. “But the number of recoveries has been relatively less for three days…. We hope it is only an aberration,” he added. With 44,208 tests on Saturday, the state’s total test count went past 54.78 lakh, at 60,870 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.26 per cent. The 53 deaths of the day included nine from the city. Of the total death toll, 6,665, or 83.6 per cent, were attributed to co-morbidities. The state’s mortality rate is 1.76, still less than the national rate of 1.46 per cent. The state reported 29.3 per cent occupancy in the 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 101 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 4.69 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-303
22-11-2020||West Bengal||Nadia professor on Stanford list||A teacher from the mathematics department of Krishnagar Government College in Nadia has made it to the list of the world’s top 2 per cent most-cited scientists compiled by Stanford University. The US university made the list after assessing research published up to 2019. It includes nearly 1,492 scientists, doctors and engineers from India. Kalidas Das has been globally acclaimed for his research on the utility of nanofluids. Stanford University scanned 94 research papers credited to Das, counted among the leading researchers in mechanical engineering. Das said the recognition “is beyond my imagination”. He added: “I am grateful to people around me who encouraged me to work on such an unusual subject, which however is largely linked to our lives...my work has a bearing on human health too.” Son of a farmer from Eruli village in Nadia’s Dhantala, Das did his schooling at Dr Shyamaprasad High School in Sarishadanga. He later earned his undergraduate and postgraduate degrees in mathematics from Kalyani University. For his PhD from the same varsity, he researched on fluid dynamics. After working as a teacher at a school in Chakdah, he had worked at Kalyani Government Engineering College before as well. Asked what led him to work with nanofluids, Das said he was intrigued by the subject’s vast scope of applications in daily lives of individuals and industries alike. “I thought I’d explore the utility of nanofluids using mathematical models for practical applications,” Das said. As an instance, Das spoke of the application of nanofluids in medical science. “Magnetic nanofluid can elevate the drug delivery capacity of fluids in a more controlled and directed manner. Microfluidic equipment have been developed to deliver drugs to targeted cancer cells for cure or for purposes of research,” Das said. Das, however, lamented his inability to personally implement his research findings in the practical sphere. “It would have been better if I could collaborate with scientists in the field of application to implement my theoretical models on nanofluids in larger public interest,” Das said. Academics hailed his work. A professor attached to Kalyani Government Engineering College said: “His theoretical models enable us to develop cutting-edge heat and mass transfer tools. Heat transfer tools using nanofluids can be used to develop coolants suitable for machinery to produce highly-efficient heat exchangers or in grinding industries, and increase the life span of machinery.” Professor Pintu Banerjee, secretary of Teachers’ Council of Krishnagar Government College, said Das’s achievement made them all proud. Banerjee added that Das had set an example for other academics, especially from non-metros.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-303
22-11-2020||West Bengal||NBMCH gets enhanced infrastructure and additional facilities||The state health department has enhanced infrastructure and introduced additional facilities at the North Bengal Medical College & Hospital to comfort patients who suffer with different terminal illness. “Tests like interleukin-6, total iron-binding capacity and ferritin can be conducted at the biochemistry department now. So far, the facility was available only in a few private clinics or the patients had to visit Calcutta to get them done,” said a source in the NBMCH, the largest state-run referral hospital of north Bengal. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed in north Bengal for Covid-19, said the infrastructure in laboratories have also been extended at the biochemistry department. “We have plans to open a central research lab. At the blood transfusion centre, department of immune haematology and blood banking has been opened to help patients suffering from leukaemia and thalassemia. Also, blood transplant and blood cancer patients can be treated here,” he added. The state has also provided a special vehicle at the NBMCH that can act as a mobile blood collection unit. “Three people can donate blood at a time at the advanced mobile van. It also has facilities to preserve blood units,” said a source at the facility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-303
