23-11-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul plan for 35 lakh jobs in 3 years||The Mamata Banerjee government is working on a detailed plan to generate 35 lakh employment opportunities over the next three years with a move by the Trinamul Congress to highlight the thrust on the job creation in the campaign for the 2021 Assembly polls. “The chief minister is laying special emphasis on creating employment opportunities. The areas have been identified and now, work is on to prepare a fool-proof model to ensure that jobs are created on the ground,” a senior government official said. Sources said Mamata Banerjee would detail the schemes during her election campaign to let people know what her government was doing to create 35 lakh jobs in the next three years. The chief minister, a source said, has realised that the government can tackle the unemployment problem by offering jobs in the government or quasi-government sector only to a certain extent as there is a limit to salary bills that it can foot. “Employment is going to be the most important issue in the next Assembly polls as Covid-19 has cut down job opportunities in the country. The chief minister thinks if her party will be able to show a path for employment opportunities, it would have an advantage,” said a Trinamul insider. According to the officer, the cornerstone of the employment drive is going to be the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME). “Our assessment suggests that about 15 lakh employment opportunities could be created in the MSME sector while it is possible to generate 5 lakh jobs in the IT sector in the post-pandemic period,” said the source. The sources said it had been assumed that the MSME sector could see a rise in the next three years considering the fact that Covid had brought a behavioural change to a large number of people. “It is assumed people will continue to use masks, hand sanitisers or surface sanitisers. The MSME sector has already used the opportunity and in the near future, demand of personal protective kits and several other hygiene products like soaps, detergents and hand washes would be rising,” said an official. Similarly, in the post-pandemic period, use of information technology tools would be used in abundance as people would prefer to go the digital way. “This will help us draw investment to the IT sector. We are ready with required infrastructure to accommodate investments in this sector,” said a source. The state government has also identified that generation of 2 lakh employment opportunities is possible in the handloom sector and 10 lakh jobs could be created in the agro business clusters. “The government is buying handloom products in bulk. This will continue in the next few years to help the sector grow,” said a source. In case of agro business clusters, it has been found that the state has immense potential as Bengal is now aiming to increase the production of pulses and oil seeds, which always help to increase downstream industries in the states where these are produced. Moreover, the government has decided to focus on the Matir Srishti projects, which aim to develop horticulture, fisheries and poultry in the barren areas of the Jungle Mahal and Birbhum, as they are likely to create 3 lakh employment opportunities. While there is little doubt a comprehensive plan and its roll-out will help the ruling party, implementing the idea will be easier said than done. “The plan has to be accompanied by creating the right infrastructure so that willing investors are encouraged to pump in money. In that case, the government has to play the role of a facilitator by extending loans, offering incentives and helping the process through creation of training facilities for the potential employees,” said the head of a city-based chamber of commerce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-301
23-11-2020||West Bengal||Tribals seethe at BJP's Birsa Munda ‘insult’||Nearly 1,000 people from tribal communities in Bankura took out a protest rally here on Sunday against the alleged “undermining” of legendary tribal freedom fighter Birsa Munda by Union home minister Amit Shah during the latter’s visit here earlier this month. The tribal protest rally ended barely two hours before chief minister Mamata Banerjee arrived in Bankura on Sunday 3pm. The rally started from Bankura’s Lalbazar area and ended at Machantala, where leaders of multiple tribal outfits mounted a public protest against Shah’s paying floral tributes on November 5 to the statue of an anonymous tribal hunter with the branches of a tree on his head. “We tried to get the attention of our chief minister through our protest rally as she reached the district today (Sunday). The protest is against the move to humiliate our hero, Birsa Munda, as Amit Shah paid tribute to a hunter’s statue and garlanded a photograph of Munda kept by the feet of the statue,” said Sunil Kumar Mandi, the district president of the All-India Adivasi Bikash Parishad. Mandi also said that he, on the behalf of the tribal community, had approached minister of state and Trinamul president in Bankura, Shyamal Santra, seeking an appointment to meet the chief minister to express their grief on the issue. “We don’t know if she will have time to meet us. If she meets us, we will tell her how the faux pas has hurt the tribal community,” said Mandi. The tribal freedom fighter has, since November 5, assumed centre stage in the battle between Trinamul and BJP after Shah’s floral tributes to the wrong statue prompted Trinamul to label the BJP “bohiragawto (outsider)” once again. The BJP, which had mistakenly identified the hunter’s statue as that of Munda, tried to cover it up by placing a picture of Birsa Munda by the hunter’s feet. The faux pas drew loud criticism from tribal organisations. However, the state BJP president Dilip Ghosh told journalists a few days after the event — much to the dismay of tribal organisations — that the BJP considered the statue of the anonymous hunter as that of Birsa Munda because Shah had paid floral tributes to it. “It would have been better had they admitted their mistake,” a tribal leader had said then. 
Placing Birsa Munda’s picture by the feet of the hunter’s statue on November 5 has now reportedly snowballed into a contentious issue by itself. “We treat Birsa Munda as our Bhagwan (god) and we can’t be ready to accept such mistakes from a person like Union home minister Shah. It was just a hunter and the photograph of Birsa Bhagwan was kept by the feet of the statue,” said Luxmi Narayan Kora, state president of the Munda Samaj Farich Samiti — a welfare society for members of the Munda community. Some members of the tribal community led by Trinamul have also decided to set up a statue of Munda near the hunter’s for which land has reportedly been identified. Last week, Trinamul in Bankura had decided to flood Shah’s letterbox with 50,000 postcards written by tribal residents of Jungle Mahal districts, seeking his apology.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-301
23-11-2020||West Bengal||Active Covid cases drop, total toll crosses 8,000||Bengal on Sunday reported a drop in its total active Covid-19 cases for the 27th consecutive day, aided by 3,726 recoveries that outnumbered 3,591 new infections detected, as the recovery rate rose to a new high of 92.72 per cent. Bengal has a total of 25,207 active Covid cases now, compared to 37,190 on Dashami. However, the state’s Covid-19 toll reached 8,025, with 49 deaths reported on Sunday. Bengal stands fifth among states with the most Covid-19 deaths, after Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Delhi. Since Bengal’s first Covid-19 death was reported on March 23, it took 244 days for the toll to cross 8,000. “The latest 1,000 deaths took 19 days, which is slower, and hence better than 16-17 days it took for the previous few thousands,” said a minister. Before this, Bengal had logged 500 deaths by June 17, 1,000 by July 15, 2,000 on August 8, 3,000 by August 27, 4,000 by September 14, 5,000 by October 1, 6,000 by October 18 and 7,000 by November 3. Of the deaths, 6,707 or 83.6 per cent were attributed to comorbidities by the state government. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.75 per cent, worse than the national figure of 1.46, but better than its own 1.85 since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. “Mortality in infected men was 2.09 on Dashami. It is 2.01 today (Sunday). In infected women, it was 1.45, and is 1.34 now,” said the minister. The 49 deaths reported on Sunday included 15 from the city, which now has over 2,500 deaths and more than 31 per cent of Bengal’s death toll. The state’s total Covid-19 cases is over 4.63 lakh, including 4.23 lakh recoveries. The state’s recovery rate has been rising for 31 consecutive days, inching closer to the national rate of 93.66. Since Dashami, the state logged over 1.11 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.02 lakh cases found. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, and the numbers of infections from that time showed that the intervention was effective. The high court issued a similar set of instructions for Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. With 44,653 tests on Sunday, the state’s total test count went past 55.22 lakh, at 61,366 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.26 per cent. The state reported 28.89 per cent occupancy in the 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 101 dedicated Covid hospitals, besides over 4.72 lakh telemedicine consultations so far during this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-302
23-11-2020||West Bengal||Elephant calf rescued by Buxa Tiger Reserve foresters||Foresters rescued a male elephant calf that was loitering beside NH31C near here on Sunday morning. Sources said the calf seemed to have separated from the herd. The calf was spotted by local people who had gone to the Poro river. They informed officers of the Nimati forest range in the Buxa Tiger Reserve who took about an hour to get hold of the calf and load it onto a truck. The animal was sent to the pet elephants’ enclosure in the Jaldapara National Park. Subhankar Sengupta, the field director of the Buxa reserve, said the calf was around one month old. “It seemed to have separated from the herd. The animal was loitering near the highway,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-302
23-11-2020||West Bengal||Mamata to attend Modi’s Tuesday Covid vaccine meet||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will join a videoconference meeting on Tuesday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold with the chief ministers of several states to discuss infrastructure needed for Covid-19 vaccination once the vaccine is available in the country. The videoconference is slated for 11am on Tuesday, a source said. The meeting is important — Mamata tweaked her Bankura tour itinerary to be present at the meeting — as the PM is likely to outline the steps the states need to take up for the gigantic vaccination programme. “The CM reached Bankura on Sunday, changing her original plan to reach there on Monday,” said a source. Sources said Mamata last attended a videoconference with the PM on July 26 during the inaugural programme to upgrade the NICED lab for more Covid 19 tests. “In that meeting she did not get a chance to speak much, but at Tuesday's meeting, she is likely to raise important issues if given a chance to speak,” said a source, adding that the state government would like the health department be made the nodal agency to conduct the vaccination programme in Bengal. “It is not possible for a central agency to hold the programme here because of lack of infrastructure. The health department has almost all needed infrastructure. On its part, the Centre should help the state develop cold chain (for vaccine storage),” said a bureaucrat. Mamata, sources said, would like to urge the Centre to help states develop cold chains in advance. She has instructed the health department to ensure that lack of infrastructure should not be a hurdle to vaccination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-302
23-11-2020||West Bengal||Three East Midnapore cops axed for ‘taking bribes’ from truck driver||Three East Midnapore policemen, including an assistant sub-inspector, were suspended on Friday after allegedly being caught taking bribes from a truck driver on the Egra-Kharagpur highway during a surprise raid late on Thursday. The inspection around midnight was led by the district’s assistant superintendent of police (rural) Vidit Raj Bhundesh. On the highway, two constables were spotted accepting wads of cash from a truck driver and handing them to the ASI seated inside the squad car. The ASI then counted the cash and put it inside the glovebox. Sources said Rs 25,000 was recovered from the trio, who were summoned on Friday 
by East Midnapore superintendent of police Sunil Kumar Yadav, who launched departmental investigations against the trio and suspended them from duty. The three have been sent to Tamluk police lines. “The issue of cops extorting bribes from trucks and tourist vehicles near Digha is not new. Following a harsh reprimand from chief minister Mamata Banerjee last year, the district force started surprise inspections against errant officers on Egra-Kharagpur, Contai-Digha and Contai-Egra highways,” said an officer. “This highway in question is NH116B from where several complaints from tourists bound for Digha had come to us against cops taking bribes,” he added. Sources said policemen in Digha had been pulled up in the recent past for falsely accusing tourist vehicle drivers of driving without licences and for asking truck drivers for documents deemed unnecessary by law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-302
23-11-2020||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri Trinamul leader fumes at Team Prashant Kishor’s ‘lessons’||A district Trinamul leader in Jalpaiguri associated with the party since its inception in 1998 expressed his displeasure at poll consultant Prashant Kishor and his agency I-PAC and asked if senior leaders like him “deserve to be taught political lessons by boys”. Bubai Kar, a joint secretary of Jalpaiguri district Trinamul and a follower of party heavyweight and state transport minister Suvendu Adhikari, posted on social media his grievances over Trinamul’s decision to engage Team PK. “1998 theke 2020, 22 bochor Trinamul korbar por IPAC namer kichu bachcha chele esey Trinamul Congress er siksha dichche. Etai ki prappo (After being in Trinamul for 22 years… since 1998 to 2020… some young boys from IPAC are coming and teaching us about Trinamul Congress… do we deserve this),” reads Kar’s post. According to party insiders, Kar had been the working president of Trinamul Chhatra Parishad in the district from 2000 to 2005, and Jalpaiguri town block president of Trinamul Youth Congress from 2006 to 2011. In 2014, he became a state secretary of the Trinamul Youth Congress and is now a joint secretary in the district committee.Commenting on his post on social media, Kar said it was “insulting” to take political lessons from representatives of a private company. “I am a follower of Suvendu Adhikari and feel after Mamata Banerjee, there is no one else other than him. I have seen the struggles of Mamata Banerjee but don’t know about Prashant Kishor. They run a private company…. These days, some youths instruct me on how I should do my party work and seek explanation of my political activities. This is utterly insulting,” said Kar. In recent times, Kar is the second Trinamul leader in north Bengal who openly questioned the party’s functioning. A few days back, Mihir Goswami, a Trinamul MLA from Cooch Behar, had posted on social media: “...it is no longer Mamata Banerjee’s party.” Kar told journalists that it looked like leaders like him were being sidelined. “Maybe the party does not need us anymore. People still have faith in our party supremo. I believe she should work together with Suvendu Adhikari to improve the situation,” Kar said. District TMC chief K.K. Kalyani frowned on Kar’s statements and said “such remarks and posts on social media are undesirable from a person still in the party”. “Prashant Kishor has been engaged by our party supremo in the interest of Trinamul,” Kalyani asserted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-302
23-11-2020||West Bengal||TMC dares BJP to name ‘bhaipo’||The Trinamul Congress on Sunday lashed out at the BJP over relentless attacks against the “bhaipo (nephew)”, deemed to be aimed at an influential leader in the ruling party known for his proximity to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, daring the saffron camp to name the two-term MP. In a news conference at Trinamul’s headquarters, spokesperson Kunal Ghosh accused the BJP of political bankruptcy, which he held responsible for the allegedly base tactics of levelling unsubstantiated charges that amount to “character assassination”. “One after another, canards, lies, and personal attacks. Astonishingly, a particular youth leader, an MP of ours is being singled out as the principal target of these attacks. Unable to compete with his political abilities, they are stooping to these personal attacks and the character assassination,” said Ghosh. The immediate trigger for the counter offensive were remarks on Saturday by the BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, but the alleged duo of “pishi-bhaipo” or “bua-bhatija” — aunt-nephew in Bengali and Hindi, respectively — has been a recurring theme of the BJP’s recent campaigns in Bengal, resorted to by even the likes of Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief J.P. Nadda. Trinamul, which usually does not respond directly to the theme specifically, addressed it on Sunday, asserting that it exposed the saffron camp’s “fear” of the youth leader and his capability. “The discourse should centre around development and allied agenda. Because the BJP cannot talk about that and has only underhanded strategies, it is stooping to such lows…. I want to tell Vijayvargiya and his colleagues clearly, instead of making such indirect references through use of such abstracts, name him directly, if you have the courage,” said Ghosh. “When a man like Vijayvargiya says nephew, it could mean anything, even the secretary of the BCCI (Shah’s son, Jay)…. It is imperative that he takes the name,” he added. On Saturday, Vijayvargiya had alleged that Trinamul’s reins were now entirely in the hands of the bhaipo and not even Mamata had any control over the party anymore, and that it was the so-called nephew’s elevation that necessitated the relegation to the sidelines able, 
senior leaders, such as Mukul Roy (former de facto Number Two of Trinamul, now a national vice-president of the BJP) and Suvendu Adhikari (minister and Trinamul general-secretary, allegedly being wooed by the BJP for a possible switch). Responding to Ghosh’s volleys, BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh mocked Trinamul, but steered clear of naming the bhaipo. “When the time comes, he will be named. We are the principal Opposition in Bengal, our objective is to reach out to the people and make sure they understand what we are talking about. If it is so difficult to understand, why is the noise of popular applause deafening every time the words pishi or bhaipo is mentioned in our speeches?” “We are not afraid of anybody. Names will be taken soon. But when anybody mentions ‘Didi (elder sister)’ in Bengal’s political context, is the reference lost on anybody?” asked the Midnapore MP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-302
