24-11-2020||West Bengal||Mamata says Bengal govt capable enough to procure Covid-19 vaccine||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said the state government is capable enough to procure the Covid-19 vaccine for the people of Bengal, seeking to pre-empt the replay of a publicity stunt the Centre had staged in Bihar before the Assembly polls there. “Give us the necessary instructions and inform us of the source from which the vaccine has to be procured. Our state government is ready,” Mamata said in Bankura on Monday. The chief minister’s comments came a day before her scheduled virtual meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the Covid-19 vaccination and allied issues. “They will make claims about giving the vaccine injections right away but will take at least six to eight months to actually send them. If we can spend Rs 1.5-2.5 lakh on the treatment of a (critical) Covid-19 patient, we can take care of the injections too,” Mamata said. Sources in the Trinamul Congress said the chief minister was aware that the BJP might try to make Covid vaccination an issue in the run-up to next year’s Assembly polls in Bengal. The BJP had promised free Covid-19 vaccines for everyone in Bihar while releasing its election manifesto there. Although the Election Commission had concluded the promise did not violate the model code, health experts had said such promises were premature, given the lack of clarity over which candidate vaccine might clear the tests and when. At the meeting with Modi on Tuesday, Mamata is expected to underscore the demand that the state health department be made the nodal agency for Covid-19 vaccination, a source at Nabanna, the state secretariat, said. “We have heard that Niced (the Centre’s National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases) can be made the nodal agency for Covid-19 vaccination in Bengal. We want the health department to be made the nodal agency — that will help implement the vaccination plans and processes smoothly here,” a state government official said. He claimed Niced lacked the infrastructure to undertake a vaccination programme on such a large scale — Bengal has a population above 10 crore — and could end up delaying the entire process. “The state wants prompt vaccination without avoidable delay, through the health department. For this, we are ready to buy the vaccines from the producers directly, if necessary,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-300
24-11-2020||West Bengal||AIMIM face joins TMC to ‘foil’ Bihar poll rerun||Anwar Pasha, a prominent face of the Bengal unit of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen, along with several colleagues, joined the Trinamul Congress on Monday, asserting that they did not want the Asaduddin Owaisi-led outfit to pull off a repeat of the Bihar Assembly elections in Bengal. Pasha, who had been a key leader in the AIMIM since 2013, lauded chief minister Mamata Banerjee for her secular, inclusive approach to politics and governance, before underscoring the reason for his switch. “In Bihar, the AIMIM contested 126 seats, winning only five. But they helped the BJP by deepening the polarisation and was almost single-handedly responsible for bringing the NDA back to power there…. Polarisation and cutting votes is a dangerous game. You can contest in just one constituency and hold just one meeting, but end up polarising the electorate in five constituencies,” said Pasha, who participated in a joining ceremony at Trinamul Bhavan here in the afternoon, overseen by ministers Bratya Basu and Malay Ghatak. “We don’t want to end up being the contractors building the bridge for the BJP to cross so that it could wrest power here. That is what the AIMIM’s role was in Bihar.” Along with him, the likes of Ali Bux, Sheikh Hasikul Islam, Ahmadullah Sardar, Jamshed Ahmed, Nazmul Hussain, Intekhab Alam and Syed Raihan joined Trinamul. “This joining by Pasha and others would take some wind out of Owaisi’s sails and be a setback for his Bengal plans,” said a Trinamul MP. However, the AIMIM tried playing down the importance of the joinings. “Yes, he (Pasha) has been a part of the party for some time. But at least for a year, he had been associated with several anti-party activities. So, he held no post or responsibility. His exit will make no difference to us,” said Syed Asim Waqar, an AIMIM spokesperson. Dilip Ghosh, the Bengal chief of the BJP, said: “The AIMIM’s functionaries are joining Trinamul here because Mamata is the undisputed champion of the kind of politics they believe in.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-300
24-11-2020||West Bengal||Switch from TMC to BJP in Nandigram ||The Trinamul Congress lost control of its second gram panchayat in East Midnapore, a district that had shaped the Mamata Banerjee party’s ride to power in 2011. The pradhan, upa (deputy) pradhan and six members of the Bayal gram panchayat in Nandigram block II joined the BJP in the presence of party leaders in both Calcutta and Nandigram in a span of five days. Last Thursday, panchayat pradhan Pabitra Kar and upa-pradhan Biswajit Bhuniya had received party flags in Calcutta in the presence of BJP state party president Dilip Ghosh. On Monday, six other members of the Bayal gram panchayat received their party flags from the BJP’s district vice-president Pralay Pal. The switch to the BJP of eight panchayat members in Bayal, including the pradhan and his deputy, has now left the Trinamul Congress with only two members in the 10-member gram panchayat. Bayal panchayat marks the second notable loss of control for Trinamul in East Midnapore since Kendamari Jalpai panchayat, where accusations of Amphan compensation fraud had forced the party to suspend a few members, leading to rift and open rebellion among members. Since the 2008 panchayat polls, in which Trinamul won the zilla parishads of East Midnapore and South 24-Parganas, Trinamul had control of all 17 gram panchayats under the Nandigram Assembly segment. Asked why he defected to the BJP, Pabitra Kar cited his discontents with the ruling party, alluding to remarks made during two separate rallies organised in Nandigram on November 10 by state ministers Firhad Hakim and Suvendu Adhikari. “Both leaders belittled the significance of the Nandigram movement and it went against everything we had fought for in those years,” said Kar, referring to the 2007 land agitation that is widely credited for Trinamul’s rise to power in 2011. “Not one police officer accused of killing innocent people has been punished,” he said. He added that Hakim credited Mamata Banerjee for the Nandigram movement and Adhikari himself, but no one spoke about the anti-land acquisition movement. “Such comments from top Trinamul leaders made me uncomfortable to stay on in the party,” Kar added. Another panchayat member Shiuli Kar, who joined the BJP on Monday, agreed. “Trinamul rode the Nandigram wave to come to power in 2011 but none of the party’s promises made then, including punishment for the guilty police officers who attacked villagers during Left rule, were fulfilled. We felt disillusioned with the party, and we hope to fulfil our demands through the BJP,” she said. The incident has added to Trinamul’s unease in the district amid a rumoured fallout with Adhikari, though the party heavyweight had recently said in public that he had neither left the party, nor had be been asked to leave. Asked, Trinamul leader Meghnad Pal, also the Nandigram Assembly committee chairman, said the six panchayat members had “acted against the party”. “Panchayat norms dictate that we cannot take action (against these defectors) before they have been in office for two-and-a-half years,” he added. Though Bengal’s panchayat elections — the bloodiest in recent memory — happened in May 2018, it took over a month for boards to form, hence these grassroots leaders have not completed two-and-a-half years in power as of now. BJP leaders in the area sounded both jubilant and optimistic about more from Trinamul joining the saffron camp in the coming days. “Eight panchayat members from Bayal joined us this month and others are in touch with us. You will see them come to us very soon,” said BJP district vice-president Pralay Pal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-300
24-11-2020||West Bengal||14 people, 8 trucks fall off steamer into Ganga in Malda||Fourteen persons are suspected to have fallen in the Ganga as eight trucks loaded with sand and stone chips tumbled into the river from a vessel (large steamer) that had brought the vehicles from Jharkhand’s Rajmahal to Manikchak in Malda. The vessel had just been anchored at Manikchak on Monday evening when the mishap happened. Around 14 people — workers and helpers on trucks, mostly Jharkhand residents — are suspected missing. Senior police and administrative officials, and a disaster management team are searching for the men. In Malda, it is a common practice to bring the trucks from Jharkhand via waterways. “Around 7.15pm, the vessel anchored at Manikchak, and iron planks were laid out so that the trucks could roll out of the vessel. As the first truck moved out, the planks trembled. This shook the vessel, and a truck at the rear fell into the river. As the vehicles were in a row, other trucks started rolling back and fell into the river one by one,” said a source in the administration. During preliminary probe, the police learnt that 22 men fell in the river, among whom eight swam up but 14 could not. A source said the drivers of the trucks managed to get off the vehicles in time. The men who fell in the river were workers (who load and unload consignments) and helpers. Rajarshi Mitra, Malda district magistrate, and superintendent of police Alok Rajoria are learnt to have headed for Manikchak. Gour Mondal, the sabhadhipati of Malda Zilla Parishad, and some Trinamul leaders, also went to the site. The district magistrate said it needed to be verified exactly how many men are missing and it would be probed if proper safety measures were followed. The eight men who could swim up have been sent to a hospital in Manikchak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-300
24-11-2020||West Bengal||Apolitical forum formed in Darjeeling to pursue Gorkhaland demand||An apolitical forum has been formed in Darjeeling to pursue the demand of Gorkhaland at a time the dynamics of hill politics have changed with both Bimal Gurung and Binay Tamang factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha aligning with the Trinamul Congress, a party opposed to the statehood. Leaders of the new organisation — Gorkhaland Sankalp Samua — held a meeting with office-bearers of the Bharatiya Gorkha Parisangh, another apolitical organisation espousing the cause of the Gorkhas across the country, in Darjeeling on Sunday to present their plans and proposals to pursue the statehood demand. Pasang Sherpa, a representative of the GSS, said there had been a realisation that political parties had failed to achieve much through their movements. “This, we feel, is because they are not united. We want to create a platform where a united Gorkha voice can be heard,” said Sherpa stressing that the apolitical organisation would extensively use social media to reach out to the Gorkhas across the country. At a time both the factions of the Morchas have aligned with Trinamul and the  GNLF is talking about the possibility of going for a “permanent political solution”, which is not less than the provisions enshrined in the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution, observers believe the new apolitical organisation is trying to tap in the “silent majority” which do not agree with the present stand of hill parties. Even though most hill parties swear by Gorkhaland, which is an emotive issue, the disillusionment against these parties is slowly coming out in the open, said an observer. The GSS highlighted that the movements by political parties had achieved little but only destroyed “the economy, education, livelihood and even politics of the hills”. “Our primary agenda at the moment is to unite all voices, including parties, and bring them to a common platform so that the demand is pursued strongly,” said Sherpa. Sources said this new forum would not allow its members to engage with political parties. “The forum is looking at agitation which does not severely affect common lives. Movements like not accepting government benefits on a particular day, hoisting national flags to demand Gorkhaland and mobilising people across the region with specific events, are being considered by the forum at the moment,” said a source. Observers believe that these events are probably aimed to first mobilise support for the new platform. The fact that the BGP has given credence to the new initiative suggests there is a bigger churn below the surface. Sukhman Moktan, national president, BGP, said members of the apolitical organisations discussed the present situation of Darjeeling and “the problem, weaknesses and initiatives and strategies that need to be undertaken for fulfilment of Gorkhaland demand”. “We have also decided to hold a national seminar on Gorkhaland in Darjeeling soon,” said Moktan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-300
24-11-2020||West Bengal||ED notices to three Trinamul leaders, including minister Firhad Hakim||The Enforcement Directorate has sent  notices to three Trinamul Congress leaders — Firhad Hakim, Prasun Banerjee and Madan Mitra — asking them to submit the details of their bank account transactions within a week from Monday. “We need to verify the details of the monetary transactions that happened through all the bank accounts held in their names,” said a source in the agency, which is investigating the Narada scam. While Hakim is a minister in the state government, Banerjee represents Howrah in the Lok Sabha. Mitra is a former minister. All these three leaders, along with other accused in the scam, had been questioned by the ED and the CBI. Their voice samples were also recorded in the course of the investigation as people resembling them were seen accepting cash in a sting operation conduced by Narada News. “We have already asked for and received several documents from these accused persons. As the investigation proceeds, we might need more documents as well,” the source said. A few days ago, the ED had asked BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy to share the details of his bank accounts and assets owned by him and his wife. However, this notice was in reference to the Saradha chit fund scam. Roy, who is now recovering from a surgery, had said earlier that there was nothing to hide and he would cooperate with the investigation. Roy — former Trinamul number 2, who joined the BJP in 2017 — is one of the accused in the Narada scam. Former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee is also an accused. Chatterjee switched from Trinamul to the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-301
24-11-2020||West Bengal||Drop in active Covid cases continues||Bengal on Monday reported a drop in total active Covid-19 cases for the 28th consecutive day as sources in the government said there were indications that the state had successfully warded off the threat of the outbreak worsening over the Kali Puja-Diwali weekend. The state logged 3,687 recoveries, 3,557 infections and 47 deaths on Monday. A member of the Mamata Banerjee cabinet said Monday’s figures were significant as they were believed to represent infections of the November 14-15 weekend. “These figures we are getting now are of the Kali Puja-Diwali weekend. Monday was Day 10 for someone who got infected on Kali Puja,” said a minister. It is between days six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent the worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja. The numbers of infections from Puja have shown that the intervention was effective. The high court issued a similar set of instructions for Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. “I think we are now getting to find out that the judicial intervention turned out to be equally effective for the November phase of festivals,” said the minister. In the 28 days since the end of Durga Puja, the state has recorded over 1.14 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.05 lakh cases found during the same period. It has dragged the total of active cases down from 37,190 to 25,030 in the 28 days. Bengal’s total of Covid-19 cases — since the first was detected on March 17 — is nearly 4.6 lakh, including over 4.26 lakh recoveries and 8,072 deaths. The state’s recovery rate has been on an unbroken spell of rise for 32 consecutive days, reaching 92.8 on Monday, inching closer to the national rate of 93.69 per cent. Of the 47 deaths reported on Monday, 10 were from Calcutta. Of the total deaths, 6,746 (83.6 per cent) have been attributed comorbidities. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.75, compared to the 1.46 per cent nationally. With 42,367 tests on Monday, over 55.65 lakh swab samples have been examined in the state. The number of tests per million people are 61,837. The positive confirmation rate is 8.26 per cent. Bengal reported 29.47 per cent occupancy on 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 101 dedicated hospitals. Over 4.75 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided on the pandemic so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-301
24-11-2020||West Bengal||CM seeks to corner BJP on statue faux pas||Mamata Banerjee on Monday pulled no punches against Union home minister Amit Shah and his party over their alleged lack of understanding of and sensitivity to tribal people, and more precisely to Bengal. Ending her silence on the BJP’s faux pas over foremost tribal icon Birsa Munda in Bankura earlier this month, the chief minister attacked the saffron ecosystem before announcing an annual holiday in the state starting next year on the birth anniversary of the freedom fighter. “He (Union home minister Shah) had garlanded a statue... later, you people told me that it was not of Birsa Munda at all, but that of a hunter. I respect hunters, they too are my brothers. But why would you lie like this, that too about such an icon?” asked Mamata at a state government event in Khatra, Bankura. The tribal freedom fighter, religious leader and folk hero Munda has suddenly assumed the centrestage in the battle between the Trinamul Congress and the BJP in Bengal after Shah paid floral tributes to the statue of an anonymous tribal hunter, which his party had identified as that of Munda. A photograph of Munda was kept at the feet of the statue in the last minute, after the blunder was pointed out by tribal outfits. “You will demolish the statue of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar. You will make mistakes about Rabindranath Tagore. You will pay tributes to an anonymous statue and claim it is of Birsa Munda…. This is simply not right,” said the Trinamul chief. Although the faux pas drew criticism from tribal organisations, the BJP’s state unit – responsible for the mistake – has been trying to put up a brave face and its chief Dilip Ghosh has said — much to the dismay of tribal organisations — that everybody must now consider it a statue of Munda, because Shah had paid tribute to it. On Monday, Ghosh stuck to his guns and said that adivasis were with the BJP and not Trinamul. Ghosh was correct on the decisive tribal support his party managed to garner in the general election, which gave it five of the six Lok Sabha seats in the tribal-dominated Jungle Mahal region of the state, including leads in 31 of the 45 Assembly segments there. Mamata was equally unsparing on Shah over his luncheon at the home of a tribal farmer in Bankura’s Chaturdihi on November 5. “A few days back, our honourable (Union) home minister came here, although only to show off. The food for him was brought from outside… five-star hotel and whatnot… by a cook from elsewhere. The person (Shah’s tribal host) has a daughter with a serious disease. He thought he would get help but he (Shah) told him that he would only have lunch at his home,” said Mamata. Shah had the lunch at the house of Bibhishan Hansda, 12km from Bankura town. Hansda was unable to speak to Shah about the problems he faces over the treatment of his 17-year-old diabetic daughter. After the state administration came forward with help, the BJP state leadership announced that the girl would be taken to the AIIMS in Delhi for treatment. “My Scheduled Tribe sisters were shown cutting vegetables that he did not eat at all. Even the rice was expensive Basmati from a five-star hotel, besides posto’r bawra (poppy-seed fritters),” said Mamata. Reacting with outrage, BJP state chief Ghosh alleged that the Trinamul chief’s 26-day hunger strike against the anti-land acquisition in Singur — a landmark in her political career — was “fake”. On Monday, before the event, Mamata met residents of Benkia, a Scheduled Caste-dominated village in Bankura’s Khatra. She sat in a charpoy and interacted with the villagers, regarding whether they had been benefiting from the state government’s many schemes. She said later that it was not a pre-planned visit, unlike those by the likes of Shah. At the event, she announced a new state-wide programme — Duarey Duarey Sarkar (The government at every doorstep) — to enhance administrative reach-out to the rural masses and sort out their problems ahead of the polls. As part of the programme, camps would be up between December 1 and January 30 in each of the state’s 341 blocks, with officials of every key department. “If any person visits a camp and informs us about a facility they are yet to get, the officials would ensure it is provided. If it is not possible at that time, priority lists would be made,” she said. The chief minister kept asking the people to keep the faith in her and attacked the BJP over its “anti-people” policies. “Many political parties would come before the elections and will deposit money in your accounts…. You can accept the money but don’t vote for them,” she said, holding the Centre responsible for the surge in prices of essential edibles. “There are one or two bad people everywhere, but there are so many good people…. I will serve the people till I die. For after that, I will create a team, to serve the people of Bengal in my absence,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-301
24-11-2020||West Bengal||SUV-bus collision kills two in Cooch Behar||A woman health worker and a driver were killed and two others, including the block medical officer of health, Cooch Behar–II block, were severely injured when their SUV collided head-on with a bus on Monday afternoon. The deceased are Arpita Das, 40, and Sribash Roy, 25. The health team had been to Pundibari to collect swab samples from suspected Covid-19 patients. On their way back to Cooch Behar, their SUV and a Siliguri-bound private bus collided at Chandanchura. BMOH S.K. Mondal and the injured woman health worker are admitted to the Cooch Behar government hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-301
24-11-2020||West Bengal||Healing touch for plastic factory blast victims||A young doctor from Sujapur in Malda has handed over Rs 25,000 to each of the six families who lost a member in the plastics factor blast last Thursday, and Rs 10,000 to six others with injuries. On Sunday, Joeb Ali Biswas, 35, gave Rs 2.10 lakh out of his own pocket to help the bereaved and the injured at a time most politicians are indulging in blame-game over compensation. So far, the state government provided compensations of Rs 2 lakh each to the bereaved families and Rs 50,000 to each of the injured youths. The BJP has demanded that the state pay Rs 1 crore to each of the bereaved families, and the Congress has clamoured for Rs 10 lakh. For the poor families who have lost their sole earning member in the Sujapur factory blast, Biswas’s gesture has come as a much-needed support. Doloni Bibi, mother of Abdul Rehman, 17, who died in the blast, was moved to tears. “My son was the only earning member of the family. After his untimely death, we have no idea how we would arrange our meals. Even Rs 100 matters a lot for us. What this doctor did is beyond our imagination. His assistance would help us for some days,” she said. Biswas downplayed his generosity. “I felt it is my responsibility to stand with these families at this hour of crisis, it is nothing worth mentioning,” he said. “But I would urge all those with steady incomes to help these families as much as possible,” he added. An MBBS, Biswas has worked in a number of private hospitals in Calcutta. Earlier this year, during the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown, Biswas returned to Sujapur and since then has been providing free treatment to residents there and villages nearby. On hearing about Thursday’s blast, Biswas immediately decided to extend some help to the affected families from his own earnings. For this, he contacted Arif Ali, the local panchayat head, on how to go ahead with his plan. Accordingly, on Sunday, Biswas visited the households and handed over the compensation money. Biswas also told the families to feel free to approach him for advice on treatment of the injured once they get back home from hospital or for the treatment of any other family member. The district police are awaiting the report of the forensic team that inspected the blast site and collected samples from the spot. “The probe is in progress. We are waiting for the forensic report and hope it will help us reach a conclusion on the reason for the blast,” said Alok Rajoria, Malda superintendent of police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-301
24-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid patient mix-up showcause ||The state health directorate issued showcause notices to a doctor and two nurses of Khardah’s Balaram Hospital for dereliction of duty that led to a mix-up of names of two aged Covid patients, wherein a 75-year-old patient died but the family of a 62-year-old patient who was alive was informed of the death. The error in hospital data entry came to light on Friday when Birati resident, Sibnath Bandyopadhyay, 62, was waiting for release after his recovery. But Sibnath’s name was recorded as Khardah’s Mohini Mohan Mukhopadhyay, 75, in hospital records, and authorities called up the latter’s family. When Mohini Mohan’s son Sudip arrived, he said the man wasn’t his father. Mohini Mohan, in fact, had died earlier this month, but Sibnath’s family had informed about “Sibnath’s” death. Sibnath’s son Sanjib, who was preparing for his shraddha scheduled for Saturday, came to the hospital to take his father home. Sources at Balaram Hospital said data entry error occurred when Mohini Mohan was being shifted to Kadamgachi Covid hospital in Barasat. Directorate of health services Ajoy Chakraborty said: “The incident has embarrassed us immensely.” “We have identified a doctor and two nurses of Balaram hospital (for the lapse) and they have been issued show-cause notices and asked to reply by Tuesday. Once we get those, necessary action will be taken against them. Nobody will be spared for negligence,” Chakraborty said, but refused to disclose the three names. On the directorate’s orders, the chief medical officer of health, North 24-Parganas, had formed a four-member inquiry panel that submitted its report on Friday night, identifying the hospital employees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-301
24-11-2020||West Bengal||Lightweight Jagaddhatri  for Covid safety||A 71-year-old Jagaddhatri Puja committee in Hooghly’s Chandernagore is worshipping a printed image of the idol this year to make it lightweight and ensure fewer people are involved in its immersion amid the pandemic. The 20-foot-tall vinyl-printed image has been fixed on plywood to give a 3D (three dimensional) look and a feel of clay idol. Chandernagore’s Jagaddhatri Puja is popular for huge idols, 3D illuminations and enormous immersion processions. In view of government regulations because of the pandemic, several Puja committees have downsized the celebrations to avoid huge crowds. A member of the Bagbazar Chowmatha Jagadhatri Puja Committee said the idea to use vinyl printing the idol occurred to them as vinyl prints were offered as high-quality 3D solutions for decorating cars, buildings and windows. A member of the seven-decade-old Puja committee said that after several rounds of discussions they opted for the printed version of the goddess to make the idol lighter and easier to carry for immersion. After talks, local printing press was contacted to find out whether it would be able to print the picture of last year’s clay idol on a 20-foot-long flex (which would be affixed to a piece of ply) to give a 3D effect, said a committee member. The printers said they could do the job. As budget was also a major consideration for the organisers this year, vinyl printing helped slash the cost spent on the idol in normal years. Till last year, the committee had spent Rs 35,000 on the idol and this year it has been significantly less. “The vinyl print cost us around Rs 22,000,” said Somnath Niyogi, treasurer of the Puja committee. However, the factor that weighed most on the minds of the organisers was not cost but weight. With vinyl print that target was achieved. “The technology is called 3D vinyl printing. We have placed it on a plywood and the weight has become much lighter than that of a clay idol. While the clay idol weighs around 8-10 quintals, this weighs less than 100kg,” said Bhaskar De Sarkar, one of the organisers. He added that a lightweight idol meant less people during immersion. Biswanath Niyogi, the president of the Puja committee, said this year only 15-20 persons would be allowed in the immersion process. “Carrying a clay idol would have required many people which is not possible amid a pandemic. As most of our committee members are elderly and some of them are even Covid survivors, we decided to keep them away from the process.” He added that the idol would be immersed on Tuesday, when the four-day-long Jagaddhatri Puja celebrations come to an end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-301
24-11-2020||West Bengal||Duncan-Goenka Group tea estate workers seek state aid||Around 100 workers of a closed tea estate owned by the Duncan-Goenka Group in Alipurduar district and some leaders of the Trinamul-backed tea trade union walked up to the office of the assistant labour commissioner on Monday and demanded the state’s monthly financial aid for workers immediately. Workers of Birpara tea estate, which closed 13 months back, said they were supposed to receive the monthly state aid of Rs 1,500 each under the Financial Assistance to Workers of Locked Out Industries (FAWLOI) scheme from May this year. None of them had received a penny so far, they said. In all, the garden has 1,300 permanent workers. According to them, under state norms, workers of a tea estate closed for six months or more are eligible for the aid. “Workers were supposed to get the money from May. None received the money. That is why we went to the ALC’s office in Birpara,” said Mannalal Jain, a leader of Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union. Neil Chhetri, the ALC, heard them out and assured them of help. In another development, Joint Forum, an apex body of over 25 tea trade unions, has decided to organise protests in each tea garden of north Bengal for the next two days, starting Tuesday, over a series of demands related to the well-being of the workforce. North Bengal has around 270 tea estates, which employ close to three lakh workers. Ziaur Alam, forum convener, said tea workers were in distress as key demands, including a fixed minimum wage, reopening of closed tea gardens and payment of wages during lockdown, were not addressed. “For the next two days, workers will demonstrate for half an hour in every tea garden of north Bengal. All our constituent unions have been instructed to organise the protests. We want the state government and tea planters to meet the demands,” said Alam. The Joint Forum does not have Trinamul-backed tea trade unions as constituents. Trinamul leaders see these protests as a “planned move” of tea trade unions affiliated to other political parties to exert pressure on the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-301
