25-11-2020||West Bengal||Garbage of lies: Mamata’s latest attack at BJP||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, while addressing a rally in the state’s Bankura district, called the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) a “garbage of lies”, daring them to arrest her and asserted that she would ensure a victory for her party Trinamool Congress (TMC) even from the jail. Referring to the saffron party as the “biggest curse of the nation”, she accused them of trying to poach TMC MLAs by trying to bribe them. Without naming anyone, the CM said that some people are acting as turncoats who are staying under the illusion that the BJP may come to power in the state. The Assembly elections in Bengal is due in April-May, with 294 seats being up for it. Accusing the BJP of various issues, Banerjee said, "The BJP is not a political party but garbage of lies. Whenever the election arrives, they bring up the issue of Narada (sting operation) and Saradha (scam) to intimidate TMC leaders. "But let me tell them very clearly, I am not afraid of the BJP or its agencies. If they have the guts, they can arrest me and put me behind the bars. I will fight elections from jail and ensure the victory of the TMC," she announced at her first major public rally in post-Covid times at Bankura. The chief minister, in a reference to the recently conducted Bihar Assembly elections, said even RJD supremo Lalu Prasad Yadav is serving jail term but he made sure his party performs well. "Even Lalu Prasad Yadav has been put behind bars but still he has ensured his party's good performance. The victory of the BJP (in Bihar) is through manipulation and not through popular mandate," she said. Hitting out at the saffron party for allegedly making attempts to bribe and intimidate TMC MLAs, Banerjee said, “"Few people are under the illusion that they (BJP) will come to power, so some people are trying to take a chance. But I want to say this clearly, there is neither any chance nor 'by-chance' for the BJP to come to power. We will again return to power with a bigger mandate."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-299
25-11-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul refrains from opposing Trade union bandh||Another national strike has been called by several central trade unions on Thursday but this time there appears to be a difference. The Trinamul Congress, which has abstained from strikes for nearly a decade, has so far refrained from actively opposing the bandh. Trinamul’s inactivity till now has raised the possibility of normal life being affected in the state on Thursday. The 24-hour strike from Wednesday midnight to Thursday midnight has been called against the policies of the Narendra Modi government, including the new labour and farm laws. A reason Trinamul is not actively seeking to foil the strike could be that the issues raised are expected to be in play during the Assembly polls. “No force will be applied (to stop the bandh),” Trinamul spokesperson Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said in response to a question on the party’s stand on the strike. 
Roy said: “We endorse it morally and we will be out on the roads that day, conducting political programmes against the BJP and its government at the Centre over their anti-people policies.” The Bengal government has so far not announced the usual penal measures on its employees if they shirk work on the day of the shutdown. But asking all employees to attend work in the middle of the pandemic would also have been impractical. Left and Congress leaders, who have been actively campaigning in support of the November 26 strike, have also acknowledged that there had been no significant incidents of opposition from the ruling party during the campaign for Thursday’s shutdown call. CPM MLA Sujan Chakraborty said Trinamul hadn’t been as “violent” as it used to be in the past. Responding to a question whether the party had diluted its anti-strike stand, Trinamul said its stand on the November 26 protest was “crystal clear” and had been announced by secretary-general Partha Chatterjee and its labour arm chief Dola Sen. “Our leader Mamata Banerjee had already protested against the issues on which the strike has been called. We don’t support strikes, but the issues do have our support,” Chatterjee had said a few days ago. Congress leader Pradip Bhattacharya said: “The country’s economy is in a deep crisis. Workers and farmers are up in arms against the Modi government. Trinamul has sensed the anger of the people and realised opposing the strike would alienate the party from the people.” State BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu said his party had evidence that Trinamul was backing the strike. “Most of the campaign rallies brought out by the Left or the Congress are packed with men sent by Trinamul. However, none of it will have any impact. The strike will be a major failure,” he said. Several ground-level leaders of the CPM and the Congress said they had faced less opposition in the run-up to the strike. “So far, Trinamul leaders have not visited our houses to threaten and halt our campaign for the strike. They have also not taken out any rally to protest against the strike,” said a CPM leader in West Midnapore’s Salboni block 1. He, however, said the real test of Trinamul’s stance would come when “we will hit the streets on Wednesday to request shopkeepers to observe a shutdown the day after (November 26)”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-299
25-11-2020||West Bengal||Grassroots feedback key for TMC, BJP||With only around six months left for state polls, the Trinamul and BJP leadership have drawn up plans to reach out to people, listen to them and prepare reports for the party leadership so that further strategies can be drawn up for the 54 Assembly seats in the region that can seal the fate of these political forces. Trinamul is all set to launch its “Bangadhwani Yatra”, a campaign believed to have been planned by poll strategist Prashant Kishor in the region, starting from Jalpaiguri. A statewide campaign, “Bangadhwani Yatra,” will start in north Bengal from Jalpaiguri civic area. “Initially, our party workers will reach out to around one-and-half lakh people who dwell in 25 wards of the town,” said Chandan Bhowmik, a district coordinator of Trinamul Jalpaiguri. For the programme, the town has been divided into eight zones. Teams, comprising six-seven members (there will be Trinamul workers as well as members from Prashant Kishor’s team) will move to households, tea stalls, parks and other places where residents assemble regularly and will also meet prominent residents of the wards. “The teams will even visit houses of supporters of other political parties. The idea is to collect their feedback with regard to social welfare schemes, development works and policies of the Mamata Banerjee government. Also, the teams will check out whether people, who are prospective beneficiaries of the social schemes, have received those benefits. Altogether, it would be a sort of a survey,” Bhowmik added. BJP leaders have instructed their seven MPs in north Bengal to visit all the mandals or zones spread across all Assembly segments of their respective parliamentary constituencies. For the past few days, a number of central and state leaders of BJP were stationed in Siliguri where they attended meetings organised by the party that intends to grab at least 50 of the 54 Assembly seats. On Saturday, these leaders asked the MPs to visit different areas of their constituency and collect information about the party’s support base, local issues and peoples’ opinion about the BJP. “The MPs have been told to visit each mandal of their constituency within the next 10 days or so and intensify their communication with party leaders and workers as well as with common people. They have been also advised to spend nights in each Assembly segment of their Lok Sabha constituency to understand the pulse of the voters and get an idea about the party's activities, right down to the micro level,” said a BJP insider. After their visit, each MP will have to submit a report on their findings to the party leadership, based on which new strategies to galvanise support and plug critical gaps will be framed. In recent times, this is the second decision made by the BJP to engage people for feedback from Assembly seats. A couple of days back, the BJP had also decided to depute “bistaraks” or special observers, one for each Assembly constituency, to find out if the guidelines laid down by the central and state leadership were being implemented in the grassroots by local leaders and understand the voters’ pulse. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-299
25-11-2020||West Bengal||More exhibits, safety at science hub||The North Bengal Science Centre (NBSC) here at Matigara has reopened after months with new attractions for visitors, and safety measures amid the pandemic such as sensors for interactive exhibits for a touch-free experience. The centre run by the National Council of Science Museums was closed for visitors since the third week of March, just before the lockdown was clamped across the country. It recently reopened its gates for visitors. Ritabrata Biswas, the project coordinator of NBSC, said they would soon introduce a digital exhibition on Mahatma Gandhi. Named “The Father of the Nation: A Digital Tribute,” the exhibition will open for visitors on November 26 as a part of the two-year-long commemoration of Gandhi’s sesquicentennial birth anniversary, Biswas said. The centre, which opened 23 years ago, will also install HPT-32 Deepak, an aircraft provided by the Indian Air Force, by the end of this month or by December first week for display. “The aircraft is an Indian prop-driven primary trainer manufactured by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL). It can accommodate two persons and has been donated to the NBSC by the Indian Air Force for display. Because of the pandemic, we could not install it earlier. We have, however, carried out all basic work for installation and are waiting for final work to be carried out by the IAF team,” said a source at the centre. As visitors have started entering the centre in ones and twos this month, the authorities have also taken certain measures to ensure health safety protocols are followed on premises. Among these include the replacement of switches with sensors for interactive exhibits. “With sensors, all such exhibits would start functioning without the need for visitors to touch any surface. This would largely reduce the risk of transmission of the virus,” said Biswas. At the centre, open from 10am to 6.30pm, visitors must wear masks, apply sanitiser and get thermal screening at the entrance. “We have installed foot pedal sanitisers at the entrance. All visitors have to undergo thermal screening before entry. The frequency of cleaning the premises and exhibits has increased,” Biswas added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-299
25-11-2020||West Bengal||Asok invites Trinamul ministers to Bapu event||CPM MLA Asok Bhattacharya, also the immediate past mayor of the Left-run board of Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) who chairs the board of administrators of the civic body, has invited three ministers of the Mamata Banerjee government to unveil a bust of Mahatma Gandhi here, catching political leaders by surprise. Bhattacharya told journalists on Tuesday that state municipal affairs and urban development minister Firhad Hakim would unveil the Mahatma’s bust at Kutcheri Road on November 30. Ministers Aroop Biswas and Gautam Deb will accompany Hakim. “Firhad Hakim will unveil the bust of Gandhiji. Also, the state PWD minister (Biswas) and state tourism minister (Deb) will be present at the event. All members of the BoA will be present. Later, we will meet the municipal affairs minister and submit a memo, seeking the state’s help for some development projects of the city,” said Bhattacharya. As mayor, he accused the Trinamul government of bias against the SMC, so this move left many stumped. Some former CPM councillors, who are members of the BoA at SMC now, maintained the decision was made as there is no elected board in the civic body now. “Like many civic bodies of Bengal, SMC runs under the state’s direct monitoring without an elected boar nowd. The BoA is a caretaker. It is normal that the minister of the department (Hakim) is invited to unveil a bust installed by the civic body,” said one. Political analysts said there could be more to it.  Bhattacharya was instrumental in backing the Congress in 2010 to stop Trinamul from winning the mayoral elections of SMC, the success of which led to the coinage of the “Siliguri Model” or “informal understanding between parties”, said a political observer. “This time, it seems that he intends to thwart BJP’s aggression. Like most other Assembly seats of north Bengal, BJP had led in Siliguri and Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly segments in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, which got the Left and Trinamul worried. It may also be interpreted as a missive to parties that it is necessary to work together, even if informally, to stop the BJP,” he added. District Trinamul leaders reacted briefly. “The state government always gave financial aid to SMC and carried out infrastructure development work in the city, but the former mayor never acknowledged it. It seems that he has finally realised the need for it,” said one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-299
25-11-2020||West Bengal||TMC’s tea trade union in movement mode||Pressures of competitive politics have prompted the Trinamul-backed tea trade union to launch a movement for the first time since the ruling party’s labour wing started its activities in the tea belt to draw the state government's attention to some of the brew belt’s pending issues in north Bengal. The trigger behind the ruling party-backed trade union's proactive approach is the work of tea trade unions affiliated to other political parties such as the CPM, the Congress, the BJP to voice the demands of tea workers. Aware that the Joint Forum may get an edge by organising movements, Trinamul-backed tea union leaders said they would draw Nabanna’s attention to the key issues. “On Tuesday, these unions under the banner of the Joint Forum, held a demonstration in each tea garden of the region and they are all set to intensify their movement... The ruling party's tea trade union cannot sit idle. This is the beauty of competitive politics. And don’t forget, we are heading towards the elections,” said an observer of north Bengal politics. Among the issues flagged by the Joint Forum, the most prominent is fixing the minimum wage rate for the state’s tea workers, a decision that the Mamata Banerjee government is yet to make. “The chief minister and the state government have always remained sympathetic towards the tea population and we hope our movement will work and make the state intervene and resolve some of the pertinent issues which can help in socio-economic development of  tea workers and their families,” said Mannalal Jain, vice-president of the Inttuc-backed Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union. According to Trinamul insiders, when the Left Front was in power in Bengal, tea trade unions affiliated to CPM and other Left parties steered movements on different issues of tea workers. Trinamul leaders pointed out that while Mamata Banerjee has done a lot for tea workers, it is necessary in the brew belt to organise movements on pending issues of workers, even if that means raising demands before the state government. “Such an exercise is necessary to retain support base. Also, Assembly elections are ahead and we have apprehensions that other political parties would use their trade unions to campaign and draw support from tea workers. We cannot simply sit idle. Also, while carrying out our movement, we will also underscore the initiatives taken by the state during the past 10 years for the tea populace, including the housing scheme,” said a trade union leader of Trinamul in the Dooars. During the past couple of months, the state government has been expediting the implementation of “Cha Sundari,” the scheme under which free houses with land rights will be provided to tea workers. There are clear indications that a section of the workers, including those residing in some closed tea estates, will get the keys of such houses ahead of Assembly elections. Among other demands which the Trinamul-backed tea trade union plans to raise are increasing the retirement age from 58 to 60 years, revision of wages paid to a worker if he/she plucks extra leaves and payment of provident fund, gratuity and other entitlements pending in some gardens. Asked about their further plans, Jain said they would meet state labour minister Moloy Ghatak in Calcutta next week for tripartite talks over the charter of demands submitted by the staff and sub-staff of the tea industry. “We will elaborately discuss the workers’ issues with the minister,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-299
25-11-2020||West Bengal||Glare on child labour in Malda||Child labour is rampant at many of plastic crushing units that mushroomed at Sujapur near here in the past few years — a practice that came under lens following an explosion which killed six persons, including two minor boys, at one of such plants last week. The state labour department decided to carry out surprise inspections at the plastic crushing units and take stern action if minors were found employed. Abdur Rahman, who was 17 years old, was among the deceased in the blast that ripped through the unit on Thursday. He used to earn Rs 200 a day. “My son worked there for four years. When he started working, he used to earn Rs 100 a day. Gradually, he started operating the machine (that crushes used plastic) and had a hike of another Rs 100,” said his mother Daloni Bibi. Another deceased boy, Azizur Rahaman, 13, had also received measly wages, said his neighbours. According to them, the daily wage of minor labourers ranges from Rs 80 to Rs 200. “As they gain experience, the wage gradually increases. But for a minor, it is never more than Rs 200, despite working for eight to 10 hours a day,” said a Sujapur resident. In total, there are around 100 such plastic crushing units in Sujapur, which engage over 1,500 minors, the residents said. Acute poverty forces the families to send minor boys to work in such hazardous conditions. “One would be surprised to see that in this area, the number of girl students is more than boys. This is because the boys can make some earnings by working at these units and thus leave their studies to help families. Besides, girls get scholarships from the state government, which makes the parents to send them to schools,” said a teacher at Sujapur. A 12-year-old boy, who lives near a plastic processing unit, admitted that he found it better to work at a factory. “It helps me make some money for my family. I have given up my studies,” said the boy. The proprietors of the units, however, denied that minors were being employed. “We do not entertain such illegal practices. But sometimes, children come to factories where their parents work. We have even opened a school for children of our workers. The school is, however, closed now because of the lockdown,” said Mofizul Sheikh, secretary, Plastic Prakiyakaran Byabsayee Samiti. The deputy labour commissioner and the assistant labour commissioners posted in Malda have been asked to carry out inspections on a regular basis at the units. “If any factory is found to have violated the child labour act, appropriate legal action would be initiated against the owner concerned,” said Mohammed Rizwan, an additional commissioner of state labour department in north Bengal. Elected representatives of local bodies said they have not received any official complaint about the engagement of child labourers in these units. “But we have become alert after the incident and will keep a strong vigil to ensure that no minor is employed at these units,” said Arif Ali, the head of Sujapur panchayat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-299
25-11-2020||West Bengal||Active cases in Bengal drop below 25,000 ||Bengal on Tuesday achieved the goal of taking its total active Covid-19 cases to below 25,000 within November, riding the 29-day wave of steady drop in that total since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. The total active cases, which fell from 37,190 on Dashami to 24,880 on Tuesday, is almost at the level of September 20, 65 days ago. In these 29 days, the state has recorded over 1.2 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.09 lakh cases found. On Tuesday, the state reported 3,646 recoveries, 3,545 new infections and 49 deaths, 11 of which were from Calcutta. “Two of our main goals at the start of November were to ensure sub-25,000 total active cases and a 93 per cent-plus recovery rate by the end of the month. We achieved the first one today, and are on track for the second,” said a minister. The state’s recovery rate, 92.88 per cent on Tuesday, has been on the rise for 33 consecutive days. The national recovery rate is 93.73 per cent. Bengal’s total of Covid-19 cases is over 4.63 lakh now, including over 4.3 lakh recoveries and 8,121 deaths. The minister said Tuesday’s figures largely represent infections of the November 14-15 weekend. “Tuesday was Day 10 for someone who got infected on November 15. These statistics from the Kali Puja-Diwali weekend suggest we managed to get past the festival without much damage during this pandemic, just as we did over Durga Puja,” he said. It is between days six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected. Calcutta High Court had intervened with instructions against crowding to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from Puja already showed that the intervention was effective. Of the total toll, 6,789, or 83.6 per cent are comorbid deaths. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.75, compared to national 1.46 per cent. With 44,562 tests on Tuesday, the state’s total test count went past 56.09 lakh, at 62,332 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.26 per cent. The state reported 29.18 per cent occupancy in 13,508 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in 101 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 4.78 lakh telemedicine consultations so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-300
25-11-2020||West Bengal||‘Bengal can handle Covid shots’ Mamata ||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said during a videoconference of chief ministers with Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the Bengal government was ready with manpower and infrastructure to carry out Covid-19 vaccination as soon as vaccines were available in India. “We have the needed infrastructure and manpower in place,” an official quoted the chief minister as saying during the meeting that discussed the Covid situation in the country and the upcoming vaccination programme. Sources aware of the discussions during the video conference said that the chief minister made it clear that she wanted the state government to play the pivotal role in the vaccination programme. Officials in the know said that the PM asked the states to send their proposals on vaccination programmes in writing. “The chief minister’s stance on leaving the vaccination programme to the states apparently forced the Centre to ask for detailed proposals from the states,” said an official. The reason behind the clear message to the Prime Minister appeared to be political. The ruling dispensation would not like the BJP-led Centre to take credit for the vaccination ahead of the do-or-die Assembly polls in the summer of 2021, felt observers. “The PM did not say when the vaccine would be available and how the programme would be implemented... So, it was easy for the chief minister to suggest what she felt was the most ideal way of carrying out vaccination,” said a source. However, Mamata also  laid stress on working in tandem with the Centre and other stakeholders, a source said. “She is aware that vaccines would be made available to the Centre first and states would have to depend on Delhi for them... This is why the chief minister did not say even once that the state is ready to buy vaccines. But at the same time she very tactfully made it clear that she wouldn’t allow any central agency to take up the vaccination,” said a source. Sources in the health department said the chief minister was confident of carrying out the vaccination programme at the state level as the health department conducts many immunisation and vaccination programmes. “More than 20 lakh infants are given vaccines and polio drops every year in the state. So it is clear that the state has the infrastructure and manpower,” said an official. As part of its preparations for Covid vaccination, the state has prepared a list of nearly 6 lakh frontline workers, including doctors, nurses, health, ASHA and municipal workers who would get the vaccine in the first phase. A source said that it was also conveyed to the Centre that the cold chain required for storage and supply of vaccines was available in Bengal “in some form of readiness” as the state has the infrastructure to preserve polio drops and other vaccines. “We can store vaccines at 2°C... It is expected that the Covid-19 vaccine could be stored in this temperature,” said an official. Mamata explained why the state health department should be given the onus of vaccination. She pointed out how “efficiently” her government worked to bring down Covid-19 positivity rate and death rate in Bengal during the festive season. “Despite the onset of festivities in the Durga Puja-Kali Puja-Chhath season and the recommencement of the massive suburban rail movements, Bengal has successfully reduced positivity rate and death rate. The discharge rate has also improved,” she was quoted as saying. Bengal’s Covid positivity rate was 8.26 per cent on Monday, down from 9 about a month ago. The number of deaths has also come down. On Monday, 47 deaths were reported in Bengal, but about a month ago the daily average was 60 deaths, sources said. “Despite being a border state with many international borders and...the cosmopolitan heritage of bearing the burden of patients from neighbouring states, West Bengal has been performing remarkably well,” Mamata was quoted as saying. Mamata, sources said, also told the PM that the Centre did not help the state financially to fight against the pandemic though the state’s own revenue generation had dried up amid Covid curbs. “The state has spent around Rs 4,000 crore only on account of Covid management. But the Centre released only Rs 193 crore to the state under this head so far,” an official quoted the chief minister as saying.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-300
25-11-2020||West Bengal||Bid to placate MLA||North Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh on Tuesday visited disgruntled Trinamul MLA of Cooch Behar (South) Mihir Goswami to try and placate him. Ghosh went to Goswami’s home for around 30 minutes. “Mihirda is a senior leader and very much with Trinamul. The party wants leaders like him,” Ghosh said. Goswami, however, said he did not think he “deserved to stay in Trinamul anymore”. In October, Goswami, who has been with Trinamul since its inception, said he was withdrawing from all political responsibilities assigned to him by the party as he didn’t like the way the party worked. More recently, he posted on social media: “This party is no longer in the hands of Mamata Banerjee……thus, it cannot be my party.” On Monday, he posted: “These days, the Yuvraj of Trinamul is passing strict instructions to district leaders to restrict infighting. But it is amusing to note that during the past 10 years, a section of state leaders had encouraged inner rivalry in the districts...” Goswami on Tuesday also asserted that he stuck to his comments on social media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-300
25-11-2020||West Bengal||3 men, 7 trucks missing in Ganga||Police, civil defence, disaster management and national disaster response forces on Tuesday retrieved one of the eight trucks that had rolled off a plank of a large steamer and fallen into the Ganga at Manikchak here on Monday evening. Of the 17 workers on trucks who had fallen into the river, 14 were rescued or managed to swim to safety. Three men and seven trucks are still missing. Eight trucks laden with stone chips and sand arrived from Rajmahal, Jharkhand, on a vessel to Manikchak via the waterway. The mishap occurred when the vessel was anchored at Manikchak, and an iron plank on which the trucks would roll out shook. The trucks toppled in a domino effect. It was initially thought that 22 men inside the eight trucks had fallen into the river among whom 14 were traceless. On Tuesday, counting revealed that 17 men had fallen in the river, and as of Tuesday evening, three — Montu Sheikh, Moina Sheikh and Tarachand Yadav — are missing. Search is on for them. The process of retrieving the rest of the seven trucks is on as well. Since Tuesday morning, excavators have been engaged in the search operations in the Ganga. Speedboats are also making the rounds to track the three men and the seven trucks till sundown. “The search operations will continue on Wednesday as well,” said a police officer at the site. The mishap prodded a number of political leaders, including Sujan Chakraborty of the CPM, Sreerupa Mitra Chaudhury and Gobinda Mandal of the BJP to visit the spot on Tuesday. They blamed the lack of proper infrastructure at the ghat and demanded construction of a proper jetty. “Overloading in trucks, illegal tenders and many other causes are indirectly responsible for the mishap,” Mitra Chaudhury alleged. Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member Mausam Noor and Malda Zilla Parishad sabhadhipati Gour Mandal also went to Manikchak and supervised the rescue operations. “It was an accident. However, the BJP and some other parties are trying to use it to reap political dividends,” said Gour Mandal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-300
25-11-2020||West Bengal||Teachers plant seeds of greenery||Two teachers of government-run schools in Murshidabad have turned green crusaders and set for themselves the task of distributing one crore saplings free of cost. Humayun Kabir, 29, and Ardhendu Biswas, 29, met three years ago when both got employed as school teachers in Murshidabad’s Beldanga area. Biswas, an English teacher at the Kumarpur Primary School in Beldanga, and Kabir, a chemistry graduate, teaching at the Kumarpur High School, met at the Sargachhi Ramakrishna Mission auditorium where both were volunteering for an environmental programme. Three years on, the youths, both residents of Chandpara village in Murshidabad, have returned to the same venue several times as organisers, attempting to steer a plantation drive for 1 crore saplings. “When we met each other, we realised we had the common goal of environmental well-being,” said Kabir. The duo funds the Mission Green Universe forum, which they kicked off at the same auditorium in January 2019 in the presence of 1,000 youths. “This is funded out of our own salaries. All we ask is that volunteers accept a sapling from us and plant it somewhere,” said Biswas, explaining the duo’s efforts spread to weddings venues, birthday parties and public ceremonies. Biswas said each of them shelled out around Rs 5,000-7,000 to fund the drive every month. Biswas and Kabir both nurture the saplings at nurseries set up at their own homes. “We have already distributed nearly two lakh saplings of common trees, including mango, guava, java plum (jamun), litchi, and mahogany. We want to see one crore saplings planted before too long,” Biswas said. Depending on the area one has, the green crusaders also distribute flowering and decorative trees as well. Asked about plantation venues, he said most saplings were being planted by them and by volunteers on public land near schools, waste lands, or parks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-300
