26-11-2020||West Bengal||Soon, Gurung public meeting in Siliguri||Bimal Gurung will reach the hills shortly and address a public meeting at Baghajatin Park — located in the heart of Siliguri — on his way to the hills, said Bishal Chhetri, a vice-president of the Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, on Wednesday. Since 2007, when Gurung had floated the party, this will be the first time that the Morcha will hold a meeting at a location within Siliguri. So far, the Morcha held public meetings in places such as Sukna and Gandhi Maidan on the fringes of Siliguri. “Our leader Bimal Gurung will soon reach north Bengal. Thousands of supporters across the region are eagerly waiting for his arrival. That is why we have decided to organise a grand welcome for him and on the same day, a public meeting will be held at Baghajatin Park here. People from the hills, Terai and the Dooars will be there at the event,” said Chhetri. The decision, party insiders said, was made to pass a message to the Trinamul leadership with whom the Gurung faction joined hands, the rival Binay Tamang faction of Morcha and the BJP, the party with which Gurung recently severed ties. “Leaders of the other faction (of the Morcha) often make tall claims about their support. We will prove our support base through the meeting and our leader (Gurung) will address the gathering. Our leaders are confident that the meeting will also give a fillip to Trinamul and will make BJP read the writing on the wall,” said an insider. Gurung's decision to hold a rally in Siliguri is seen as an attempt to test the waters, said an observer. “The decision clearly indicates that they want to gauge the support base before Bimal Gurung goes up to the hills and simultaneously show their strength to the other faction and political parties, particularly Trinamul and BJP,” he said, adding the turnout at the meeting would help the Gurung faction draw up further plans. Chhetri told newspersons that they would give their “all out support” their “beloved Mamata Didi” as they want to see her in the chief minister’s office after the 2021 Bengal elections. He was also critical of the BJP and questioned the party’s sincerity in meeting the two key demands of the hill residents — separate statehood and Scheduled Tribe status to 11 hill communities. “There hasn’t been an inch of progress in these demands. It seems the BJP leaders have forgotten what they had mentioned in their election manifesto. We want to make it clear that the BJP leaders should not have any major expectation from north Bengal. We are no longer with them and our absence will be reflected in the poll results,” said the Morcha leader. Those in rival Tamang faction of the Morcha said they did not give any importance to the announcements. “After Bimal Gurung resurfaced in Calcutta, there was spontaneous reaction among people across the hills, they came to the streets and demonstrated against him. We are not concerned about such meetings as people have summarily rejected him,” said a leader of the Tamang faction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-298
26-11-2020||West Bengal||TMC backs off from Jalpaiguri land talks for highway||Trinamul leaders in Jalpaiguri have decided to back-track from their plan of convincing people to part with their land for the largest highway project taken up by Centre in north Bengal. The party may instead insist on higher compensation, the move admittedly dictated by electoral compulsions. “It is true that the work to widen NH27 into a four-lane highway is pending in some stretches of Jalpaiguri district as land is yet to be obtained from people. We want the project to finish but simultaneously, we do not want to leave the land owners antagonised by asking them to part with their land against the existing compensation offered to them as the elections are ahead,” said Mitali Roy, the Trinamul MLA of Dhupguri. As of now, work is delayed in Maynaguri and Dhupguri blocks of the district as land is yet to be acquired. However, in most other parts of the district, work on the highway has finished or is going on in full swing. A Trinamul leader in Maynaguri spoke on similar lines. “Before the Assembly elections, we cannot afford to go ahead and persuade people, many of whom are farmers, to give away their land,” he said. He added that one of the reasons people support Mamata Banerjee is her “strong stand against forcible acquisition of land”. “As the project got delayed, some elected representatives and leaders of our party did approach these people to convince them (to part with land) and the administration had also taken certain initiatives. But now that a few months are left for the polls, we cannot make any move that is contrary to the policy of our party and the state government. In fact, we want the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to consider the demand for higher compensation,” the leader added. Almost 20 years back, the NHAI had taken up the East-West Corridor project — a four-lane highway to connect Porbandar of Gujarat with Silchar of Assam. In north Bengal, the project had stumbled on many stretches, and particularly since 2011, over delay in land acquisition. This made the Centre ask the state to facilitate land acquisition for the project while underscoring that the highway — the principal road route to northeast — was also of strategic importance. Elected representatives of Trinamul, including state tourism minister Gautam Deb, were involved to expedite the process. However, now that Trinamul intends to change its plan, some NHAI officials are worried that this would further delay this road project. Jalpaiguri’s BJP leaders questioned Trinamul’s motives at this point. “Trinamul deprived the residents of Bengal from infrastructure development. In Jalpaiguri, the highway project halted only for their political interest,” said Bapi Goswami, the district BJP chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-298
26-11-2020||West Bengal||Body, 2 trucks fished out of Ganga||The body of a worker was recovered and two more trucks were pulled out from the Ganga on Wednesday at Manikchak Ghat in Malda, where eight trucks and several workers tumbled from a large steamer into the river in a freak accident on Monday evening. The trucks and workers had come from Jharkhand via the waterway. A hydraulic crane was brought from Farakka Barrage Authority on Wednesday to speed up the recovery and rescue process, because till Tuesday only one truck had been retrieved. Around 10am, the second truck was lifted from the river, and around 6pm, up came the third. The lifeless body of Saidul Haque, 20, the helper, was found in the cabin of the truck that was retrieved at 10am. Masrul Sheikh, Saidul’s father who was anxiously waiting at the spot, identified the youth. Saidul, sources said, was from Udaya area under Barharwa police station in Sahebganj district of Jharkhand. He could not get out of the closed cabin of the truck that suddenly fell into the Ganga on Monday. Goutam Choudhury, officer-in-charge of Manikchak police station, said that the five more trucks were still there in the river. Two men are yet to be traced, he said. On Tuesday, it was known that 14 men — helpers and workers — had managed to swim to the banks or had been rescued by the police and the disaster management teams, and three men were traceless. With Saidul’s body recovered, search is on for the two missing men.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-298
26-11-2020||West Bengal||2 held with gunpowder in Malda||The police in Malda arrested two persons carrying gunpowder on Wednesday morning, leading to an explosive verbal battle between the BJP and Trinamul. According to police sources, Rajesh Mandal a.k.a. Kali, and Litan Mandal a.k.a. Niton, both residents of Sukhdebpara village under Baishnabnagar police station of Malda, were arrested from NH12. Both were on a two-wheeler carrying plastic packets of gunpowder. “They were carrying two plastic packets with around 2.5kg gunpowder in all. Both were intercepted and we confirmed the substance is used to make bombs,” said Tridip Pramanik, inspector-in-charge of Baishnabnagar police station. The police are probing if the duo are peddlers of explosives or are involved in the manufacture of crude bombs. “They have been taken into custody for interrogation,” a police officer said. The seizure and arrests prompted BJP leaders to claim that it was again proved that vast stretches of Kaliachak and Baishnabnagar, blocks that share borders with Bangladesh, are havens for criminals. “This is not the first seizure,” said Sreerupa Mitra Chaudhury, a senior BJP leader. “Earlier, illegal arms and bomb making units have been busted in these areas and many arrested with firearms and bombs. As the Bengal elections are nearing, these people, with the indulgence of Trinamul, are becoming active. Trinamul leaders knowing well that they will not win any Assembly seat in Malda are desperate to engage criminals for poll success,” she said. Trinamul reacted sharply to the allegation. Subhamay Bose, a district spokesperson of Trinamul, said: “BJP is trying to capitalise on even routine police actions.” “Also, the district police and not any central agency have seized the explosive and arrested two persons. BJP leaders should find better issues,” added Bose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-298
26-11-2020||West Bengal||South Dinajpur BJP leader found dead, MP alleges murder||The body of a BJP leader in Gangarampur of South Dinajpur district was found in a deserted field near his village on Wednesday morning, prompting the district party leaders to accuse local Trinamul goons of killing him. Police suspect Swadhin Roy, 45, a vegetable seller and BJP president of a booth committee in Banspara village of Sukdebpur panchayat, died in an accident. Police recovered the body and sent it for a post-mortem to Balurghat. “Trinamul supporters have strangled him to death as he was a BJP activist,” said BJP’s Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar. Trinamul district leaders have denied these allegations. The police have learnt that around 9am, Roy took his motorcycle to Salbari market to procure vegetables, but did not return. Other vegetable sellers on the route found his body on a deserted field with his bike. “BJP leaders and supporters are facing such attacks and many have been murdered in different parts of the state,” the BJP MP said. “We condemn the attack and want the police to find out the culprits,” he added. Subhash Chaki, a district coordinator of Trinamul, said the BJP was indulging in cheap politics. “Any death is unfortunate but BJP leaders these days, are trying to reap political dividends from such incidents. Probe has started and we want the truth,” said Chaki. South Dinajpur superintendent of police Debarshi Dutta said preliminary probe suggested Roy was drunk. “We suspect he fell off the bike and died of injuries. We are waiting for the post-mortem report to know the exact cause of death,” Dutta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-298
26-11-2020||West Bengal||TMC sit-in against TMC leader||A group of Trinamul leaders of Kaliachak-II block in Malda led by Mothabari MLA Sabina Yeasmin held a sit-in demonstration at the BDO’s office on Wednesday, alleging that the head of a Trinamul-run panchayat of the block was engaged in corrupt activities in connivance with the BDO. Trinamul protesters demanded that the pradhan of Gangaprasad panchayat, also a Trinamul leader, should face legal consequences and that the BDO should be removed. The demonstration in presence of the Trinamul MLA, as well as Sudhir Das, the Trinamul president of Kaliachak-II block, against an elected representative of the party and an administrative official has caused a stir within the party. Yeasmin said the protest was held in people’s interest. “Aminul Islam, the head of Gangaprasad panchayat, has lost confidence of most elected members. Except two or three, most of the 16 members are disgusted with his inaction and corruption. All developmental work has come to a halt in the panchayat for over one-and-a-half years. People regularly complain that they are deprived of various social welfare schemes launched by the state government,” she said. She alleged that BDO Sanjay Ghisingh had not taken any step against Aminul, even though others had approached Ghisingh against Aminul a number of times. “Hundreds of people are facing inconveniences. That is why I felt it necessary to hit the streets. The chief minister is sincerely working to help people of the state but here, it is because of this panchayat head and the BDO that people are being deprived of such schemes,” Yeasmin, a former state minister, said. This paper could not contact Aminul over phone. BDO Ghisingh refrained from commenting on the MLA’s allegations but claimed that an inquiry had been ordered against the panchayat. District Trinamul leaders reacted with caution. “We will surely check out if the pradhan is involved in corrupt activities. But the MLA and the block leaders should have acted with restraint. What they did on Wednesday has been a loss of face for the party,” said a district leader. BJP picked up the issue with glee. “It is a common scene in most rural bodies in the state where Trinamul is in power. The situation has reached such point that even some Trinamul leaders are finding it tough to remain silent,” said Sreerupa Mitra Chaudhury, senior BJP leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-298
26-11-2020||West Bengal||Didi knows everything: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday sent out a message to rebels in the Trinamul Congress without naming them that she had been watching every move and there would be consequences. The chief minister maintained a silence till Wednesday on murmurs that transport minister Suvendu Adhikari and some MPs and MLAs were about to quit the party and join the BJP in the run up to the Assembly polls. At her first political rally since the Covid-19 pandemic pressed a pause button on all public programmes, Mamata made it clear that she was keeping a tab on everything. “You will see one or two, who are in the party, but have been staying in touch with others, here and there. Do not think that Didi (Mamata) doesn’t know. She does. Didi has allowed them to do this for this long because she needed to understand what they are capable of,” Mamata told the rally in Bankura. “Down to every block, who is doing what, where, staying in touch with whom… every account I have been keeping. A to Z… and will continue doing so,” she added. Bengal has been rife with rumours over Adhikari’s political future since this summer and the speculation intensified in the past one month because of his certain remarks and absence from several state government and party programmes, the BJP’s comments regarding him and cryptic banners hailing him at various places across the state. Besides, Trinamul has also been firefighting in several corners of the state, with MLA after MLA speaking out against the management of party affairs, especially by poll consultant Prashant Kishor. From Singur MLA Rabindranath Bhattacharya to Cooch Behar South MLA Mihir Goswami, Sitai MLA Jagadish Barma Basunia to Hariharpara MLA Niamot Sheikh, there have been many public statements of displeasure in a matter of weeks. On Wednesday, Mamata responded sternly. “We think they are… dhandabaj (opportunists). There is a group of such opportunists. That group is very small…. Those trying to clear their paths (for switching sides) thinking there is a chance. There is zero chance of them (the BJP) coming to power,” she said. “Everywhere, our workers must watch out for them, monitor them closely. Who is going to whose place at 2am. In the dead of night, who is speaking to whom… look out for cars moving around in the dark. You will understand everything,” she added. Amid speculation on what Adhikari’s next step would be, the Trinamul leadership has shown eagerness to retain him in the fold and fielded party vice-president Saugata Roy to break the ice with him. Two rounds of meetings have failed, a source said before adding that another meeting was lined up in the next few days. Mamata touched upon the abolition of observer posts in Trinamul, which many believe was a direct reference to transport minister Adhikari. “Some seem to wonder, who is the observer of Bankura, of Purulia… who is handling Midnapore, what about Asansol, or Jalpaiguri…. Let me tell you this now, let me give this message to the party first: across Bengal, as a worker, I am the observer now,” said Mamata. “In every corner of the state, as a worker of our party, I will be the only observer... The way I handle all responsibilities of the government, I will do the same for the party too now. Because I think I was getting overburdened with work, which resulted in a bit of laxity (party-wise). I will no longer allow that,” the Trinamul chief added. The buzz in Trinamul has been that Adhikari has been bitterly displeased with the leadership over his loss — as the party’s observer — of control over six key districts of Bankura, West Midnapore, Jhargram, Murshidabad, Malda and North Dinajpur. Adhikari, a source said, was convinced that the decision to do away with the observers had been taken by Mamata’s nephew and Trinamul’s de facto Number Two Abhishek Banerjee and Prashant Kishor. “In his parleys with the party, Suvendu has suggested that he wants that control back, but Didi doesn’t seem to be in the mood to give in to his demand.” Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-298
26-11-2020||West Bengal||Sixteen-year-old from Murshidabad gets bravery award for saying ‘no’ to marriage||A 16-year-old village girl from Murshidabad, who complained to the BDO against her parents for arranging her marriage this April after her Madhyamik exam, received the state Birangana (bravery) award. With Covid lockdown norms stringent in April and no mode of transport from her village in Pradipdanga to the office of the BDO in Hariharpara 12km away, Nurbanu Khatun, 16, walked the entire stretch to try and prevent her impending marriage. The BDO led a team to her home and got her father Bakkar Sheikh to pledge that she would not be married off before the legal age of 18. Nurbanu’s courage did not go unrecognised. Block officials in Hariharpara, 22km from district headquarters Behrampore, nominated her for this annual honour of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights. Though the award ceremony was held at Calcutta's Rabindra Sadan last Friday, Nurbanu, now a Class XI student of Nischintapur High School, could not make it to the event. Late on Tuesday, Nurbanu received the award when block officials — including BDO Raja Bhowmick — felicitated her at her village home. An official said this was the second time Nurbanu complained against her parents to prevent her marriage. The first time was in 2018 when she was 14, and she was in Class IX. Nurbanu did not flinch then or now. She told this paper she would get married only by “choice” and not before she graduated from college and spent years in “social work”. The eldest of three siblings, Nurbanu comes from a very poor farming family. She is also the first in her family to pass her Madhyamik this year, an official added. Her neighbours alleged that after she stopped her marriage this April, she had been beaten up and reprimanded by her family for acting this way. Sheikh told The Telegraph that he was unaware of the law that forbade the marriage of girls before the age of 18. Reminded that this was his second attempt at getting Nurbanu married off before 18, the father said: “It is difficult for us to get a good match. See, we are very poor people and so we decided to get our eldest daughter married off because we had got a good match.” The poor farmer, however, added that he had pledged to the BDO not to get Nurbanu married off before 18. “We are constantly in touch with her and are taking care of her educational needs and expenses,” said BDO Bhowmick.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-299
26-11-2020||West Bengal||30-day dip in active Covid cases||Bengal on Wednesday reported a fall in its total active Covid cases for 30 consecutive days since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. In these 30 days, the state recorded around 1.24 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.13 lakh cases found. On Wednesday, the state reported 3,605 recoveries, 3,528 new infections and 51 deaths, 15 of which were from Calcutta. Active cases dropped from 37,190 on Dashami to 24,752 on Wednesday. On Tuesday night, leader of the Opposition Abdul Mannan, 68, was hospitalised on testing positive for Covid-19. He showed signs of lung infection. Those he came in contact with, including governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, have been alerted. The Congress veteran and Champdani MLA has several comorbidities. “Mannanda has not been keeping well for some time and has been in and out of the hospital in recent years. That is why we wanted to take no chances. A CT scan revealed he developed a lung infection. But he is stable right now,” said a party colleague. Mannan tested positive three days after Trinamul’s Singur MLA Rabindranath Bhattacharya, who had developed a chest infection. The Champdani and Singur MLAs are the latest addition to over 40 sitting members of the Bengal Assembly to test positive for the virus. Over half of them are from the ruling party. Prior to this, 11 members of the 44-member state cabinet tested positive, including Gautam Deb, Nirmal Maji, Rabindra Nath Ghosh, Tapas Roy, Manturam Pakhira, Suvendu Adhikari, Binay Barman, Jyotipriya Mullick, Sujit Bose, Swapan Debnath, and Soumen Mahapatra. The virus also infected at least six MPs from Bengal — the Congress’s Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury, BJP’s Dilip Ghosh, Locket Chatterjee, Sukanta Majumdar and Jayanta Roy, and Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member Shanta Chhetri. Covid-19 also claimed the lives of CPM veteran Shyamal Chakraborty, Trinamul’s MLAs Samaresh Das, Tamonash Ghosh and Gurupada Mete. Bengal’s total of Covid-19 cases is nearly 4.67 lakh now, including over 4.34 lakh recoveries and 8,172 deaths. The state’s recovery rate has been on the rise for 34 consecutive days, reaching 92.95 per cent on Wednesday, close to the national rate of 93.69 per cent. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to the national rate of 1.46. Of the total toll, 6,833 or 83.6 per cent, were reported comorbid deaths. With 44,631 tests on Wednesday, the state’s total test count went past 56.54 lakh, at 62,828 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.26 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-299
26-11-2020||West Bengal||Dilip calls Bengal ‘second Kashmir’||BJP Bengal president Dilip Ghosh on Wednesday called the state a “second Kashmir” and claimed there were more terrorists in Bengal than in Kashmir. “All terrorists are being arrested from Bengal. It is more than the number of terrorists arrested in Kashmir. All terrorists have taken shelter in Bengal. Arrests (of terrorists) were made twice from Murshidabad. Bengal has become second Kashmir,” said Ghosh while addressing BJP workers in Birbhum’s Suri. Ghosh’s comment drew sharp reactions from Trinamul and CPM leaders who criticised the state BJP chief for referring to Bengal and Kashmir in the same breath. “He spoke like Kangana Ranawat, who had in the past likened Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. People had then asked her to leave Mumbai. I am also asking Dilip Ghosh to leave Bengal,” Trinamul MP Sougata Roy told reporters in Calcutta. Urban development minister Firhad Hakim claimed that Ghosh was tarnishing the image of Bengal for petty vote-bank politics. “Terrorism has gripped their mind,” he added. Leaders of the CPM and the Congress also condemned Ghosh equating the state to Kashmir. Later, speaking at a rally in Murshidabad’s Kandi, Ghosh took on chief minister Mamata Banerjee for describing the BJP as bhogi (self-indulgent). At a rally in Bankura on Wednesday, Mamata had attacked the BJP for being self-indulgent party, while she described the CPM as greedy (lobhi). “The people of Bengal know who bhogi is and who tyagi (committed to sacrifice) is. The houses and cars owned by Trinamul leaders show whether they are bhogis or tyagis,” said Ghosh. Hitting out at Trinamul leaders for their alleged corrupt lifestyle, Ghosh said those indulging in dishonesty would be thrown behind bars if the BJP came to power in Bengal. “The process to grill Trinamul leaders will start from January. The letters have started to reach them. Many of them (Trinamul leaders) will be sent to jails in Behrampore, Dum Dum or in Odisha,” he added. Trinamul-BJP clash The rally of Dilip Ghosh in Suri was preceded by armed clashes between Trinamul and BJP supporters at Shimulia near Bolpur. Sources said the first clash took place at Shimulia village when alleged Trinamul-backed goons tried to stop vehicles carrying BJP supporters heading for the rally in Suri. A BJP worker was allegedly shot at and a Trinamul worker injured in the clash while a few vehicles hired by the BJP were damaged. Police sources said six mini-trucks carrying BJP supporters were travelling towards Suri to attend the rally by Ghosh on Wednesday morning when a group of Trinamul-backed goons allegedly attacked them with iron rods and guns and ransacked the vehicles. “The BJP claimed that their worker had been shot at but we found a small cut in the man’s chest. A Trinamul worker was beaten up by BJP supporters during the clash,” said a police officer. Later, the clash spread to the adjoining village of Shimulia where supporters of both the parties clashed with crude bombs and fled when police arrived. The police had to fire tear gas shells to disperse the warring groups. District police chief Shyam Singh said: “Police have started raids in the villages but no arrests have been made so far.” On Wednesday evening, BJP state leaders alleged that the convoy of Ghosh was attacked by Trinamul goons when it was passing by Purandarpur. Ghosh was on his way to Behrampore from Kandi. According to a press statement issued by the BJP, the attack took place in front of police who apparently did not intervene to prevent the incident. Although Ghosh was unharmed, his car was damaged. Additional reporting by Alamgir Hossain||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-299
26-11-2020||West Bengal||Attendance must for Bengal govt roster staff on bandh day||The Mamata Banerjee government issued an order on Wednesday evening making attendance mandatory for employees, who were drafted for duty on roster basis on Thursday when the joint committee of several central trade unions would enforce a nation-wide general strike against the Centre’s economic policies, including new labour and farm laws. The order issued by the finance secretary said those who would not report for duty on Thursday without specified reasons would face deduction of a day’s salary and a day from his/her service life as all kinds of leaves had been cancelled for the day. Sources said the state government could not make attendance of all employees mandatory like on previous bandhs days because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Government offices are being run with only 50 per cent of the employees because of Covid 19. That is why employees who have been drafted for duty on Thursday were asked to report for duty positively while remaining employees would work from home,” said a senior government official. All kinds of leaves were cancelled on bandh days since Trinamul came to power in 2011 as part of its attempts to restore lost work culture of the state. Since then, the government has been issuing orders cancelling all kinds of leaves during the bandh days in the state. Not only this, the state government has been initiating action against all the employees, who did not report for duty on bandh days despite stiff resistance from Opposition employees’ union like the Coordination Committee, the umbrella organisation of the employees unions back by the Left Parties. “We can’t change our stance against strikes even as the bandh this time has been called against the policies of the central government,” said a minister. The sources said all the departments had been asked to inform the employees who were drafted for roster duty on the day in advance so that the employees could attend office without any problem. The state government has initiated required steps to ensure that buses, taxis and other modes of transpiration function normally. The chief secretary has spoken to all district magistrates, police superintendents and other officers to ensure that commuters don’t face trouble on roads, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-299
26-11-2020||West Bengal||Pugmarks sparks panic  in Sunderbans village||A trail of pugmarks, later identified by foresters as that of a tiger, triggered panic at a village in the Sunderbans on Wednesday morning. The marks were found on the fringes of Purba Debipur village in Kultali block. A tiger had strayed into another village in the block in October. A narrow river called Moni separates the village from the Ajmalmari forests. The pugmarks were found inside a small mangrove cover on the riverbank. “The marks seem to be of a young tigress. They suggest she has gone back into the forest she came from,” said Milan Mandal, the divisional forest officer of South 24-Parganas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-299
