27-11-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu tenders resignation from state transport minister's post||Senior Trinamool Congress leader Suvendu Adhikari, who has been at odds with the party's leadership, tendered his resignation as the state's transport minister on Friday amid speculations over his next political move. Adhikari, the face of the Nandigram movement that catapulted Mamata Bannerjee to power in 2011, sent his resignation letter to the chief minister by fax, which he then forwarded to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar by e-mail. "I do hereby tender my resignation from my office as Minister. Steps may be taken for its immediate acceptance. I am simultaneously by e-mail this to His Excellency-Governor of West Bengal, for doing the needful at his end," Adhikari said in the resignation letter. "I thank you for giving me an opportunity to serve the people of the state, which I did all through with a commitment, dedication and sincerity," he added. On Wednesday, he had resigned as the chairman of the Hooghly River Bridge Commissioners (HRBC). Adhikari also shunned his Z-category security cover provided by the state government, sources said. "Today at 1:05 pm a resignation letter of Mr Suvendu Adhikari from office as minister addressed to Hon'ble Chief Minister has been forwarded to me. The issue will be addressed from a constitutional perspective," the governor tweeted. The Trinamool Congress remained tight-lipped on the development, while the BJP said that the resignation was a reflection of the anger of TMC leaders against the party's top brass. Sources close to Adhikari, who has not attended state cabinet meetings over the last few months, said that he was unhappy with the organisational rejig, effected a few months ago. MPs Sougata Roy and Sudip Bandopadhyay were deputed to talk to him and address the grievances, even as he continued to tour the state and lead rallies organised by his supporters but without the TMC's banner, an unusual for the party. The Telegraph had previously reported that at an event in East Midnapore last week, Suvendu claimed, “I am still a primary, active member of a political party. I am still a member of a cabinet. The chief minister has kept me as a minister…. Political statements cannot be made while being in the party, while remaining a member of the cabinet…. I am the son of the same soil as Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar. I will never do anything unethical." Adhikari had provided a hint about his future actions by admitting that there were rajnoitik mawtantawr (differences of political opinion) and bibhed (disintegration), which could lead to bichchhed (separation). “There are times, once in a while, when there are differences of political opinion, disintegration… from that disintegration, there can be separation. But for as long as one is in that party, in that cabinet… for as long as decision-makers have not thrown you out, or you haven’t quit yourself, till then statements like that cannot be made from such platforms (like these),” he had said. Speculations over his possible switch to the BJP or creating a political party aligned with the NDA have been doing the rounds for years, intensified by the rise of Mamata’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee in the party as her political successor. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, however, declined to comment on speculation that Adhikari was joining his party. Apart from his home district of East Midnapore, Adhikari has influence over at least 35-40 assembly segments that are in West Midnapore, Bankura, Purulia and Jhargram, and parts of Birbhum -- the tribal-dominated Junglemahal region. Elections to the 294-member Bengal assembly is likely in April-May next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-296
27-11-2020||West Bengal||CPM rally taps anger against BJP-TMC row||Around 2,500 people, including women and those from the tribal community took part in a rally on Thursday called by the CPM in Bolpur’s Shimulia and nearby villages against Wednesday’s clash between the BJP and the Trinamul. CPM leaders claimed the rally had been called as a part of the countrywide strike, but in Shimulia it turned to be a peace rally against the recurring violence in the region. CPM leaders said the clash between Trinamul and BJP workers had angered people so much that they came out in large numbers to join the rally. Armed clashes had rocked Shimulia and its adjacent village on Wednesday when allegedly Trinamul-backed goons tried to stop BJP supporters from attending the rally of the party’s state chief Dilip Ghosh in Suri. A BJP supporter was injured in the clash and police had to fire teargas shells to disperse the warring rivals. Several vehicles were damaged as well. Sources said most people took part in the CPM rally for the first time to express their disgust against the prolonged turf war in the area between the BJP and the Trinamul for nearly a year. “This is the first time I have joined a political rally. Frequent clashes between the two sides to take control of the area are a threat to peaceful existence. Wednesday’s clash forced me to join the peace march (on Thursday) against such violent incidents,” said Budhi Murmu, a primary schoolteacher in Birbhum’s Gosaidanga village adjacent to Shimulia. The rally passed through five villages, including Shimulia, to protest against Wednesday’s violent clash, hours before the police rounded up six persons from Trinamul and the BJP for their role in the turf war. “They were produced at a court in Bolpur and remanded to judicial custody,” said a police officer. Goutam Ghosh, the CPM state committee member who led Thursday’s rally, said: “Most of the people at the rally had come to protest against the violence. We were surprised to find so many people who had never joined our political meetings or rallies. It proves the rural populace, especially farmers, are angry with the politics of violence,” he said. Sources said soon after Wednesday’s clash, a few CPM leaders in Shimulia and nearby villages sensed the anger in the people and urged them to join Thursday’s rally. “Clashes with bombs and bullets are too frequent. We campaigned among villagers to come and protest and they responded positively,” said Dinesh Ghorui, a CPM area committee member in Shimulia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-296
27-11-2020||West Bengal||5-hour traffic bar on NH10 for repair||Traffic will be suspended for five hours along a 12km stretch of NH10 on Sunday when Bengal public works department will carry out a comprehensive repair of the principal highway that connects Sikkim and the Kalimpong district of Bengal with Siliguri. The state PWD (roads) will remove debris which piled up at 29th Mile along the highway during landslides and repair a 1.5km stretch there. A source in the PWD said traffic would be suspended between Rambhi and Teesta Bazaar — which are 12km apart — from 11am to 4pm on next Sunday. “Recurring landslides during the monsoon and thereafter damaged the road at 29th Mile. We will remove the rubble and repair the highway on Sunday. That is why vehicles will be barred from NH10 between Rambhi and Teesta Bazaar for five hours,” said a source in the department. A meeting of officials concerned was held in Kalimpong on Wednesday to discuss as to how traffic could be suspended. The Sikkim government as well as the administration of the neighbouring Darjeeling district were informed about the impending traffic ban. “People are requested to avoid travel between Rambhi and Teesta Bazaar for five hours on Sunday. However, commuters can take the Peshok-Jorebungalow-Sukna, Algarah-Lava-Gorubathan and Kalijhora-Panbu-Yangmakum-Pala-Kalimpong routes,” said Hari Krishna Pai, the superintendent of police, Kalimpong. “We are happy that the PWD has finally decided to address the problem at 29th Mile. Commuters are facing inconveniences because of landslides, which lead to traffic congestion,” said Debasish Maitra, president, Eastern Himalaya Travel & Tour Operators’ Association. “Also, it is risky for vehicles to move through the stretch as debris often fall from the hillside.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-296
27-11-2020||West Bengal|| North Bengal University genome hub to save indigenous plants||A genome centre that preserves samples of various plant species in north Bengal for future use will come up on the campus of the North Bengal University (NBU) on Siliguri outskirts. NBU vice-chancellor Subires Bhattacharyya said they had been working on the proposal for the past couple of months after the issue was raised by chief minister Mamata Banerjee at an administrative review meeting here  and could finally get approval from the state. “The government has approved it in principle and we will soon start work to build the centre,” the VC said. “A number of indigenous plants found in this region are getting rarer day by day. The centre will help us protect the biodiversity and preserve the genes of these plant species so that those can be nurtured to regenerate and cultivate fresh saplings,” he added. The centre, varsity sources said, will be named as Biswa Bangla Genome Centre, and its construction work is likely to commence from next month. Mamata, who was here in September this year, had stressed the need for such a centre and had also asked the vice-chancellor and other NBU officials to work on it. A senior faculty member of the botany department at the varsity said a genome centre of plants could largely help researchers in north Bengal. The sub-Himalayan region that covers high-altitude areas such as Sandakphu to pristine forests of the Dooars, is known to be a storehouse of biodiversity. “There are several ethno-medicinal species, most of which grow in the wild. It is necessary to preserve samples of these species, along with samples of rare floral species. The centre will also provide scope to researchers to work on different species,” he said. Dilip Sarkar, the registrar of NBU, said they planned to set up the centre near the department of bioinformatics on the campus. “Detailed plans will be chalked out to make a state-of-the-art facility as it will be one of its kind in the region,” said Sarkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-297
27-11-2020||West Bengal||Fourteen ‘Rohingya’ held from Rajdhani at New Jalpaiguri||Acting on a tip-off, Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel at New Jalpaiguri station arrested 14 foreign nationals, suspected to be Rohingya, on Tuesday night while they were on their way to Delhi from the Northeast on a special Rajdhani Express. Interrogation revealed they have fled from a refugee camp in Cox’s Bazar, Bangladesh. Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) sources said none had any identity proof of Indian citizenship. They had also booked tickets under false names. S. Chanda, the chief public relations officer of NFR, said a passenger’s call from the Agartala-New Delhi Special Rajdhani Express to RPF security control helpline in Alipurduar first alerted them. RPF officers passed the message to their counterparts in New Jalpaiguri. As the train reached NJP, RPF and GRP teams got on board and found the passengers. “The 14 who had boarded the train from Badarpur did not have identity cards to prove their Indian citizenship, and details of their tickets revealed they were travelling under fake names, that is, with tickets generated in the names of others,” the CPRO added. All of them were asked to get down and were taken to the GRP station in NJP. “They are suspected to be Rohingya and a case has been registered against them under Section 14A of the Foreigners (Amendment) Act,” Chanda added. On Wednesday, they were produced at a court and sent to judicial custody, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-297
27-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal BJP leader’s death now murder case||South Dinajpur police on Thursday filed a murder case in the death of Swadhin Roy, a booth committee president of the BJP in the district’s Gangarampur, after his wife formally complained that he was murdered. The police have detained two persons for interrogation. On Wednesday morning, Roy was found dead in a deserted field, his bike nearby. Police sent the body for autopsy. Senior policemen said prima facie Roy was drunk and could have died from falling off his bike. His last rites were held on Wednesday evening in the presence of the police. BJP leaders, including Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar, called it murder by strangulation and blamed Trinamul. On Thursday, state BJP leader Sayantan Bose and district leaders reached Roy’s house. Roy’s wife Beli and party leaders then went to Gangarampur police station, where Beli filed the murder charge and said her husband wasn’t in the habit of drinking. BJP leader Bose echoed the Balurghat MP to say that Roy had been strangled to death. “This is a new killing technique that Trinamul-backed goons have adopted to conceal their crime. The post-mortem and last rites were conducted in a hurry and we suspect that a section of police officers have done it in connivance with Trinamul,” he said. Asked to comment, Gangarampur’s inspector in charge was brief in his reaction. “We have filed a case based on a complaint by the deceased’s wife.  Two persons have been detained for interrogation. Our officers are probing the case,” said Purnendu Kundu, the inspector-in-charge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-297
27-11-2020||West Bengal||Cashless health cover for all in Bengal||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced the state government’s decision to bring all residents of Bengal under the fold of Swasthya Sathi, a cashless health insurance scheme launched by the state government in December 2016. “Already 7.5 crore people have either been enrolled in the scheme or are under process for inclusion. We have decided to bring another 2.5 crore people under the scheme. With this, all people in the state will be covered under the scheme,” said the chief minister at Nabanna on Thursday. The decision will be applicable from December 1, 2020. For this, the state government will have to shoulder an extra Rs 2,000 crore annually. So far, the state government had to spend nearly Rs 4,000 crore annually on the health scheme that gives each family insurance cover of Rs 5 lakh a year. The chief minister said those yet to be included under the scheme can apply from December 1 when government officials visit from door to door to know about people’s grievances under the “Duare Duare Sarkar (government at each doorstep)” programme. Mamata compared her government’s scheme with the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat and explained why Bengal did not implement the latter. “We shoulder the entire cost in our scheme. In the Centre's scheme, the Centre gives only 60 per cent cost (of the premium). Who will give the remaining part? The beneficiary?” she asked. The scheme has around 1,500 empanelled hospitals including AIIMS, Delhi and CMC, Vellore, said sources. The chief minister said that under the scheme, a smart card would be issued in the name of the woman who heads the family and details of all family members would be inserted in the card. Only those enrolled in any other government health scheme can’t be enrolled under this scheme. “The card is being issued in the name of the woman who heads the family as a part of the state government’s initiative of empowerment of women. Details of all other members would be inserted in the card and all family members can avail the benefits of the card,” said the chief minister. A senior government official said that the scheme was already very popular among the masses in the state. “About 70 lakh people have secured benefit of the scheme since it was introduced. It is expected that more people would utilise the benefit of the card in coming days,” said the official. Trinamul insiders said that the initiative could be considered a masterstroke by the chief minister ahead of polls. “It will help us counter the BJP’s campaign that the state did not join the central scheme (Ayushman Bharat) which left people of the state in trouble,” a Trinamul MLA said. “(We can tell people) we have a better scheme for the people of the state.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-297
27-11-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul wants case against Bengal governor||The Trinamul Congress on Thursday accused Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar of trying to shield alleged criminals through his tweets, demanding his removal from the post and asking Calcutta police to initiate criminal proceedings against the Raj Bhavan occupant. At a news conference at Trinamul Bhavan, Kalyan Banerjee, the party’s Serampore MP and a lawyer, lambasted Dhankhar over some of his tweets on November 22 and 25. “The honourable governor expressed his dissatisfaction by tweeting on November 22 regarding the arrest of Govind Agarwal and some chartered accountants,” Banerjee said. Agarwal, who offers accounting services, was arrested by the city police in connection with a corruption case against an income-tax officer, soon after which Dhankhar tweeted about “alarming worrisome inputs from CA fraternity” and a “politically inspired operation”. The governor’s tweets, however, made no mention of Agarwal who is not a CA. “The governor is speaking on behalf of the accused and obstructing the investigation. Everyone knows he tweeted again on November 25…,” Banerjee said, naming another person who was arrested in a case involving fake Enforcement Directorate papers. “Why is the governor speaking on behalf of these main accused? He is obstructing the work of the police, using his influence to save them,” added the MP. The MP alleged Dhankhar was targeting chief minister Mamata Banerjee  and trying to prevent the investigations. “Those who obstruct criminal investigations can be prosecuted under Sections 186 and 189 of the Indian Penal Code. So, I will request Calcutta police to file a case against him for the way he is tweeting to intimidate the public servants and under these two Sections,” Kalyan Banerjee said. “… no permission is required for this, against anyone who is doing illegal work in a government position,” he added. Justice (retired) Chittatosh Mookerjee, a former Chief Justice of the Calcutta and Bombay high courts, said such proceedings cannot be initiated against Dhankhar while he is in office and cited Article 361(2) of the Constitution. The Article states: “No criminal proceedings whatsoever shall be instituted or continued against the President, or the Governor of a State, in any court during his term of office.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-297
27-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal off list of top 5 active-case states||Bengal on Thursday achieved its goal of taking its Covid-19 recovery rate past 93 within November, riding the 31-day wave of a steady drop in total active cases since Vijaya Dashami on October 26. Bengal’s total active cases fell from 37,190 on Dashami to 24,670 on Thursday, almost back to the level of September 19, 68 days ago. With this, Bengal has managed to drop out of the list of top five states with the most active cases. “Our key goals at the start of this month were to get the total active cases to less than 25,000 and the recovery rate to over 93 per cent by November 30. We achieved the first on Tuesday and the second today (Thursday),” said a minister. “We have finally been able to fall out of the top five in the list of states with the most active cases. On Tuesday, we were fifth. Today, we have managed to come down to the eighth place. Soon, we will get out of the top 10,” he added. In the 31 days since the end of Durga Puja, the state recorded over 1.27 lakh recoveries, outweighing the 1.16 lakh cases found. On Thursday, the state reported 3,537 recoveries, 3,507 new infections and 52 deaths. The state’s recovery rate has been on an unbroken spell of rise for 35 consecutive days, reaching 93.01 per cent on Thursday, inching closer to the national rate of 93.64 per cent. Bengal’s total of Covid-19 cases is over 4.7 lakh now, including over 4.37 lakh recoveries and 8,224 deaths. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja. The numbers of infections from Puja showed that the intervention was effective. The high court issued a similar set of instructions for Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The minister said it could now be assumed that the state has seen off the Kali Puja-Diwali spell of festivities without considerable worsening of the outbreak. “Thursday was Day 10 for someone who got infected on November 17, the day after Bhai Phonta. These statistics we are getting now from the Kali Puja-Diwali weekend and later indicate that Durga Puja’s discipline was maintained,” said the minister. It is between Day Six and 10 of the infection that most cases get detected. With 44,713 tests on Thursday, the state’s total test count went past 56.99 lakh, at 63,325 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.26 per cent. Of the 52 deaths reported on Thursday, 12 each were from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. The total toll has 6,877 or 83.6 per cent comorbid deaths.The state’s mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to the national 1.45 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-297
27-11-2020||West Bengal||Cooch Behar Trinamul  MLA to quit||Mihir Goswami, the Trinamul MLA of Cooch Behar (South), said on Thursday that he had decided to sever ties with the party. Goswami, who has been vocal against Trinamul and its leaders for the past one-and-half months, said: “I feel that the party with which I have remained associated for 22 years no longer needs me. That is why I have decided to sever all my ties with the party.” He did not specify his future plans. His social media post on Thursday said: “The party that I had joined 22 years back is not today’s Trinamul. I don’t have any place in the party. If the party supremo instructs me, I can also resign from the MLA’s post.” Since October, Goswami has been critical of Trinamul. Last week, he put up a post on social media, saying the party was “no longer in the hands of Mamata Banerjee”. The veteran, however, did not clarify whether he had sent his resignation to party leaders. Asked if he was contemplating to join another party, Goswami dodged a direct reply. “I have made up my mind to leave Trinamul. If I have to serve people, I should work in a democratic manner and be in a democratic party. I will soon make a decision on it,” he said. On Tuesday, Trinamul stalwart in Cooch Behar and minister Rabindranath Ghosh had visited Goswami’s residence to try and placate him. After Thursday’s development, Trinamul leaders were guarded. “I don’t want to comment on his remarks or posts. All I can say is that he is still an MLA of our party,” said Partha Pratim Roy, district Trinamul president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-297
27-11-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu’s post goes to his critic Kalyan||The Bengal government on Thursday appointed Serampore MP Kalyan Banerjee as the chairman of the Hooghly River Bridge Commission (HRBC) in place of state transport minister Suvendu Adhikari who is apparently sulking with the Trinamul Congress leadership Sources in the government said Adhikari had submitted his resignation from the top position of the HRBC, which is a wing under the transport department. The appointment of Kalyan, who has been a bitter critic of Suvendu, in his place shows the leadership is not interested in placating the minister. “It remains to be seen when and how his association with the Trinamul government ends,” said a source. The change of guard at the helm of HRBC drew attention in the political and administrative circles amid murmurs that Adhikari has started snapping his remaining ties with the government. Over the last few months, he has not been attending ruling party programmes and cabinet meetings. He has also been making cryptic statements signalling that he is all set to chart a different political path for himself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-297
27-11-2020||West Bengal||Response lukewarm in Bengal tea gardens||The strike called by the Left trade unions on Thursday against “anti-people” policies of the Narendra Modi government had little impact in the brew belt, raising questions on the effectiveness of a shutdown call amid a pandemic that has plunged the working class deeper into poverty. Reports from the tea gardens suggested most workers in tea estates of Terai and the Dooars went to work and operations were normal in over 80 per cent tea gardens. A senior trade union leader in the Dooars admitted they were caught by surprise as most workers walked up to the factories and plantations in tea gardens in defiance of the bandh call. “This despite Joint Forum, the largest apex body of tea trade unions, supporting the strike,” said the trade union leader. “What we witnessed today (Thursday) is unprecedented... The Left and the Congress backed tea trade unions claim that their trade unions enjoy a considerable support of the tea population. That claim came under question today,” said Soumen Nag, a social researcher in Siliguri. Tea workers and managers pointed out loss in workers’ earnings during the prolonged lockdown, and that many did not want disruption in regular activities as the current tea season would end in less than a month. A political analyst pointed out that the BJP and Trinamul were not actively involved in this bandh, which might be another reason for the lukewarm response. “In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and 2016 Assembly polls, a large section of the tea population had backed the BJP. “It is because of their support that BJP could win parliamentary seats Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar. Also, in recent times, the Trinamul government has come up with social welfare schemes and a housing scheme for tea workers. None of these parties supported the strike. That might have also made tea workers join their work,” he said. Bidyut Gun, the district secretary of Alipurduar in Citu (CPM’s workers’ front), asserted that they were perturbed as a large number of workers defied the strike call. “It is clear that we could not reach out to each worker and convince him or her why they should support the strike. We have to find out whether there has been a change in the support base of trade unions or there is any other reason for it,” said Gun. In Jalpaiguri, district Trinamul chief K.K. Kalyani hit the streets of Jalpaiguri town to oppose the strike as workers of Saraswatipur tea estate in Rajganj block of the district that Kalyani owns did not join work. “They did not support the strike but enjoyed the day as a holiday,” clarified Kalyani. Additional reporting by our Alipurduar correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-297
27-11-2020||West Bengal||Trade union bandh hits industrial belts of of Durgapur, Asansol ||The Left in Bengal claimed workers in the industrial belts of Durgapur and Asansol and jute mills in North 24-Parganas and Hooghly “spontaneously” backed the bandh called by trade unions against the Narendra Modi government’s “anti-people” policies. “Bank employees, workers in the PSUs and officers of both central and state governments protested against the anti-people policies of the Union government. We haven’t seen this kind of a positive response from people in the past few years,” CPM politburo member Mohammed Salim said on Thursday evening. From early Thursday, leaders and supporters of Left and Congress trade unions — which had called the nationwide bandh — hit the streets to ensure shutdown. Though the impact was minimal in Calcutta, industrial belts of Nadia and North 24-Parganas saw near-complete shutdown. The Kalyani industrial belt also wore a deserted look. The Left trade union leaders claimed the strike was a major success in the jute mill belt in North 24-Parganas with only one — the Meghna Mill — operating among 22 mills between Bijpur and Baranagar. According to Bengal Chatkal Mazdoor Forum’s state panel president Nabendu Dasgupta, “spontaneous participation” of 70,000 jute mill workers in North 24-Parganas proved workers were “refusing to be wooed by the BJP and Trinamul”. The Left produced similar examples from industrial belts in Hooghly, West Burdwan to claim an “anti-BJP and anti-Trinamul mood”. Though top Left and Congress leaders equated the BJP and its policies with that of Mamata Banerjee’s government, some of their leaders in the lower rungs admitted that Trinamul’s tacit support by way of endorsing the issues played a positive role. The fact that Trinamul was not actively opposed to the strike was clear from the chief minister’s comments at the state secretariat: “I believe today workers are in a movement…though we don’t support strikes in principle. The Union government is selling off everything from Coal India to railways to civil aviation.” The trade unions had given the bandh call to press for its demands such as cash transfer of Rs 7,500 per month for all non-income tax-paying families, hike in minimum wages, withdrawal of “anti-farmer laws” and “anti-worker labour codes”, and to protest privatisation of public sector entities. The strike however bared a pragmatic loophole. A senior Left leader said: “The biggest sufferers of the Centre’s policies are workers in the unorganised sector without a voice... Opposition to anti-people policies of the Centre can create an effective resistance only if these marginalised sections can also be made a part of the movement.” Additional inputs from Abhijeet Chatterjee, Snehamoy Chakraborty and Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-297
27-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal panel on Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced the formation of a committee to oversee the yearlong celebrations of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s 125th birth anniversary and launched a scathing attack on the saffron camp over alleged attempts to rewrite history. The Bengal chief minister said the committee, which she would chair and would include Nobel laureate economists Amartya Sen and Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee among others, would begin work immediately for the celebrations. Netaji was born on January 23, 1897. His quasquicentennial birth anniversary celebrations are likely to begin from January 23 next year and continue till that date in 2022. “The core idea is to once again, spread far and wide the ideas of Netaji and everything he stood for…. A national, global icon, who rose from Bengal,” Mamata said while announcing the committee’s launch at Nabanna on Thursday. “Nowadays, I see a propensity to change history. History being rewritten on a whim…. Those who actually were in the Independence movement being left out, while those who opposed it — some who betrayed it — some of them are being brought forward, being portrayed as pioneering leaders, with political colours and intent,” she said in what sources in her party said was a direct attack on the saffron camp. A minister said Mamata was referring to attempts to deify figures that the saffron ecosystem considers iconic, such as Vinayak Damodar Savarkar, Syama Prasad Mookerjee and Deendayal Upadhyaya. One of the Sangh parivar’s pet peeves is that most universities in the country teach a “Leftist” version of Indian history that, among other things, glorifies Mughal rule. It wants Indian history rewritten to project the whole of Islamic rule as retrogressive, lionise Hindu kings like Prithviraj Chauhan and Rana Pratap who fought Muslim invaders or rulers, and extol ancient Indian (Hindu) knowledge and wisdom. “This is one area that she will increasingly attack the saffron camp on, with the help of Netaji’s legacy. Netaji, as it is widely known, was an uncompromisingly secular socialist who intensely detested the Hindi-Hindu-Hindustan vision of the Sangh parivar,” said a senior Trinamul Congress MP. Mamata said the committee included the likes of Nobel laureate economists Amartya Sen and Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, poet Shankha Ghosh, scholars and Netaji kin Sugata Bose and Sumantra Bose, finance minister and Netaji relative Amit Mitra, authors Shirshendu Mukhopadhyay and Abul Bashar, thespians Rudraprasad Sengupta and Manoj Mitra, artists Jogen Chowdhury and Suvaprasanna, poet Subodh Sarkar, danseuse and actor Mamata Shankar, and author and activist Manoranjan Byapari. The committee also includes seniors in the government and the administration, besides several vice-chancellors. The chief minister said surviving members of Netaji’s Indian National Army were also being reached out to, for inclusion in the committee. On Thursday, she rued Netaji’s legacy “being neglected” even now. “It is time everything is brought to light, in this special year. We declassified everything we had, the Centre did not, despite all the promises. The truth about his disappearance remains hidden.” In 2015, her government declassified documents it had on Netaji. Taking a cue from the Bengal government, the Centre had declassified a clutch of files related to Netaji in 2016, but the information failed to shed more light on his disappearance.On Thursday, asked if she thought Netaji was neglected because he was a Bengali, Mamata said: “Some things that come to mind cannot be said.” “They need not be said though. Speech is silver, silence is golden…. We never made any difference between Bengali and non-Bengali icons. But they (the BJP) do. They keep claiming they will turn Bengal into Gujarat, into Uttar Pradesh… why? Everyone knows what has been going on in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. Why must Bengal be subjected to that?” she asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-298
