28-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal to construct 'Apur Sansar Park' as tribute to Soumitra Chatterjee||The Bengal government has decided to construct a park themed on legendary actor Soumitra Chatterjee's debut film 'Apur Sansar' in New Town area on the northeastern fringes of Kolkata, a senior official said on Saturday. The Bengal Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (HIDCO) has invited an expression of interest (EOI) from bidders for deciding on how to execute the theme by retaining the flavour of the film, its Chairman cum Managing Director Debashis Sen said. Chatterjee had essayed the role of 'Apu' in the 1959 film which is part of the Apu trilogy directed by legendary filmmaker Satyajit Ray. "The bidders have been asked to decide on ways to project the theme -- whether there will be 3D installations or other things. Once they submit the ideas along with the details, our panel will decide which concept will be taken up, and the commissioning of the project will take place," Sen told PTI. He said while commissioning can begin within months of awarding the project to a bidder, it is not possible to say at the moment when it will be completed. The proposed park will come up near Snehodiya Housing in New Town. As part of HIDCO's initiative to set up theme parks to pay tributes to the rich heritage of the state, 'Sonar Kella Park' has already been set up in New Town and work on 'Professor Shonku Park' themed on Ray's fictional scientist- adventurer character along with models of his 'inventions' is underway, he said. The 'Sonar Kella Park' has images from Ray's 1974 children's classic movie and models recreating the desert scenes and sequences in Rajasthan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-295
28-11-2020||West Bengal||Land to fence India-Bangladesh border in Malda||The district administration in Malda is acquiring land along the India-Bangladesh border to enable the Centre install barbed-wire fences to fortify vacant stretches. The move, said sources in the administration, comes after the Mamata Banerjee government was repeatedly nudged by the Centre on the need for fencing to prevent infiltration and smuggling in Malda. Some 172km-long stretch of the India-Bangla border falls in Malda, of which 34km has no fencing, BSF sources said. Border areas minus fences are mostly in Kaliachak-III, Habibpur and Bamangola blocks. In the first phase, around 1.75 acres have been acquired in Pardeonapur-Sovapur area of Kaliachak– III block and another nine acres in Sabdalpur area of the same block, said sources. For the first stretch, a 300-metre-long stretch would be fenced. In Sabdalpur, fences will be put up along 1.25km. “In all, around 330 families have been compensated for this purpose,” an official said. In Malda, smuggling of cattle, fake Indian currency notes (FICN), narcotics and firearms and ammunition is often reported from border areas. During the past few months, the Union home ministry took serious note of such activities at the border and made it clear to the state that land should be immediately acquired and handed over to the Centre for installation of fences. “The state responded and the acquisition has started at the borders. The acquisition of another 17 acres (for putting fences along a 2.25 kilometre long stretch) in Milik-Sultanpur of Kaliachak–III block is awaiting approval of the state cabinet,” said an official at the district land and land reforms department in Malda. In Habibpur block, around 250 acres would be acquired for fences. “For this too, we are also waiting for the state’s approval. This is a major stretch (29km of 34km) where there are no fences at the border. Land will be acquired in areas like Tilashan and Pannapur,” the official added. Sources in BSF said that though the state started the acquisition process, there are some stretches along the borders where no initiative has been taken so far. “At Aiho in Habibpur block, there is a 1km-long border without fence. But no move has been made by the administration as yet. No one has an idea when this entire process will end and when the fences can be installed,” a source said. In Malda,some areas of the India-Bangladesh border are riverine and used to smuggle cattle to Bangladesh, particularly during monsoon months. “Here, there are proposals to raise fences along the banks of rivers and streams and put up rope bridges to check smuggling and for constant vigil,” the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-295
28-11-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu Adhikari quits Mamata cabinet||Suvendu Adhikari on Friday resigned from the Mamata Banerjee cabinet, gave up his Z-category security and vacated his government accommodation, signalling a phased termination of ties with the Trinamul Congress. The 49-year-old Nandigram MLA, who had played a key role in the anti-land-acquisition movement, has been distancing himself from the party and the government for the past few months. His resignation from the ministry has been accepted. He was the minister in charge of the departments of transport; irrigation and waterways; and water resources investigation and development. Adhikari remained silent on his next course of action although some of his aides claimed that an arrangement with the BJP was just a matter of time. A source close to the chief minister said the party had decided to “ignore” the Adhikari issue. “Didi will first hold a virtual rally for party workers on December 4.… Then a series of programmes will start from December 7 as she has decided to hit the streets,” the source said. Although Adhikari has not resigned from the party or from the Assembly and some Trinamul leaders said efforts were still on to mend ties, several party insiders said that a rapprochement was impossible. “Didi has factored it in that he is no longer with us. On paper, there will be some efforts to retain him, but that’s not going to change the situation,” a source said. That the ruling party is charting a course without Adhikari became clear with Mamata meeting trusted lieutenants like Subrata Bakshi, Firhad Hakim and Partha Chatterjee at her home on Friday evening. Party sources said the Trinamul leadership would seek to send out a message that a few desertions cannot cripple the party. Some Adhikari loyalists said he would have an impact in 60 to 70 Assembly seats. But sources close to Mamata said the impact would not extend beyond 20 to 25 seats. With Trinamul appearing to be on the back foot, at least for the time being, the glee in the saffron camp could not be missed. Senior state BJP leaders wasted no time inviting Adhikari to join the party. But speculation is rife whether Adhikari might instead float his own political platform. On whether his desertion would trigger an exodus, the majority view till Friday evening was that several Trinamul leaders were likely to follow Adhikari. “A lot will depend on how Didi handles the situation in the next few days,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-295
28-11-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul MLA hops on plane to join BJP||Mihir Goswami, Trinamul MLA of Cooch Behar (South), flew to Delhi on Friday and joined the BJP at its national headquarters, a day after he said he was severing ties with the party he was part of since its inception in 1998. On Friday morning, the MLA and Nisith Pramanik, the BJP MP of Cooch Behar, reached Bagdogra for a flight to Delhi. In the afternoon, Goswami posted on social media that he was resigning from Trinamul’s primary membership. “The leader (Mamata Banerjee) is no longer in the driving seat of Trinamul…. as is indicative from her silence...that is why I am resigning from the primary membership of the party today (Friday),” the MLA said in his post. “I am ready to resign from the MLA’s post. But I have seen some other MLAs who joined Trinamul from other parties have not resigned....” In the evening, Goswami was inducted into the BJP by Kailash Vijayvargiya, its Bengal minder, in the presence of Pramanik and party MP from Barrackpore Arjun Singh. Goswami said he was with Trinamul for the past 22 years but saw how north Bengal “has been deprived” and did not approve of the way “Trinamul was functioning these days”. State BJP leader Sayantan Bose said many others would “soon desert Trinamul”. “They are in touch with us and whatever has happened on Friday is just the beginning,” said Bose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-295
28-11-2020||West Bengal||Sudden rain spells woe for pricey potato in West Midnapore ||Untimely rainfall in parts of West Midnapore last weekend has delayed potato sowing. Delay in the sowing of potatoes spells bad news, especially when potato is retailing anywhere around Rs 45 a kilo. Delayed sowing usually delays harvesting, and often reduces production, which leaves an impact on the market. “If farmers harvest the produce early, they get a good price. In case of delayed sowing, farmers also face trouble as it hits production,” said a senior agriculture department official. According to officials, the delay in sowing in a large part of West Midnapore is likely to affect the potato trade in Bengal even though sowing of the crop in major potato belts such as Hooghly and East Burdwan is on according to schedule. “This year, less than 25,000 of the district's 72,000 hectares of potato fields in West Midnapore district have been sowed till now owing to delays in rainfall. It appears that the harvest of the produce will be delayed from the usual mid-January to early February,” said Dulal Das Adhikari, the district agriculture officer (information). Last weekend, parts of the district were inundated by sudden showers, bringing a halt to the November planting season. “It was particularly bad in West Midnapore’s Ghatal, where many low-lying areas are still waterlogged. Farmers have either had to put their activities on hold or search for inferior but drier patches, because potatoes need dry soil to grow,” said district zila parishad coordinator Tapan Datta. Farmers also said that the delay would pose several troubles for them. “If potatoes are harvested within January, we get a good price, for instance we got Rs 12 a kilo last year in January. Once produce is delayed, the price comes down to about Rs 8 to Rs 9 a kilo,” said a farmer. Prasenjit Samanta, who deals in potatoes in West Midnapore’s Ghatal, said: “The retail price of a kilo of potato hovers between Rs 45 and Rs 50. We expected the price to drop with the arrival of the new crop by January-end, but untimely rain will delay the process by at least three weeks.” A senior agriculture official added: “Potato price in December comes down in Bengal as soon as the early variety of potato from Punjab reaches markets. This year, potatoes from Punjab have not arrived yet, another reason why the price is abnormally high.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-295
28-11-2020||West Bengal||Bus safari in Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary ||The Bengal forest department launched a bus safari for tourists in the Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary near here on Friday. V.K. Yadav, the principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife), flagged off a 28-seater bus that would take visitors through the sanctuary for one hour. “Visitors can enjoy the hour-long bus ride inside the jungle. There will be five trips every day from 6.15am to 4.30pm. Each visitor will have to pay Rs 300 to avail himself/herself of the safari,” said Rajendra Jakhar, chief conservator of forests (north Bengal). The Mahananda sanctuary extends from Sukna, located 10km from here, and covers the hilly tracts of Sevoke and Latpanchar. The forest is a storehouse of varied floral species. It is also known to be a habitat of elephants, bison, leopard, deer and different species of birds. The safari, foresters said, will provide an additional opportunity to tourists to get to know wildlife in north Bengal. As of now, vehicle safaris are available in the Gorumara National Park in Jalpaiguri district and the Jaldapara National Park, Chilapata Forest and Buxa Tiger Reserve in Alipurduar district. Besides, the Bengal Safari Park on the outskirts of Siliguri also offers car rides for visitors. “We hope the bus safari will be popular among tourists and people of north Bengal, particularly because of its proximity to Siliguri,” said a senior forest officer. The tickets for the safari, he said, will be available at the nature interpretation centre in Sukna or online at www.wbsfda.org. During the launch of the bus safari at Sukna, Yadav released five kalij pheasants, an endangered bird species, and 10 red jungle fowls into the sanctuary. He said the department would organise a bird festival in Mahananda, preferably at Latpanchar, a hamlet located beyond Sevoke, before the end of this year. “Over 850 species of birds are found in Bengal and around 600 of them species can be seen in the forests of north Bengal. The Mahananda forest is a paradise for birdwatchers and considering its rich avian population, we have decided to host a bird festival here once a year,” Yadav said. In north Bengal, this will be the second-of-its- kind festival for birdwatchers and ornithologists. Every year, a similar fest is organised by the forest department in the Buxa Tiger Reserve from January 6 to 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-295
28-11-2020||West Bengal||After 3-year gap, Roshan Giri to address public rally||Roshan Giri, general secretary of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Bimal Gurung faction), will resurface in the Darjeeling hills after three years on Sunday to address a public rally at Kurseong. Giri is second-in-command of the party’s faction after Bimal Gurung. Giri’s public appearance in Kurseong will be one of the most significant political developments after October when Gurung resurfaced in Calcutta to support Mamata Banerjee and Trinamul. Roshan Giri said: “I will be addressing a public meeting t Kurseong on November 29.” Despite Gurung’s TMC support announcement, he and his senior leaders are still in Calcutta. Gurung’s supporters from the region are visiting him in Calcutta but none of Gurung faction leaders have climbed the hills till date. That’s why Giri’s statement assumes significance. Anit Thapa, chairman of board of administrator of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration and general secretary of Morcha camp (Binay Tamang faction) comes from Kurseong. Both Morcha factions now support Trinamul but are bitter rivals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-295
28-11-2020||West Bengal||Beginning of Trinamul’s end, says gleeful Bengal BJP||The Bengal BJP camp couldn’t hide its glee with Suvendu Adhikari’s resignation from the state cabinet and several party leaders rolled out red carpet for him to join the saffron camp. “This was bound to happen,”Dilip Ghosh, the party’s state president, said about Adhikari’s resignation on Friday. “This is the beginning of Trinamul’s end,” he added. Asked if there were chances of Adhikari joining the BJP,  Ghosh made it clear that the doors of the BJP were open for him. “He is a fighter. A mass leader. If he wants to come to BJP, he is welcome,” the Midnapore MP said. BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya went a step further while discussing the likely impact if Suvendu finally joins the saffron camp. “It will benefit us and our coming to power in Bengal will become a certainty,” he told reporters. A section of BJP leaders said he might take the flag from party president J.P. Nadda during his visit to Calcutta on December 8 and 9. Some others feel he might make it official in Delhi in the first week of December. “When he joins us, we will make inroads even into Muslim-dominated districts like Malda, Murshidabad and North Dinajpur along with the two Midnapores,” a source said. A section of the party did not seem happy with the prospect of Suvendu joining the BJP. “We were told to work together to win the polls in 2021 and we have been doing so. But if leaders like Adhikari join us, there will be no place for us anymore,” a party old guard said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-296
28-11-2020||West Bengal||Nandigram upset, fears pause in projects||Suvendu Adhikari’s resignation on Friday as minister and Haldia Development Authority chairman has cast a shadow of uncertainty over development projects in East Midnapore’s Nandigram. Adhikari is known as the man behind Mamata Banerjee’s Nandigram movement that had propelled Trinamul’s rise in Bengal politics. With Adhikari’s departure from the roles of transport, irrigation and water resource minister, residents of Nandigram fear development would take a back seat. Nandigram is a one-crop place owing to high salinity in water. “A surface water-drawing project to improve farming prospects is yet to be taken up. An 8km canal was to be dug up but now that project comes under a cloud,” said a source, adding Adhikari’s efforts had earlier brought an irrigation canal to the area. The Haldia Development Authority, which Adhikari chaired, wanted to convert 25 rural roads in Nandigram to concrete and install LED lights. No one knows if that would happen. A Trinamul source said during Adhikari’s tenure as minister, 100 rural roads in Nandigram were metalled. The other projects that become uncertain are the transport department’s plan to build a new central depot in Nandigram and a Nandigram-Khejuri government bus route. There’s more. “Many projects started by then railway minister Mamata Banerjee in 2009 were carried forward by Suvendu in 2011. Now we can safely say we will never see them complete,” said a TMC leader. A resident said Mamata as Union railway minister between 2009 and 2011 had laid the groundwork for the Nandigram railway line and station, but both are incomplete. A shipyard in Jellingham on the banks of the Hooghly inaugurated and abandoned during the Left era, was to be revived, but nothing concrete emerged. Some Nandigram residents are feeling betrayed. Hoimoboti Halder, 75, who had been shot at in the stomach on March 14, 2007, by the police during the anti-land-acquisition protests, said: “We saw both Mamata and Suvendu’s verve in the agitations, where is all of that now?” She is not the only one. Congress leader Milan Pradhan said he was upset by Adhikari’s decision to quit as minister. “We may have had our political differences but we had once fought for a brighter future for Nandigram. Nandigram will suffer in the absence of someone like Suvendu.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-296
28-11-2020||West Bengal||Mamata for outreach but to party ranks||Mamata Banerjee on Friday decided to address Trinamul Congress workers virtually on December 4 and start visiting various districts from December 7 as the chief minister purportedly chose not to attach much importance to Suvendu Adhikari’s moves. The decision was taken at a meeting Mamata had with some of her most trusted lieutenants at her residence here. Trinamul Congress state president Subrata Bakshi, the party’s secretary general Partha Chatterjee, general-secretaries Firhad Hakim and Aroop Biswas, and youth wing chief and her nephew Abhishek Banerjee were present at the meeting . “It is a question of intent now. Either she (Mamata) has to yield to Suvendu’s conditions to keep him — which will be a very bitter pill to swallow — or let him go, which could mean a major impact in the Assembly polls,” said a Trinamul Rajya Sabha member. “She could sort this out in a span of hours, but whichever option she picks will have a far-reaching impact on the party and its future, going into the make-or-break elections…. It seems very unlikely that she will upend the major structures for the sake of keeping him. He cannot be allowed to become bigger than the party,” he added. Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy, who had been deputed by the leadership to pacify Adhikari,  was still optimistic. “I still think there is scope for optimism. He is still in the party. He has some concerns, which have been communicated to the chief minister. We were to meet again, which is still on the cards. So, I am unwilling to believe that this is over,” said Roy. Adhikari, a former two-term MP, has been one of the tallest leaders of the ruling party and is part of its seven-member apex steering committee as a general-secretary. He had played a pivotal role in the anti-land acquisition movement in Nandigram, one of the two issues that propelled Mamata to power in 2011. His father Sisir Adhikari is the Contai MP and the East Midnapore Trinamul chief, besides being a vice-president of the party. One of his brothers Dibyendu Adhikari is the Tamluk MP, and another brother Soumyendu Adhikari is Contai’s civic chairman. The Adhikari family says it can influence verdict in close to 60 Assembly seats whereas the official camp says the sway is limited to 20-25 constituencies. Sources in the ruling party said the immediate trigger for the slew of resignations from Adhikari was the apparent endorsement of Serampore MP Kalyan Banerjee by Trinamul’s “supreme” leadership. MP Banerjee, with whom Adhikari has had testy ties, has been issuing statements in public attacking him and his family personally, sometimes in language deemed “unparliamentary”. “Suvendu had hoped Kalyan would be reprimanded, or at least cautioned,” said a senior Trinamul MP. Instead, he pointed out, it was seen that the Serampore MP was taken along by the chief minister for the Bankura tour, given prominence on the dais at the events, and asked to hold a key news conference from the party headquarters on Thursday against the governor. “Besides, she (Mamata) herself issued a very stern statement, apparently against Suvendu, on Wednesday…. Seeing all that, Suvendu resigned from the HRBC on Thursday evening,” he said. “But instead of any placatory gesture, Kalyan was immediately named as his successor to the post. That made matters worse. It prompted the chain of events today (Friday). Kalyan kept daring Suvendu to quit all posts before making rebellious statements. That is what he did.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-296
28-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Active cases drop for 32nd day on the trot in Bengal||Bengal on Friday reported a drop in its total active Covid-19 cases for the 32nd consecutive day since the end of Durga Puja, with over 1.31 lakh recoveries in this period outweighing the 1.2 lakh new infections detected. Bengal had 24,617 active cases as of Friday 9am, compared to 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami on October 26. On Friday, the state reported 3,496 recoveries, 3,489 new infections and 46 deaths, 16 from Calcutta. “The gap between daily recoveries and new cases has been narrowing over seven days. There could be a break in this unprecedented 32-day fall in total active cases. But there has been enough of a turnaround already (from the rise in infections in the run-up to Durga Puja), given the stage of the pandemic,” said a minister. Bengal’s total of Covid-19 cases is nearly 4.8 lakh now, including over 4.41 lakh recoveries and 8,270 deaths. Of the toll, the state government dubbed 6,916 or 83.6 per cent deaths as comorbid. The state’s recovery rate has risen for 36 consecutive days, reaching 93.06 per cent on Friday, inching closer to the national rate of 93.65 per cent. “Since October 22 (when the recovery rate started to rise), recovery rate has risen by nearly 6 per cent. We will soon exceed the national rate,” said the minister. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.74 per cent, compared to the national rate of 1.45. Calcutta High Court intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja from crowding, and Covid data from Puja showed this was effective. The high court issued similar instructions for Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath, and figures over the past few days suggest that the judicial intervention was, once again, helpful. With 45,127 tests on Friday, the state’s total test count went past 57.44 lakh, at 63,826 tests per million people. Bengal’s positive confirmation rate is 8.25 per cent now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-296
28-11-2020||West Bengal||BJP forms new poll-focus panel||Central and state BJP leaders formed a 80-member committee comprising their party colleagues in different tiers in the districts of north Bengal on Friday to carry out various functions related to the state elections. Named “Bidhan Sabha Sangjojok” (Assembly level facilitators), its members will be assigned with specific responsibilities, which include arrangements for rallies and meetings, legal and administrative issues ahead of the elections and social media campaigns. According to party insiders, the committee will independently function across the region, in consonance with the district committees and the state committee. Each sangjojok or facilitator will have some responsibility or other, depending on their abilities. “While some will be engaged to make arrangements for rallies and meetings, others will have the responsibility of obtaining permission from the police and administration for such political activities and take up legal matters. There will be some others who will keep a tab on social networking sites and will make pertinent posts on a series of issues,” said an insider. On Friday, central leaders like Shiv Prakash, Arvind Menon and Ratnakar, along with state leaders like Sayantan Bose and party MPs Raju Bista and Sukanta Majumdar, spoke on the need of this new 80-member committee and its functions. A BJP leader in Siliguri said the party was regularly organising party meetings for north Bengal which has 54 Assembly seats for past few weeks andworking on a comprehensive plan ahead of the polls, which include creation of multiple committees with different responsibilities. “Also, there are indications that central leaders and prominent leaders from other states would be brought in, one such leader for each constituency,” said a source. Recently, it was decided that MPs would be roped in micro-level campaigns and bistaraks or special observers for each Assembly constituency would keep tabs on whether work was being done properly and send feedback to the state leadership. BJP has been focussing in north Bengal in a steadfast manner, particularly because it won seven out of eight parliamentary seats last year. After Lok Sabha elections, it was found that the BJP was ahead in 38 out of 54 Assembly segments, which was much better than its performance in the 2016 Assembly elections. In the last Assembly polls, BJP had won only two seats (Baishnabnagar in Malda and Madarihat in Alipurduar) from the region. A political observer pointed out that another reason for the BJP’s north Bengal impetus was Morcha leader Bimal Gurung’s decision to sever ties with the party and extend support to Mamata Banerjee and Trinamul. “There are around six Assembly seats where votes of the Gorkha population decide the results. Since 2009, BJP has enjoyed Gurung’s support but now both factions of the Morcha (Gurung and Binay Tamang) are with Trinamul. This seems to be another reason why BJP is seeking to assess the situation on the ground and explore options to retain their support in these seats,” the observer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-296
28-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal offers transporters ease for paperwork ||The state transport department in a notification on Friday increased the timeframe to renew documents of commercial vehicles and driving licences till June 2021. The notification, which came on the day the department’s minister Suvendu Adhikari submitted his resignation as minister, also waived penalties and extra charges  for delayed renewal of documents such as certificate of fitness, permits and driving licences of drivers of commercial permits, provided those documents are renewed by June 30, 2021. The decision has come as a major relief for transporters of the state, including those in north Bengal, who had sought relief from penalty and other charges that need to be paid to renew such documents, citing lack of or reduced income during the prolonged lockdown and many vehicular movement curbs in the pandemic situation. “The waiver is for commercial vehicles and is applicable only in case the validity of such documents has expired on or after February 1 this year. The decision was made by the state Cabinet at a meeting on November 11 and accordingly, the notification has been issued on Friday,” said an official of the department. In north Bengal, particularly in districts such as Siliguri, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar, transporters associated with the tourism sector had time and again said that their earnings had sharply declined with the drop in the flow of tourists. “Even now (during Unlock), only a handful of tourists are visiting the hills. It is good that the state government has realised the (gravity of) situation and extended the last date for renewal of documents. Also, if this exemption was not allowed, each transporter would have had to bear a huge financial burden,” said Jayanta Majumdar, a transporter based in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-296
28-11-2020||West Bengal||Crowdfunding to meet kidney transplant cost in Suri||College graduate Amit Saha has dedicated his life to books even though the 25-year-old resident of Suri is no bookworm. Now, his friends and wel--wishers are into a crowdfunding to raise Rs 10 lakh to pay for his kidney transplant. After graduating with a Bachelor of Arts degree from Birbhum Mahavidyalaya in 2017, he put himself into the local community by founding the Sishumon platform to help school-going children with books and clothes, alongside preparing hard for entrance examinations himself. Known as an ardent and vigorous youth immersed in social work, Amit and his family received an unexpected shock in October when he collapsed one day during his daily exercise regimen at the local field. “I thought it was a regular injury. I was doing exercises to practise for the state police entrance examination,” said Amit, whose father works at a sweetmeats store in the town. “However, doctors diagnosed me with a kidney condition and before I knew it, I was on a train to Vellore for further tests,” added the youth who was at home recently. Although Amit finds himself in the midst of turmoil, his existing goodwill and friendships in the local society have stood firm by him. A crowdfunding effort aimed at raising Rs 10 lakh to pay for the kidney transplant Amit will need to recover, is already underway. When Amit visited the Christian Medical College in Vellore, he was told that he would require kidney transplant and the procedure would cost Rs 10 lakh. Helpless in the face of the huge financial cost involved, his family turned to the local community. “I have pledged one of my kidneys to my son. There is not much more that we as a family can do,” said Rina, Amit’s mother. “We are from a hand-to-mouth family and are immensely grateful that his friends are standing up in this way. We have spent all our savings of Rs 50,000 in Vellore, and we don’t make more than Rs 9,000 a month as a family,” she added and referred to the vigorous efforts undertaken by Amit’s friends to raise the required fund. The efforts have so far reportedly helped raise Rs 2 lakh from the local community through campaigning and flex banners. During the Durga Puja, Amit’s friends had placed donation boxes at local pandals expecting people to contribute. “Amit is the last person we expected to find in such a situation. He was always bubbling with life and activity. It is our duty to help,” said Animesh Das, one of Amit’s friends, adding that they were trying “every possible source” in the area to meet the Rs 8 lakh deficit. “It is a faraway goal. Perhaps, we will not make it,” Das said. Nonetheless, Amit remained hopeful and deeply grateful for their efforts. “Their effort towards my recovery is enough for me; it is a great blessing. We don’t know what will happen financially but their goodwill will help me live long,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-296
