29-11-2020||West Bengal||No plans to begin classes in colleges, varsities immediately: State education minister||West Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee on Sunday said there was no plan to start classes in colleges and universities across the state immediately. After a virtual meeting with vice-chancellors of state universities, the minister said, at present campuses cannot be opened for students due to the pandemic. "Classes will continue to be held online. The higher education department is of the view, after eliciting the opinion of VCs, that classes cannot take place on the campuses in the present situation as the pandemic is still continuing," Chatterjee said. Higher educational institutions can also extend the admission process by another 15 days at both Undergraduate and Postgraduate levels, the minister said. The UG and PG curriculum will be curtailed in consultation with the respective university authorities, he said. To a question, Chatterjee said, the first semester may also be conducted online if the situation warrants. The government had earlier said in October that it was mulling to start on-campus activities in various state-run higher educational institutions from December 1 depending on the pandemic situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-294
29-11-2020||West Bengal||Daughter held for Habra couple murder||Police on Saturday arrested the married daughter of a Habra-based elderly couple in connection with their murder at their home on September 16. The police said accused Nivedita Sandhu, 26, was arrested from the residence of her in-laws early on Saturday morning for allegedly conspiring in the murder of her parents Ramkrishna Mandal, 58, and Lila Mandal, 51, over property. Nivedita’s parents were shot by contract killer Ajoy Das, who had been engaged by her husband Bunty Sandhu after the elderly couple had refused to shell out Rs 8 lakh to clear his debts. Police had on September 24 arrested Bunty, a grocer, and Ajoy for allegedly executing the murder. Police sources said Nivedita’s role became clear while scanning the mobile phone of Ajoy.  The cops found an audio file, a recorded conversation between Nivedita and Ajoy, that amply indicated how she had hatched the murder conspiracy. Nivedita was produced before the ACJM court in Barasat that remanded her in police custody for one week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-294
29-11-2020||West Bengal||Malda police ban winter picnics||Picnics seem to be the latest casualty in this pandemic year. Malda police have banned picnics this winter in a bid to check overcrowding, and are putting up notices across the district to this effect. Alok Rajoria, the superintendent of police of Malda, said picnics would not be allowed anywhere in the district for now. “Not only popular spots, picnics won’t be allowed anywhere in the district. Police stations have been asked to put up banners and festoons to inform people about the ban,” SP Rajoria said. In Malda, thousands of picnickers — from Malda and neighbouring districts and states — gather in places like Gour, Kajigram and Sagardighi of Englishbazar, Adina and Pandua in Gazole, Chatra Lake in Old Malda and Panchanandapur in Kaliachak-II block every year, especially during winter. “Keeping in view Covid-19 safety protocols, we cannot allow such gatherings at popular picnic spots. If picnickers are allowed, it means unchecked overcrowding and may lead to a surge in Covid cases,” Rajoria added. Senior police officers have instructed all police stations to keep an eye on popular spots and ensure no group of picnickers is allowed during the next two-three months. On Saturday, such notices were found at Gour and Sagardighi. Police sources said each police station will form a team to patrol in and around popular picnic spots daily. “If a group reaches the spot unwittingly, the team will ensure they are sent back. Local clubs have also been asked to keep an eye,” a police officer said. The decision evoked a mixed reaction among residents. While most welcomed the move to keep a check on Covid infections, some said a blanket ban was “excessive”. “Instead of imposing a complete ban, the police could have kept a cap on the number of picnic parties at each spot, and issue permission to groups on a first-come, first-serve basis,” said Atanu Bose, a young healthcare professional.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-294
29-11-2020||West Bengal||Giri to address Kurseong rally ||Roshan Giri, general secretary and the second-in-command of the Bimal Gurung faction of the Morcha, reached Siliguri on Saturday. The return of Giri, who has been on the run for over three years, signalled that Gurung is also about to return and resume his political activities. On Sunday, Giri will address a public meeting at the local motor stand in Kurseong, the first public meeting of the Gurung faction since 2017. “We have got permission to hold a public meeting at Baghajatin Park in Siliguri on December 6 where Bimalji will be present. But if we perceive that the turnout of our supporters will be high, the venue can be shifted to some other larger area,” Giri told reporters at the airport. Binita Roka, a spokesperson of the Gurung camp, said, “Our party president (Gurung) will start from Calcutta on December 5 to reach Siliguri early next morning to address a public meeting there.” She also said that it is unlikely that Giri, who will ascend to Kurseong on Sunday, and Gurung, will head for Darjeeling immediately. There were indications that Gurung would first visit Dooars and Terai and only then come to Darjeeling. At the airport, hundreds of Morcha supporters of the Gurung faction had assembled since afternoon. As Giri came out of the terminal building, the elated supporters greeted him and shouted slogans. Giri, when asked about their decision to sever ties with the BJP, was critical of the party. “We did everything for the BJP during the previous elections. We had trusted them. But despite repeated assurances from leaders like Modiji (Narendra Modi) and Amit Shah on issues like permanent political solution for the hills and conferment of Scheduled Tribes status to 11 hill communities, the BJP did nothing and virtually cheated the hill residents. This is why we decided to join hands with the Trinamul and support Mamata Banerjee in the ensuing Assembly polls,” the Morcha leader said. His arrival in the region and the proclamation by the party that Gurung will be back in the region soon, has led to repercussions among other political parties of the hills, including the Binay Tamang faction of Morcha. Anit Thapa, general secretary of the Tamang faction, who is also the chairman of the board of administrators of the GTA, appealed for peace. “For three years, we have maintained peace across the hills. I would appeal to the public of Kurseong not to fear. Kurseong was peaceful even during the agitation days. I also appeal to those coming to attend the meeting (of Giri) not to come with the intention to destabilise peace in Kurseong,” said Thapa. In democracy, all political parties have the right to hold public meetings, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-294
29-11-2020||West Bengal||Suvendu skips TMC meet citing mother's ill health||Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari, who stepped down from the state cabinet on Friday, gave Calcutta and a meeting with an emissary of Trinamul leadership a miss on Saturday, citing his mother’s ill health. Adhikari is, however, likely to attend and address an “apolitical” event in Mahishadal, Haldia, on Sunday. His Calcutta no-show didn’t create much of a concern within Trinamul as sources said most in the party and its chief Mamata Banerjee were prepared to carry on without him. “I have spoken to the Contai MP (Adhikari’s father Sisir). Suvendu’s mother is ill. So he cannot come to the city today (Saturday), or till she gets better,” said Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy. Two meetings between Adhikari and Roy earlier had failed to effect a rapprochement. However, Roy said on Saturday: “He (Adhikari) is still in the party. There is still hope.” Despite Roy’s assertions, most in Trinamul feel Adhikari would quit Trinamul and so it was wise to prioritise on damage control. “Suvendu is yet to get an assurance of whatever it is he wants from the BJP. That is why he is yet to take the final leap (quitting Trinamul). She (Mamata) is not in favour of making a martyr out of him by throwing him out, so the party will cautiously wait and watch for a few more days,” said a minister. Mamata on Saturday sent Trinamul state president Subrata Bakshi for a meeting to Midnapore, after which it was decided that she would conduct a “major” rally there on December 7. That rally, in the Adhikari clan’s backyard, will be the first of a series of similar events across the state in the coming days. “She (Mamata) seems ready to move on. She seems to have no doubt about what Suvendu would do, although speculation on several possibilities remain,” said a Trinamul MP. As part of a bid to reorganise the party, on Saturday, Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee and poll strategist Prashant Kishor met senior leaders of Malda, a district handled by Adhikari. Eight leaders were asked to attend the meeting at Abhishek’s Camac Street office, but three  — district Trinamul president and Rajya Sabha member Mausam Benazir Noor, former minister Sabitri Mitra and district INTTUC chief Manab Banerjee — did not turn up. Sources said Noor took a Covid-19 test on Saturday, Mitra recently lost a relative and is in mourning and Banerjee’s mother underwent a surgery. Mihir speaks to Shah Cooch Behar South MLA Mihir Goswami, who left the TMC for the BJP in Delhi on Friday, met home minister Amit Shah on Saturday and spoke on the “neglect of north Bengal”, urging Shah to grant special status to the region. BJP sources said that the joining of Goswami would help the party as he has always had a clean image. Besides, he has always been vocal about the development needs of north Bengal. Cooch Behar MP Nisith Pramanik, instrumental in Goswami’s switch, said more prominent TMC leaders from the region would join the BJP soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-295
29-11-2020||West Bengal||TMC starts survey in districts to prevent poaching attempts||Trinamul on Saturday started a survey within the party’s district units across Bengal to identify those who owe allegiance to the 49-year-old political heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, the exercise part of an attempt to ring-fence the party against possible poaching attempts. Adhikari cut his teeth as a politician in his home district, East Midnapore, but over the years developed his own support base across Bengal. He had, till July 23, been the party’s in-charge in six key districts — Bankura, West Midnapore, Jhargram, Murshidabad, Malda and North Dinajpur. “Senior party leaders have started the process confidentially. It is no secret that if Suvendu leaves, our organisation will face challenges in several areas if his acolytes follow him,” said a source in the ruling party. Adhikari has not resigned from Trinamul or announced his next political move, but Trinamul is not taking any chances. “Right now, only he knows what he will do. But we need to get our own house in order and be ready for possibilities (of his loyalists defecting from the party). We don’t want to lose a single party worker or leader before state polls. But we cannot tolerate saboteurs. That is why we are figuring out who they might be and keeping tabs on them,” said a senior Trinamul leader. The meetings to single out Adhikari’s followers, mainly those with organisational posts in the party, began in East Midnapore on Friday night. “At least eight of 13 MLAs from the district may follow Adhikari. Of 52 zilla parishad members, 30-odd could leave with him. There are some block-level leaders as well. We are keeping an eye on them and readying alternatives in such places,” said a senior leader in Tamluk. “In Hooghly, we have information that three MLAs, two chiefs of panchayat samitis and a dozen block-level leaders are connected with Suvendu. We will wait till they take their final decision, but we are preparing an alternative set-up,” said a party leader. On Saturday, Trinamul’s Serampore MP Kalyan Banerjee — whose testy ties with Adhikari have been in public eye for some time — was in Hooghly’s Khanakul to address a party rally, where he gave an indication of Trinamul’s mindset. Seniors in the party said “Kalighat” — Mamata and her nephew Abhishek’s residential area — was in no mood to go easy on the rebels that follow Adhikari, should he leave the party. Additional reporting by Alamgir Hossain||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-295
29-11-2020||West Bengal||Tragedy during CBI interrogation||A 45-year-old security officer of Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL) collapsed while being questioned by the CBI at his home and died at a hospital on Saturday in Raniganj, Bengal. The death, suspected to have been caused by a heart attack although no post-mortem was done because it occurred after hospital admission, comes in the middle of a controversy over central and state agencies stepping up alleged tit-for-tat operations to squeeze funding sources of political rivals. Around 10.30am, a CBI team went to Dhananjay Roy’s quarters at Jamuria in Raniganj, West Burdwan, in connection with a probe into illegal coal trade. The visit was said to be part of coordinated searches at over 40 locations across four states — Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh. Roy, who hails from Uttar Pradesh, was then at his office in the Kunostoria mining area of ECL in Raniganj. He was in charge of security at the mining area. Officials said Roy was asked to return to his quarters and did so immediately. At the quarters, the team of six CBI officers interrogated him from 11am. Around 25 minutes into the questioning, Roy collapsed, sources said. Roy was taken to ECL’s main hospital in Kalla, near Asansol, where doctors said he had suffered a heart attack. “Minutes after the doctors had started treating Roy at the hospital, he passed away. He didn’t have any previous heart ailment,” said Hareram Singh, the Trinamul trade union president at ECL. As Roy had died during treatment and had not been declared “brought dead”, neither was an unnatural death case drawn up nor was his body sent for a post-mortem, police said. “We have not received any complaint from his family members regarding his death. The death certificate says death due to cardiac failure,” said an officer from Asansol North police station. The CBI recently registered a case against several officials, including some from ECL, in connection with the illegal coal trade, agency officers said. The case mentions a security-in-charge, the officials said but did not reveal the person’s name. A case has also been registered against alleged coal pilferer Anup Majhi a.k.a. Lala and other unidentified people, the officials said. Anup, who the CBI says is absconding, is allegedly involved in illegal mining and coal theft from leasehold mines of ECL in Kunustoria and Kajora areas. The CBI’s search operations in Bengal came within six days of Calcutta police arresting Govind Agarwal in connection with a corruption case against an income-tax officer. Agarwal had been named a co-conspirator in the two-year-old corruption case against Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer Neeraj Singh, who was additional director of the income-tax department in Calcutta a few years ago. Singh is under suspension now. Soon after Agarwal’s arrest, governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had tweeted about “alarming worrisome inputs from CA fraternity” and a “politically inspired operation”. Some sources felt the CBI operation on Saturday was intended at sending a message to the Bengal government. In Bengal, separate teams from the CBI’s anti-corruption branch searched locations in Calcutta, Salt Lake, South 24-Parganas, Purulia, Asansol and Raniganj. A CBI team visited Anup’s home in Salt Lake as well as his offices in Calcutta and sealed them. A few days ago, income-tax officers had searched Anup’s offices in Calcutta and Asansol following allegations that he had evaded GST payments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-295
29-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal records drop in active Covid cases for 33rd day||Bengal on Saturday reported 3,487 Covid-19 recoveries, 3,459 new infections and 52 deaths, including 14 from Calcutta.  The state saw a drop in total active cases for the 33rd consecutive day since Dashami on October 26. Since Dashami, the state logged over 1.34 lakh recoveries, outweighing 1.23 lakh new infections detected. From 37,190 on October 26, there are 24,527 active cases in Bengal now. The state’s recovery rate reached 93.12 on Saturday, close to the national rate of 93.68 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to the 1.45 per cent nationally. “Our aim now is to get the total of active cases to below 20,000 and the recovery rate past 97 by the end of December. We are on track for both,” said a minister. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja-Diwali and Chhath, and the number of infections from festive days suggest that the intervention was effective. “The court will probably issue instructions for the Christmas-New Year spell as well, although there are is no pandal-hopping or fireworks involved in that phase,” added the minister. Bengal’s total of Covid-19 cases is over 4.77 lakh now, including over 4.44 lakh recoveries and 8,322 deaths. With 45,183 tests on Saturday, the state’s total test count went past 57.89 lakh, at 64,328 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.25 per cent. Of the total toll, 6,963 or 83.7 per cent are comorbid deaths. “Lowering the mortality rate is an area where the improvement has been very slow for us, despite several measures, for many months now. This is an area that will get more intervention, over the next couple of months,” said the minister. The state reported 28.06 per cent occupancy in the 13,538 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 102 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic, besides over 4.9 lakh telemedicine consultations so far this pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-295
29-11-2020||West Bengal||BJP workers ransack Trinamul party offices on Suvendu’s turf||At least 100 alleged BJP workers came on bikes to “ransack and capture” at least six Trinamul party offices in East Midnapore’s Khejuri, known as a stronghold of former transport minister Suvendu Adhikari, late on Friday, hours after he resigned from the state cabinet. “Late on Friday night, some hundred people stormed the area on bikes, raised pro-BJP slogans before vandalising the offices and setting furniture on fire. They threw Trinamul flags and hoisted those of the BJP at six party offices in the area,” said a Khejuri resident, who lives near the “captured” party office in Alichowk. “BJP supporters” captured Trinamul party offices at Birbandar, Patna and Conthibari in Khejuri-I and three in Khejuri-II’s Bansgora area, he added. The scenes were reminiscent of Trinamul capturing 151 Left party offices in Nandigram and Khejuri stamping its dominance in the region with Adhikari defeating CPM’s Lakshman Seth to bag the Tamluk Lok Sabha seat in the 2009 Lok Sabha polls, pointed out many villagers. Trinamul leaders, who did not wish to be named, linked Friday’s incident to Adhikari’s resignation from Mamata Banerjee’s cabinet. Though the local BJP leadership tried to distance themselves from it, CPM leaders, including Khejuri’s Himanshu Das, called it “payback time” for TMC. CPM veteran Sujan Chakraborty said the “culture of capturing (rival) party offices was started by Mamata Banerjee’s party”. BJP’s mandal chief in Khejuri, Suman Das, said the capture of Trinamul offices was “not organised” and an “outburst” of people’s anger. On Saturday, Trinamul workers blocked the Heria-Boga state highway in Khejuri from 8am for two hours and demanded the arrest of those responsible for capturing party offices. Later, Trinamul workers threw away BJP flags and hoisted their own at one captured party office. “BJP goons have been sent to disturb peace in Khejuri. They need to be punished,” said Birbandar gram panchayat chief and Trinamul leader Sheikh Nowsher Ali. Adhikari, who resigned from the ministry, is yet to resign from Trinamul or announce plans of joining the BJP, as is widely speculated. TMC block president Biman Nayak played down the incident and said Adhikari was “still with Trinamul”. But local Trinamul leaders are worried about Nandigram and Khejuri in case Adhikari, who has a strong mass appeal here, resigns from the party. “Trinamul is in shock mode now. We are waking up to the reality that the BJP is emerging as a force in the region,” said a Trinamul leader preferring to be anonymous. Beyond East Midnapore, ripples of Adhikari’s resignation from the ministry were felt in Hooghly’s Kanaipur, where Trinamul supporters tore down several flex banners put up by Adhikari’s supporters, and set them on fire. They chanted there was “only one leader in Trinamul, and it was Mamata Banerjee and no one else”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-295
