30-11-2020||West Bengal||BJP-TMC face-off in Malda||The BJP and Trinamul leaders in Malda got in a war of words on Sunday over various issues related to the district. The BJP on Sunday organised a public meeting at Baishnabnagar — where the party won in the 2016 Assembly elections — and fumed against the Mamata Banerjee government by referring to smuggling of cattle, fake Indian currency notes and narcotics. Trinamul on the other hand, accused BJP and the Centre for their nonchalant attitude towards a major issue of Baishnabnagar — the erosion caused by Ganga that has gobbled acres of land and have left hundreds homeless. A number of MLAs and MPs of the BJP, including local MLA Swadhin Sarkar, along with state and district leaders, congregated at Baishnabnagar and held a rally and a public meeting, accusing the state government of failure to end a slew of illegal activities in Malda. “Malda has become a den of smugglers, and makers of illegal arms and bombs, and the state has done nothing to stop these activities. We have information as to who all get the benefits from such practices. Central agencies have been conducting probes and soon the cat will be out of the bag,” said BJP’s state general secretary Sayantan Basu. The BJP also referred to the recent blast at a plastic crushing unit at Sujapur that claimed six lives and iterated that only a probe by a central agency could reveal the truth. After the blast, the state police and the government said that the explosion occurred because of a mechanical fault. The BJP alleged that some explosive led to the incident. “Why is the state (government) scared to invite the NIA for probing into an incident that claimed six lives? You are blaming a machine for such an explosion. We would not deviate an inch from our demand unless the NIA is allowed to investigate the case,” said Sreerupa Mitra Choudhury, a state vice-president of BJP’s farmers’ front. The district Trinamul leadership was quick to react, saying that the BJP was trying to divert peoples’ attention by hurling baseless charges at the state government. The key issue in Baishnabnagar is steady erosion, Trinamul leaders said, and so far, the central government and its agencies have stayed indifferent to it. Trinamul leaders pointed that many houses have been engulfed by the Ganga and people have been rendered homeless. Even BJP MLA Sarkar had lost his house, they said. “However, they never  flagged this issue before the Farakka Barrage Authority, a central agency, or officials and ministers in Delhi so that anti-erosion work can start in Baishnabnagar. The central government has always stayed indifferent to this issue. As elections are drawing near, the BJP leaders are trying to divert people to reap political dividends,” Moazzem Hossain, chairman of Malda district Trinamul, said. He claimed that the state provided alternative land to the affected people and would help them rebuild their homes. “This is the difference between the BJP and Trinamul,” said Hossain. Such war of words, observers said, indicates both the parties are desperate to secure most of the 12 Assembly seats in Malda. In the 2016 polls, the BJP could win one seat and Trinamul failed to secure even one. “Since 2016, Trinamul managed to get a number of MLAs and leaders from other parties, particularly the Congress, on board. Also, in 2019, BJP managed to secure the Malda North parliamentary seat. These factors seem to have bolstered the confidence of both sides.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-293
30-11-2020||West Bengal||Uproot BJP, it can’t be trusted: Roshan Giri||Roshan Giri, the second-in-command of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Bimal Gurung faction, on Sunday appealed to people to “uproot” the BJP from the region. At the public meeting in Kurseong, Giri’s first in the hills after more than three-and-half-years, he took on the BJP, the party with which the Gurung faction last month severed ties after 11 years to ally with the Trinamul. For 11 years, no “permanent political solution” came about in the region, Giri said at the well-attended rally that lasted for over three hours from 11.30am. The meeting had two clear messages —  attack the BJP and the Morcha’s Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa camp, though both Gurung and Tamang factions are now allies of Trinamul. Their support to TMC was a “political decision, political strategy”, Giri said, adding that they had not sold out the Gorkhaland dream. Gorkhaland is as emotive issue from the hills that no party can afford to ignore, but both Trinamul and the BJP state committee are against the formation of a Gorkhaland state. Giri said that the BJP could not be trusted as their tallest leader Narendra Modi had during his election campaign for the 2016 Bengal assembly polls had specifically talked about starting a process to grant tribal status to 11 hill communities. “But till date nothing has happened,” said Giri. He added that previous Darjeeling BJP MPs also did precious little. Giri pointed out that the BJP in its 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto had promised “a permanent political solution” and “granting of tribal status” to 11 communities from the region. The region did not make any headway despite the BJP-led NDA being in power in the Centre since 2014, he said. “We met Rajnath Singh (the former home minister) 23 times. The agitation was withdrawn (the 104-day continuous strike in 2017) on the assurance that a meeting would be convened within a fortnight, but in vain,” said Giri. This year, Giri said, Union home minister Amit Shah held a meeting with the Gurung faction in July 21. “A delegation that included party president Bimal Gurung, me, Nima Tamang and Binu Sundas (a professor in Delhi University but from Kurseong), met Amit Shah and he said that he would look into the issue (of tribal status) after Assam assembly elections,” said Giri.  Assam Assembly elections are scheduled for 2021 almost around the same time Bengal goes to polls. The Bimal Gurung faction also seemed angry that the agenda of tripartite meetings called by the Centre changed from GTA to Gorkhaland to GTA again. “We wanted discussions on Gorkhaland but the agenda was changed to GTA. This was because of the Bengal BJP,” Giri said trying to explain their need to support Trinamul during the upcoming Bengal elections. “During the 2024 Lok Sabha election, we will support the party that takes forward the Gorkhaland demand,” added Giri. “The BJP is only interested in expanding their party base. We have to uproot them from the region,” said Giri. Attacking the Tamang faction and the GTA, Giri claimed that funds to the tune of Rs 1,700 crore had been pumped to GTA in the last three years and only 30 per cent of it had been utilised. “During our tenure (in the GTA), there were three audits…there must be accountability now,” said Giri. Allegations of nepotism and corruption, right from teachers’ appointment to development work, were levied against Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa camp. Giri also said that Bimal Gurung would hold base in Siliguri after the December 6 public meeting and visit different parts of the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-293
30-11-2020||West Bengal||Firhad Hakim slams TMC’s ‘dissatisfied souls’||State minister and Trinamul leader Firhad Hakim came down on party leaders who defected to the BJP from Trinamul or were thinking of doing so, and labelled them “dissatisfied souls”. Hakim, who arrived here on Sunday for an event to be hosted by Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Monday, said: “There are some dissatisfied souls who feel their aspirations have remained unfulfilled, after being elected as peoples’ representatives and being put in the state cabinet. It is only because of Trinamul and Mamata Banerjee and people across the state know me. But some people who do not have any principles and are ready to compromise with their ideology are leaving the party or can think of leaving it.” The state municipal affairs and urban development minister’s remark came when asked about former party colleague Mihir Goswami, the Cooch Behar South MLA who defected to the BJP on Friday. Hakim dodged a direct reply on Suvendu Adhikari, the Trinamul stalwart who quit from the cabinet on Friday. “He (Adhikari) is still in the party. I will not make any remark on him,” Hakim said. On Monday, Hakim will unveil a bust of Mahatma Gandhi at Kutcheri Road of Siliguri. The bust has been installed by the local civic body. This is the first time that a minister of the Mamata Banerjee government will attend an event hosted by the Left-run civic body. Asok Bhattacharya, the CPM MLA of Siliguri and immediate past mayor, is at the helm of affairs at the Siliguri Municipal Corporation and chairs the board of administrators. Bhattacharya had recently said he had invited three state ministers — the other two being Aroop Biswas and Gautam Deb — for the event. Political observers pointed that it was indeed significant as during the past five years Bhattacharya and other Left councillors have been consistently vocal against the Trinamul-led state government, accusing the latter of bias against the SMC and not allocating it enough funds. State ministers, including Deb, accused the mayor and the Left-run board of trying to hide their own administrative failures through such excuses. “It seems that the steady rise of BJP is one of the reasons that made Bhattacharya try and pass a message to residents of the city that they no longer maintain a distance with the Trinamul government,” said an observer. Hakim, when asked on the issue, ruled out the theory and said this was an official event where he would be present as a minister of the state. “It is an official programme where the state minister for municipal affairs and urban development will share the dais with the former mayor of Siliguri. The event is being organised by the civic body, there is no political element in it,” he said. After his arrival, Hakim also visited Bengal Safari Park. In the evening, Bhattacharya and some members of the board of administrators met Hakim and spoke on the region’s infrastructure development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-293
30-11-2020||West Bengal||BSF jawan dies at India-Bangladesh border in South Dinajpur||A young BSF jawan posted on the India-Bangladesh border in South Dinajpur district died on Saturday night after he fell ill soon after his duty hours. Binod Kumar, 28, the jawan of the 26th Battalion of BSF, hails from Raipura of Uttar Pradesh. He was posted at the Ghunsi border outpost. “He returned to camp after duty on Saturday night and fell ill. His colleagues rushed him to Balurghat district hospital where doctors pronounced him dead,” said a police officer. The body has been sent for post-mortem. The BSF and the police have started separate inquiries, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-293
30-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid cancels this year’s Raas Mela||The Covid-19 pandemic that has curtailed some major festivities of Bengal has also cancelled this year’s Raas Mela in Cooch Behar, an annual event with a 200-year-old tradition and one of the largest public events in north Bengal. The Raas Mela or the fair held on occasion of the Raas Utsav is a festival initiated by the Cooch Behar royals. Every year, while the festival is held at the Madanmohan temple complex of the town, the fair is held in the Raasmela Ground for over a fortnight. This year, according to tradition, Cooch Behar district magistrate Pawan Kadyan, who also happens to be the president of Cooch Behar Debottur Trust Board, will start the festival by swinging the “Raas Chakra” late on Sunday evening and perform a puja. But the fair — which lakhs from the district and outside attend for a fortnight — will not be held this time. “Like every year, the festival will also be celebrated this year, but because of the pandemic situation, it has been decided that the fair will not be organised this time. The decision has been made to ensure that there is no sudden surge in Covid-19 infection,” the district magistrate said. Sources said that at the Madanmohan temple complex, health safety protocols would be strictly enforced during the festival that would continue till December 13. “Thousands of devotees visit the temple campus during these days. Each person must wear masks and use the sanitiser before entering the temple. Also, circles have been drawn across the temple premises so that devotees maintain social distancing. Special teams will keep a watch and ensure that people adhere to safety guidelines,” said a source in the administration. Raas Mela’s cancellation, however, left some Cooch Behar residents and traders disappointed. They, however, have some consolation that the Cooch Behar Municipality has planned an alternative fair, on a much smaller scale, at the MJN Stadium of the town. Bhusan Singh, chairperson of the board of administrators of the civic body, said people across Cooch Behar district and those residing in adjoining areas like Alipurduar eagerly wait for the annual Raas Mela. But as it was cancelled, they decided to organise a smaller fair named “Silpa Mela” at the stadium for the next 15 days. “This fair will have only 200-odd stalls, unlike the thousands of stalls at the Raas Mela. But people can at least have an option to visit a fair during the festival,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-294
30-11-2020||West Bengal||BJP bid to shed tag of ‘outsider’||The Bengal unit of the BJP seems to be taking the “when in Rome, do as the Romans do” advice seriously as the party has started making extra efforts to shed the “outsider” tag that Trinamul Congress leaders are trying to attach the saffron camp. Multiple sources in the state unit of the BJP this correspondent spoke to said they had realised that the “outsider” tag could be an Achilles Heel for the party in the 2021 Assembly polls. “You may have seen some attempts to shed the tag already.... There will be more,” said a source. Last Friday, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh visited the ancestral home of Bengali novelist Bibhutibhusan Bandyopadhyay in Bongaon. A few days ago, he went to the house of Rishi Aurobindo at Chanderagore in Hooghly. “Such stopovers weren’t part of Dilipda’s itinerary before... Now he is trying,” the insider said. According to this person, the need to project the party’s ability to understand Bengal and Bengali psyche has become extremely important as Trinamul leaders, including chief minister Mamata Banerjee, have made it clear that they would try to pitch the battle for Bengal as a contest between “bohiragato (outsiders)” and “bhoomiputra (sons of the soil)”. Trinamul’s “outsider” jibe at the BJP intensified after five BJP national leaders — Sunil Deodhar, Vinod Tawde, Vinod Sonkar, Dushyant Gautam and Harish Dwivedi — were given charge to oversee the party’s affairs in Bengal. BJP sources said Sunil Bansal and Pawan Rana, the general secretaries (organisation) of the party in Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh, respectively, were despatched to Calcutta recently and their counterparts from the units in Gujarat and Haryana — Bhikhubhai Dalsaniya and Ravinder Raju —  will also join the team, along with Ratnakar, the joint general secretary (organisation) of Bihar. These leaders — most of whom are known for their election winning abilities — have been given the task of organisational expansion in the party’s five organisational zones in Bengal. “The BJP is a national party unlike Trinamul and it is natural that national leaders will look after our poll-bound activities,” Dilip Ghosh said at a news conference on Sunday.  However, another leader in the BJP accepted that it was equally important — at least in a state like Bengal — to prove that the party or its leaders were not alien to Bengal or its culture. Some BJP leaders said while questions on the party’s Bengali credentials could always be swatted away by citing that Syama Prasad Mookerjee was the founder of Jan Sangh, they also admitted that Bengal didn’t produce any leader of national consequence in the saffron camp thereafter. The dearth of Bngali icons in the saffron camp, however, will not come in the way of the party’s attempts to project its Bengali credentials, said a source. “The party understands Bengal... See how the top rung of the party, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, refer to icons of Bengal in almost all of their speeches,” said the source. In his address to the people of Bengal and his party workers in the state on October 22, Modi named a host of popular Bengali legends. On Sunday, Modi dwelt on Sri Aurobindo in his radio address to the nation. Another source pointed out that in the recent past, the state unit was publicly promoting leaders like former MLA Samik Bhattacharya and former state president Tathagata Roy — who has also served as the governor of three different states — as spokespersons on various platforms. “These two leaders are bridging a critical gap... We need people like Samikda and Tathagatada, who speak unadulterated Bengali unlike most of our leaders, in the coming days to counter Trinamul's outsider tag,” this person added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-294
30-11-2020||West Bengal||Covid: active cases drop to 24,405 in Bengal||Bengal on Sunday reported a dip in total active cases for the 34th consecutive day since Durga Puja, with 24,405 active cases now compared to 37,190 on Vijaya Dashami, October 26. On Sunday, Bengal reported 3,445 Covid-19 recoveries, 3,367 new infections and 54 deaths, 13 each from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. Trinamul’s senior Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, 71, tested positive for Covid-19, the seventh sitting parliamentarian from Bengal to get infected. He tested positive at Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, said a party colleague. Bengal’s total caseload is over 4.8 lakh now, including over 4.48 lakh recoveries and 8,376 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate, rising for 38 consecutive days, is 93.18, close to the national rate of 93.76 per cent. Bengal’s mortality rate is now 1.74, compared to the national rate of 1.45 per cent. Calcutta High Court had intervened to prevent a worsening of the pandemic over Durga Puja, Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhath. The numbers of infections from the festivals in October and November has shown that the court’s instructions were effective. With 45,208 tests on Sunday, the state’s total test count went past 58.34 lakh, at 64,831 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate is 8.24 per cent. Of the total toll, 7,010 or 83.7 per cent, are comorbid deaths, the state government said. Congress’s Malda South MP Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury, the BJP’s Midnapore MP and state unit chief Dilip Ghosh, Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee, Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar, Jalpaiguri MP Jayanta Roy, and Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member Shanta Chhetri had earlier tested positive. So have over 40 of the sitting MLAs, including leader of the Opposition Abdul Mannan, ministers Gautam Deb, Rabindra Nath Ghosh, Jyotipriya Mullick, Sujit Bose and now-former-minister Suvendu Adhikari, among others. Covid-19 complications claimed the lives of CPM veteran Shyamal Chakraborty, Trinamul MLAs Samaresh Das, Tamonash Ghosh and Gurupada Mete.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-294
30-11-2020||West Bengal||ECL officer had no ailment, says wife||The wife of the Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL) officer who collapsed during a CBI interrogation and died soon after has said her husband had no prior history of any cardiac ailment. “My husband had no prior history of any cardiac ailment.… But I am told that he suddenly died of cardiac arrest. I don't know how it happened,” an inconsolable Jaya Devi  told this correspondent on Saturday night shortly before leaving for Ballia in Uttar Pradesh. Her husband and ECL security officer Dhananjay Rai (not Roy as erroneously reported by this newspaper on Sunday) had died on Saturday after being questioned by the CBI as part of a probe into coal smuggling. Several neighbours and colleagues of Rai who visited the family’s Sripur home to pay their condolences said his wife Jaya Devi kept wondering how her husband, without a history of cardiac ailments, could collapse during questioning by CBI sleuths. Hours before she left Asansol, Jaya was informed by ECL officials that as Rai died in harness, she would be recruited as a “mazdoor” in the company. ECL sources said her salary would be around Rs 26,000 a month. Her husband used to get a salary of around Rs 75,000. “I have two daughters, aged 17 and 11.... We hail from Uttar Pradesh and all our relatives stay there. In Asansol we are alone. I have got a job but I don’t know how I would raise my daughters (alone here),” she said. Asked about Rai’s alleged involvement in coal smuggling, Jaya said she was shocked when the CBI went to their home. “My husband had been in the army... I don’t think he was part of any wrongdoing,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-294
30-11-2020||West Bengal||Abhishek Banerjee ends silence on Suvendu Adhikari ||Trinamul’s heir-apparent Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday ended his silence on Suvendu Adhikari without naming him and took on the saffron camp. Adhikari also made his first public appearance since his resignation from the state cabinet, at an “apolitical” event at Mahishadal in Haldia to honour freedom fighter Ranajit Boyal, where he refrained from any political comment. In his rally at Satgachhia, the 33-year-old Diamond Harbour MP and Mamata’s nephew did not take Adhikari’s name, but quoted him liberally. “How many of us have descended by parachute? How many of us have ascended by elevators? These concepts are alien to Trinamul….Had I taken an elevator, I too would have held a bunch of posts. Had I taken a parachute, I would have been the candidate from Calcutta South,” he said to loud cheers from thousands. Mamata had won from Calcutta South for decades. Abhishek was responding to recent public remark by Adhikari that in his (Adhikari’s) long political journey he took the stairs, not a parachute or an elevator. Sources close to him said the barb was aimed at Abhishek. Abhishek likened Trinamul and Mamata to “mother” and said there “couldn’t be any betrayal of the mother”. Adhikari at Mahishadal spoke about “nationalist” aspects of the freedom movement, the Constitution, and his commitment to Bengal and Bengalis. He said he would host a slew of events through December and honour freedom fighter Khudiram Bose on his birth anniversary on December 3. That is a day before Mamata’s virtual meeting with the leadership and four days before her “mega” rally in Midnapore, an Adhikari bastion. Abhishek lambasted the BJP for “fearing” to name him, referring to him as bhaipo or bhatija. “I will take names...Amit Shah is an outsider. Kailash Vijayvargiya is an outsider. Dilip Ghosh is a goon... I dare them to do the same.” BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh later said names need not be taken as people know who the nephew is. “They (Trinamul) have been goons for years. Now is my time. I will be a goon, if need be...”said Ghosh. Sources close to Mamata said Mamata seems ready to look beyond Adhikari, who has not yet resigned from Trinamul, and does not appear to harbour doubts about his joining the BJP. On Sunday, sources said, she decided to hold a major rally at Bongaon on December 9 to woo the Matua electorate. Before his resignations on Thursday and Friday, Adhikari had been the cabinet minister in charge of three departments, besides the chairperson of the Hooghly River Bridge Commissioners and Haldia Development Authority. Abhishek told the large crowd: “To fulfill selfish objectives, if somebody betrays the mother, will you spare them? If one sells his backbone to serve the cause of another party to favour it against Mamata Banerjee, will you spare them? Trinamul workers will issue a fitting reply to treachery.” Some 10km from Adhikari's dais, Trinamul youth wing held a rally led by ministers Rajib Banerjee and Sujit Bose, who said the party had only one leader, Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-294
30-11-2020||West Bengal||Bengal govt camps to enlist left-out beneficiaries||The Mamata Banerjee dispensation will set up over 13,000 camps across Bengal under its two-month old programme called “Duware Sarkar (government at doorsteps)” where people can apply for the state administration’s flagship schemes. The programme that will be launched on December 1 is part of an attempt by the government to debunk Opposition charges that beneficiaries need to pay “cut money” to enjoy the schemes. “The target is to reach out to all the people who were left out of government schemes. The way the programme is being planned, it is expected that a majority of the eligible people would be brought under different government schemes,” said an official. According to instructions sent out to different districts to make the programme successful, the state government has identified 11 flagship schemes — majority of which introduced since the Trinamul Congress came to power in 2011— as the focus areas. The list includes various schemes to dispense pension to old people, widows and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, kanyasree and schemes to provide direct benefit to farmers and scholarships to students. “The state government has already prepared a detailed plan on how the programme would be rolled out from December 1 till January 31,” said a senior official. According to the plan, at least three camps would be set up in each gram panchayat and also in the municipality area. “There will be 13,000-odd camps in 3,354 gram panchayats and over 120 municipality areas. The programme would continue for 60 days,” said the source. According to the plan, there would be registration desks and help desks at each of the camps where common people will be informed about various government schemes and can submit filled-up application forms seeking assistance under any scheme. “The help desk would assist the visitors to fill in the application forms and get included in the list of beneficiaries. The camps would have officials from all departments concerned,” a district magistrate said. The camps would remain open between 8am and 4pm. The top brass of the government would keep track of turnouts at the camps which would have to submit daily reports on number of visitors and those who are eligible to apply for the schemes. According to sources, the programme has been planned in a way that all the eligible beneficiaries can claim benefits without facing much trouble. “Implementing agency for a majority of the schemes are gram panchayats. But under the programme, the benefits would be extended through government officials,” said a source. The primary reason behind the initiative, sources said, is to counter Opposition allegations that beneficiaries need to pay “cut money” to avail themselves of the schemes. “As complaints against local leaders of the ruling party and panchayat functionaries were tarnishing the image of the government, the initiative was taken to ensure that all left out people received the benefit without any trouble,” said a source. Trunamul insiders said the allegation of demand for the cut money by the local leaders was one of the major challenges facing the party ahead of the 2021 Assembly polls, “We did poorly in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls because of these allegations. We could not do well in rural areas only because people had complaints against some of our local leaders. The programme could change the perception about our government,” said a Trinamul MLA. Another Trinamul leader said the Left Front had suffered a lot in the 2011 Assembly elections as people had complaints about erroneous BPL list and lists of beneficiaries of several other projects. “We don’t want to face a similar situation. That is why the government is trying to rectify its fault, if any, by extending a chance to all eligible people to get enrolled,” said the Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-294
