01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. sharply cuts rates on small savings instruments||The government has sharply slashed the rates on all small savings instruments for the first quarter of 2021-22, bringing the rate of return on the Public Provident Fund down from 7.1% to 6.4% and effecting cuts ranging from 40 basis points (0.4%) to 110 basis points (1.1%) through a notification on Wednesday. The sharpest cut was seen in the quarterly interest rate paid on one-year term deposits, from 5.5% in the January to March quarter to 4.4% in this quarter. The rate of return on the Senior Citizen Savings’ Scheme was cut from 7.4% to 6.5%, while the Sukanya Samriddhi Account Scheme’s return was reduced from 7.6% to 6.9%. While the government resets the interest rate on small savings instruments every quarter, this round of rate cuts assumes significance as retail inflation has been breaching the 6% mark and the government is keen to lower interest rates to make it easier to execute its borrowing plans for the year and spur growth. The government plans to borrow Rs. 12.05 lakh crore in 2021-22, on the back of a record gross borrowing of Rs. 13.71 lakh crore in 2020-21. High small savings rates have been cited by the central bank as a major impediment in ensuring policy rate cuts get transmitted into the banking system. “After keeping rates unchanged over the last few quarters, the government has effected a substantial lagged revision in small savings rates, mirroring the moderation in interest rates in the wider economy seen over the last year,” said Aditi Nayar, principal economist at ICRA Limited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-sharply-cuts-rates-on-small-savings-instruments/article34211071.ece
01 April 2021||New Delhi,||In February, output of core sectors contracts by 4.6%||The output of eight core sectors declined by 4.6% in February, the steepest contraction in the last six months which, experts said, could drag the overall industrial production in the month into negative territory. All the key segments, including coal, crude oil, natural gas and refinery products, witnessed a decline in production, according to the official data released on Wednesday. The growth rate of the eight infrastructure sectors — coal, crude oil, natural gas, refinery products, fertilizers, steel, cement and electricity — stood at 6.4% in February 2020. Last time in August 2020, the sectors had recorded a negative growth of 6.9%. In January this year, the segments had registered a positive growth of 0.9%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-february-output-of-core-sectors-contracts-by-46/article34211042.ece
01 April 2021||Chennai,||At 457, India reports highest toll due to COVID-19 in 2021||India on Wednesday reported 457 deaths in the last 24 hours — the highest since December 17 when 355 COVID-19 fatalities were reported in a single day. This is also the highest single-day spike in casualties this year. The data was based on releases by various State Health Departments as of 10 p.m. Maharashtra registered more than half the number of deaths with 227 fatalities, while Punjab registered the second highest toll with 55 deaths on Wednesday. The total registered death toll due to COVID-19 has now reached 1,62,959 in India, the fourth highest tally for any country in the world. The daily case load remained high with 72,019 new infections registered on Wednesday. Maharashtra once again led the tally with 39,544 fresh cases being reported from the State. Chhattisgarh and Karnataka registered 4,563 and 4,225 infections respectively. In the first wave of infections in India, the daily cases peaked at nearly 98,000 in mid-September 2020. The active case load has reached 5,80,327 with Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Punjab and Chhattisgarh cumulatively accounting for nearly 80% of the total active cases. The cumulative recoveries stood at 1,14,72,462 in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-457-deaths-india-reports-highest-covid-19-toll-this-year/article34211037.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,||HC allows probe against BSY||In a major setback to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, the High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday gave the green signal for investigation against him in a criminal case registered in 2019 for allegedly trying to woo Janata Dal (S) MLA Naganagouda Kandkur’s son Sharanagouda to the Bharatiya Janata Party by offering money and a berth in the Council of Ministers. Interestingly, the court observed that “the allegations, if found true, would even attract offences of sedition, criminal conspiracy and illegal payments in connection with an election under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) as the allegations made in the complaint and the material produced clearly disclose that an attempt has been made by Mr. Yediyurappa and others accused to excite disaffection towards the government established by law by encouraging defection so as to topple the government by lure of money and position”. Referring to the complaint and materials on record, the court said that “the allegations prima facie make out the ingredients of Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy, 124A (sedition) and Section 171H (illegal payment for elections) of the IPC”. The allegations squarely attract the ingredients of the offences under the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act 2018 for an attempt to induce an elected representative to tender his resignation in return for a bribe of Rs. 10 crores and promise of a position, the court observed. Justice John Michael Cunha passed the interim order while vacating the earlier interim order of February 22, 2019, staying the investigation into the case. While the stay of investigation was ordered after preliminary hearing of petitions filed by Mr. Yediyurappa, who was then BJP State unit president, two BJP MLAs --- Shivanagouda Naik of Deodurg and Preetham Gowda of Hassan, and M.B. Maramkal, a former journalist and then adviser to Mr. Yediyurappa. The stay order has now been vacated on an application filed by Mr. Sharanagouda, who had lodged the complaint on the basis of the audio clip of the recordings of his conversation allegedly with Mr. Yediyurappa and three others at Deodurg circuit house in the early hours of February 8, 2019. The court noted from the complaint that Mr. Yediyurappa had told Mr. Sharanagouda to join BJP and persuade his father to resign as MLA for Gurumitkal by offering Rs. 10 crore bribe for that purpose. Besides, Mr. Yediyurappa had told him that he would ensure his win in the byelection from the Gurumitkal constituency on BJP ticket with all election expenditure and make him in charge Minister for Yadgir district. The court also noted the allegation that Mr. Yediyurappa had told the complainant to go to Mumbai and stay in the resort along with other MLAs who were already staying in the resort and the amount would be delivered to the house of the complainant when the complainant’s father tenders his resignation as a MLA. Besides, the petitioners had also threatened the complainant that the political career of the his father would be tarnished by making false allegation when he refused to accept their offer, the court noted from the complaint. Justice Cunha observed that the petitioners have not filed any rejoinder to the complainant’s claim that Mr. Yediyurappa later did admit before the presspersons that he had met Mr. Sharanagouda in the circuit house, besides not disputing the claim that the voice in the audio clip was of Mr. Yediyurappa. The court also found that investigation is essential for one more reason as Mr. Maramkal himself had lodged a complaint with the police in Bengaluru questioning genuineness of the audio clips. “No option is left with the court other than permitting the investigating agency to continue the probe and unearth the true facts behind the secret meeting held within the closed doors at an unearthly hour,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-allows-probe-against-bsy/article34211068.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pakistan allows import of cotton and sugar from India||Partially reversing a two-year-old decision to suspend all trade with India, Pakistan announced on Monday that it would allow the import of cotton and sugar from across the border. The decision follows the Line of Control (LoC) ceasefire announced by India and Pakistan in February, and a number of moves seen as part of a larger dialogue process to de-freeze ties. Addressing the media at the end of a Cabinet meeting that cleared the two proposals from Pakistan’s Commerce Ministry, newly appointed Finance Minister Hammad Azhar said, however, that the decision was driven by rising prices and Pakistani industry’s need for the specific products. “We have allowed the import of sugar, but in the rest of the world too, sugar prices are high because of which imports are not possible. But in India, the prices of sugar are much less as compared to Pakistan, so we have decided to reopen sugar trade with India,” Mr. Azhar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pakistan-allows-import-of-cotton-and-sugar-from-india/article34211044.ece
01 April 2021||AHMEDABAD,||CBI court discharges three police officers in Ishrat encounter case||A special CBI court in Ahmedabad on Wednesday discharged three police officers — G.L. Singhal, Tarun Barot and Anaju Chaudhary — in the 2004 Ishrat Jahan alleged fake encounter case. The officers will not face any proceedings or trial in the case as the court held th-at they had acted as per their duty. Special CBI Judge V.R. Raval allowed the discharge applications of Mr. Singhal, Mr. Barot, who is now retired, and Mr. Chaudhary. No prosecution sanction Earlier, the CBI on March 20 had conveyed to the court that the State government had declined prosecution sanction against the three accused. The court had obser-ved in its October 2020 order that the officers had “acted in their official duties” and so the CBI was required to obtain prosecution sanction. The court had discharged key accused P.P. Pandey, D.G. Vanzara and N.K. Amin from the proceedings earlier. Ishrat Jahan, a 19-year-old woman from Mumbra, was killed along with Javed Shaikh, Amjadali Akbarali Rana and Zeeshan Johar by the Gujarat police in an “encounter” on June 15, 2004.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-court-discharges-three-police-officers-in-ishrat-encounter-case/article34211232.ece
01 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||TS touches peak power demand||Telangana met a power demand of 13,688 MW without any hiccups on Wednesday, which was the highest so far since formation of the State. The previous highest demand was 13,168 MW which was recorded in February last year. According to power officials, the agriculture sector consumed 5,000 MW of the total consumption. Yet, all other categories of consumers got quality power. They said Telangana was the only State which supplied highest power to agriculture and the power utilities were geared to meet even higher demand if the situation arose. In areas serviced by Southern Power Distribution Company Limited, officials said the demand went up from 1,700 MW in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits in February last year to 2,760 MW now. The demand is likely to go up to 3,000 MW, which the company is prepared to supply. They said the consumption by agriculture sector went up immensely this year, particularly after the construction of Kaleshwaram project. The demand of ayacut in the left canal of Nagarjunasagar project in Nalgonda district also went up. The three wings of Amazon Data Centre were supplied 30 MW. The industries set up with the aid of TSiPASS consumed a lot of power. The company was prepared to meet the demand from all the IT companies. In the Northern Power Distribution Company Limited areas, officials said 40 per cent of the total demand of 5,042 MW was from agriculture sector. Since paddy cultivation had gone up due to Kaleshwaram project, a number of rice mills had come up in the zone. Power was also supplied to Mission Bhagiratha scheme of safe drinking water. A constant vigil was maintained by the IT cell of transmission corporation to supply quality power. The engineering officials had taken care to avoid interruptions in supply. The corporation was vigilant to the dangers from malware in supplies. Consultations took place regularly with cyber experts of the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/telangana-touches-peak-power-demand/article34211340.ece
01 April 2021||Chennai,||T.N. allows local authorities to impose fresh COVID restrictions||The Tamil Nadu government, which extended the COVID-19 lockdown across the State till April 30 with the existing restrictions and relaxations, has allowed the local authorities to impose fresh restrictions to contain the spread of the pandemic. “Based on their assessment of the situation, local restrictions at the district/sub-district and city/ward levels, with a view to containing the spread of COVID-19, shall be imposed,” Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan said in a government order, which was issued on Wednesday. The District Collectors are to strictly enforce the various measures spelt out by the State government, Mr. Ranjan said. “For the enforcement of physical distancing, the district administrations, as far as possible, shall use the provisions of Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973,” the order said. Mr. Ranjan said those who violated these measures would be proceeded against.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-allows-local-authorities-to-impose-fresh-covid-restrictions/article34211126.ece
01 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||110 mandals in State witness severe heatwave conditions||Severe heatwave conditions prevailed in several parts of the State on Wednesday as the maximum day temperature touched 45.9° Celsius in Markapur of Prakasam district, a report of the Andhra Pradesh State Disaster Management Authority said. As many as 110 of the 670 mandals experienced severe heatwave conditions, while normal heatwave condition was experienced in 207 mandals. Meliaputti of Srikakulam; Denduluru, Kamavarapukota of West Godavari; Renigunta of Chittoor; Sydapuram of Nellore; Kurichedu of Prakasam recorded maximum temperatures of more than 45.5° C, as per the readings of A.P. State Development Planning Society. According to the IMD, the maximum day temperatures (in degree Celsius) recorded at major centres were Visakhapatnam (34.5), Vijayawada (43), Ongole (41.6), Nellore (41.5), Kurnool (41.7) and Anantapur (41.6).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-under-grip-of-a-severe-heatwave/article34210962.ece
01 April 2021||New Delhi,||Let’s unite against BJP, Mamata tells 14 leaders||The BJP wants to establish a “one-party authoritarian rule” in India, reducing the State governments to “mere municipalities”, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said in a letter to the leaders of 14 Opposition parties, including Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray. Ms. Banerjee, who is also the chairperson of the Trinamool Congress, urged them to come together to counter the BJP. In her three-page letter, Ms. Banerjee expressed concern about the “series of assaults” by the BJP and the Union government on “democracy and Constitutional Federalism”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lets-unite-against-bjp-mamata-tells-14-leaders/article34211043.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Keep vaccine loss under 1%’||The Health Ministry on Wednesday told the States/UTs that there was no value in conserving vaccines for the second dose and said prompt supply should be ensured where there was demand.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/keep-vaccine-loss-under-1/article34211045.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Supply to Brazil hits roadblock||Supplies of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin to Brazil have run into trouble with Brazil’s health regulatory agency, ANVISA, deciding on Tues-day not to clear Covaxin for use at present.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/supply-to-brazil-hits-roadblock/article34211046.ece
01 April 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi reports 1,819 fresh COVID-19 cases||The Capital reported 1,819 new COVID-19 cases over 24 hours, taking the total to 6,62,430, stated a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said 230 ICU beds and 842 hospital beds have been added for COVID-19 treatment in 33 private hospitals in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-reports-1819-fresh-covid-19-cases/article34211231.ece
01 April 2021||Nandigram,||Kolkata nearby||After three months of a relentless, high-pitch campaign by both West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of the Trinamool Congress and the BJP candidate, Suvendu Adhikari, who switched to the party months before the election, a polarised Nandigram will cast its vote on April 1. During the campaign, slogans veered around Nandigram, with Ms. Banerjee rhyming it with “ sangram ” (struggle) and Mr. Adhikari choosing “ Jai Shri Ram ”. Another pitch of the campaign revolved around the Trinamool labelling Mr. Adhikari as a “ gaddar ” (traitor) and “Mir Jafar” and the BJP leader propping himself up as a “ bhoomiputra ” (son of the soil). The campaign began with Ms. Banerjee announcing in January that she would contest from Nandigram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kolkata-nearby/article34211423.ece
01 April 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan extends night curfew by one hour||Amid a surge in COVID-19 cases, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday decided to extend the night curfew timings by one hour in eight cities and imposed night curfew in two more towns. Also, the markets in urban areas will close by 9 p.m. instead of 10 p.m. earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajasthan-extends-night-curfew-by-one-hour/article34211513.ece
01 April 2021||Pune,||Mumbai nearby||No decision had yet been taken by the Maharashtra government on a possible lockdown, Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday. He, however, warned the public to be mentally prepared for more stringent curbs in the coming days. “The objective is to avoid large gatherings. We have thus far issued two notifications in a bid to ensure pandemic norms are followed,” Mr. Tope said. The minister refuted reports of bed shortages across hospitals in the State. “There is no such situation where there is a massive shortage of beds, either in Mumbai or in other districts. Yes, there may be specific instances of problems in certain hospitals in a particular district where there is a lot of demand. However, the situation is far from being dire,” said Mr. Tope.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-nearby/article34211487.ece
01 April 2021||BENGALURU,||Eshwarappa complains against CM’s ‘interference’||In a development that has brought into open rebellion by Ministers against the functioning style of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, senior leader and Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa has complained against “interference in administration” by the CM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eshwarappa-complains-against-cms-interference/article34211070.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,||CD case: Woman undergoes examination||The woman in the CD scandal involving BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi underwent medical examination at Bowring Hospital on Wednesday, a day after she made an appearance for the first time since the scandal broke out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cd-case-woman-undergoes-examination/article34211489.ece
01 April 2021||KOCHI,||Take steps to prevent double voting: Kerala HC||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the Election Commission of India and all functionaries under election laws to take all possible steps to prevent double voting or impersonated voting. The Bench, comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali, also ordered the ECI and the Chief Electoral Officer to give a public notice, cautioning voters that strict action would be taken against those who attempt to cast multiple votes. The Bench issued the directives while disposing of a writ petition filed by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, seeking a directive to delete or freeze multiple entries of names on the electoral roll. ‘Obtain declaration’ The court ordered that polling officials take photographs of all ASD (Absentees, Shifted and Dead) voters identified in the polling booths and also obtain the declaration from all absentee and shifted voters, in terms of Section 31 of Representation of the People Act, 1951. The signature and thumb impression of all the absentee and shifted voters should also be obtained. The Bench directed that all the photographs of ASD voters taken in the booths be collected, digitised, and kept by the EC. The court directed the EC to permit absentee and shifted voters to leave the polling booths only after the indelible ink had dried. The court ordered that after finalising the verification of DSE (demographically similar entries)/EPIC/ASD, a list be furnished to the political parties and Presiding Officers forthwith. The court also directed the EC and the CEO to ensure that sufficient Central and State forces were deployed in all the booths, especially in booths found to be in a disturbed area, to ensure compliance with the court directions and also ensure the safety of the polling agents. ‘Will publish details’ Meanwhile, Mr. Chennithala on Wednesday said he would publish the particulars of an estimated 4,34,000 bogus voters on the website https://www. operationtwins.com The EC had told the High Court that it had detected only 38,000 persons with multiple electoral identities. The public could verify the online list and provide information to the EC, Mr. Chennithala said. The EC had failed in assessing the scale of voter fraud in Kerala. It had tasked block level officers to detect the organised wrongdoing. However, the BLOs were restricted to their jurisdiction and could not see the scam that spanned constituencies and districts, he said. Mr. Chennithala said the number of people with multiple electoral identity cards could be higher than the total detected by him so far. He did not see any point in insisting that voters with multiple identities depose that they would exercise their franchise only once. It would not stop the electoral fraud. It was unreasonable to expect that bogus voters would file affidavits. Some people have eight or more electoral identities, which they could exploit to cast votes in different booths on polling day. The EC should purge the electoral list of fake voters before the State goes to the polls on April 6. The High Court decision on fake voters validated his complaint, the Congress leader said. He also welcomed the court order to deploy Central forces to prevent bogus voting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/take-steps-to-prevent-double-voting-kerala-hc/article34210966.ece
01 April 2021||New Delhi,||Mamata’s letter a sign of BJP win, says Nadda||The BJP on Wednesday reacted sharply to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s letter to a host of Opposition leaders exhorting them to form a united front against the saffron party, with party president J.P. Nadda terming the missive an “SOS (Save Our Souls) signal” from Ms. Banerjee, indicating that she was losing the Assembly election. “In a democracy, it is everyone’s right to gather like minded parties to come together, but for Ms. Banerjee to do it at this time is like an SOS, Save Our Souls signal being sent out by her to save her ship, and it clearly indicates that the ground has shifted from under her feet and that she is going to lose the West Bengal Assembly polls. It shows that the people of Bengal have decided to vote for the BJP, so while it is her party’s internal matter to make an appeal of this sort but its implications are clear,” Mr. Nadda said in a statement. ‘Battle lost’ Kailash Vijayvargiya, BJP general secretary and in-charge of West Bengal for the party, tweeted: “The issue raised by pishi (aunt)  , of outsiders coming in to fight polls in West Bengal has been exposed for the hypocrisy it was. Gauging that she will be losing for sure in these Assembly polls, she is now appealing for help from other parties to defeat Modi (Prime Minister Narendra Modi) and the BJP.” Asked whether the letter could also be a signal to the Congress from the Trinamool for a possible post-poll alliance, West Bengal co-incharge for the BJP, Amit Malviya told The Hindu , “There is no scope for any kind of post-poll alliance because the people of Bengal have made up their minds. BJP will come to power with more than 200 seats. This letter is that of a defeated Mamata Banerjee who is unsure of her own prospects in Nandigram and knows that her political capital in Bengal stands eroded.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamatas-letter-a-sign-of-bjp-win-says-nadda/article34210990.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Panel submits report on farm laws to SC||A Supreme Court-appointed panel has submitted its report on the three agricultural reform laws in a closed cover. The report will be revealed during the next hearing of the case. “We submitted the report in a sealed envelope to the Registrar of the court on March 19. It will be made public on the date of the next hearing of the PIL,” said Anil Ghanwat, one of the members of the committee who also heads a farm union and has advocated in favour of the laws. Asked about the stakeholders consulted by the committee and their views on the laws, Mr. Ghanwat said, “Our role is over now. We are not authorised to say anything about it before it is made public.” The three laws which were passed by Parliament in September and are being opposed by farmers’ unions are The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act. On January 12, the Supreme Court suspended the implementation of the three laws and appointed a four-member committee of experts “to listen to the grievances of the farmers on the farm laws and the views of the government and make recommendations”. After one member, farm union leader Bhupinder Singh Mann, recused himself from the panel, the remaining three members met the stakeholders including farmers’ groups, farmer producer organisations, officials and industry representatives from various States. However, the farmer unions refused to meet the panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-submits-report-on-farm-laws-to-sc/article34210996.ece
01 April 2021||Hyderabad,||Mortality, positivity rate rising in south||A sharp spike in cases was recorded in Telangana on Tuesday with 684 persons testing positive. Three more patients died. This is the second highest number of cases in a day in about four months, and a big jump over the previous two days. Only 403 and 463 cases were recorded on Sunday and Monday, respectively. On December 8, the State had logged 721 cases. Between February 1 and March 9, the highest daily count across the State was 189 but on Tuesday, GHMC alone had 184 cases. There were 61 new cases from Medchal -Malkajgiri, 48 from Nizamabad, 45 from Rangareddy, 30 from Nirmal, 24 from Nalgonda, 23 each from Karimnagar and Mahbubnagar, and 21 from Sangareddy. Karnataka on Wednesday reported a steep rise of 4,225 new cases, 2,928 from Bengaluru Urban alone. Fatalities also rose by 26. Kerala added 2,653 new cases on Wednesday, representing a TPR of 5.37%. The addition of 15 deaths took the cumulative toll to 4,621 deaths. Thiruvananthapuram reported four deaths, Alappuzha and Kozhikode three each, Ernakulam two, and Kollam, Kottayam and Kannur one death each. Among districts, Kannur reported the maximum of 416 cases, Kozhikode 398, Ernakulam 316, and Thiruvananthapuram 234. Another 2,579 persons tested positive in Tamil Nadu, pushing the active caseload to over 15,000 on Wednesday. Chennai’s daily count inched closer to the 1,000-mark as 969 persons tested positive for the infection, while seven of the 19 fatalities were recorded in the city. The fresh cases took the State’s overall tally to 8,86,673. Presently, 15,879 persons are under treatment for COVID-19 across the State. Chennai’s active caseload crossed 6,000 as 6,255 persons were With 19 more deaths, the State’s toll stood at 12,719. Eight districts recorded fewer than 10 cases each. There was an overall rise in fresh COVID-19 cases in many districts. Chengalpattu and Coimbatore recorded 250 and 273 cases respectively. There were 130 cases in Tiruvallur and 106 in Thanjavur. In Kancheepuram, 98 persons tested positive for COVID-19. There were 56 cases in Tiruchi, 55 in Tiruppur and 50 in Salem. A total of 1,527 persons recovered. till date, 8,58,075 persons have recovered.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Chennai and Thiruvananathapuram bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mortality-positivity-rate-rising-in-south/article34210982.ece
01 April 2021||Nandigram,||Bhoomikanya vs bhoomiputra in blistering battle for Nandigram||After three months of a relentless, high-pitch campaign by both West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of the Trinamool Congress and the BJP candidate, Suvendu Adhikari, who switched to the party months before the election, a polarised Nandigram will cast its vote on April 1. During the campaign, slogans veered around Nandigram, with Ms. Banerjee rhyming it with “ sangram ” (struggle) and Mr. Adhikari choosing “ Jai Shri Ram ”. Another pitch of the campaign revolved around the Trinamool labelling Mr. Adhikari as a “ gaddar ” (traitor) and “Mir Jafar” and the BJP leader propping himself up as a “ bhoomiputra ” (son of the soil). The campaign began with Ms. Banerjee announcing in January that she would contest from Nandigram, which had seen a fierce anti-land acquisition movement in 2007-08 during the Left Front regime. The BJP fielded Mr. Adhikari, whose family has nurtured the Purba Medinipur constituency as a Trinamool member. “We have not seen such a big campaign ever,” said a woman among a group waiting for Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s roadshow on the last day of campaigning. Two of the women, wearing saris in BJP colours, had switched over to the BJP in January. Echoing the sentiment among a section of the people, Shibani Das said, “ Didi is spending days here now but she couldn’t spare hours for us earlier. It is not as if she has not done work as Chief Minister.” A few kilometres away, at Ms. Banerjee’s rally, Rajkumar Jana spoke up for thousands of others who listened to the Trinamool supremo’s words silently: “It is 100% didi . Suvendu is a traitor.” She had launched her campaign on a low key on March 9. The very next dayshe suffered a leg injury. Ms. Banerjee has been stationed at Nandigram from the last week of March, her leg still in a plaster, addressing at least three public meetings a day and occasional roadshows from a wheelchair. The BJP, on its part, left no stone unturned by bringing in heavyweights for campaigning, including Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and new party member and actor Mithun Chakraborty. Nandigram also found mention in the Prime Minister’s rally at Kanthi in the same district. As the campaign evolved, the Trinamool found itself defending the “outsider” barb directed at Ms. Banerjee, who left her home constituency Bhawanipore to contest from Nandigram. The Trinamool had called the BJP a party of outsiders who were trying to impose themselves on the State. “I am the Chief Minister of the State. How dare you call me an outsider? Who are you? I am the bhoomikanya (daughter of the soil),” Ms. Banerjee, said, referring to the fact that even Mr. Adhikari, a Trinamool MLA for the past five years, was from Kanthi. In the battle of political titans, the Left has sprung a surprise by fielding young Democratic Youth Federation of India leader Minakshi Mukherjee who has been running an earnest door-to-door campaign raising the issue of livelihood and jobs. As the most high-profile constituency goes to the polls, it will be a litmus test for the Election Commission of India as well. The ECI has deployed 22 companies of Central forces for an electorate of 2.6 lakh. A lot has changed in Nandigram since the land stir in 2007 when 14 people were killed in police firing. Nandigram then was a symbol of “ sangram ”. New concrete roads have been laid, new shops have opened in the constituency 130 km from Kolkata, but the electorate is under a lot of pressure to choose between the “ bhoomikanya ” and the “ bhoomiputra ”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhoomikanya-vs-bhoomiputra-in-blistering-battle-for-nandigram/article34210984.ece
01 April 2021||Guwahati,||A test for CAA in Phase 2 of Assam election||The phase two of Assam election is expected to be a test for the pro-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) sentiment in the Bengali-dominated Barak Valley in contrast to the first phase of polling across 47 seats in the Assamese-dominated Brahmaputra Valley, where anti-CAA emotions had run high more than a year ago. Barak Valley has 15 of the 39 phase two seats. Eight of this are Hindu-majority and seven are Muslim-dominated. In the 2016 polls, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its regional ally Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) had won 24 of the phase two seats before adding the 25th after a Congress MLA resigned to contest for the BJP in the byelection. Of the Barak Valley seats, the BJP had won eight, the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) three, and the Congress two. Unlike in West Bengal, the BJP has remained silent on the issue of CAA during campaigning in Assam, apparently to not annoy Assamese voters in the Brahmaputra Valley. The Congress and AIUDF, fighting together this time, have adopted an anti-CAA stand. “The Congress has gone against the tide by opposing the CAA in the Barak Valley. But this may not give the BJP an edge, as it has dropped at three seasoned leaders and given ticket to people accused of running various syndicates. The Congress-AIUDF alignment may also consolidate loyal voters in non-Muslim areas,” Silchar-based political analyst Arijit Aditya said. The BJP may also face a tough time in five phase two seats straddling the three hill districts of Dima Hasao, Karbi Anglong and Western Karbi Anglong. The party dropped four of its MLAs, angering their supporters. The 19 other seats are spread across central and parts of northern and western Assam. The BJP and the AGP had won 12 of them in the last elections. The BJP’s estranged ally Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) had won four seats. After ditching the BPF, the BJP aligned with the United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL). The BPF is expected to make it difficult for both the UPPL and BJP in the constituencies under Bodoland Territorial Region. RS member, 3 Ministers Phase two of polling will seal the fate of Rajya Sabha member Biswajit Daimary, who quit the BPF in 2020 and is contesting the Panery seat for the BJP. Other key contestants are Ministers Parimal Suklabaidya (Dholai), Pijush Hazarika (Jagiroad) and Bhabesh Kalita (Rangia), and Deputy Assembly Speaker Aminul Haque Laskar (Sonai). Mr. Haque is the BJP’s only Muslim MLA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-test-for-pro-caa-sentiment-in-assam/article34210988.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Keep vaccine wastage below 1%’||The Health Ministry on Wednesday told the States and the Union Territories that there was no value in conserving vaccines for the second dose and directed that prompt supply should be ensured to all government and private hospitals where there was a demand. At a meeting ahead of the extension of COVID-19 vaccination to all those above the age of 45 from April 1, chaired by Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and R.S. Sharma, Chairperson, Empowered Group on COVID Vaccination, via videoconference, the Health Secretaries and senior officials of the States were asked to identify and take corrective action in low vaccine coverage pockets, particularly in districts showing a case surge. In a statement, the Health Ministry said the States and the Union Territories had been instructed to maintain vaccine wastage at less than 1% (present national wastage percentage being 6%), regularly review wastage across all levels to minimise the same and ensure timely utilisation of available stocks to avoid expiry of vaccines without usage. The States have also been told that only eligible beneficiaries should be registered and vaccinated under the category of healthcare and frontline workers and not allow any archiving of incorrect or duplicate entries on the CoWIN platform. On vaccine stocks, while Dr. Sharma said there was no problem in the storage and logistics of vaccines, the States had been told that there should be no sedimentation of vaccine stocks. The Health Ministry noted that vaccine was distributed based on consumption to avoid overstocking and understocking at cold chain points and that there was a regular review of vaccine stocks and consumption to identify gap areas. “States have to follow this protocol along with timely updating of data of vaccine consumption on CoWIN and eVIN portals,” said a release by the Ministry. Regarding the involvement of private vaccination centres, the States were asked to conduct regular reviews of vaccinations at these facilities on capacity utilisation and other aspects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/keep-vaccine-wastage-below-1/article34210994.ece
01 April 2021||New Delhi,||Farmers plan ‘wake-up call’ to govt.||Thousands of farmers who have been protesting against the three farm reform laws on the borders of Delhi will march to Parliament on foot in the first fortnight of May, Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders said on Wednesday. They also plan to block the Western Peripheral Expressway surrounding Delhi for 24 hours on April 10 and 11 as a “wake-up call” to the government. Speaking at a press conference at the Singhu border, SKM leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni emphasised that steps would be taken to ensure that the march to Parliament was peaceful, without any of the confusion, ruckus or violence seen during the tractor parade on Republic Day. A committee would be formed to direct farmers in case of police action, and to prevent any violence or property damage, said Mr. Chaduni, who also heads his own faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union in Haryana. “Apart from farmers, all who have been supporting us, including women, workers and unemployed youth, will also participate in the march. Everyone will come from their villages to the border in their own vehicles, and will then proceed to the Parliament on foot,” he said. Another SKM leader Santokh Singh said the government had been “sleeping” in the long time since it ended talks with farmers in January. “In order to give a wake-up call to the government, we will block the KMP [Kundli-Manali-Palwal Expressway] from 11 a.m. on April 10 till 11 a.m. on April 11,” he said. Although their key demands remain the repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee of minimum prices for their crops, SKM leaders also signalled a move to widen their cause. On April 14, they will mark B.R. Ambedkar’s birth anniversary as Save the Constitution Day. “The Preamble to the Constitution says that India is secular and democratic. But this government is neither secular nor democratic,” said SKM leader Prem Singh Bhangu. The SKM also decided to observe April 5 as ‘FCI Bachao Divas’ by surrounding the offices of the Food Corporation of India across the country. All programmes on Labour Day on May 1 will be dedicated to unity between workers and farmers, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-plan-wake-up-call-to-govt/article34211007.ece
01 April 2021||Srinagar,||Appeal for resumption of trade across LoC||Traders associated with cross-Line of Control (LoC) trade in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday welcomed the move to resume trade between India and Pakistan, as it rekindled a hope that the business between the two parts of J&K, suspended since March 2019, may also come up for a discussion between the two countries. “We welcome the step to resume trade between India and Pakistan. We demand that the government should also resume cross-LoC trade, as J&K is witnessing a rise in unemployment. Those related to the trade, including businessmen, labourers, drivers, hotels and even restaurants in Uri (a connecting point in quonorth Kashmir’s Baramulla) are having a tough time,” S. Samiullah, vice president of the Salamabad Cross-LoC Traders Union told The Hindu . Mr. Samiullah said the cross-LoC trade, started in 2008, from Baramulla’s Uri also brought “an end to skirmishes between the two armies along the LoC in the area”. “The movement of goods and trucks helped in ensuring that the ceasefire is maintained. It became a contributing factor in maintaining the ceasefire on the LoC. It will only help the recent pact between India and Pakistan to maintain a ceasefire in J&K,” he added. Around 21 items of goods were approved by India and Pakistan to trade from the twin routes of Salamabad in Uri in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district and Chakandabagh in Poonch district earlier, where trade would take place four days a week. It was halted by the Ministry of Home Affairs in 2019 after it suggested the trade was “misused to fund militancy and separatism” in J&K. Around 200 traders were associated with the trade. “We call upon the governments of Pakistan and India to restore trade on LoC as a confidence building measure. It will open a bridge for public relations and open gates of peace,” Mirza Shakeel, spokesman of the Traders of Inter-Kashmir Trade, said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/appeal-for-resumption-of-trade-across-loc/article34211005.ece
01 April 2021||KOCHI,||Buzz over ‘political bomb’ triggers speculations||What would be the “big bomb” that could go off before the polling day April 6? Political circles are abuzz with speculations that Central agencies, especially the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Customs, may make a major move in the coming days that has the potential to redefine the political narrative of the State. Some political activists apprehend that the ED may serve a notice on Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan asking him to appear before it for interrogation in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. The other theories include probable ED raid at the Bengaluru-based IT firm of the daughter of the Chief Minister and the agency booking a case against Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan in the dollar smuggling case. Incidentally, Swapna had stated to ED that the Speaker had handed over a bag to Sarith, which contained a packet, that was to be handed over safely to the UAE Consul General in Thiruvananthapuram. Sarith, according to Swapna, had stated that packet seemed to have currency notes in it. The CBI, says another theory, may book some prominent CPI(M) leaders in connection with the Periye twin murder of Youth Congress leaders.  Statement of CM Rumour mill went into overdrive with the statement of Mr. Vijayan at Kasaragod on Monday that the State was ready to face any bomb of lies which could go off during the final days of campaign. However, those at the agencies said they were unaware of any such developments. Another official said the Customs may pursue its investigation against Mr. Sreeramakrishnan only after the polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/buzz-over-political-bomb-triggers-speculations/article34211394.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Military farms shut down after 132 years||Military farms have been closed after 132 years of service, the Army said. The formal closing ceremony was held on Wednesday to mark the occasion. “All the officers and workers have been redeployed within the Ministry to continue providing service to the organisation,” the Army said. There have been several recommendations in the past to shut down the farms. In 2012, the Quarter Master General branch had recommended their closure. In December 2016, the Lt. Gen. D.B. Shekatkar (retd.) committee, which was appointed to recommend measures to enhance combat capability and rebalance defence expenditure of the armed forces, said the same. The farms were set up with the sole requirement of supplying hygienic cow milk to troops in garrisons across British India. The first military farm was raised on February 1, 1889, at Allahabad. Post-Independence, they flourished with 30,000 heads of cattle in 130 farms all over India. They were even established in Leh and Kargil in the late 1990s. For more than a century, the farms supplied 3.5 crore litres of milk and 25,000 tonnes of hay yearly. “It is credited with pioneering the technique of artificial insemination of cattle and introduction of organised dairying in India, providing yeoman service during the 1971 war, supplying milk at the Western and Eastern war fronts as well as during the Kargil operations to the Northern Command,” the Army said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/military-farms-shut-down-after-132-years/article34211032.ece
01 April 2021||BENGALURU,||Karnataka Minister files plaint with PM, Governor against CM||In a development that has brought into open rebellion by Ministers against the functioning style of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, senior leader and Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa has complained to Governor Vajubai R. Vala, the Prime Minister, the Union Home Minister, and top leaders of the BJP against “interference in administration” by the Chief Minister in his department in violation of norms. Mr. Eshwarappa is learnt to have personally met the Governor on Wednesday afternoon and submitted a five-page petition in which he has accused the Chief Minister of “direct interference” in the affairs of his department in clear violation of Karnataka (Transaction of Business) Rules, 1977, and also against the established practices and procedures relating to the affairs of the State Administration. The Karnataka Government (Transaction of Business) Rules, 1977, stipulate the division of powers between the Cabinet Ministers in charge of respective departments vis-a-vis the Chief Minister. Funds to ZP Citing the instances of interference in his department, Mr. Eshwarappa has alleged that based on a letter by the Bengaluru Urban Zilla Panchayat (ZP) president, who also happens to be the Chief Minister’s relative,Mr. Yediyurappa had directly sanctioned Rs. 65 crore to the zilla panchyat and put pressure on the Principal Secretary of the RDPR to issue a notification in this regard bypassing him. But the Principal Secretary did not have powers to issue such a notification without the Minister’s approval, Mr. Eshwarappa said. Referring to the alleged favouritism in this instance, he said Rs. 65 crore was released under the head “district sector allocation for ZPs” for the Bengaluru Urban ZP as against the total annual allocation of only Rs. 1.17 crore for this ZP under this category. “There is no logic and fairness in sanctioning Rs. 65 crore to one district neglecting the remaining 29 districts,” the Minister lamented. This was also a violation of the Provision of Karnataka Panchayat and Gram Swaraj Act, 1992, as the Chief Minister had approved the action plan for Bengaluru Urban ZP with respect to list of civil works submitted by its president though it was supposed to have been approved only by the general body of the ZP, the Minister said. In another instance, the Chief Minister had sanctioned Rs. 774 crore from his department to MLAs by ignoring him and put pressure on the Principal Secretary to issue a Government Order in this regard, Mr. Eshwarappa alleged in the petition. He, however, stayed the order following advise from party top leaders. Put on hold Again, the Chief Minister had sanctioned another bunch of works to the tune of Rs. 460 crore on March 4 bypassing him, he alleged. Expressing concern over this, the Minister said he had put on hold all the three above releases totalling Rs. 1,299 crore. In the petition, he said he was forced to approach the Governor as his letter to the Chief Minister registering his objection to such “indiscriminate release of funds” did not yield any results. Describing this as “serious lapses and authoritarian way of running the administration” by the Chief Minister, he appealed to the Governor to advise the Chief Minister to adhere to the rules and practices and also to take into confidence the Cabinet colleagues.  Highlights of Eshwarappa’s letter Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is directly interfering in his department and sanctioning funds without his knowledge The Chief Minister is putting pressure on the RDPR Principal Secretary to issue notifications on release of funds without his knowledge There is an instance of violation of the Gram Swaraj Act There are three instance of release of funds totalling to Rs. 1,299 crore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-minister-files-plaint-with-pm-governor-against-cm/article34211024.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,||HC allows probe against Yediyurappa in criminal case||In a major setback to Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, the Karnataka High Court on Wednesday gave green signal for investigation against him in the criminal case registered for allegedly trying to woo JD(S) MLA Naganagouda Kandkur’s son Sharanagouda with the promise of money and Ministry in 2019. Offences of sedition Interestingly, the court observed that “the allegations, if found true, would even attract offences of sedition, criminal conspiracy and illegal payments in connection with an election under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) as the allegations made in the complaint and the material produced clearly disclose that an attempt has been made by Mr. Yediyurappa and others accused to excite disaffection towards the government established by law by encouraging defection so as to topple the government by lure of money and position”. ‘Illegal payment’ Referring to the complaint and materials on record, the court said that “the allegations prima facie make out the ingredients of Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy, 124A (sedition) and Section 171H (illegal payment for elections) of the IPC”.  Criminal case pertains to an alleged bid to win over JD(S) legislator’s son||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-high-court-allows-probe-against-yediyurappa/article34210975.ece
01 April 2021||Patna,||Eight die in dry Bihar after consuming spurious liquor||At least eight persons died in two districts of Bihar over Tuesday and Wednesday, allegedly after consuming illicit spurious liquor. The State banned liquor in April 2016 under the Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act, 2016. Six persons died in a suspected case of consuming spurious liquor in Kharidi-Bigha village under Bhadauni panchayat of Nawada district, while two persons lost their lives in the Godhiyari village of Bakhri block in Begusarai district. Seven other persons from Kharidi Bigha and Gondapur area of Nawada district are said to be seriously ill and are admitted to hospitals, allegedly after consuming illicit liquor, while one person, Birju Sahni (25) from Bakhri in Begusarai, too has taken seriously unwell after consuming spurious liquor along with two of his friends. The victims in Nawada district have been identified as Ajay Yadav, Ramdeo Yadav, Shailendra Yadav, Shakti Singh, Loha Singh and Prabhakar Kumar Gupta. Another person, Chamari Choudhuri from the Kharidi Bigha village of the district, has also lost his vision after consuming spurious liquor. Shakti Singh’s family members told local media persons that he died after consuming spurious liquor during the festival of Holi on March 29. All the dead have been cremated by their family members. However, the district administration has not confirmed yet that six people died after consuming illicit liquor. “It’s all a case of suspected death. Investigation is on and we can say anything about it only after that,” a local district official said. Local officials and police are camping in the village to get details. Two persons of Godhiyari village in the Bakhri block of Begusarai district ,Raj Kumar Sahni (22) and Sakaldeo Choudhury (38), too, lost their lives allegedly after consuming illicit liquor. Ever since liquor was banned in Bihar, as many as 2,55,111 cases related to the violation of the law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eight-die-in-dry-bihar-after-consuming-spurious-liquor/article34210998.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC against uniform civil law on divorce and alimony||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court against a “blatant attempt” being made to take away the fundamental right of Muslim women to practise their religion, all in the guise of providing a “uniform law” across all faiths. Amina Sherwani has asked the Supreme Court to hear her before deciding whether a uniform civil law for divorce, maintenance and alimony will leave Muslim women like her better-off. Last December, the Supreme Court agreed to examine advocate A.K. Upadhyay’s plea for a single law covering divorce, maintenance and alimony for all religions. Mr. Upadhyay had argued that laws governing them in certain religions discriminate and marginalise women. Ms. Sherwani says she represents women who follow the Islamic faith, who married according to the Muslim rites and traditions, and is a recipient of the rights and entitlements provided to her. She said their personal law allows Muslim women like her “such rights that may not be available under other marital laws”. Ms. Sherwani said Mr. Upadhyay’s petition was a “deliberate attempt to interfere with the cultural and customary practices and usages that enjoy the protection of Articles 25 and 26 of the Constitution”. The application filed by Ms. Sherwani said “Muslim marriage is contractual in nature and as such the parties to it are allowed to impose conditions for regulating their matrimonial relations. Such conditions can be imposed before the marriage or at the time of the marriage or even after the marriage”. She said an avenue for resolution of matrimonial disputes through mediation is also provided for under Islamic matrimonial jurisprudence.  Muslim marriage is contractual in nature and as such the parties to it are allowed to impose conditions Amina Sherwani||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-in-sc-against-uniform-civil-law-on-divorce-and-alimony/article34211000.ece
01 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||We will throw Ajmal out of Assam: Shah||Lok Sabha member and president of All India United Democratic Front Badruddin Ajmal continued to be the BJP’s bogeyman as Assam stepped into the final phase of the Assembly election. The AIUDF is the main ally of the Congress in the 10-party Mahajot, or grand alliance, that seeks to oust the BJP and its regional partners from power. At rallies in three constituencies across central and western Assam on Wednesday, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said Assam cannot be made infiltration-free under the leadership of Mr. Ajmal. The BJP, he asserted, would throw him out and save the State from infiltrators. “ He will open all the gates to the infiltrators if in power while only the BJP can prevent this from happening,” he said.  He claimed that Assam did not witness any protests during the past five years and no innocent lives were lost. At least five people were killed during violent anti-CAA protest in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-will-throw-ajmal-out-of-assam-shah/article34210985.ece
01 April 2021||Kolkata,||Goons have entered Nandigram: Mamata||Alleging that goons from other States had entered Nandigram, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday urged the Election Commission of India (ECI) to conduct a free and fair election. “Why are outsider goons allowed in Nandigram? Don’t want favour from Election Commission. We only want free and fair elections,” she told mediapersons in Goghat in Hooghly. She said her party had complained to the Commission several times on the issue. “Several BJP leaders are sitting in hotels with huge amounts of money and distributing from there. Where is the Election Commission?” She also took a dig at the hundreds of BJP leaders visiting the State. “They cannot take on Mamata Banerjee alone, so they are coming in hundreds. What kind of leaders are they?” The BJP also registered a complaint with the Commission, alleging that Ms. Banerjee’s remarks were leading to political violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/goons-have-entered-nandigram-mamata/article34211029.ece
01 April 2021||New Delhi,||Rahul’s temple visit comes amid BJP attack on alliance with Ajmal||Ahead of the second phase of polling in 39 seats of Assam on April 1, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday offered prayers at Guwahati’s Kamakhya temple, the most revered shrine in Assam. Sharing pictures of his visit, Mr. Gandhi tweeted that the Congress was with the people of Assam in their struggle for respect and progress. The visit, however, comes amid the BJP attack on the Congress for its alliance with Badruddin Ajmal’s AIUDF. The BJP, which has always targeted the AIUDF for “protecting” undocumented immigrants, is accusing the Congress of working against the interest of indigenous communities and appeasing minorities. In the 2016 Assembly election, the BJP and its allies, including the Asom Gana Parishad, had won 40 of the 79 seats that will vote in the second and the third phases. But there are significant changes now as the Congress-AIUDF alliance gives the Mahajot an advantage in close to 30 seats, where the Muslim community is a decisive factor. The Bodo People’s Front (BPF), a former ally of the BJP that had swept all 12 seats in the Bodo Territorial Region in the 2016 election, is now part of the Congress-led Mahajot . Apart from banking on an impressive performance in Upper Assam and North Bank areas that voted in phase I, the BJP is reaching out to different voting segments such as indigenous communities, tribals and Bengali Hindus in the remaining phases. To counter a polarising narrative, the Congress has opted for visible temple visits by its top leaders. Earlier, party general secretary Priyanka Vadra started her Assam with a visit to the Kamakhya shrine. “While the BJP talks about Ajmal, they forget that there are eight other parties including tribal parties that are supporting the Mahajot . As far as our leaders visiting ‘mandirs’ and “namghars/xatras” [monastery], they have respect for all religions,” said an Assam Congress leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahuls-temple-visit-comes-amid-bjp-attack-on-alliance-with-ajmal/article34210992.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||TS touches peak power demand||The demand of ayacut in the left canal of Nagarjunasagar project in Nalgonda district also went up. The three wings of Amazon Data Centre were supplied 30 MW. The industries set up with the aid of TSiPASS consumed a lot of power. The company was prepared to meet the demand from all the information-technology (IT) companies. Dangers of malware In the Northern Power Distribution Company Limited areas, officials said 40 per cent of the total demand of 5,042 MW was from agriculture sector. Since paddy cultivation had gone up due to Kaleshwaram project, a number of rice mills had come up in the zone. Power was also supplied to Mission Bhagiratha scheme of safe drinking water. A constant vigil was maintained by the IT cell of transmission corporation to supply quality power. The engineering officials had taken care to avoid interruptions in supply. The corporation was vigilant to the dangers from malware in supplies. Consultations took place regularly with cyber experts of the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ts-touches-peak-power-demand/article34211343.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Covaxin supply to Brazil hits a roadblock||Supplies of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin to Brazil have run into trouble with Brazil’s health regulatory agency, ANVISA, deciding on Tuesday not to clear Covaxin for use at present. In a statement protesting the decision, Covaxin’s Brazilian import partner Precisa Medicamentos (PM) said it would appeal the ANVISA decision, which, diplomatic sources said, was more about “bureaucratic process” and not pertaining to the quality of the vaccine. In particular, ANVISA required a certification of “manufacturing good practices”, which needs to be submitted before the clearances can be given. As part of its procedure, representatives from ANVISA visited Bharat Biotech’s factory in India from March 1 to 5 and “all notes raised by the agency” were recorded, said PM in the translated version of its press statement. During the inspection, the regulatory agency reportedly required more stringent “technical and documentation procedures”. “The requirements pointed out during inspection will be fulfilled, the timelines for fulfilment is under discussion with the Brazil NRA [National Regulatory Agency] and will be resolved soon. The 20 million dose order from the Brazilian Govt is still active. The agreement with Precisa Medicamentos is based on a long term partnership and will continue,” a spokesperson from Bharat Biotech told The Hindu , reacting to the ANVISA decision. Bharat Biotech said it had agreed to the conditions laid by ANVISA but found the deadlines for compliance too tight, offering to complete procedures by June, rather than April, which may have led to the denial of clearances, the sources said. Import partner “The fulfilment of ANVISA’s notes in the shortest time would only be possible by interrupting Covaxin’s production completely, consequently affecting the supply to countries that have already received the product and have already authorised its emergency use, which is extremely inconsistent and imprudent in this current world situation,” the PM statement said, pointing out that Brazilian laws allow the vaccine to be authorised nevertheless for emergency and exceptional use, even without the certification. The development follows weeks after Serum Institute of India (SII) had informed Brazil’s state-owned vaccine importer Fiocruz that supplies of further Covishield (AstraZeneca) doses could not be guaranteed because a fire in an SII building had hampered manufacturing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covaxin-supply-to-brazil-hits-a-roadblock/article34211002.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Norms to carry dangerous goods to be reviewed||The Ministry of Railways will review its Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) on the conveyance of dangerous goods on the basis of recommendations made by the High Power Committee (HPC) that investigated the gas (styrene vapour) leak incident at M/s LG Polymers Limited, Visakhapatnam, on the intervening night of May 6 and May 7, 2020, which left 12 people dead and hundreds of others hospitalised. Acting on an advisory from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC), the Railway Board has written to all Zonal Railways on March 24, 2021, to take necessary action on the technical and administrative/regulatory recommendation made by the HPC. In his letter to the Ministry of Railways, Naresh Pal Gangwar, Joint Secretary, MoEFCC, said that after the nationwide lockdown was lifted, there were incidents of chemical (industrial) accidents in every nook and corner of the country. The accidents not only resulted in damage to property/industrial infrastructure but also led to the loss of precious lives/ major injuries to workers, leaving them with permanent disability. Referring to the gas leak incident in Visakhapatnam, which had an impact on the population over a radius of 3 km, he said that the State of Andhra Pradesh had constituted the HPC comprising experts from Central agencies like the Central Pollution Control Board, Central Institute of Petroleum Engineering and Technology, Andhra University, Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation, etc., apart from senior State government functionaries, to find out the root cause and tackle such situations in future. After arriving at the root cause of the incident, the HPC made certain recommendations to be followed by chemical industries dealing with hazardous chemicals in general and styrene in particular. The MoEFCC, being the nodal agency for handling matters relating to chemical disasters, referred the technical recommendations to the ‘Central Crisis Group’. It was decided to circulate the recommendations along with the updated ‘Crisis Alert System’ to the departments concerned for implementation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/norms-to-carry-dangerous-goods-to-be-reviewed/article34210972.ece
01 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||Expert committee will rule on Sputnik V today||A decision on India approving a third COVID-19 vaccine is likely soon, with a subject expert committee (SEC) set to take up Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories application seeking emergency use authorisation for Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine on April 1. The meeting of the SEC is scheduled for Thursday, sources in the pharma major confirmed. It will be the second time the application will go before the committee that advises the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). Last month, the committee had sought more data on Sputnik V vaccine trials from Dr. Reddy’s. The firm should submit immunogenicity and safety data of Phase II and III trial as per approved protocol for further consideration. “Further, the firm is requested to present its data with more clarity,” it had said at the February 24 meeting. Phase III trials Dr. Reddy’s has since submitted additional data before the committee. The dosing of the volunteers under Phase III trials has also been completed. The trial data is being analysed and findings likely to be ready early April, sources said. The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) has a partnership with Dr. Reddy’s for the clinical trials and distribution of the vaccine, developed by Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/expert-committee-will-rule-on-sputnik-v-today/article34210997.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||In Feb., output of core sectors contracts by 4.6%||According to the data, coal production declined by 4.4%, crude oil by 3.2%, natural gas by 1%, refinery products by a steep 10.9%, fertilizers by 3.7%, steel by 1.8%, cement by 5.5% and electricity by 0.2% in February. According to the Commerce and Industry Ministry data, during April-February 2020-21, the eight sectors’ growth declined by 8.3% as compared to (+) 1.3% in same period of the previous fiscal. Commenting on the figures, ICRA Ltd Principal Economist Aditi Nayar said that given the sharp base effect, the core sector output was expected to expand by 9-11% in March 2021, which should result in a modest growth of around 2% in Q4 FY2021. “The lead indicators such as the core sector, auto output and non-oil exports have revealed a decidedly mixed trend for February 2021. Based on the available data, we expect the contraction in the IIP [index of industrial production] to deepen to 2-3% in February 2021 from 1.6% in January 2021,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-feb-output-of-core-sectors-contracts-by-46/article34210977.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Pak. allows import of cotton, sugar from India||“We have allowed the import of sugar, but in the rest of the world too, sugar prices are high because of which imports are not possible. But in India, he prices of sugar are much less as compared to Pakistan, so we have decided to reopen sugar trade with India,” Mr. Azhar said. He added that there was also high demand for cotton and cotton yarn from India, especially from Pakistani Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) due to increased textile exports but a reduced crop in 2020. The decision to cancel trade was taken by the Imran Khan government on August 9, 2019, days after the government amended Article 370 and reorganised Jammu and Kashmir. India’s Ministry of External Affairs did not respond to the development, nor did it respond to questions on whether it was considering any complementary steps. While India had not banned trade with Pakistan, it suspended cross-LoC trade and withdrew Most Favoured Nation (MFN) status to Pakistan in the wake of the Pulwama attack in February 2019. Experts said that the move by Pakistan, which follows the granting of sports related visas by India after a gap of three years, scheduling a much-delayed meeting of the Indus Water Commissioners in Delhi in March, peace at the LoC after more than 5,000 ceasefire violations last year, as well as the exchange of salutary messages between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and PM Khan, has raised hopes for further measures. “The decision by Pakistan to allow trade in the selected items will gradually lead to restoration of normalcy in India-Pakistan trade,” said Afaq Hussain, Director, Bureau of Research on Industry and Economic Fundamentals, that studies India-Pakistan and cross-LoC trade. “It will help Pakistan’s domestic manufacturers reduce cost of production, which increased because of the trade ban from India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pak-allows-import-of-cotton-sugar-from-india/article34210973.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||India reports highest toll due to COVID-19 in 2021||Chhattisgarh and Karnataka registered 4,563 and 4,225 infections respectively. In the first wave of infections in India, the daily cases peaked at nearly 98,000 in mid-September 2020. The active case load has reached 5,80,327 with Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Punjab and Chhattisgarh cumulatively accounting for nearly 80% of the total active cases. The cumulative recoveries stood at 1,14,72,462.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-reports-highest-covid-19-toll-this-year/article34210976.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Let’s unite against BJP, Mamata tells 14 leaders||Her letter comes in the backdrop of the recent passage of the National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill in Parliament. Under this law, all policy decisions taken by the elected Delhi government have to be cleared by the Lt. Governor, who is nominated by the Centre, before implementation. Ms. Banerjee wrote that the Centre had sought to make Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal “subservient to the Lt. Governor” because it has been unwilling to accept the people’s mandate, who chose the AAP over the BJP twice, in 2014 and in 2019. “The National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act is a direct attack on the federal structure of the Indian republic as enshrined in the Constitution. It also makes a mockery of letter and spirit of democracy since it disempowers the people of the national capital,” she wrote. This legislation, she wrote, also violated the Supreme Court judgment of 2018, which upheld the pre-eminence of the elected government in Delhi in all matters other than police, public order and land. Sounding a word of caution, she wrote that this Act was not an exception but was increasingly becoming a rule. She listed out seven instances of the Centre trying to upstage the State governments. These included interference by the Governors, vindictive use of agencies such as the CBI and the ED, and withholding transfer of funds to the State governments, especially to the non-BJP ruled States. She said pointed out that all the platforms where the States governments could place their grievances had been disbanded, including the Inter-State Council and the Planning Commission. The BJP, Ms. Mamata said, had amassed “unlimited” resources from questionable sources, which it was using to topple duly elected non-BJP governments by engineering defections. “There is a clear pattern and purpose behind all these developments. The BJP wants to make it impossible for non-BJP parties to exercise their constitutional rights and freedoms. It wants to dilute the powers of the State governments and downgrade them to mere municipalities. It wants to establish a one-party authoritarian rule in India,” she said. There is a need for a “united and effective” struggle, she said, urging all the parties to come together to draft a plan of action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lets-unite-against-bjp-mamata-tells-14-leaders/article34210978.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. cuts rates on small savings instruments||The government plans to borrow Rs. 12.05 lakh crore in 2021-22, on the back of a record gross borrowing of Rs. 13.71 lakh crore in 2020-21. High small savings rates have been cited by the central bank as a major impediment in ensuring policy rate cuts get transmitted into the banking system. “After keeping rates largely unchanged over the last few quarters, the government has effected a substantial lagged revision in small savings rates, mirroring the moderation in interest rates in the wider economy seen over the last year,” said Aditi Nayar, principal economist at ICRA Limited. The interest rate paid on National Savings Certificate and Kisan Vikas Patra were also reduced significantly, from 6.8% to 5.9%, and from 6.9% to 6.2%, respectively. Consequently, the Kisan Vikas Patra, which used to mature in 124 months, will now mature in 138 months. While savings deposits earned the lowest rate of 4% till now, that return has now been further slashed to 3.5%. Among time deposits, the return on five year deposits has been reduced from 6.7% to 5.8%. Five-year recurring deposits, whose interest is compounded quarterly, will get a return of 5.3% instead of 5.8% in the previous quarter. For savers, the option with the highest returns at this point is the Sukanya Samriddhi Account Scheme, followed by the Senior Citizens’ Savings Schemes and the Public Provident Fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-cuts-rates-on-small-savings-instruments/article34211027.ece
01 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Rahul adds to Assam’s poll manifesto||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday added a sixth guarantee to the party’s declared five in its election manifesto — to free Assam from the control of Delhi and Nagpur. ‘Nagpur’ is a reference to the RSS headquarters. “You know about the five guarantees of the Congress. Let me guarantee a sixth, that the Mahajot [grand alliance] government will not let Assam be controlled by either Nagpur or Delhi if voted to power,” he told a meeting at Barkhetri in west Assam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-adds-to-assams-poll-manifesto/article34210986.ece
01 April 2021||Hyderabad,||NIA carries out raids in Hyderabad||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) carried out searches at the residences of High Court advocate Raghunath Verose and former member of Jana Natya Mandali, Dappu Ramesh, here on Wednesday evening for alleged links to the outlawed CPI (Maoist). Sources in the agency told The Hindu that around 6 p.m., two teams along with Andhra Pradesh police started the raids at Raghunath’s house at P&T Colony in Dilsukhnagar, and Ramesh’s house at Gudimalkapur, Mehdipatnam. The NIA said incriminating materials, including documents and various digital devices, and revolutionary literature were found during the searches. The digital evidence would be seized and sent to the forensic laboratory to retrieve the data forensically. “We have enough evidence to prove their unlawful activities and links with the CPI (Maoist) cadres. They were making efforts to strengthen the ‘red cadre’ in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh and were in frequent touch with the top leaders,” an officer said on condition of anonymity. Five cases He said that advocate Raghunath was accused in at least five cases booked under Section 18, 18-B and 20 of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), Section 120-B (Conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code. “They both have links with the banned Maoist party. We are likely to arrest them and produce them before the Special NIA Court to judicial custody,” he said.The agency also carried out searches at the residences of journalist Pinaka Pani and Somashekar Sharma alias Arun in Kurnool, and VIRASAM senior leader Varalakshmi in Anantapur and other places in Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-carries-out-raids-in-hyderabad-ap/article34211371.ece
01 April 2021||KOCHI,||Kerala HC says ‘no’ to action against ED||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday asked the Crime Branch (CB) not to proceed with any coercive actions against Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials in connection with the case registered on a charge of forcing Swapna Suresh, prime accused in the diplomatic gold smuggling and money laundering cases, to give false statement against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Justice V.G. Arun recorded the submission made by the government counsel that no official witnesses had been called and would not be called. The submission was made when it was brought to the attention of the court that some Customs officials had been called to appear before the police by a police officer in Kochi. Harin Ravil, counsel for the State government, submitted that no Customs officials were summoned and that the police would continue with the investigation but would not take any coercive steps. Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India, appearing for the petitioner, sought to stay the Crime Branch investigation as it was weakening the case of the ED and Customs. PMLA against Swapna When the petition came up for hearing, Mr. Ravil submitted that the FIR registered against the ED officials would not affect the investigation being conducted by the ED in the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) case against Swapna Suresh and others. He said the ED was creating an entire smokescreen by filing such a petition. It was an attempt to nip the investigation of the Crime Branch in the bud. While investigating against the accused in the PMLA case, there was an attempt to create false evidence against some highly placed innocent persons. The intention of the petitioner was to tarnish the State government. Fair investigation Mr. Mehta submitted that if this kind of FIRs were allowed to be filed, Central agencies would not be able to do a fair and fearless investigation. He argued that one investigating agency could not nullify an investigation being conducted by another agency before the competent court examined the matter. The concept of cooperative federalism was that State and Central agencies act in tandem against perpetrators of crime. The FIR would destroy the investigation of the ED and, therefore, it was illegal and violated Article 21 of the Constitution. Mr. Mehta further submitted that only the Special Judge of the PMLA Court could issue directives for the prosecution of the ED officials. However, before any action was taken by the court, the police had stated that that ED's evidence was fabricated. The court posted the case on April 8 for hearing further arguments.  Govt. says police will continue the investigation but will not take any coercive steps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-asks-cb-not-to-take-coercive-action/article34210963.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Taxi services at Bengaluru airport hit||Disruptions in taxi services to the city’s Kempegowda International Airport continued on Wednesday as drivers of Ola, Uber, Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation and other airport taxi services stayed off the road after the KSDTC airport taxi driver, who allegedly set himself ablaze near the terminal area of the airport on Tuesday, succumbed to his injuries. In the absence of taxi services, air-passengers are relying on private vehicles or Vayu Varja Services of Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation to reach the airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/taxi-services-at-bengaluru-airport-hit/article34210979.ece
01 April 2021||Kolkata,||High turnout indicative of change: Nadda||Lauding the Election Commission of India for conducting peaceful poll in West Bengal, BJP president J.P. Nadda on Thursday said the high voter turnout in the first phase was indicative of the defeat of the Trinamool. “ Khela shesh hoye gayache [the game is over]. The high polling percentage shows that people want a change,” he said in Hooghly district. Union Home Minister Amit Shah had claimed that the BJP would win 26 of the 30 seats that went to the polls in the first phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/high-turnout-indicative-of-change-nadda/article34211028.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Food sector incentive gets Cabinet nod||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a production-linked incentive scheme for the food processing industry with an outlay of Rs. 10,900 crore. Announcing the scheme, Piyush Goyal, Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, said the scheme was a “fitting tribute to farmers” and that it would lead to employment for 2.5 lakh people. He added that it would lead to additional exports of Rs. 30,000 crore to Rs. 35,000 crore. The objectives of the scheme were to “support creation of global food manufacturing champions”, “strengthen select Indian brand of food products for global visibility and wider acceptance in the international markets”, “increase employment opportunities of off-farm jobs” and “ensuring remunerative prices of farm produce and higher income to farmers”, a government statement said. Mr. Goyal said the scheme would cover ready-to-cook, ready-to-eat, processed fruits and vegetables, marine products and mozzarella cheese. Organic products, free-range eggs, poultry meat and egg products were also covered. “The implementation of the scheme would facilitate expansion of processing capacity to generate processed food output of Rs. 33,494 crore and create employment for nearly 2.5 lakh persons by the year 2026-27,” the statement said. The applicants selected for the scheme would be required to invest in plant and machinery in the first two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/food-sector-incentive-gets-cabinet-nod/article34210999.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Adarsh group scam: ED files chargesheet||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a chargesheet against 124 individuals and entities linked with the embezzlement of public deposits in the Adarsh Credit Cooperative Society Limited, causing a loss of about Rs. 4,000 crore. Among those arraigned are the main accused, Mukesh Modi, besides the directors and partners in the Adarsh group of companies, Riddhi Siddhi group of companies, entities and the associates of accused Virendra Modi. The agency had earlier attached assets worth Rs. 1,489 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adarsh-group-scam-ed-files-chargesheet/article34211030.ece
01 April 2021||LUCKNOW,||One of 3 men accused of gang rape held||One of three persons charged with gang raping a 19-year-old woman in a thicket and filming the alleged act was arrested in Uttar Pradesh’s Agra on Wednesday. The incident was reported in Etmadpur area. According to the FIR lodged by the woman, she was going to her maternal house on a motorbike with her husband on the evening of March 29 when three men on a two-wheeler intercepted them near a drain. They dragged her to a thicket nearby and raped her. The three also clicked pictures and made a video, she alleged. They assaulted her and threatened to kill her if she informed anyone. They also robbed her of cash and jewellery, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/one-of-3-men-accused-of-gang-rape-held/article34211003.ece
01 April 2021||New Delhi,||Deadline for PAN-Aadhaar link extended||The government on Wednesday extended the deadline for linking PAN with Aadhaar by three months till June 30. The Income Tax department said it had received representations from taxpayers that the last date for intimating the Aadhaar number might further be extended due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “Keeping in view the difficulties faced by taxpayers, the Central government has issued notification today [on Wednesday] extending the last date for intimation of Aadhaar number and linking thereof with PAN to June 30, 2021,” the Central Board of Direct Taxes said. The previous deadline was March 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deadline-for-pan-aadhaar-link-extended/article34211008.ece
01 April 2021||Hyderabad,||2.5 kg of gold, $30,000 seized at RGIA||Five passengers who arrived from Dubai were detained by the Customs officials at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport for trying to smuggle in foreign-origin gold. Over 2.5 kg of yellow metal worth Rs. 1.15 crore in the open market was seized from the passengers. They arrived by flydubai flight FZ-8779. The gold was concealed in electronic appliances, which was carried by the accused in their check-in baggage. They were detained and further investigation is in progress, an official said. In a separate case, the sleuths of the Central Industrial Security Force detained a Dubai-bound passenger at RGIA for ‘illegally’ carrying $30,000 dollars. The male passenger was scheduled to board flydubai Flight no FZ8776. “He was found carrying the foreign currency in a handbag, which was seized under the Customs Act, 1962,” a CISF official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/25-kg-of-gold-30000-seized-at-rgia/article34210968.ece
01 April 2021||Bodinayakkanur,TAMIL NADU||‘To cement BJP ties, AIADMK has pledged self-respect of people’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday reiterated that the AIADMK had pledged the self-respect of the people of Tamil Nadu to secure its alliance with the BJP, and his party would end this unfortunate situation. “The AIADMK is welcome to glorify the BJP, but not at the cost of the self-respect of the people. The DMK will ensure that the State gets its due share in growth and development,” he said at a meeting in Bodinayakkanur. He was canvassing votes for DMK candidates Thanga Tamil Selvan (Bodi), Cumbum Ramakrishnan (Cumbum), K.S. Saravana Kumar (Periakulam) and A. Maharajan (Andipatti). Mr. Stalin said the AIADMK won one Lok Sabha seat (Theni) in 2019, and the MP’s letter pad featured the photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Even if one of the AIADMK candidates won, he would become a puppet of the BJP, which was out to create a rift among the people on caste and communal lines. The DMK president said that when electioneering started a fortnight ago, the DMK was hopeful of winning in 200 constituencies; but after he toured all over the State, he was sure the party would win in all the 234 constituencies. Mr. Stalin said AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam had served as the Chief Minister, the Deputy Chief Minister and Minister. However, he did nothing to promote the welfare of people of the district from where he was elected to the Assembly. Knowing well that the AIADMK would not return to power, Mr. Panneerselvam “cleverly” proposed Edappadi K. Palaniswami as the AIADMK’s chief ministerial candidate, he said. Instead of inviting the farmers who had been protesting in New Delhi against the farm laws and assuring them that their interests would be guarded, Mr. Modi had left them in the lurch, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/to-cement-bjp-ties-aiadmk-has-pledged-self-respect-of-people/article34211316.ece
01 April 2021||Bodinayakkanur,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK can’t pledge self-respect of people of Tamil Nadu: Stalin||Reiterating his charge that the AIADMK had pledged itself with the BJP, which had taken away the rights and pride of the Tamils, DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday said his party would end this and ensure that the State got its due. “The AIADMK was welcome to glorify the BJP, but not at the cost of pledging the self-respect of the people. The DMK will stop this practice and ensure that the State got its due share for growth and development,” he said at an election meeting in Bodinayakkanur. At a well-attended poll meeting here, in support of the DMK candidates - Thanga Tamil Selvan (Bodi), Cumbum Ramakrishnan (Cumbum), K S Saravana Kumar (Periakulam) and A Maharajan (Andipatti), he said that the AIADMK won in one Lok Sabha seat (Theni) and the MP’s letter pads had the photograph of Narendra Modi. He told the electorate that even if one among the AIADMK candidates won, he would be a puppet of the BJP, which was determined to create a rift among the people under caste, community and religion. Mr Stalin said at the time of commencement of the electioneering a fortnight ago, the DMK was hopeful of winning in 200 seats, but after touring the length and breadth of Tamil Nadu, the victory for the DMK looks bright and sure in all the 234 Assembly segments. Attacking the AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam, he said that a very few people get the opportunity to serve the people. In the case of Mr Panneerselvam, he was Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister and Minister. However, he had done nothing to even the people of the district from where he was elected to the Legislative Assembly, he charged. Knowing pretty well that the AIADMK would not come to power this time, Mr Stalin claimed that Mr Panneerselvam had “cleverly” agreed to support and propose Mr Palaniswami’s name as the party’s Chief Ministerial candidate. After surveys showed that the DMK would sweep the polls, the AIADMK leaders were upset that they have started accusing the DMK, he claimed. The DMK, he said, had always practised in releasing the election manifesto from the time it was initiated in TN since 1957. Following the path of [late] Karunanidhi, he said that all the assurances would be fulfilled. The DMK president questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not inviting the protesting farmers in New Delhi for talks over the three agriculture Act. Mr Modi could have invited them and given assurance that the interests would be guarded. Instead, they have left the farmers in the lurch, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-cant-pledge-self-respect-of-people-of-tamil-nadu-stalin/article34211295.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Freebie culture makes people of Tamil Nadu lazy, laments HC||The Madras High Court on Monday expressed its strong displeasure over the way in which political parties in the State were vying with each other to garner votes by offering freebies such as television sets, fans, mixer grinders, laptops, washing machines and even monthly cash doles instead of concentrating more on promising and delivering jobs, infrastructure development, improving health, transport facilities and agriculture. Purity of poll process Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalenthi lamented that the freebie culture had made the people lazy and dampened their spirit to work hard. They opined that promising freebies should also be declared a corrupt practice since it vitiates the purity of the election process and influences the voters. It was pointed out that if one party promises a cash dole of Rs. 1,000 another comes up with a counter promise of Rs. 1,500 a month. If this trend continues, a day might come soon when some political party in the State would offer to visit the houses of voters and cook food for them every day and another party might offer not only to cook but also to feed the voters, the judges wrote in their verdict. The court also came down heavily on voters who accept money for exercising their franchise, thereby making the entire democratic exercise a mockery. “It is stated that every candidate has to shell out about Rs. 20 crore in the election to an Assembly constituency as many voters have become corrupt and sell their votes for one or a few thousands, biriyani and a quarter [liquor] bottle. It is the stark reality. If that is so, how could people expect good leaders? Do people, who sell their votes, have any moral right to question their leaders? In a democracy, people get the leaders they deserve,” the Bench observed. Further stating that the tax payers remain mute spectators to the public exchequer being drained on distributing freebies, the judges said that people of the State had become so lazy that migrant workers from the north and north eastern parts of the country had to be employed in every other field of work be it hotels, industries, shops and saloons. Migrants are employed even for agricultural work in the State, they stressed. “The way in which things are happening today, one would not be surprised to see that migrant workers would be the owners of the movable and immovable properties here in due course and the sons of the soil will become workers under them and it may be the only achievement, probably, the political parties have attained through election promises by providing freebies for the past 20 years,” the Division Bench said. Impressing on the need to arrest such practice at the earliest, the court posed a series of 20 questions to the Centre as well as the Election Commission of India and sought a reply by April 26. The court wanted to know whether the Centre had taken steps to enact a law governing the promises made by political parties in their election manifestos and the action taken so far by the Election Commission of India against parties which make irrational promises. The observations were made and the questions posed while passing orders on a writ petition to de-reserve the Vasudevanallur Assembly constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/freebie-culture-makes-people-of-tamil-nadu-lazy-laments-hc/article34211175.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘It will be Tamil Nadu vs Hindutva forces after the poll’||MDMK general secretary Vaiko in an interview on Wednesday said the outcome of the election would change the face of Indian politics. He said Tamil Nadu would be a battleground against rabid communal and sanatana forces. Edited excerpts:  You have been campaigning for the DMK-led alliance across the State. What is your assessment? Both in rural and urban areas, there is overwhelming support for the Secular Progressive Alliance. People are gathering in lakhs. Any criticism against the AIADMK government is well received with applause. When I speak about the DMK’s electoral promises, people roar with appreciation. The DMK has come out with 1,451 promises and when I cite some of them, women welcome them. Free bus passes and Rs. 1,000 a month for women have had tremendous impact on them. Women are going to decide the outcome of this election. The DMK manifesto is silent on the demand for prohibition but your party and other allies have promised to implement it…. I hope the DMK government will include prohibition in its agenda. I have been fighting for prohibition and my mother died for the cause of prohibition. What will the outcome of this election be in your assessment? The DMK and its allies will win over 200 seats. The politics of the country will change after the election. Tamil Nadu is a Dravidian land and it will be a battleground against communal forces. In India, Tamil Nadu will be the only State that will fight against the rabid communal and sanatana elements. It will be Tamil Nadu versus Hindutva forces in the future. In a democracy, the role of the Opposition is vital. Will not a brute majority to one alliance deny space for the Opposition? A party that looted resources and destroyed the State should be wiped out in the election. The AIADMK will not get even the status of an Opposition after this election. The government never worried about the State in the last 10 years. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has said that maintaining a good relationship with the Prime Minister is good for the State. But the Prime Minister has not released the amount sought by Tamil Nadu to overcome the destruction caused by cyclones and other natural disasters. The State sought Rs. 1,45,473 crore for cyclone relief, but the Centre released just 4% of that. What does this election mean for the MDMK? The outcome of this election will revitalise our party’s organisation and pave the way for its resurgence. Our partymen will function with new hope. All six candidates of our party will emerge victorious. The Sri Lankan Tamil issue always dominated your public discourse. But it seems to be missing in the election campaign now... DMK leader M.K. Stalin urged India to vote in favour of the United Nations Human Rights Council resolution against Sri Lanka. But India betrayed the cause of Sri Lankan Tamils. I have been highlighting this in my campaign. I have not forgotten the Tamil issue. In 2009, there was a resolution in support of Sri Lanka, and now the United Nations has taken note of the human rights violation in the last phase of the war. It is good progress. In two years, there might be more awareness and more countries will support the resolution against Sri Lanka for its war crimes. The issue has not died down. What are the issues that have come to the fore in this election? Corruption and the Centre’s failure to help Tamil Nadu have come to the fore. The AIADMK government supported all anti-people legislation of the BJP government. The Citizenship Amendment Act was enacted because the AIADMK supported it in the Rajya Sabha. It also supported the farm laws. The BJP has been implementing laws and measures to fulfill its goal of ‘one nation and one law’. The Centre created a national recruitment agency to conduct common preliminary examinations for various recruitments in Central government departments. They recruit a candidate from Delhi for a job in Tamil Nadu, and such measures pose a danger to India’s federal nature and unity. The Centre is imposing Hindu and Sanskrit, and this has resulted in hatred against the Centre. Is it possible to get exemption for one State from NEET, as promised by the DMK and its allies? We will try. We will adopt a resolution in the Assembly and mount pressure on the Centre. We will refuse to cooperate with the Centre.  The AIADMK government supported all anti-people legislation of the BJP government. The CAA was enacted because of the AIADMK’s support||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-will-be-tamil-nadu-vs-hindutva-forces-after-the-poll/article34211141.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC orders shifting of COVID-19 warrior’s remains to Kilpauk cemetery||The Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the Greater Chennai Corporation to exhume the body of a neurosurgeon, who died of COVID-19 in April 2020, from a cemetery at Velangadu near New Avadi Road here and re-bury it at a Christian cemetery in Kilpauk. The body could not be buried at Kilpauk immediately after death because some “anti-social elements” objected to it and indulged in violence last year. After being transported from one cemetery to another during night since there were objections by locals who feared the virus, the body was finally buried at Velangadu cemetery, used by people following a different faith. Pained at her husband’s mortal remains not having been laid to rest at the right cemetery, the surgeon’s wife approached the court with a plea to exhume the remains and re-bury them at Kilpauk. While issuing the direction to the Corporation, Justice Abdul Quddhose said there was a legislative vacuum in the country on exhuming bodies that had been buried at inappropriate places and ensuring a decent re-burial after performing all religious obsequies as desired by the family members of the deceased, the Madras High Court said on Wednesday. It added that constitutional courts could fill the gap as an interim arrangement until the legislature fills the vacuum. Finding force in submissions made by senior counsel Ravi Kumar that there was absolutely no medical evidence anywhere in the world of a person having got infected with SARS CoV-2 after being exposed to the body of a person who died due to COVID-19, the judge said neither the World Health Organization nor the Centre had spoken about the infection spreading from bodies. After finding that Ireland’s Local Government (Sanitary Services) Act of 1948 provides for certain safeguards with respect to exhuming bodies and re-burying them, the judge decided to adopt those guidelines for the exhumation of the surgeon’s body. He ordered that a health officer, to be nominated by the Commissioner, should supervise the exhumation process with due respect to the dead and with due care to public health. ‘No damage’ During exhumation, the officer must ensure that the correct grave is dug and no damage is caused to the neighbouring burial plots. Disinfectants and disposable protective clothing must be provided to the workers and the clothes must be disposed of safely thereafter. The site should be cordoned off and screens placed to block public view, and the entire process of exhumation and re-burial must take place early in the morning. He ordered that COVID-19 protocol must be followed, and that police protection must be provided at the site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-orders-shifting-of-covid-19-warriors-remains-to-kilpauk-cemetery/article34211152.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anbazhagan’s grandson on door-to-door campaign||The narrow streets of Ayanavaram came alive as a music band playing campaign songs, along with electoral promises, accompanied A. Vetriazhagan, DMK candidate, who canvassed in the Villivakkam constituency on Tuesday. A first-timer, the grandson of the late DMK general secretary K. Anbazhagan, Mr. Vetriazhagan started a door-to-door campaign braving the high humidity. Accompanied by cadre of alliance parties who distributed pamphlets on his poll promises for the constituency, he met residents in ward 97 and sought votes. On Vellala Street and Adhi Andhra Nagar, residents welcomed him with shawls. Many told him about civic issues in the locality. Some residents sought patta for their houses, and jobs. Rani, a resident of Adhi Andhra Nagar, said, “We have been living here for many decades. We need land patta. I also requested a job for my son.” He walked around the park maintained by the Greater Chennai Corporation and interacted with people, who asked for facilities to be improved. He said candidates like him were reaping the benefits of DMK president M.K. Stalin’s good work that had instilled confidence among voters. “People’s response has been overwhelming, and they often promise their vote for me even before I start canvassing. I witness people’s disappointment with the government,” he said. Promise of accessibility While promising to be accessible through a mobile application, Mr. Vetriazhagan said he was aware of the major issues plaguing the constituency — be it flooding or sewer blocks. “I want to improve solid waste management in the area, introduce more small buses and resolve land issues. I want to plant more trees and increase green cover in the constituency,” he said. For voters like A.N. Karthik, a tea shop owner, traffic congestion and replacing of old sewer lines are issues that need immediate attention. Roads like Market Street require proper black topping, the residents said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anbazhagans-grandson-on-door-to-door-campaign/article34211155.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thirumangalam flyover ready after repair||Following complaints from motorists, the Highways Department on Wednesday carried out repair work on a portion of an expansion joint that was damaged on the flyover at Thirumangalam, located on Jawaharlal Nehru Salai. The joint, a length of steel that comes between two spans of the flyover, had been jutting above the bituminous tar layer following damage to the tar. “This was caused by wear and tear since the number of heavy vehicles using the flyover is quite high. We are planning to replace the joint next week. Till then, temporary repair has been carried out,” said a source. The department had sought permission from the traffic police to close the flyover for two days and carry out maintenance work. However, since the service lane below, too, had been closed for work relating to a leak in a water main, permission was not granted. “Only recently, the service lane had been reopened for traffic,” said another source. Danger zone Sources in the traffic police said that due to the steel piece jutting above the surface, several motorists had been left with a flat tyre. “If someone was riding at a high speed, it could have been dangerous,” said a policeman in the area. One side of the flyover had been cordoned off for traffic due to the repair. It was reopened after the work was completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thirumangalam-flyover-ready-after-repair/article34211160.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Election squads seize cash, valuables in city||Cash and valuables meant for distribution to voters were seized by flying squad teams and static surveillance teams in association with police personnel at several places in the city. With five more days to go for the polls, vigil has been intensified across the city with deployment of flying squad teams and static surveillance teams, besides police personnel accompanying them. The flying squad teams intercept vehicles and check them at vantage points in the city. At 10 places, the teams seized unaccounted cash and valuables, which were being carried without documents since Tuesday night. In Mylapore, Rs. 5 lakh was seized from a bank employee as he did not have any document related to the cash. After conducting searches, the teams seized Rs. 29 lakh at two places in T. Nagar. Two cases of seizure of cash totalling Rs. 28 lakh were reported in Pondy Bazaar and Mambalam as the money was being carried without documents. Similar cash seizure was reported in Thirumangalam, M.G.R. Nagar, Kodungaiyur and other places. In R.K. Nagar, over 200 stoves, which were being transported on a vehicle, were seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/election-squads-seize-cash-valuables-in-city/article34211164.ece
01 April 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Swipe a card to get potable water||Two village panchayats in Thoothukudi district now access clean drinking water thanks to an initiative of the Indian Institute of Technology–Madras and Indian Oil Corporation’s corporate social responsibility. The villagers can access drinking water by swiping a card for a nominal payment. They have been trained to maintain the water plant. At Veppalodai, where women trekked several miles in search of potable water, the initiative has resulted in around 5,000 families accessing drinking water. Balasubramanian, husband of Velkani, the panchayat president, said groundwater in their village was not potable. “We have some waterbodies nearby, but the water is not good. For three months we have been getting good drinking water. We have installed borewell and water is pumped to the tank. The new plant filters water and we use it for drinking. As the water was not potable, many of us suffered from kidney stones,” he said. The plant is run on solar power and villagers can draw 300 to 400 pots a day. “They have been kind to give us one unit. But we would like at least two more units to serve the entire population. We cannot ask too much of people who are kind to us,” he said. At Vedapatti a similiar plant has been installed. “The plant is ready but the elections were announced and it could not be commissioned,” said Karkuvel, panchayat secretary. Around 500 families and a population of 2,000 depends on water from Vaippar river here. “In our panchayat we depend on borewell water. The filtered water is tasty. They have said we can draw water by swiping a card. A pot will cost Rs. 4. It is a solar plant that will run even during power cuts. It will help the neighbouring villages of Viruthampatti, Mamunaiyar and Nedunkulam as well,” Mr. Karkuvel said. Chief executive officer of International Centre for Clean Water E. Nandakumar said three drinking water kiosks had been installed in Thoothukudi district and Vagaikulam in Ramanathapuram district. The ICCW was an initiative of the IIT-Madras. The centre had installed the capacitive de-ionisation units with funds from the IOC and InnoDI Technologies. Mr. Nandakumar said unlike the reverse osmosis technology which recovered only 50-60% of the water, CDI offerred a sustainable alternative by saving on reject water and retaining essential minerals such as calcium and magnesium. It also consumed less energy and low on operating and maintenance cost. “We have taught the communities to take ownership and promote water stewardship,” Mr. Nandakumar said. The districts were chosen as the water was saline and brackish there. Studies found that over the past century, Thoothukudi received much lower rainfall than the State’s average of 925 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-thoothukudi-district-swipe-a-card-to-get-potable-water/article34211286.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu reports 2,579 new COVID-19 cases||Another 2,579 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the State, pushing the active caseload to over 15,000 on Wednesday. Chennai’s daily count inched closer to the 1,000-mark as 969 persons tested positive for the infection, while seven of the 19 fatalities were recorded in the city. The fresh cases took the State’s overall tally to 8,86,673. Presently, 15,879 persons were under treatment across the State. Chennai’s active caseload crossed 6,000 as 6,255 persons were under treatment for the infection. With 19 more deaths, the State’s toll stood at 12,719. This included four persons aged in their 30s and three persons aged in their 40s. Two of them did not have co-morbidities. A 39-year-old woman from Chennai was admitted to a private hospital with complaints of fever, cough for four days on March 22 and died on March 30 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 36-year-old man from Chennai died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on March 29 due to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. Eight districts recorded fewer than 10 cases each. There was an overall rise in fresh coronavirus infections in many districts. Chengalpattu and Coimbatore recorded 250 and 273 cases respectively. There were 130 cases in Tiruvallur and 106 in Thanjavur. In Kancheepuram, 98 persons tested positive. There were 56 cases in Tiruchi, 55 in Tiruppur and 50 in Salem. Eleven returnees - five from Delhi, three from West Bengal, two from Karnataka and one from Jharkhand - were among those who tested positive. A total of 1,527 persons were discharged. Till date, 8,58,075 persons were discharged. In the last 24 hours, 83,204 persons were tested. So far, 1,92,71,677 persons were tested. Samples-wise, a total of 1,95,95,368 samples were tested till date. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 21,490 with 35 new cases reported on Wednesday. In Ranipet district, 21 cases were reported positive. In Tirupattur district, seven new cases were reported on Wednesday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 17 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 19,692.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-sees-2579-fresh-covid-19-cases/article34211173.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Challenges for AIADMK in the southern region||The ruling AIADMK, which bagged 32 seats in southern districts in the 2016 Assembly election, is facing three major challenges this time. They are the effect of price increase, the presence of the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) in the fray and the controversy over the law to grant 10.5% internal reservation to the Vanniyars, Interactions with a cross-section of people in parts of Madurai, Theni, Sivaganga, Virudhunagar and Ramanathapuram districts reveal that the three factors will have an adverse impact on the fortunes of the AIADMK-led alliance. At the same time, the alliance is likely to benefit from the grant of the generic name, Devendrakula Velalars, to a group of seven constituents of the Scheduled Castes. What remains to be seen is whether the AIADMK-led front will have a net gain or loss of votes in view of the interplay of the increase in the prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas cylinders, the likelihood of the AMMK being a spoiler, the row over the quota for the Vanniyars and the provision of the generic name. The region, known to be its stronghold since the days of AIADMK founder M.G. Ramachandran, was a source of consolation to the party in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. Theni went to the party, even as the AIADMK-led alliance got a drubbing everywhere. Of the nine seats won by the party in the by-elections to 22 constituencies two years ago, the region accounted for five, ensuring the continuation of the AIADMK government. In terms of the vote share for the south, the ruling party netted 40.88%, two percentage points more than its State-wide average for the by-elections and one percentage point more than the DMK’s figure for the southern region. In absolute figures, the AIADMK had, on an average, obtained 76,135 votes from the nine southern constituencies. Not being oblivious to the challenges, a key office-bearer of the ruling party concedes that the party has to break down “huge barriers” to repeat its 2016 performance. In the south, depending upon the constituencies and the hold of the candidates, the AMMK, led by T.T.V. Dhinakaran, may get around 10% of the votes. In some constituencies, the AMMK’s vote share may go up to 20%. The functionary goes on to say that though there is a perception that his party may not get a large number of votes of the Mukkulathor community, there is another view that many other communities such as Devendrakula Velalars will back the AIADMK in a big way. His observation does not sound out of sync. A group of persons in the Thoppur village panchayat of the Kariapatti panchayat union in Virudhunagar district, who belongs to the Muthurayar community, says voters in the village, by and large, support the ruling party. Likewise, residents of Pasumpon village in Ramanthapuram district, where Muthuramalinga Thevar’s memorial is located, feel that the Devendrakula Velalars may support the AIADMK. However, there is also a possibility of certain communities voting against it, upset at the provision of the generic name, S.V.S.P. Manickaraja, AMMK’s election wing secretary and south zone coordinator, denies the contentions that his party relies essentially on the Mukkulathors and its attempt to get the votes of the community will help the AIADMK secure the support of the other communities. Pointing out that five of the 18 disqualified legislators, who owed allegiance to Mr. Dhinakaran, were of the Scheduled Castes from the south, Mr. Manickaraja, who handles the party’s operations in Kovilpatti where Mr. Dhinakaran is contesting, says the AMMK enjoys the support of all communities, including the Devendrakula Velalars.  Of the nine seats won by the AIADMK in the byelections to 22 constituencies two years ago, the southern region accounted for five||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/challenges-for-aiadmk-in-the-southern-region/article34211128.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Will probe wrongdoings of T.N. CM, Ministers’||The DMK-led alliance in Tamil Nadu, once it comes to power, will ensure that a fair probe is held on the allegations of corruption against Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and his Ministers, Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said on Wednesday. At a press conference in Chennai, Mr. Surjewala listed out 10 questions for the AIADMK-led alliance “on the all-pervading mite of corruption that has eaten up the very edifice of governance in Tamil Nadu”. Accusing the AIADMK of being a “puppet government that is just an extension of the Modi government”, he termed the AIADMK as being a mere “Modi toolkit”. Mr. Surjewala questioned why Mr. Palaniswami had not replied to the charges of irregularities against him in the awarding of road contracts or agreed for a judicial probe. Why was no independent probe ordered against Health Minister C. Vijayabhaskar in the gutka scam or against Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani, he asked. ‘Why no action?’ He also questioned why no action had been taken in the “Cognizant scam” and why no probe had been ordered to find out which politicians and officials had taken bribes. Mr. Surjewala accused the AIADMK government of virtually shutting down the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption (DVAC) and systematically paralysing the institution. “Those who have caused a loss to the public exchequer must be investigated and punished in a time-bound manner. The Congress is committed to pushing for this and so is the DMK. We will together ensure a free and fair investigation is held against the conduct and wrongdoings of the Chief Minister, his Ministers, officers and those who are found guilty of duping and deceiving the public,” Mr. Surjewala said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-probe-the-wrongdoings-of-chief-minister-and-ministers-says-surjewala/article34211183.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Medical interns protest extension, to boycott work||Medical interns staged a protest across the State on Wednesday opposing the Directorate of Medical Education’s (DME) move to extend the Compulsory Rotatory Residential Internship (CRRI) period till the new batch joined in view of the surge in COVID-19 infections in the State. The interns have decided to boycott work indefinitely until their demands were met. In a statement, the Tamil Nadu Medical Students Association (TNMSA) said on March 26, the DME stated that 2015 batch CRRIs should be given completion certificates, provided they completed the required period of internship. However, on March 30, the DME issued a circular mentioning that the CRRIs may be retained until the next batch of CRRIs join duty. The DME, in the circular, said as per the meeting of head of departments and instructions of Principal Secretary (Health) and as per the National Medical Commission’s instructions, the students, who are completing their CRRI in the last week of March 2021, may be given an extension of one month. Though their internship period ended on Wednesday, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and to take care of patients admitted in the hospitals, the period may be extended till the next batch of CRRIs joined so that patient care services would be maintained. Noting that such contradictory statements were not acceptable, the TNMSA said this amounted to exploitation of young doctors with minimal pay. Condemning the move, the association said the announcement would affect the preparation for postgraduate entrance examinations and other competitive exams that would have a great impact on their future. They urged the government to take up immediate registration of the 2015 batch of CRRIs in the Tamil Nadu Medical Council, and immediate designation of CRRIs who completed one year of internship as assistant surgeon general with pay equivalent to a medical officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-interns-protest-extension-to-boycott-work/article34211165.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore medical college students demand fee revision||Students of the Government Cuddalore Medical College Hospital staged a sit-in at the Directorate of Medical Education on Wednesday, demanding that tuition fee for the current academic year be collected on a par with other State government medical colleges. The students are boycotting the exams that Annamalai University, to which the colleges were earlier affiliated, had announced. The student council of the erstwhile Rajah Muthaiah Medical College and Hospital and the Rajah Muthaiah Dental College and Hospital have made a representation to the DME requesting that the government conduct exams for the current batch of students by the Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University as per Government Order 45 issued on February 1. The students pointed out that the government had in the GO said the colleges had been handed over to the Health and Family Welfare Department from the Higher Education Department with immediate effect. The State government had said that the fees should be fixed on a par with other government medical and dental colleges. Yet, Annamalai University had demanded tuition fee fixed by the fee fixation committee in 2018-19 and it was 30 times higher than that of government colleges.  The government could take steps to fix reasonable fees for academic years 2019-2020 and 2020-21, the students said. Since the colleges had been handed over to the Health Department, Annamalai University could not demand fees from students, they said. Annamalai University had withheld the results of examinations and certificates pending payment of the entire fee, the students said. Results and certificates of students from 2013 to 2020 and of the students currently enrolled were also withheld, according to the council. The university had also not paid stipend to PG students for the last two years, they claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-medical-college-students-demand-fee-revision/article34211166.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Policemen vote in postal ballot||Around 2,000 policemen and Home Guards, who will be busy with poll duties on April 6, cast their votes through postal ballots at 16 places in the city on Wednesday. Over 5,000 police personnel had registered for postal ballot on Wednesday. The voters included personnel from the city police, Armed Reserve, Tamil Nadu Special Police and Home Guards. Voting facilitation centres were established at 16 places, including Dr. Radhakrishnan Nagar, Perambur, and Kolathur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/policemen-vote-in-postal-ballot/article34211150.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aadhaar details have not been compromised, UIDAI tells HC||The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) on Wednesday informed the Madras High Court that it had never shared citizens’ personal data, provided to it for the purpose of obtaining Aadhaar cards, with any entity other than its “authorised user agencies” and that those agencies had been strictly prohibited from storing or sharing any information related to Aadhaar. Appearing before Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, Central government standing counsel V. Chandrasekhar, representing the UIDAI, asserted that it was not possible to share Aadhaar details in bulk with any entity. Protecting privacy He also said the UIDAI was committed to protecting the privacy of individuals and that there was no possibility of any leak from the records maintained by it. The submission was made during the hearing of a public interest litigation petition filed by A. Anand of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) through senior counsel R. Vaigai. The litigant had complained that the Puducherry unit of the BJP had been sending SMS to voters’ mobile phone numbers with a link to join booth-level WhatsApp groups created by the party for canvassing. The petitioner said the SMS had been sent only to phone numbers linked with Aadhaar and not to others. However, senior counsel V. Karthic, representing the BJP, said the party’s Karyakartas (field workers) had collected the phone numbers of voters through various sources, including missed calls made by them to join the party, door-to-door collection of details and from data available in the public domain. Threat of COVID-19 He said the party had chosen to campaign through mobile technology due to the threat of COVID-19. On the other hand, senior counsel G. Rajagopalan, representing the Election Commission of India (ECI), told the court that the BJP had sent the SMS without obtaining pre-certification from the Media Certification and Monitoring Committee (MCMC) as mandated under the model code of conduct (MCC). He also said particulars regarding expenditure for such a campaign was not submitted to the Election Expenditure Monitoring Team. Hence, the ECI had decided to add Rs. 4.37 lakh into the expenses account of the party. He further said all the mobile service providers in Puducherry had been instructed not to send SMS at the instance of any political party unless such messages had been pre-certified by the MCMC. Ms. Vaigai brought it to the notice of the court that her client had now filed a sub-application seeking a direction to the ECI to first suspend and then withdraw the recognition of the Puducherry unit of the BJP for having violated the MCC. After hearing all parties, the judges decided to take up the case on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aadhaar-details-have-not-been-compromised-uidai-tells-hc/article34211201.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM woos software professionals||AIADMK co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday assured employees of the Information Technology (IT) sector that steps would be taken to have their workload reduced, if his party was elected to power again. Addressing people in Sholinganallur constituency, Mr. Palaniswami said the government had received information that the IT sector’s employees were having a “heavy workload”. Pointing out that the constituency had many IT parks, he said the late Jayalalithaa was responsible for getting several IT parks established in the area, paving the way for employment for a large number of people. “It was the AIADMK government that laid the foundation for a huge number of IT parks getting set up here,” the Chief Minister said while canvassing votes for his party’s nominee K.P. Kandan. Earlier, in Velachery where he sought votes for M.K. Ashok, he accused DMK president M.K. Stalin of having neglected the constituency when the latter was Chennai Mayor for five years (1996-2001). He asked the DMK leader to visit Velachery to see for himself the strength of the ruling party as Mr. Stalin, according to Mr. Palaniswami, had been making a statement that the AIADMK would disappear shortly. The Chief Minister, who covered Pallavaram, Tambaram, Alandur and Madhavaram too, lashed out at Mr. Stalin and listed the infrastructure projects and work done in the constituencies to refute the DMK leader’s criticism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-woos-software-professionals/article34211157.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Devendrakula Velalars rue lack of leadership||Devendrakula Velalars, who are spread across several districts in south Tamil Nadu, face many issues. But, in an election season, they all agree on one thing: the need to identify and consolidate and speak in one voice. Karunanithi, a senior citizen in a village in Thachanallur in Tirunelveli district, says the community desperately needs a leader like Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi president Thol. Thirumavalavan, who can forcefully articulate its concerns. He is disappointed with the current crop of leaders in the community. “We lack a leader who can speak like Mr. Thirumavalavan. Look at how he speaks for the people he represents. The leaders who emerged within our community and showed promise have only done well for themselves,” Mr. Karunanithi says. While the community members agree that leadership has to emerge from within for pragmatic reasons, many say battle of egos and one-upmanship among the leaders have sapped the community of its electoral strength. ‘One-upmanship’ Kopparai Subramanian, who has been an elected local body representative at Thachanallur since 2006, identifies the battle of egos between the leaders as one of the reasons for the community’s failure to develop. “The constant one-upmanship among the leaders has affected the community’s development. When these leaders disagree and separate, the strength [of the community] reduces. And none of the bigger parties — the DMK, the AIADMK, the Congress, and the DMDK — will like leaders emerging from the community. We are like curry-leaves to them,” he says. Activists point out that the community has innumerable small outfits as the functionaries of K. Krishnasamy’s Puthiya Tamilagam or John Pandian’s Tamizhaga Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, who split after disagreeing with their leaders, form smaller outfits in the neighbourhoods where they are active. Subsequently, these outfits become smaller and smaller. Madurai Muthu Pandian of Tamilar Viduthalai Kalam, who says his outfit is the third biggest organisation after Puthiya Tamilagam and Tamizhaga Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam in the south, says Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s attempt to reach out to the community has made Dr. Krishnasamy rethink his strategy and has forced him to again prove his strength within the community. In this election, Puthiya Tamilagam, which was earlier part of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance, is contesting in 60 constituencies alone, arguing that the BJP has not promised that it will take the community off the Scheduled Caste list. Mr. John Pandian is contesting in Egmore, Chennai. Jeevan Kumar Malla, president, Bahujan Dravida Party, which is contesting in 20 constituencies in the southern districts, says there is a leadership vacuum within the community due to lack of an ideological approach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/devendrakula-velalars-rue-lack-of-leadership/article34211185.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘I have not said anything that violates Model Code of Conduct’||Responding toa notice issued by the Election Commission of Indiaover his remarks against Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, DMK deputy general secretary A. Raja on Wednesday maintained that he had not said anything that violated the model code of conduct. Mr. Raja said he had not said anything that violated the model code of conduct — anything that was obscene or that would lower the dignity of motherhood, of women — much less any other provision of the law. In his interim reply to the Chief Election Commissioner through the Chief Electoral Officer, Mr. Raja requested the Commission to furnish a copy of the full text of his alleged speech, a copy of the complaint preferred by the AIADMK on March 27 and also to give him an opportunity to give a detailed reply and a personal hearing with his advocate. His advocate submitted his reply to the Chief Electoral Officer in Chennai. Referring to the ECI notice, which said a case has been registered for the alleged derogatory speech by the Central Crime Branch, Chennai, under Sections 153, 294 (b) of the IPC and 127 of the Representation of the People Act 1951, Mr. Raja contended: “A thorough and unbiased investigation will bring out the truth and will prove that I am falsely accused of making derogatory comments. Moreover, any findings or suggestions which is going to be made by ECI will substantially prejudice me in the ongoing investigation.” ‘Out of context’ Mr. Raja also pointed out that he had not been served a copy of the complaint, which was referred to in the ECI notice. “Hence, I am not in a position to know what is alleged against me. Hence, I am not able to reply to those allegations. I request the Commission to supply a copy of the same to make my reply.” He also requested the Commission to get a copy and consider the full text of his entire speech. “If it is done it can be discerned that the allegations made now are taken out of context and blown out of proportion to have political mileage.” In Tamil oratory, simile was a well-accepted norm, he argued and said: “In my speech, the evolution of the political heights and their means of Mr. M.K. Stalin and Mr. Edappadi K. Palaniswami were compared by me through a simile as newborn babies for easy understanding of the common mass. This was in response to the repeated allegations of the Chief Minister that our leader Mr. M.K.Stalin has never worked hard to become the leader.” Mr. Raja also recalled giving his explanation over the subject to the press on March 27, “when AIADMK and BJP started falsely propagating” that he had insulted the CM. In spite of the explanations, “the CM Minister quoted my speech out of context and became emotional,” Mr. Raja contended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/have-not-said-anything-that-violates-the-model-code-contends-a-raja/article34211180.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aavin finds buyers for skimmed milk powder||With the market for skimmed milk powder (SMP) looking up again after a long hiatus, Aavin has found buyers for its stock of about 12,000 tonnes. “Recently, cooperative federations from Bihar, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala approached us for SMP for supply to schoolchildren through various schemes. We sell SMP only through the national platform meant for cooperatives. We do not sell if the prices lead to a loss to our 25 district unions,” said R. Nantha Gopal, Managing Director, Tamil Nadu Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation, whose popular brand is Aavin. Pricing dynamics Stating that prices in the market had improved, Mr. Nantha Gopal said the cost of production for one kg of SMP was Rs. 200 for Aavin. “This includes the price of transportation. If the distance between the dairy and the milk procurement centres is not much, the cost can come down to Rs. 180. So, we decide the selling price according to what we spend. But in the case of cooperatives we don’t mind not getting a profit,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-finds-buyers-for-skimmed-milk-powder/article34211146.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||FCI retired staff take part in panel discussion||As part of the Bharat Ka Amrut Mahotsav to mark 75 years of Independence, a panel discussion with retired officers of the Food Corporation of India was organised here on Wednesday. R.D. Nazeem, ED (South), spoke about the efforts taken by the FCI to ensure food security to the nation during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fci-retired-staff-take-part-in-panel-discussion/article34211147.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kishan Reddy calls on Prince of Arcot||G. Kishan Reddy, Union Minister of State for Home, called on the Prince of Arcot, Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali, here on Tuesday. The Prince of Arcot told Mr. Reddy that with his dynamic vision, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government should involve the minority communities in nation-building, which would help in progress of the country in an atmosphere of harmony. He offered a shawl and a memento to the visiting dignitary, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kishan-reddy-calls-on-prince-of-arcot/article34211162.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||79,320 more receive COVID-19 vaccines||Another 79,320 people received COVID-19 vaccines on Wednesday, taking the overall coverage till date to over 30 lakh. According to the daily report of the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, the total coverage stood at 30,31,631. As many as 6,47,513 healthcare workers, 6,08,310 frontline workers, 7,99,547 people aged between 45 and 59 years with co-morbidities and 9,76,261 senior citizens were vaccinated. Of the 79,230 people, 30,056 were persons with co-morbidities and 30,544 senior citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/79320-more-receive-covid-19-vaccines/article34211169.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Riot specialists must be defeated through unity’||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan on Wednesday said “riot specialists” must be defeated through unity, referring to incidents of violence by BJP cadre during the visit of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adithyanath to the Coimbatore South constituency. Mr. Haasan, who is contesting against BJP’s Vanathi Srinivasan and Congress’s Mayura Jayakumar in Coimbatore South, wrote on social media that he has been insisting that Coimbatore needs peace and harmony.  Mr. Haasan and Ms. Mayura later visited Vee Yem Footwear, the shop that had come under attack by the BJP cadre. An MNM release said after extending support to the shop owners, Mr. Haasan bought a pair of footwear from there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/riot-specialists-must-be-defeated-through-unity/article34211193.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Heat wave to persist in interior parts of State||Peak summer season is yet to begin. But, several interior places are already in the grip of a heat wave. The Meteorological Department has warned that heat wave may continue to sweep parts of the State till April 4. As scorching heat will prevail over many interior places, the department has advised various sections of people, including farmers, political candidates and traffic police, to avoid staying outdoors between noon and 4 p.m. The day temperature is expected to rise by three to five degree Celsius in about 20 districts, including Chennai and neighbouring districts, Namakkal, Ariyalur, Vellore and Tiruchi. Similarly, places like Madurai and Sivagangai would also experience sweltering heat with the mercury level set to increase by two to three degree Celsius above normal. Officials of the Meteorological Department said the dry winds from northwesterly direction and clear sky conditions would lead to soaring mercury level till the weekend. For the second consecutive day, mercury level in some places breached the 40-degree Celsius on Wednesday. Erode recorded the maximum for the day of 43.4 degree Celsius. Other places such as Karur (43 degree Celsius), Salem (42.8 degree Celsius), Vellore and Tiruttani (41.5 degree Celsius), Dharmapuri (41.1 degree Celsius) and Madurai (40.5 degree Celsius). Tiruchi too registered 41 degree Celsius for the second consecutive day, which is the decade’s highest for March. However, the mercury level dipped slightly in Chennai on Wednesday. The weather stations in Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam had registered 38.3 degree Celsius and 39.6 degree Celsius respectively. The Meteorological department forecasts that the maximum temperature is likely to hover around 39 degree Celsius till Friday in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heatwave-will-persist-in-state-till-april-4-imd/article34211145.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mini clinics added to vaccination sites||With COVID-19 vaccines being extended to all above the age of 45 starting on Thursday, the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine has given the nod to start vaccination in mini clinics established across the State. T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health (DPH), said mini clinics were being added to the vaccination programme. “There are 1,950 mini clinics in the State. There may be challenges in a few remote places, but approval has been given to all,” he said. He added that the vaccines would be moved from the district and regional vaccine stores to the mini clinics. “We have stock for a week. We have 8 lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin, and the next batch is expected soon,” he said. In a circular issued to all Deputy Directors of Health Services, the DPH said there were 529 government COVID-19 vaccination centres and 761 private vaccination centres. Based on the recommendation of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19, the Centre decided to expand the prioritised age group to include all persons aged 45 years and above for COVID-19 vaccination from April 1. The need for a co-morbidity certificate for people aged 45 to 59 years was not required from now. The Co-WIN software was also being suitably modified to do away with the need for the condition of co-morbidities at the time of online registration and on-site registration or for uploading the co-morbidity certificate at the time of vaccination. The registration on Co-WIN for this change would begin on April 1, the circular said. All DDHS were instructed to give special focus on optimal utilisation of the capacity of COVID-19 vaccine centres while minimising the wastage of vaccines, he said in the circular.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mini-clinics-added-to-vaccination-sites/article34211171.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for sexual abuse of children||The All Women Police, Royapuram, on Wednesday arrested a 46-year-old man, who allegedly sexually assaulted a six year-old girl. Police said the offender from Muthamizh Nagar lured the victim, who was playing on the road near her house at 9.30 p.m. on Tuesday by offering chocolates. He then took her to his house and sexually assaulted her. She escaped from his clutches and complained to her mother. The police booked him under the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Meanwhile, the All Women Police, Tambaram, arrested a 25-year-old youth for sexually assaulting an eight-year-old girl child. When the child was alone at her house in a suburb at 4 p.m. on March 25, he sexually assaulted her. Based on her mother’s complaint, the police investigated and traced the accused who belonged to Cheyyur, Chengalpattu district. He was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-sexual-abuse-of-children/article34211148.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for killing his brother||A 30-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly murdering his brother under the influence of alcohol in the Anna Nagar police station limits. The police said the victim Lourdhu Samy, 26, and his brother Irudhayam alias Anand, 30, were running a cobbler shop on the platform near Kandasamy College. On Tuesday night, a tipsy Irudhayam quarrelled with his brother, who was standing and allegedly stabbed him with a tool from the shop. Lourdhu Samy died on the spot. Irudhayam has been remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-killing-his-brother/article34211151.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK criticises opinion polls||The print and electronic media, for the purposes of creating sensation and maintaining their position in the market, appear to be resorting to “imposition of opinion under the garb of opinion polls,” the AIADMK on Wednesday said. In a joint statement, party coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami wondered: “Are these opinion polls considered elections? Do we not know how such polls in the past have gone wrong? People will not change their pro-AIADMK stand just because of false campaigns being carried on under the garb of opinion polls.” The leaders called upon workers of the party and their allies to strive hard for the front’s success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-criticises-opinion-polls/article34211184.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cooking gas price cut||Public sector oil marketing companies have reduced the price of domestic liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinder by Rs. 10 a cylinder from Wednesday. A press release here from Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. said that oil majors had reduced prices of petrol and diesel by around 60 paise a litre because of international crude oil prices softening over the past two weeks. This was due to growing worries about rising COVID-19 cases in Europe and Asia and concerns over side- effects of the vaccine. Oil industry experts said the reduction was done keeping voters in poll-bound States in mind. However, the reduction was not as expected by the consumers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lpg-price-reduced-by-rs-10-per-cylinder/article34211158.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘50% of cases fall in 18 to 45 years age group’||Persons between the age group of 18 and 45 years accounted for more than 50% of the COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. Shortly after inspecting the Government Corona Hospital on the King Institute of Preventive Medicine campus, Guindy, on Wednesday, he told presspersons that the percentage of persons who had tested positive for COVID-19 under the age group of less than 18 years was 8%. He went on to highlight the need for everyone to take precautions against COVID-19. He urged political leaders to advise people who took part in political meetings to wear masks. The Centre had stated that COVID-19 cases were high in 10 cities such as Maharashtra. But Chennai was not among those cities. However, COVID-19 transmission was on the rise in the city from 3% to 4.5% now, he said, according to a press release. The city had a total of 4,368 beds for patients with COVID-19, while 56,000 beds were readied in government hospitals across the State. COVID-19 Care Centres with 70,000 beds were also ready, he added. Areas where disease transmission was high were being identified, he said, adding that more than 600 places had been demarcated as containment areas. People should avoid crowded places and wear masks. Tamil Nadu would receive additional doses of vaccines — 10,40,000 doses of Covishield and two lakh doses of Covaxin — on April 2. Around 80% of persons got vaccinated in government hospitals and 20% in private hospitals. Action would be taken on any complaints of excess charging for vaccination at private hospitals, he said. Stating that healthcare workers were risking their lives in COVID-19 management, he urged people to keep this in mind and extend their cooperation .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50-of-cases-are-in-the-18-to-45-years-age-group/article34211168.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Following adverse inputs, police officers transferred||The Election Commission of India on Wednesday ordered the immediate transfer of two IPS officers in the rank of Inspector-General of Police and Superintendent of Police following some “adverse” inputs. The ECI shifted H.M. Jayaram, IGP (Central Zone), and Dhinakaran, Inspector-General of Police (West Zone), and replaced them with Deepak M. Damor and A. Amalraj respectively. Inspector-General of Police A. Arun was posted as Commissioner of Police, Tiruchi, in the existing vacancy. ECI’s direction Arul Arasu, Superintendent of Police, Coimbatore, was also transferred out, and Selva Nagarathnam posted in his place. The Commission said Mr. Jayaram, Mr. Dhinakaran and Mr. Arasu should be attached to the Director-General of Police, Headquarters, Chennai, and not be given any posting without its permission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/following-adverse-inputs-police-officers-transferred/article34211134.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bull||Deepa H. Ramakrishnan   The Thiruporur National Democratic Alliance candidate, Thirukachiyur K. Arumugam, has been campaigning on bullock carts in areas that are agrarian in nature. When snaking through main roads or busy areas, he switches to his campaign vehicle that can accommodate more people. The former MLA of Chengalpattu (2001-2011), has also been meeting farmers and promising to desilt lakes and irrigation channels. “He didn’t want to disturb the peace and quiet by using two-wheelers or vehicles amid the fields,” says K. Sivaraman of the AIADMK, who is part of the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bull/article34211129.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gautami||R. Sivaraman   Actor-turned-BJP functionary Gautami Tadimalla, who parted ways with actor and MNM founder Kamal Haasan in 2016, said MNM says that it will bring change. However, the party should ascertain beforehand on whether people would like the change that the party is contemplating, she said. That will be known only after the counting on May 2, she added. “Someone launching a party, saying that they will bring change, is a routine affair. Mr. Haasan’s party, too, adopted the same marketing strategy,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gautami/article34211131.ece
01 April 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||RWA||R. Srikanth   The Federation of Mudichur Residents’ Welfare Association has come up with a novel way of creating voter awareness every Assembly election. The locality, which falls under the Tambaram constituency, has 12 wards, consisting of more than 20,000 voters. The association prints posters with slogans like ‘Voting right is our birth right’, with directions to reach the five polling stations to help the voters locate their booths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rwa/article34211135.ece
01 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DMK-Congress coalition has no right to return to power, says Yogi Adityanath||The DMK-Congress coalition has no right to return to power, BJP leader and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said at an election meeting in Coimbatore on Wednesday. The DMK, on returning to power, will disrespect women and make the State unsafe for them, he said. For the disrespect they have shown to women, voters must teach them lesson by voting for the BJP and the AIADMK, he said. Appealing to the electorate in the Coimbatore South Assembly constituency to vote for BJP candidate Vanathi Srinivasan on the ‘lotus’ symbol, he claimed that whenever the Congress and the DMK were in power they failed to work for the country’s protection, people’s welfare or infrastructure development. ‘Series of scams’ Their thoughts were only on garnering more power and money, he alleged. That was the reason that when the UPA was in power, there was one scam after another that people were reading about, Mr. Adityanath said. Addressing an election rally in support of BJP Virudhunagar Assembly constituency candidate G. Pandurangan on Wednesday, the BJP leader said that the NDA government, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, had given a new identity to Tamil Nadu with a host of infrastructure development from highways to railways. Overall development He contended that there was overall development in infrastructure, like highways, railways and new airports in the country, in the last six years. The development on the infrastructure front will give an impetus to economic development of the State, as well as India. “The whole world was awe-struck by the way the Modi government handled the pandemic situation,” he said. On the other hand, when the Congress and the DMK were in power, they were known for corruption, atrocities and demeaning women, he claimed. Such parties should be defeated, and the NDA should be given an opportunity for the AIADMK to come back to power to continue with the development works of the Centre, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-coalition-has-no-right-to-return-to-power-adityanath/article34211189.ece
01 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||E-pass business thrives as the Nilgiris continues entry restriction||With the Nilgiris district administration continuing to insist on e-pass for visitors, the business of paid e-pass is thriving in places such as Kallar and Mettupalayam in Coimbatore district. Private players are tapping the business opportunity by targeting tourists who are unaware of the entry restriction, those who do not have smartphones and people who do not know how to apply for an e-pass. Some of the shops at Mettupalayam, especially those on the premises of the bus stand, have employed persons who approach passengers and ask if they need e-pass. At Kallar, from where the ghat section of the road to Udhagamandalam via Coonoor starts, people stand on the sides of the road flashing boards which say 'e-pass available'. A few people also offer the paid service on Kotagiri Road. "People who do not have smartphones or those who do not know how to apply for a pass approach us. We charge a nominal fee", claimed a shop owner at Mettupalayam. However, according to S. Basha, organiser of Namma Mettupalayam Social Welfare Committee, most shops charge Rs. 100 to Rs. 150 for a pass. The charge includes the printing cost of the e-pass. E-pass sellers, who stand on the side of the road, also tell tourists that the mobile phone network will be low as they proceed to the checkposts at Burliar, to enter Udhagamandalam via Coonoor, and at Kunjappanai, to enter the district via Kotagiri. "Following several complaints, the police and the Revenue Department conducted inspections for a day or two. But the business is thriving again. Free service The district administration should take immediate efforts to control e-pass sellers, who fleece people. Arrangements for free registration for people who cannot do the registration process on their own, due to lack of knowledge or lack of a gadget like smartphone, should also be made", added Mr. Basha. The e-pass is a free service, which can be accessed through the linkhttps://eregister.tnega.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/e-pass-business-thrives-as-the-nilgiris-continues-entry-restriction/article34211213.ece
01 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco disconnects power supply to Coimbatore brick kilns||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has started disconnecting electricity connection to brick kilns here that were operating without licence. An official of the Tangedco said the District Collector had issued directions based on a Court order. It was estimated that there were more than 500 brick kilns here totally. As many as 187 brick kilns were operating without licence and the Tangedco is disconnecting only the industrial connections. It was not disconnecting any domestic electricity connection. However, if there were accommodations within the brick kiln premises that were electrified using the industrial connections, those accommodations will be affected. The Tangedco started the disconnection process on Tuesday, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-disconnects-power-supply-to-coimbatore-brick-kilns/article34211199.ece
01 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||11 identification documents for voting||Coimbatore district administration has said that voters could use any of the 11 documents that the Election Commission of India had permitted to be used as identity proof for voting on April 6 in the 2021 Assembly election. The 11 documents would be in addition to the electoral photo identity card that the Commission had issued, said a release, adding that voters could alternatively use Aadhar card, the job card issued for Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act scheme, bank or post office account passbook with photograph, medical insurance smart issued by the Labour Welfare Ministry, driving license, PAN card, smart card given by Registrar of National Population Register, passport, pension document with photograph, identity card given by Central or State governments or their PSUs, identity card given by Parliament or Assembly. The release also said that it was a must for non-resident Indians to show their passport. Polling would go on from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. It was a must for voters to wear mask and maintain physical distance, the release said. Voters would be allowed into the booths after undergoing thermal scanner check. And, voters should use the glove given to them while voting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-identification-documents-for-voting/article34211206.ece
01 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Meeting held on measures to eradicate child labour in textile industry||The Bureau of International Labour Force of United States Department of Labour (US DoL) should remove cotton seeds, cotton, thread and yarn produced in India from its list of commodities that it restricts for imports, said Manojkumar Patodia, chairman of Cotton Textile Export Promotion Council (Texprocil) A virtual seminar was organised by the Texprocil, Employers Federation of Southern India (EFSI), Ethical Trade Initiative (ETI) and the Southern India Mills’ Association (SIMA). A press release from SIMA said major importing countries, especially the US, are very sensitive to the issue of child labour. The US DoL restricts imports of goods appearing in the list of goods on the source countries produced by child labour or forced labour violating International Labour Standards. In a list published September 30 last year, the US DoL included Indian cotton seeds, cotton, thread and yarn besides other commodities based on the reports published by certain NGOs. The Indian companies have been advised to monitor and ensure that no child labour or forced labour is employed within their organisation or with the suppliers' organisations. Mr. Patodia highlighted the need for eradicating child labour, the actions being taken by US DoL, and the magnitude of sensitivity. He also spoke about the need for not only de-listing cotton seeds, cotton, thread / yarn from the list, but also the need for social accountability and taking care of children. Siddhartha Rajagopal, Executive Director of Texprocil, spoke on the procedures for de-listing the goods from US Trafficking Victims Protection Re-organization Act (TVPR) list. He also briefed the steps to be initiated by textile export promotion councils and industry associations in the preparation of dossiers by engaging third party agency study, collection of data from the Department of Labour, collection of information from NGOs, adopting the code of conduct and strictly adhering to labour laws to eradicate child labour, etc. K. Selvaraju, secretary-general of SIMA, explained the labour employment code and the conduct recommended by it and also the role played by The British Standards Institution in getting the star rating. He stated that the code would facilitate any textile manufacturing unit to protect itself from any criticism from the NGOs and also other stakeholders. SIMA has established a Sustainability Cell that helps textile mills for auditing and certificate of employment code, apart from assisting the mills in compliance, he said. The SIMA has developed a draft code on the eradication of child labour for the employer’s compliance, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meeting-held-on-measures-to-eradicate-child-labour-in-textile-industry/article34211208.ece
01 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Centres for police personnel to cast postal ballot||The district administration has asked police personnel attached to the Coimbatore city and rural divisions to exercise postal ballots at the following places: Coimbatore city police personnel could cast their votes for the Mettupalayam, Sulur, Kavundampalayam, Coimbatore North, Thondamuthur, Coimbatore South, Singanallur, Kinathukadavu, Pollachi and Valparai Assembly constituencies at the CSI Higher Secondary School on April 2, from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. Rural division Those attached to the Rural division could cast their votes for Sulur, Coimbatore North, Thondamuthur, Coimbatore South, Singanallur and Kinathukadavu Assembly constituencies at the PRS Ground. Rural police personnel The rural police personnel voting in Mettupalayam and Kavundampalayam Assembly constituencies could cast their votes in Aishwarya Kalyana Mandapam in Mettupalayam and those voting in Valparai and Pollachi Assembly constituencies could vote at Nagarathar Mandapam in Pollachi. The release added that special arrangements had been made for election officers at the aforementioned centres to handover ballot papers and then collect the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centres-for-police-personnel-to-cast-postal-ballot/article34211226.ece
01 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Bike rally for Yogi’s campaign turns violent||A bike rally organised by cadres of the BJP, the Hindu Munnani and pro-Hindu organisations as part of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s campaign for BJP's Coimbatore South Assembly seat candidate Vanathi Srinivasan turned violent on Wednesday. According to the Coimbatore City Police, the rally was held without obtaining permission. The rally turned disorderly while passing through Town Hall and Big Bazaar Street areas and some participants allegedly demanded Muslim shopkeepers to down shutters. During the ruckus in front of a shop on Big Bazaar Street, a man hurled stones at the shop, allegedly after its owner refused to close it. The video of the ruckus was widely circulated in social media. Following the incident, Naam Tamilar Katchi’s Coimbatore south candidate Abdul Wahab petitioned the District Election Officer cum District Collector stating that the Hindu Munnani and BJP workers created nuisance in front of Athar Jamaath Mosque. He claimed they asked Muslim men to leave for Pakistan. They also forced Muslim shop owners on Raja Street and Big Bazaar Street to down shutters from Wednesday morning, he alleged in his petition. Anti-Fascist Organisation, Coimbatore, also gave a complaint to the Collector regarding the incident. The Ukkadam police registered a case late on Wednesday. Sources in the police said that the delay in registering the case was caused due to confusion over the jurisdiction of the place of occurrence. Meanwhile, the Peelamedu police registered another case against BJP’s Coimbatore District President R. Nandakumar and several functionaries of Hindu Munnani for organising a similar two-wheeler rally from Nava India to Coimbatore Airport on Avinashi Road. A press release said that Mr. Nandakumar and Hindu Munnani functionaries namely State secretary Kishore, district president Dhasarathan and members Guna, Sathishkumar, Sowmi Narayanan and others organised this rally causing hindrance to the traffic and without adhering to the COVID-19 safety protocol. Further investigations are on, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/violence-in-coimbatore-during-bjps-bike-rally/article34211186.ece
01 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Cash seized||Static surveillance teams and flying squads in five of the 10 Assembly constituencies in the district on Wednesday seized Rs. 22.67 lakh and Rs. 1.13 lakh worth goods, said a release from the district administration. Teams in Mettupalayam segment seized Rs. 71,800, Coimbatore North - Rs. 60,000, Thondamuthur - Rs. 3.55 lakh, Coimbatore South - Rs. 15.69 lakh and Valparai - Rs. 2.10 lakh, it said and added this took the cash seized, thus far, to Rs. 4.94 crore.    Collector S. Nagarajan on Tuesday inspected the process of inspecting ballot sheets into ballot units at two Assembly constituencies – Mettupalayam and Sulur, said a release from the district administration. He inspected the process at the Nanjai Lingammal Polytechnic College, where ballot and control units for the Mettupalayam Assembly constituencies were stored and at the Social Welfare Protection Centre building, where machines for the Sulur AC were stored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-seized/article34211218.ece
01 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Kamal, Jayakumar visit shop that was attacked||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder and candidate contesting from the Coimbatore South Assembly constituency Kamal Haasan and Congress contestant from the same constituency ‘Mayura’ S. Jayakumar visited on Wednesday night the footwear shop that was attacked reportedly by BJP cadre during the day. An MNM release said after extending support to the shop owners, Mr. Kamal Haasan bought a pair of footwear. During his presence there, shopkeepers raised slogans extending support to the candidate. Mr. Jayakumar also visited the shop and extended support.  Chennai Staff Reporter adds:  Later, Mr. Haasan said that “riot specialists” must be defeated through unity, referring to the incidents of violence by BJP cadres. Mr. Kamal Haasan wrote on social media that he had been insisting that Coimbatore needed peace and harmony. “This is the reason why I have been continuously saying that Coimbatore needs a leader who loves the people beyond caste and religion to ensure social harmony,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-jayakumar-visit-shop-that-was-attacked/article34211203.ece
01 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||School renovated||Coimbatore United Round Table 186 in association with Anaamalais Toyota and ARC Parcel Service recently renovated a government school near Pollachi at a cost of Rs. 45 lakh. The renovated Government Higher Secondary at Somandurai was inaugurated on March 17, a release said. A total of 22 classrooms, three toilet blocks, laboratories and the library block were renovated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-renovated/article34211210.ece
01 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Stranded persons rescued||The Fire and Rescue Services rescued 22 persons, including 17 students, who got stranded in the River Bhavani near Mettupalayam, following a sudden increase in water level, on Tuesday evening. The Fire and Rescue Services said that 17 college students and five others had come to the river for an outing. The students ventured into the water at a place namely Kundukkalthurai. The five others entered the river at Nellithurai. Around 5 p.m., the water level in the river increased suddenly and the 22 persons moved to elevated areas and the river bank on the other side, said Fire and Rescue Service officials. The stranded people alerted the the police and the Fire and Rescue Services. Fire brigades from Mettupalayam and volunteers of a private trust rushed to the spot. They rescued the stranded people and brought back all of them to the river banks using coracles. Revenue officials oversaw the rescue operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stranded-persons-rescued/article34211219.ece
01 April 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore Collector reviews arrangements||District Election Officer and Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri on Wednesday reviewed the security arrangements at the counting centre at Government Periyar Arts College here. Mr. Sakhamuri also interacted with the Returning Officers and officials from various departments for the arrangements to be put in place at the counting centres. A three-tier security arrangement will be made at the counting centres. The entire area, including places at a 100-metre radius around the centres, will be covered by CCTV cameras, which will be monitored, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-collector-reviews-arrangements/article34211558.ece
01 April 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Harur: Resentment could weigh heavily against AIADMK||Harur, a reserved constituency in Dharmapuri district, witnesses a straight fight between the two main alliances led by the DMK and AIADMK, notwithstanding the presence of the third alliance led by the AMMK. Though the Dalits are a majority (23.40%), the Kongu Vellalars who come second (22.70%) are expected to swing the votes. Arundhatiyars and Scheduled Tribes form over 13% of the population here. In 2019, Harur constituency clinched the win for the DMK in the Lok Sabha elections by providing a margin of over 39,000 votes. However, the DMK lost the simultaneous byelections to Harur, with Kongu Vellalar votes presumed to have swung in favour of the AIADMK, seen as a vote in solidarity with a government led by a Kongu Vellalar Chief Minister. This time, Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi has aligned with the DMK, promising the community’s votes. However, the AIADMK is also wooing the community, riding on the caste of its Chief Ministerial candidate. But, across constituencies in Dharmapuri district, the AIADMK is facing the resentment of Kongu Vellalars, who were denied a seat in what was expected to be their promised Assembly seat of Paapireddipatty. The AIADMK’s incumbent MLA V. Sampathkumar is the party ‘s candidate this time too. He, however, faces the resentment of the party’s local functionaries and the voters, who have alleged that he was incommunicado ever since he got elected two years ago. The CPI(M), which is part of the DMK alliance, has fielded A. Kumar in Harur. The Left parties have clinched the seat five times since 1977. The constituency was held by the CPI(M) for four terms, with three successive terms since 2001 to 2011. The CPI had held this constituency once. However, the Left had held the seat in alliance with one of the two Dravidian parties. With the VCK and the CPI(M) having a significant cadre base in Harur, the latter’s candidate is said to have an advantage. R.R. Murugan, who won the seat for the AIADMK in 2016 is contesting again, but as the AMMK’s candidate. His disqualification led to the byelections to the constituency in 2019, when he polled 14,000 votes, splitting the AIADMK’s votes. In this election, he is set to break a large chunk of votes, largely those of AIADMK dissident votes, which is expected to benefit the DMK alliance. A significant part of the constituency is under tapioca farming and farmers have for long been demanding captive industries to tap the locally grown tapioca. Farmers are compelled to transport their crop to Salem, undercutting remunerative prices. Irrigation schemes, by way of checkdams in river Thenpennai, at Thennakal, checkdams in Vaaniyaar, and Varataaru are also being demanded here. The eight-lane Salem-Chennai expressway project, which would cut through farm lands, is a key election issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/harur-resentment-could-weigh-heavily-against-aiadmk/article34211307.ece
01 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Remote hamlets in Erode not on the itinerary of candidates||With just four days left for the election campaign to end, the candidates are making all efforts to reach the maximum number of electors. However, there are four villages/settlements in the district that have not witnessed any election campaign. No candidate has ever visited the Malliamman Durgham settlement (427 voters) in Kadambur Hills and Nandipuram settlement (55 voters) near Moyar valley inside Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve in Bhavanisagar constituency, Kuttaiyur (487 voters) and Kathirimalai (134 voters) villages in Bargur panchayat in Anthiyur constituency. However, the electors continue to exercise their democratic right during all the elections. Malliamman Durgham settlement is located about nine km from a motorable road in Kadambur and the houses in the settlement got solar panels only in September 2018, which is 71 years after Independence. In the absence of road and basic amenities, more than 70 families have migrated to Kadambur, said M.K. Subramani (40), the first graduate from the hamlet. “People come to the hamlet only to vote during elections,” he said. S. Mohan Kumar, District Coordinator, Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association, said that it takes one whole day to reach the hamlet and return, on foot. Hence, candidates avoid visiting the area. Another tribal settlement is Nandipuram, which is located in the core zone of STR, where 18 families comprising 70 people reside. During the last local body elections a few party functionary visited them, he added. Kuttaiyur is located in the TN-Karnataka border and could be reached only after traversing roads in Karnataka, and Kathirimalai could be reached only after trekking the nine-km forest road. V.P. Gunasekaran, president of the Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association, said that no candidate had ever campaigned at Kathirimalai, while a few CPI functionaries had visited the villages during the Parliamentary election 2019. When most of the electors in the district were used to campaign songs, drum beats, motorcycle rallies, sporting of flags of various political parties and candidates seeking votes along with supporters, the 1000-odd voters in these settlements had never witnessed an election campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remote-hamlets-in-erode-not-on-the-itinerary-of-candidates/article34211311.ece
01 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Focus is on door-to-door campaign’||For Tamil Maanila Congress candidate S. Yuvaraja, campaigning is not only about seeking the support of voters, but meeting them in person and hearing their grievances. Mr. Yuvaraja is contesting in Two-Leaf symbol from the Erode (East) Assembly constituency. “I used vehicles for less than 5% of my campaign. My main focus is on door-to-door campaign. I want to reach out to the 2.26 lakh electors on foot,” he says. Mr. Yuvaraja claims that he had arranged jobs for 29 youngsters, helped enrol a few children in schools and took the elderly who complained of health issues to hospitals, just by listening to their grievances. “We helped them on humanitarian grounds, which is above politics,” he adds. Both Mr. Yuvaraja and his opponent Thirumagan Evera of Indian National Congress have promised quality roads, textile complex, flyover on Perundurai Road, water service connections to all the houses, establishing common effluent treatment plants and improving basic amenities in the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-is-on-door-to-door-campaign/article34211305.ece
01 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Three die in road accident||Three persons were killed and 10 others suffered injuries after a car ploughed through them on the Erode – Palani main road at Kolankattuvalasu in the late hours of Tuesday. According to police, the villagers were carrying holy water in pots to the Magaliamman temple festival at Vadakku Valliyampalayam. At 11.30 p.m., the car driven by Yuvaraj (32) of Kalipalayam, ploughed through the villagers at Kolankattuvalasu. While Arumugam (40), and Kannammal (45) died on the spot, Palanisamy (42) died on the way to hospital. Ten others were injured and they were admitted to Government Headquarters Hospital. The passengers in the car, Yuvaraj, his wife Fathima (26), sons Ajith (8) and Sujith (2), suffered minor injuries and were taken to a private hospital. Arachalur police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-die-in-road-accident/article34211312.ece
01 April 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Man beats father to death||A man was allegedly beaten to death by his son at Chennimalai here. Police said that Palaniappan (69) of Karungan Goundan Valasu ran a petty shop near his house. He used to demand money from his wife Lakshmi (64) and son Sivanandam (51), who works as a teacher at a private school, to consume liquor. On Tuesday, he demanded money from his son and entered into an altercation with him. Sivanandam attacked Palaniappan with a crowbar and the latter died on the spot. Chennimalai police registered a case and are on the lookout for Sivanandam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-beats-father-to-death/article34211306.ece
01 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||The one with a ‘winning formula’ awaits development||The first phrase that pops up in the mind after hearing the name of the Tirumangalam Assembly constituency is ‘Tirumangalam formula’. The constituency gave the fine-tuned version of the ‘cash-for-vote’ formula to Tamil Nadu politics in the 2009 byelection, which resulted in a landslide victory for the DMK. Despite being in the spotlight, a range of issues in the constituency remain unaddressed, such as the delay in shifting of the mofussil bus stand, the non-convenient location of the Kappalur toll plaza, lack of industrial development and shortcomings in infrastructure at the Kappalur industrial estate. The constituency, represented by Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar, who is seeking re-election, comprises the Tirumanagalam municipality and villages in the Kallikudi block and T. Kallupatti town panchayat. For long, residents and industrialists have been demanding the relocation of the toll plaza in Kappalur. V.S. Manimaran, an industrialist from the Kappalur industrial estate, said the toll plaza was located 500 m from the Kappalur overbridge. Similarly, the toll plaza is located just 1.5 km from Tirumangalam Municipality, which is a violation of the NHAI rules. Toll collection Residents have also been vehemently opposing the collection of toll, saying that it is economically unviable for them to pay it for travelling between Tirumangalam and Madurai city. Mr. Manimaran said vehicles of industrial units pass through the proposed toll plaza multiple times a day, and that this adds to additional burden on the production cost for industries. Similarly, vehicles coming from Shencottah and Rajapalayam have to pay toll for covering a distance of about 1 km near Thirumangalam on the National Highway. The demand for a separate mofussil bus stand, too, remains unfulfilled. Currently, mofussil buses pick and drop passengers on the Madurai Road, opposite the Tirumangalam Town police station. This creates traffic congestion, especially during rush hour. Satellite township The satellite township in Thoppur and Uchapatti villages, of which the Uchapatti region falls under the Tirumangalam constituency, is yet to see considerable progress. Although Ministers and MLAs from Madurai visited the project site in June 2016, the work is yet to be completed. Industrial estate woes The Kappalur industrial estate, which has around 600 micro, small and medium enterprises, employs around 20,000 people. Despite being one of the largest industrial estates in the State, there are several inadequacies in basic infrastructure. Kappalur Industrial Estate association president P.N. Ragunantha Raja said insufficient drinking water, a lack of streetlights and damaged roads are some problems plaguing the estate. A majority of voters from the constituency belong to the Mukkulathor community. In the upcoming election, Mr. Udhayakumar remains hopeful of victory. The DMK has fielded M. Manimaran, hoping to wrest the constituency from him. The AMMK has fielded K. Athi Narayanan, the NTK has nominated M. Saral and the MNM, M. Ramkumar.  The demand for a separate mofussil bus stand, too, remains unfulfilled||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-one-with-a-winning-formula-awaits-development/article34211139.ece
01 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Candidates’ names uploaded to EVMs||The uploading of the names of candidates, who are contesting in the 10 Assembly constituencies of the district in the April 6 election, to electronic voting machines was held on Wednesday. District Election Officer and Collector T. Anbalagan, who inspected the process, said the names of the candidates were uploaded in the presence of representatives of recognised political parties. Sholavandan, Tirupparankundram and Tirumangalam constituencies have more than 15 contestants each. Hence, two electronic voting machines had been allocated to the constituencies, the Collector added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/candidates-names-uploaded-to-evms/article34211461.ece
01 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court appoints retired judge as administrator of college, society||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday appointed retired High Court Judge S. Rajeswaran as administrator of Yadhavar Kalvi Nidhi Society and Yadava College after taking into consideration their troubled history. Justice V. Parthiban observed that the administrator would take charge of the management of the society and college for all purposes till the life membership of the society was properly identified and finalised and elections to the society were conducted. The administrator would be in charge of the affairs till declaration of election results of office-bearers and the final handing over of the reins of the society to the duly/newly elected members/office-bearers, the court said. Life membership issue The court said the administrator shall initiate appropriate action for bringing the finances of the society and the college under his control and supervision and accord first priority for identification of the actual valid life members of the society and management committee of the college. The administrator may draw a timeline and roadmap in the run-up to the eventual conduct of election to the society/college committee after finalisation of the valid membership list on the basis of his assessment of the magnitude of the work involved in such exercise. All matters relating to the management of the society and the college would come under the purview of the administrator and any legitimate grievances from stakeholders would be addressed by the administrator and his decision shall be final and binding, the court said and disposed of a batch of petitions pertaining to disputes in the administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-appoints-retired-judge-as-administrator-of-college-society/article34211462.ece
01 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MKU Senate meeting discusses filling up of vacancies, syllabus||Appointment of the senior-most professor of Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) as Vice-Chancellor (in-charge) on a temporary basis, filling of Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe backlog vacancies, and revision of syllabus for undergraduate and postgraduate courses were among the topics discussed at the Senate meeting of MKU on Wednesday. At the online meeting, Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan welcomed the newly elected Senate members, Lady Doak College Principal Christianna Singh; K. Anantharaman, Headmaster of Government Higher Secondary School, T. Kallupatti; S. Suresh Babu, Personal Assistant to Chief Educational Officer, Dindigul district; C. Jothimanirajan, Headmaster of Government Higher Secondary School, Thailapuram, Virudhunagar; and B. Senthilkumaran, Headmaster of Government Kallar Higher Secondary School, Annanji, Theni. The Vice-Chancellor said the Entrepreneurship Development and Innovation Institute Hub of the university had organised around 30 awareness and skill development programmes. Senate member M. Thangaraj presented the financial estimate for 2021-22. Senate member V. Chinniah asked about the appointment of the senior-most professor of Madurai Kamaraj University as Vice-Chancellor (in charge) whenever any temporary vacancy occurs in the post. ‘No provision’ There were no provisions that allowed for such an appointment, said Mr. Krishnan. Mr. Chinniah stressed for immediate action to fill 71 cheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe backlog vacancies in various categories of non-teaching posts at the university. He also spoke about absorbing both teaching and non-teaching staff working in MKU for more than 10 years as consolidated pay staff by following the State government’s reservation rules. Senate member R. Ganesan emphasised the need to conduct students’ grievance redress meetings once in three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mku-senate-meeting-discusses-filling-up-of-vacancies-syllabus/article34211463.ece
01 April 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Technical glitch delays trains up to 10 hours||In a major disruption of train services, 16 express trains in Chennai – Virudhunagar section suffered delays of up to 10 hours on Wednesday, following a technical glitch in the advanced signalling system in the double-line section between Tirumangalam and Thulukkapatti railway stations on Tuesday night. A major complaint among passengers was the lack of proper information from railway authorities about the actual departure times which, if available, could have helped them take alternative modes of transport. After the Commissioner of Railway Safety cleared the second line on Tirumangalam-Thulukkapatti stretch after inspecting it on March 20, the work of integrating the first and the second lines and introducing a new signalling system at Thulukkapatti, Virudhunagar and Kalligudi yards was on. The work was scheduled for completion by 6 p.m. However, it could not be carried out on time. “The signalling system failed after the electronic signal was replaced with a computer-based signal system and trains could not be operated on time because the old signalling system had been removed,” a railway spokesperson said. After multiple attempts failed, the officials started to operate trains with caution around 4 a.m. As a result, Kollam – Chennai Egmore Express suffered a delay of 10 hours. Similarly, Chennai Egmore–bound Sengottai Express suffered a delay of 7.5 hours. Several trains that were proceeding towards Chennai like Chenthur Express, Kanniyakumari Express and Pearl City Express, were detained at different stations up to Vanchi Maniyachchi railway station in Virudhunagar – Tirunelveli section. Similarly, down trains like Kanniyakumari Express, Coimbatore – Nagercoil Express, Chenthur Express and Pearl City Express were also delayed. T. Chitravel (34), a passenger who was travelling to Rajapalayam from Chennai, complained that his train was detained for more than four hours at Madurai. “There was neither any announcement about train service resumption nor any response on railway enquiry phone line,” he said. Another passenger, V. Nagaraj (32), said that if he had got information about delays, he could have travelled up to Rajapalayam by bus. A group of girl students of a private college in Madurai, who were proceeding to Tenkasi, were forced to spend seven hours at Madurai railway station. “We came to the station at 3 a.m. after having booked the tickets two days back. We preferred a train journey as it takes only two hours to reach Tenkasi while bus travel takes four hours,” said Ashmitha, one of the students. The family of Kader Hussain, another passenger, also suffered on the railway platform due to the inordinate delay. “My little daughters are unwell on long-distance bus journeys, hence we planned to travel by train to attend a wedding in Rajapalayam,” he said. Movement of trains, finally, started at 3 a.m. on Wednesday. In a bid to mitigate inconvenience to passengers, catering stalls were kept open at all stations, a railway statement said. Refund was arranged at Dindigul, Madurai, Virudhunagar, Maniyachchi and Tirunelveli stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/technical-glitch-delays-trains-up-to-10-hours/article34211293.ece
01 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 awareness drive held||SUHAM Trust, in association with HCL Foundation and Kalanjiam Foundation, conducted vaccination awareness drives across the city. SUHAM nursing students and health staff, and employees of DHAN Foundation conducted the first drive near Periyar bus stand. The second was conducted near M.G.R. bus stand. It was coordinated by members of Kalanjiam Federation. The events consisted of a roadshow with youngsters holding placards and banners to raise awareness of fighting COVID-19 through vaccination and other preventive methods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-awareness-drive-held/article34211459.ece
01 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Minister gets anticipatory bail||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday granted anticipatory bail to Information Minister Kadambur C. Raju who is AIADMK candidate for Kovilpatti Assembly constituency. Justice N. Sathish Kumar granted anticipatory bail to Mr. Raju who was apprehending arrest by Nalattinpudhur police in Thoothukudi district. It was alleged that the Minister verbally abused members of a flying squad conducting vehicle checks near Nalattinpudhur, when they searched his vehicle and that of his supporters. An FIR was registered based on a complaint lodged by the squad leader, who said the team was threatened. Refuting the allegations, the Minister said the averments in the FIR were false and made out of political pressure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-gets-anticipatory-bail/article34211224.ece
01 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Minister gets anticipatory bail||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday granted anticipatory bail to Information Minister Kadambur C. Raju, the AIADMK candidate for the Kovilpatti Assembly constituency. Justice N. Sathish Kumar granted anticipatory bail to Mr. Raju, who was apprehending arrest by the Nalattinpudhur police in Thoothukudi district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-gets-anticipatory-bail/article34211176.ece
01 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Halwa||B. Tilak Chandar   M.P. Sankarapandi, an independent candidate contesting the upcoming Assembly election from the Madurai North constituency, is distributing halwa packets to voters as part of his campaign. The popular connotation for giving halwa in Tamil is to cheat someone. He says he is creating awareness among voters against the freebie culture. He has also been distributing face masks as part of his campaign in view of the spike in COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/halwa/article34211133.ece
01 April 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||With rebel in fray, contest gets tougher for AIADMK||If the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) wishes to retain its bastion in Senthamagalam (Reserved) constituency, then it should face the incumbent MLA, who is a rebel candidate. Unhappy with the ruling party’s decision in fielding S. Chandran as the candidate for the constituency, incumbent MLA C. Chandrashekaran is entering the fray as an Independent candidate in autorickshaw symbol. DMK has fielded K.Ponnusamy, who lost to AIADMK and DMDK in the last two elections. The AMMK has fielded P. Chandran and the India Jananayaga Katchi, which is part of MNM front, has fielded V. Selvaraj. Mr. Chandrashekaran had served as the president of Kolli Hills Panchayat Union in the past and is quite famous among the electors. He succeeded in putting up a show of support by conducting a protest in the Kolli Hills demanding the AIADMK leadership to announce his name as the official candidate for the constituency. As the AIADMK leadership did not budge, Mr.Chandrashekaran went ahead and filed nomination as an Independent, following which he was ousted from the party. Agriculture is the predominant occupation in the constituency. The farmers who cultivate betel nuts, tapioca, mangoes have been demanding setting up of storage facilities. Though Kolli Hills in the constituency attracts tourists, lack of amenities affect the the overall development of the hill station. The village even lacks proper bus connectivity.  Eco-tourism People have been demanding development of the Kolli Hills into an eco-tourism spot and improvement of amenities at Agayagangai and other waterfalls in the hill station. A festival similar to the annual flower show in the Nilgiris district, development of other tourism spots in the hill station are the major demands of the voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-rebel-in-fray-contest-gets-tougher-for-aiadmk/article34211314.ece
01 April 2021||PALANI,TAMIL NADU||‘PM talking ill of DMK, allies’||The Dindigul Corporation remained only in the name and all through the AIADMK regime, the district, which had a minister, did nothing to the people, said DMK president M K Stalin here on Wednesday. Addressing a rally at the 'temple' town in support of the DMK and alliance candidates, he said that the AIADMK Minister Dindigul C Srinivasan had been famous only for his political utterances. He had made himself a comedian. Over the last 10 years, projects, which were taken up, were not completed. There were either allegations of corruption or mismanagement. Attacking the BJP leaders and the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr Stalin said that the more number of times, the PM visited Tamil Nadu, the DMK would emerge victorious in more number of seats. Such was the angst the people had against the PM. Not knowing this, he was talking ill of the DMK and their allies. When the police force in Tamil Nadu had been rattled after a senior officer's name figured in a harassment case from none other than a woman officer, the PM, instead of questioning the TN government and the Chief Minister, he had given a different dimension that the womenfolk would not be safe in the hands of the DMK. In a bid to put an end to the misrule, the people should unanimously vote for the DMK and its allies. The AIADMK should not even be given a seat as they have spoiled the State. Every sector in Tamil Nadu was faced with some problem or the other. The government had not bothered to redress their grievances. When this was the reality, the CM and his deputy issued advertisements in all the media stating that TN was number one. For telling lies, the AIADMK should be sent home, he said and hoped the people supported the DMK in a big way. Later, Mr Stalin took a walk along the bazaar area in Oddanchatram bus stand seeking votes for DMK candidate Chakrapani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-talking-ill-of-dmk-allies/article34211297.ece
01 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Thattanchavady is back in the limelight||The Thattanchavady constituency is back in the spotlight as former Chief Minister and All India N.R. Congress (AINRC) chief N. Rangasamy, after an interval of 10 years, is once again contesting from the Assembly segment for the April 6 election. The constituency, which catapulted him to the pre-eminent position that he holds in the political sphere of the Union Territory as one of its longest serving Chief Ministers, will be his second constituency for the election, the other being Yanam. This time, the three-time Chief Minister is up against young trade union leader and CPI nominee K. Sethu Selvam in the Thattanchavady constituency. First electoral loss After his first electoral loss from the constituency in 1990 against his political master, former Minister V. Pethaperumal, Mr. Rangasamy never looked back. The former Chief Minister won subsequent elections from the segment in 1991, 1996, 2001 and 2006. After the delimitation exercise in 2011, Mr. Rangasamy shifted to Indira Nagar, which he retained in the last two elections. The former Chief Minister is taking no chances, though the region has largely remained his bastion. The AINRC chief has been campaigning actively in the constituency. “For some people, there is confusion about who will become the Chief Minister after the alliance wins. There is no need for any confusion. I will be the Chief Minister,” he said while touring the constituency on Saturday and Sunday. AINRC functionaries said the former Chief Minister decided to contest in two seats as he wanted to repeat his 2011 Assembly election win. “ Makkal Mudhalvar [as he is referred to by his supporters] contested two seats in the 2011 election. The party won 15 of the 17 seats it contested in. He is a very religious person and gives importance to sentimental values,” said a sitting party legislator. However, his rivals said the constituency was no longer Mr. Rangasamy’s bastion. They cite the defeat of P. Nedouzejiane, the AINRC’s candidate and Mr. Rangasamy’s close relative, in the bypoll held in 2019 after party legislator Ashok Anand got disqualified following his conviction in a disproportionate assets case. In the bypoll, Mr. Nedouzejiane was defeated by K. Venkatesan, who contested on a DMK ticket and who has now shifted to the BJP, by a margin of 1,539 votes. “Mr. Rangasamy shifted to Yanam as he found that the constituency was not a safe place this time due to several factors,” Mr. Selvam said. Mr. Selvam had contested the last Assembly election in alliance with the CPI(M) and the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK). He finished in second place with 5,296 votes. The CPI is banking on the four wards falling in the now non-existent Reddiarpalayam constituency, which was once represented by Communist stalwart and freedom fighter V. Subbiah. The constituency was also represented by party leaders such as R. Viswanathan and Gurusamy. Main issues According to P. Kathiravan, a resident of Vinoba Nagar, one of the main issues in the constituency is the non-allotment of pattas (title deed). Around 3,000 families have resided in rental buildings for years and they have been demanding patta for the land. The area also lacks proper interior roads, added G. Johnson. “People are also affected by the rise in prices of petrol and diesel. On one side you have price rise and on the other, you have a lack of improvement in their means of livelihood.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thattanchavady-is-back-in-the-limelight/article34211555.ece
01 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||A crucial test for the AIADMK in Oupalam constituency||It is one of the crucial electoral battles for four-time legislator and AIADMK secretary (East) A. Anbalagan at Oupalam constituency. A win for the AIADMK leader this time would mean he would be in the league of select political leaders in the Union Territory who have consecutively won five elections from the same constituency. Among the other leaders, who retained the same Assembly segment for years are the present Member of Parliament V. Vaithilingam and former Ministers Malladi Krishna Rao and E. Valsaraj. However, AINRC chief N. Rangasamy had won the maximum number of times, with four wins from Thattanchavady and two from Indira Nagar constituency. He is once again facing DMK nominee Anibal Kennedy from the constituency in the April 6 poll. Thin margin In the last election, he defeated Mr. Kennedy by a thin margin of 903 votes. Mr. Anbalagan made his electoral debut in 2001 from the constituency facing Pandian of Puducherry Munnetra Congress. He won the seat with a margin of around 3,000 votes. In the next two elections, he retained the seat by maintaining the lead he got in the first election. His supporters are seeking votes in the constituency highlighting his achievements and the issues that he had raised in the Assembly sessions during the last five years. They highlighted his speeches where he spoke against the Congress government and also against the previous Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi when it came to protecting the rights of the Union Territory. Mr. Anbalagan’s campaign is centered on the charisma of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayalalithaa and he is also pitching for N. R Congress chief N. Rangasamy as the Chief Minister post-election. The party is in alliance with AINRC, BJP and PMK for the election. The rival DMK camp, meanwhile, has made it a point to highlight the AIADMK’s alliance with BJP, considering the presence of huge number of minority votes. They are also frequently pointing to the lack of development in the area. The constituency has a sizeable presence of Christian and Muslim voters and electors from the fishermen community. “One of the main demands for the people of the region was to provide better hygienic environment in the constituency. A large number of people reside on the banks of Uppar canal which is choked with solid waste and silt. The annual maintenance of the canal was not enough to clear the drain. A proper plan should be evolved to clear the canal of solid waste completely,” said Francis of Dubrayapet. Mosquito menace The canal was constructed during the French time and till about 45 years ago, the drain used to be cleaned regularly, he said. “Now the foul smell emanating from the canal is unbearable,” he rued. Mosquito menace is another issue. Studies conducted by the Health Department had in the past confirmed the presence of armigeres mosquito species. These mosquitoes do not transmit any disease, but their bites can be painful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-crucial-test-for-the-aiadmk-in-oupalam-constituency/article34211560.ece
01 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory logs 127 new cases, reports no death||Puducherry logged 127 new cases on Wednesday taking the active case count to 1,074 on Wednesday. No deaths were reported and the cumulative toll stayed at 682. Puducherry added 76 new cases, Karaikal 43, Mahe seven and Yanam one. With 64 patients discharged in the last 24 hours, there were 294 patients in hospitals and 780 in home isolation. In the capital, Jipmer had 95 patients and IGMCRI 135 cases. The test positivity rate was 5.95%, case fatality rate 1.64% and recovery rate 95.77%. The total caseload aggregated to 41,468 and total number of recovered patients stood at 39,712. Of an estimated 6.71 lakh tests carried out so far, over 6.20 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 1,155 healthcare workers, 1,247 frontline workers and 1,209 members of the public took their first shot of COVID vaccine in the last 24 hours in the Union Territory. The number of those vaccinated to date rose to 68,462 persons---26,368 health care personnel, 11,958 frontline staff and 30,136 members of the public. Cuddalore district reported 46 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, taking the district’s tally to 25,706. While 25,132 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 283. In Villupuram district, 22 persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 15,507. Kallakurichi district reported five positive cases, taking the overall count to 10,951.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-territory-logs-127-new-cases-reports-no-death/article34211563.ece
01 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Statehood only solution to solve fund crunch: AINRC manifesto||The AINRC joined the list of major political parties that have put the Statehood demand for Puducherry front and centre in their election manifesto. The manifesto, which was released by AINRC founder and former Chief Minister N. Rangasamy, while campaigning for K. Lakshminarayanan in the Raj Bhavan constituency, said Statehood was the only sustainable solution to solve the funds crunch and fulfilling aspirations of people. The manifesto also promised to take up the waiver of legacy loans and to conduct the much-delayed local body elections within a year. Apart from promising adequate funds to local bodies, the manifesto also offered to provide the elected councillors the status of Ministers. A high-powered finance committee at the Centre for the Union Territory would be sought for devolution of funds and raising with the Centre the need for inclusion of Puducherry in the Central Finance Commission are the proposals. The AINRC, which had promised goodies, in its 2011 and 2016 manifestos, this time has offered tablets for students of Class X and laptops for students for Classes XI and XII. Establishment of a university and upgrading the agriculture college into a university are proposals. A Real Time Security Act to protect healthcare professionals from attacks, promotion of tourism and infrastructure under Smart City scheme, ranging from flyovers and piped LPG supply and drinking water to households are other proposals. Government-run institutions such as PAPSCO and PASIC would be revived. It would bring in three options for ration card holders to choose whether they wanted cash via DBT, rice or neither. Attracting private industries to Mettupalayam and Sedarapet industrial estates, more jobs for youth and raising the disaster management relief fund from Rs. 10 crore to Rs. 100 crore are among other promises. The manifesto also promised to fill 9,400 government posts within a year across sectors and to implement a one-time relaxation of the age limit for recruitment to government jobs to 40 years to expand job opportunities for youth. It also demanded recruitment of local aspirants to Central Government non-gazetted posts and 80% recruitment quota for local persons in private companies. The manifesto said the AINRC would take up with the Centre the demand to set up one of the seven proposed textile parks in Puducherry. For fishermen, desalination plant would be set up in Kalapet, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/statehood-only-solution-to-solve-fund-crunch-ainrc-manifesto/article34211566.ece
01 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Prime Minister’s speech was disappointing: ex-CM||Terming the address by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the public meeting organised by the NDA on Tuesday as “disappointing”, former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Wednesday said Mr. Modi had failed to address the long-term demands of the people and different political parties on obtaining Statehood and the waiver of legacy loans. In a video released to the media, he said, “The Prime Minister only used the occasion to personally attack me and say that I was denied a ticket though I served the Gandhi family and to accuse me of corruption during my tenure as the Chief Minister.”  “It is the BJP government that rules the Centre. If there were corruption charges against me, your government should have investigated. It is not appropriate for the Prime Minister to speak without any evidence against me,” Mr. Narayanasamy said. The Prime Minister’s speech “did not go down well with the supporters of the All India N.R. Congress”, as Modi failed to give any assurance on making AINRC chief the Chief Minister of the Union Territory after the election. “The vote given to the AINRC is a vote given to BJP. It is only the B-team of the BJP,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pms-speech-disappointing-narayanasamy/article34211181.ece
01 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Cong. govt. set the U.T. back by two decades’||The previous Congress term which had virtually nothing to show as an achievement had set back the Union Territory by at least two decades, former Chief Minister and AINRC president N. Rangasamy said on Wednesday. Campaigning for K. Lakshminarayanan, the AINRC candidate in the prestigious Raj Bhavan constituency, Mr. Rangasamy said “the last five years had gone by with the Congress government fighting with the Lt. Governor and the Centre and not delivering anything for the people”. Attacking the previous government for “lacking the will” to improve the lives of the people, Mr. Rangasamy said nothing else could explain why even the assistance for indigent sections of society was not increased one bit, jobs not created or industrial development remained stagnant in the last five years. In sum, the Congress fa iled to implement any of its manifesto promises, he said. He said even legislators, including those within the ruling front, were frustrated as they were unable to do anything for the people. This was a reason why many of them deserted the Congress, he said. He urged electors to vote the AINRC back to power to return the Union Territory to the path of growth and development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cong-govt-set-the-ut-back-by-two-decades/article34211564.ece
01 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AINRC is BJP’s ‘B Team’, says Narayanasamy||The prohibitory orders under which shops were shut and roads blocked across the city for security reasons in connection with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit led to hardships for the common man, former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said on Tuesday. He said the administration, instead of blocking only certain roads around the time of the visit, exposed its shortcoming by shutting shops and blocking traffic. Terming the All India N.R. Congress (AINRC) as the BJP’s “B team”, Mr. Narayanasamy said the regional party would not be able to take an independent stand under the BJP’s dominance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ainrc-is-bjps-b-team-says-narayanasamy/article34211556.ece
01 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CPI promises to strive for Statehood||The Communist Party of India has promised to strive to obtain Statehood for the Union Territory after the April 6 Assembly election. The party manifesto, released here on Wednesday, stated that obtaining Statehood for Puducherry was the only solution for the problems confronted by the Union Territory. The manifesto was released by national secretary of CPI K. Narayana at the party office. Citing the recent developments where the elected government was engaged in a tug of war with the Centre and previous Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, the party said getting Statehood for the Union Territory was the only long-term solution. The party manifesto promised to press for waiver of legacy loan taken by the successive governments. The party also came down heavily on the Centre for toppling the Congress government using three nominated legislators belonging to the Bharatiya Janata Party. The party promised to take up the conduct of local body election if the party nominee was elected in the poll. The manifesto also promised to revive economic growth by strengthening the public sector undertakings, including textile mills and cooperative sector. The CPI is fighting the Assembly election in alliance with Congress, DMK and VCK and other constituents of Secular Democratic Progressive Alliance. The CPI has fielded its nominee K. Sethu Selvam against AINRC chief N. Rangasamy from Thattanchavady constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-promises-to-strive-for-statehood/article34211561.ece
01 April 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||T.N. neglected by BJP govt., says Kanimozhi||During the floods and cyclones in Tamil Nadu, when the State government had looked for assistance of around Rs. 1.20 lakh crore, the Centre released a meagre Rs. 5000 crore, said DMK MP Kanimozhi here on Wednesday. Speaking at a poll rally in support of the DMK candidate Kadarbasha Muthuramalingam, she said that the BJP leaders in New Delhi had neglected the State. "When people were in a crisis due to the natural calamity, the Centre promised, but it was only broken," she claimed. Instead of fighting with the Centre, the AIADMK leaders bowed down and thus the people suffered, she charged. The BJP, doesn't seem to have corrected itself. In case of the AIIMS (All India Institute of Medical Sciences), which they had announced for Madurai, only a compound wall had come up since the foundation stone was laid in 2019 January, while other States, where AIIMS was to be established, had eight completed or the construction was going on in full pace. This was just a sample. The ineffectiveness of the AIADMK had come in for exposure in other projects, where the Central funds were involved, she charged. Slamming Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his speech, Ms Kanimozhi said that the DMK leader A. Raja had apologised to the CM for his remarks. The DMK president M.K. Stalin too had condemned and cautioned the speakers in the party to be guarded while addressing in public rallies. "What more do the AIADMK and the BJP expect," she asked. Conveniently forgetting the Hathra incident in UP, where a woman was gangraped, the BJP leaders had chosen to attack the DMK here. Trying to cash in on the sympathy from the electorate would not work. "The people are clever. This time, the DMK is going to win hands-down and the surveys created ripples among the AIADMK cadre," she said. On the fishermen issue, she said that the DMK would keep its poll promise and positively take up the grievances with the Centre and the Sri Lankan government. The arrest of fishermen by the Lankan Navy would be stopped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-neglected-by-bjp-govt/article34211299.ece
01 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Over 11,500 persons to cast postal votes in Salem||A total of 11,646 persons, including those aged above 80 and people with disabilities, began casting postal votes for the Assembly election from their homes here on Wednesday. Following the Election Commission’s nod for postal ballots, as many as 2,709 differently abled persons, 8,937 persons aged above 80 had submitted Form 12D to the election officials in all the 11 Assembly constituencies in the district. A team comprising a booth-level officer, a videographer, a micro observer and zonal officers have started visiting the homes of persons who had opted for ballot votes in all the constituencies. Likewise, 1,770 city police personnel and 2,087 rural police personnel cast postal votes at the Salem Sowdeswari College. In Erode district, a total of 5,435 persons have submitted Form 12D and officials have started visiting their houses to collect the votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-11500-persons-to-cast-postal-votes-in-salem/article34211309.ece
01 April 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Songs||V. Venkatasubramanian   The DMK’s propaganda songs by Nagore Hanifa, which remain close to the heart of its cadre, seem to have made a comeback. The songs, which remained off air during electioneering of star campaigners of the party, are once again being heard during street campaigns of DMK nominees, in their respective constituencies, through autorickshaws and vans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/songs/article34211137.ece
01 April 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||An arid region with potential that is yet to be tapped||Within a short span of just one-and-a-half year, the dry Ottapidaaram (Reserved) constituency that witnessed a by-poll following the disqualification of its sitting MLA Sundararajan, is all set to witness an Assembly election. Though this region has been the birth place of warriors like V. O. Chidambaram, Veerapandia Kattabomman and Sundaralingam, it is still battling to get its due share of better basic amenities. No river flows here and neither does any irrigation channel, originating from the Tamirabharani, criss-cross the rain-shadow Ottapidaaram region that houses huge number of farmhands. The garment making industry of Puthiyamputhur, which should have been transformed into a big cluster by the governments by giving due assistance to attract exporters, still looks for major financial assistance from the government. “If the new government extends adequate financial assistance, guidance and training in modern machineries to the people involved in the garment making industry, it could become a money-spinner for the State like Tirupur,” says a teacher serving in a government-aided higher secondary school in Puthiyampuththur. Since the region is advantageously situated east of the ‘Kayathar pass’, windmills are being erected. While this venture has considerably jacked-up land prices in this region where rain-fed farming alone is viable, the farmers are facing problems from the companies installing the wind turbine generators as these companies, with the help of local thugs and the police, damage their ranches by taking the trucks via their fields. Installation of electric poles via the fields without obtaining proper permission of the rightful owners is also a major complaint being levelled by the farmers of Ottapidaaram. Since drinking water scarcity is a major problem in Ottapidaaram region that has good number of ‘kanmaai’ (small lakes), Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, during one of his visits to Thoothukudi, unveiled a plan to take surplus water of the Tamirabharani from Seevalaperi near Palayamkottai to Ottapidaaram and Vilaathikulam by digging a channel. As per the plan, the Tamirabharani flood waters will be diverted from the check-dam at Seevalaperi to Poovaani by digging a channel for about 12.50 km. Then the 60 km-long channel will be excavated from Poovaani to connect Uppaaththu Odai, Malattaaru, Kallaaru and Vaipaar to take the excess water of Tamirabharani even up to Muththalaapuram. If it is done, this region would get at least drinking water round-the-year. After delimitation, this segment has its boundary in Ottapidaaram, Thoothukudi and even Srivaikundam taluks and thus making electioneering a hectic exercise for the candidates. While the DMK has fielded sitting MLA Shanmugaiah, who got elected in the 2019 by-poll, the ruling AIADMK has reposed its faith in P. Mohan, who lost the battle to the DMK candidate in the by-election. Puthiya Tamilagam founder president K. Krishnasamy, who was elected to the Assembly from this constituency as Janata Party candidate in 1996 (with a margin of 1,148 votes) and on PT ticket in 2011 (with a margin of 25,126 votes) after the alleged police excess in the Scheduled Caste hamlet of Kodiyanakulam on August 31, 1995 provided him the right launch pad, is contesting again. He lost the elections in 2016 by a insignificant margin of 493 votes. His attempts in 2001 and 2006 also were not fruitful. Interestingly, Dr. Krishnasamy, who became the ‘Face of the Dalits’ in late nineties in the southern districts, polled 56.41% votes in the Assembly poll in 2011 in this constituency. However, his vote share slid to 40.26% votes in 2016 – a loss of whopping 16.15% votes. He believes that the listing of seven sub-sects of Scheduled Caste under Devendrakula Velaalar would help him to some extent though his main demand of delisting Devendrakula Velaalar from SC list is yet to be met. Hence, the April 6 poll is a litmus test for Dr. Krishnasamy, who has promised that he would not allow the misuse of SC / ST Act against any community in a bid to win the confidence of voters from other castes in Ottapidaaram segment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-arid-region-with-potential-that-is-yet-to-be-tapped/article34211603.ece
01 April 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Power generation in 2 units of TTPS stopped||Power generation in the third and the fourth units of Thoothukudi Thermal Power Station (TTPS) was stopped on Wednesday following sharp increase in wind power generation. Sources in the TTPS said the decision to stop the third and the fourth units was taken on Wednesday after wind power generation increased sharply. Consequently, generation of 420 MW electricity has been hit in the coal-based TTPS, having 5 x 210 MW units. “Since power generation in these two units has been stopped externally, we can restart the units whenever it is required,” the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-generation-stopped/article34211275.ece
01 April 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||A tough battle in Alangudi on the cards||The Alangudi Assembly constituency in Pudukottai district, where farming is the predominant activity, is yet to fully recover from cyclone Gaja in late 2018. Destruction of several plantations and many dwellings is fresh in the minds of people who had to labour hard since then to eke out their livelihood. The constituency drew nation-wide attention after residents of Neduvasal and nearby villages resorted to a protest for over 100 days a few years ago opposing exploration of hydrocarbon from this region forcing the authorities to make a retreat. Alangudi Assembly segment is hotting up again. There is hardly any industrial growth in the last 10 years, says A.S. Thirugnanam, a farmer hailing from Neduvasal. Being a rain-fed region, farmers are heavily dependent on borewells which have been sunk to take up cultivation of crops such as paddy, groundnut, maize, banana, chilly and cashewnut. Groundwater table has depleted in many areas. Borewells had to be sunk up to 1,000 to 1,200 feet to draw water, says Chinnaiyan, a farmer of Seriyalur Jamin. Many interior pockets in this constituency are yet to see good black topped roads even now, he says. “The overnight destruction caused by cyclone Gaja in November 2018 to coconut and other fruit-bearing trees will take us at least another two to three years to recover,” say Mr. Thirugnanam and Mr. Chinnaiyan. The relief that was given after the natural disaster could only be used for clearing the uprooted trees and making the area fit for plantation again, says Mr. Thirugnanam. Farmers have been battling hard to revive their livelihood even though the coconut plantations and other fruit bearing trees would take another few years to give yield, he says. Farmers also cultivate various types of flowers such as ‘malli,’ ‘sambhangi’ and ‘kanakambaram’ which are sent to various places across the State. However, the long felt need for a cold storage facility for fruits and flowers is yet to be established. Such facility should come up at least at three places within the constituency, suggests Mr. Thirugnanam. Farmers have been seeking three-phase power supply uninterruptedly as there was no other activity other than agriculture. The constituency doesn’t have a government college too forcing students to travel to Pudukottai or Thanjavur to pursue their higher education. The DMK has fielded its sitting MLA Siva V. Meyyanathan, a known face, for the second time in a row. The AIADMK high command has given the ticket to an ex-Congress man Dharma. Thangavel, who joined the AIADMK only in January. The choice of the AIADMK high command met with some resistance from sections of party men who took to the streets in Alangudi expressing their resentment over fielding a candidate who had joined the party only a few months ago. The Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam too has fielded a familiar face, D. Vidangar as its candidate, making the battle tougher for the ruling party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-tough-battle-in-alangudi-on-the-cards/article34211274.ece
01 April 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||CM’s promise to renovate Gandhi Market baffles civic activists||With the demand for shifting of the Gandhi Market to the outskirts of the city becoming an election issue, especially in Tiruchi East constituency, Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami’s promise to renovate the Gandhi Market has raised the hackles of civic activists who had been clamouring for the shifting of the market. The Chief Minister, while campaigning in support of the AIADMK candidates at Marakkadai, close to the Gandhi Market, on Tuesday, had promised that the existing market would be renovated. Tourism Minister Vellamandi N.Natarajan, who is seeking re-election from Tiruchi East, has said the market would be retained at the same place. Some other candidates too had said the same. While the Chief Minister’s latest promise has met with a cautious response from a section of traders, civic activists who had been pleading for the shifting of the market have not been amused. Pointing to a pending court case on the issue, S.Pushpavanam, secretary, Consumer Protection Council, Tamil Nadu, contends that the market ought to be shifted. Wholesale markets should be shifted to a place outside cities/towns even as per The Tamil Nadu Specified Commodities Markets (Regulation of Location) Act, 1996, he said. Retail markets function in every locality, he pointed out and added that the council too had moved the High Court with a petition seeking the shifting of the entire market and it was expected to be numbered soon. M.Sekaran, president, Federation of Consumer and Service Organisations, felt that though retail traders may be allowed to function after renovation of the market, the wholesale section must be shifted. His organisation too was planning to move the court if it was not done. The CM seems to have succumbed to the pressure mounted by the traders lobby, much against public interest. A large number of people were affected due to the congestion in and around the market. “Earlier, even the traders had sought only a year to shift from the market,” he said. Some the traders themselves are not too enthused about the Chief Minister’s promise, which, they say, has come a bit too late. “Though we believe his words, he could have said it much earlier when we met him several times on the issue,” observed M.K.Kamalakannan, president, Gandhi Market Vyabarigal Munnetra Sangam. Although the Tiruchi Corporation had announced plans to renovate the market a few years ago under the Smart City Mission, it had not pursued the project subsequently. In the meantime, the district administration and the District Market Committee had made sporadic but unsuccessful attempts last year to shift traders of the market to the Central Market for Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers at Kallikudi on the outskirts of the city. The market, situated about 12 km away from the city, off the Tiruchi-Madurai National Highway, was opened in September 2017 but had largely been lying in disuse owing to resistance from the traders, who contend it did not suit their needs and was too far away from the city. Established on 9.79 acres with 830 shops, it was conceived when late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa represented the Srirangam Assembly constituency, in the wake of persistent demand for shifting the wholesale section of Gandhi Market to a more spacious location. It was built at a cost of over Rs. 65 crore with assistance from National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development. For most part of last year, the market remained closed following imposition of lockdown in the wake of the pandemic and an interim directive of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court against reopening it. The court, which had issued the interim directive on a public interest litigation, subsequently lifted it paving the reopening of the market in November. The court has asked all stakeholders to file their response so that a final decision can be taken in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cms-promise-to-renovate-gandhi-market-baffles-civic-activists/article34211281.ece
01 April 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region records 283 cases||The central region on Wednesday recorded 283 fresh COVID-19 cases, 106 of them from Thanjavur. Two shops in the congested Gandhi Market in Tiruchi were closed for sanitisation while samples were lifted from vendors after five people, including four vendors, tested positive on Tuesday. Meanwhile, there was an increase in the number of deaths due to the viral infection with five patients, two from Nagapattinam and one each from Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Tiruchi succumbing. Two women, aged 54 and 70, both with a history of diabetes, succumbed to COVID-19 in Nagapattinam. A 65-year-old woman with a history of hypertension from Thanjavur, an 80-year-old diabetic woman from Tiruvarur and a 39-year-old man from Tiruchi died of the viral infection. In Thanjavur, 106 patients, among whom were eight teaching staff of Government College for Women, Kumbakonam, and three from the Combined Court Complex in Kumbakonam. As many as 189 samples were lifted from teachers and students at the women's college of which eight returned positive. In Tiruchi, 56 fresh cases were reported on Wednesday. Officials of the Tiruchi City Corporation said that 125 throat swabs from the Gandhi Market were lifted and have been sent for testing. Meanwhile, officials would be lifting more throat swabs on Thursday at random, from vendors and consumers, at the market, the official said. Tiruvarur reported 47 fresh cases and Nagapattinam, 41. In Pudukottai, 19 patients reported positive, and nine in Karur. Perambalur district reported three fresh cases on Wednesday, and Ariyalur, two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-records-283-cases/article34211272.ece
01 April 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Federations lodge complaint||Defence employee federations representing unions of ordnance factories on Wednesday lodged a complaint with the Chief Labour Commissioner, Ministry of Labour and Employment, against the Department of Defence Production alleging violation of conciliation proceedings on the strike notice dated August 4, 2020. In their joint letter, the All India Defence Employees' Federation (AIDEF), Indian National Defence Workers' Federation (INDWF), and Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh (BPMS) have complained that the Department of Defence Production has reneged on the agreement in respect of strike demands that it will abide by the provisions of Sec. 33(1) of Industrial Disputes Act 1947 in lieu of the federations accepting to defer the proposed indefinite strike from October 12, 2020. At a meeting convened on October 29 for eliciting an alternative proposal for improving the performance of the Ordnance Factory Board, the federations came up with a proposal on November 20,2020, for restructuring the OFB to achieve Rs. 30,000 crore production target during the next five years, general secretary of AIDEF C. Srikumar said. The proposal was further revised and submitted on February 12, 2021. At a time when the federations were awaiting the next round of discussion, the EGOM (Empowered Group of Ministers) meeting was convened on March 2 to discuss modalities for implementation of Corporatisation of OFB. The Department of Defence Production had neither placed the proposals before the EGOM nor invited them for a meeting with the EGOM in accordance with the conciliation settlement. Since then, the Ministry of Defence had been communicating with the general managers of the ordnance factories to determine the land holding, and data pertaining to schools and hospitals with the intent of proceeding with the corporatisation decision, the letter said. On March 15, an official directive was issued stating that the Cabinet Committee on Security has accorded approval to convert Ordnance Factory Board in to one or more 100% government-owned corporate entities registered under the Companies Act 2013 and that the accounts for the financial year ending March 31, 2021, should be completed in the fastest manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/federations-lodge-complaint/article34211276.ece
01 April 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BDU ready to hold online examinations||Bharathidasan University (BDU) is ready with question papers for conduct of online examinations for the even semester during May, and plans to publish the results well in time before June-end to facilitate those in the final year of UG/PG to pursue higher studies or career opportunities without any hassles. Like last time, the students will have to write the descriptive-type exam and upload the scanned copies of their answer scripts to the university portal. "Students facing problems of internet connectivity will be allowed to submit the answer scripts in their respective colleges or by assigned emails," Vice-Chancellor M. Selvam said. Until the government directive came directing conduct of semester exams in the online mode in view of the latest spike in COVID 19 infection, the university was looking forward to conduct the exam in the offline mode. This time around, one faculty will be assigned for a group of 25 students to coordinate conduct of exam and collection of answer scripts. Teachers have also been told to receive the answer scripts from the students at common collection points apart from colleges, from the point of view of convenience of students, Controller of Examinations Srinivasa Raghavan said. The valuation will be conducted at five to six centres in conformity with Standard Operating Procedure specified by the State Government for personal safety, and the process has been planned for completion by mid-June, he said. Vice-Chancellors of the State Universities are understood to have prevailed upon the Chancellor of the need for conducting the annual convocation in the online mode, similar to the pattern followed by IITs and NITs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bdu-ready-to-hold-online-examinations/article34211277.ece
01 April 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Centenarian casts postal vote from home||P. Michael (102) man cast his postal ballot from his home at Mela Kalkandarkottai in Tiruchi on Tuesday. Born in 1919, he said that he had voted in every election since the age of 29, at least 34 times. This time was the first time he did not have to leave his home to vote, he said. Enter his house in Alli Street and one will either hear the news on television or catch him reading the newspaper. ‘I like to keep up with current affairs,’ he said, peering from behind a newspaper. A retired employee of the Golden Rock Railway Workshop, he served 29 years in the electrical department before retiring in 1977. Since then, newspapers and prayers are his company. ‘This is the first time he has voted from home. Even during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, he hired an autorickshaw to the polling booth, voted and returned home on his own,’ his daughter-in-law said. When asked about the experience, Mr. Michael, father of three, and a widower said that it was convenient and would prefer to do it. He was, however, unhappy about not having the indelible ink on his finger. Though memories of his youth have faded, Mr. Michael was able to recollect taking up election activities in his early twenties. “I have even picked fights with election officers for showing allegiance to a party on polling day,” he said. ‘My friends and I used to distribute leaflets during election season before I started to work in Tiruchi. Elections those days were simpler as we had to choose only between three parties - AIADMK, DMK and Congress,” he said. When asked who would win the Assembly elections this year, Mr. Michael smiled. ‘I know the party I voted for will win. I have never voted for any other party my whole life,’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centenarian-casts-postal-vote-from-home/article34211268.ece
01 April 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘10.5% internal quota to Vanniyars unconstitutional’||Former member of Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC) and advisor to De-notified Tribes Welfare Association S. Panneerselvam on Wednesday said that the AIADMK government had done great injustice to several denotified communities by pushing through a legislation to provide 10.5 % internal reservation to Vanniyars in the quota for Most Backward Classes. He told the reporters here that according to Article 15 and 16 of the Constitution, reservation was permissible only for classes not for a caste. The 20% reservation for the Most Backward Classes, which had been placed under the 9th Schedule of The Constitution of India, could not be changed without amending the Constitution Act 1994. Moreover, the State government had not consulted and sought the response from the public and other castes, which had been classified under the MBC, before passing the Bill to provide internal reservation to a particular caste. Mr. Panneerselvam said that it was unfortunate that the AIADMK government chose to pass the Bill on a 10.5 % quota to Vanniyars minutes before the announcement of the State elections. It should have been circulated to the MLAs well in advance so as to make them understand the aspects of the Bill and to take a stand on it. A case challenging the State government Act, was pending before the Madras High Court and the Supreme Court. It would not stand judicial scrutiny. People belonging to other de-notified castes would vote out the AIADMK government for failing to protect their interests, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/105-internal-quota-to-vanniyars-unconstitutional/article34211283.ece
01 April 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Policemen cast postal votes||Over 2,400 policemen, who will be involved in election-related security arrangements in the five Assembly segments in the district cast their postal ballots on Wednesday. Speaking to reporters after inspecting the arrangements at St. John’s Higher Secondary School in Palayamkottai on Wednesday, District Collector V. Vishnu said a total of 2,451 policemen including 1,033 from Tirunelveli City Police and 1,194 policemen from Tirunelveli District Police, all having votes in the five Assembly segments in the district, were casting their postal ballots in five polling booths since they would be involved in the poll-related security arrangements. Though there was no need for panic regarding COVID-19 virus, people should wear masks and maintain physical distance whenever they come out of their houses. On returning home, they should clean their hands with soap or sanitizer thoroughly, the Collector said. Tirunelveli City Police Commissioner T.S. Anbu and Superintendent of Police, Tirunelveli, N. Manivannan accompanied the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-2400-police-personnel-on-election-duty-cast-postal-votes-in-tirunelveli-district/article34211457.ece
01 April 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Retired corporation official held||A retired official of Tirunelveli Corporation’s Melapalayam Zone has been arrested by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Wing police for taking bribe for giving building plan approval. Sources said retired District Educational Officer Pratap Keerthi’s daughter Percia of NGO Colony had applied to the Corporation’s Melapalayam Zone for plan approval for construction of her house. As Mr. Pratap approached the office, retired Corporation official Sankarapandian, met him with the promise of getting the approval if he was given Rs. 1,250 as bribe. Mr. Pratap filed a complaint with the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Wing. Led by Deputy Superintendent of Police McLaurin Escol, the police caught red-handed Sankarapandian when he received bribe from the complainant on Wednesday. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retired-corporation-official-held/article34211300.ece
01 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Forum lists demands of garment workers||Citizens Committee of Tiruppur District and Forum for Protection of Adolescent and Women Workers on Tuesday placed a list of demands on behalf of the workers from garment units in and around Tiruppur to the various political parties and their candidates ahead of the election. The primary demands concerning the labour rights of the garment workers included ensuring ‘overtime wages’ whenever a worker is made to work for more than eight hours a day, a monthly minimum living wage of Rs. 21,000, providing dearness allowance to all the workers, ensuring Employees Provident Fund (EPF) and Employee State Insurance Coverage (ESI) for all garment workers and abolishing illegal contract labour system by regularising all labourers, who have worked for 480 days in two years. Other demands included provision of identity cards to all workers, ensuring wages on government holidays, banning garment units from hiring adolescents in the age group of 15 to 18 years, maintenance of a register for migrant workers, ensuring basic facilities such as toilets to women in garment units, setting up a committee for prevention of sexual harassment and ensuring crèches for the children of the women workers at all the companies, a press release said. A team from these forums will present these demands to all the candidates contesting in five Assembly constituencies namely Tiruppur South, Tiruppur North, Avinashi, Sulur and Palladam, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forum-lists-demands-of-garment-workers/article34211209.ece
01 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Why didn’t Modi speak about Hathras, Pollachi sexual abuse, asks Stalin||Questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not speaking against the Hathras gang rape case in Uttar Pradesh and the Pollachi sexual abuse case, DMK president M.K. Stalin said here on Wednesday that the BJP was not competent to criticise the DMK. Mr. Modi had, at an election meeting in Dharapuram on Tuesday, accused the DMK and the Congress of insulting women. Addressing voters at Madathukulam in Tiruppur district, the DMK leader accused Mr. Modi of speaking lowly, forgetting that he was the Prime Minister of the country. “Just because he stooped to the level of a fourth-rate speaker, I do not have to. I am the son of Kalaignar (former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi). I will always speak with respect,” Mr. Stalin said. Even though Mr. Modi praised the Kongu region for its spirit of enterprise, his government’s schemes, namely the 2016 demonetisation and Goods and Services Tax (GST), adversely impacted all the micro, small and medium enterprises in the region, Mr. Stalin alleged. The BJP formed an alliance with the AIADMK after “clipping the wings” of the latter, using institutions such as the CBI, the Income Tax Department and the Election Commission of India, he said. The BJP would not win any seat in the State in the Assembly election, similar to its performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha election, he said. Mr. Stalin sought votes for the DMK front’s candidates of Madathukulam, Udumalpet and Valparai (Reserved) Assembly constituencies, namely R. Jayaramakrishnan (DMK), K. Thennarasu (Congress) and M. Arumugam (CPI) respectively.  Earlier at a meeting in Bodinayakkanur, Mr. Stalin reiterated that the AIADMK had pledged the self-respect of the people of Tamil Nadu to secure its alliance with the BJP, and his party would end this unfortunate situation. “The AIADMK is welcome to glorify the BJP, but not at the cost of the self-respect of the people. The DMK will ensure that the State gets its due share in growth and development,” he said. He was canvassing votes for DMK candidates Thanga Tamil Selvan (Bodi), Cumbum Ramakrishnan (Cumbum), K.S. Saravana Kumar (Periakulam) and A. Maharajan (Andipatti). Mr. Stalin said the AIADMK won one Lok Sabha seat (Theni) in 2019, and the MP’s letter pad featured the photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Even if one of the AIADMK candidates won, he would become a puppet of the BJP, which was out to create a rift among the people on caste and communal lines. The DMK president said that when electioneering started a fortnight ago, the DMK was hopeful of winning in 200 constituencies; but after he toured all over the State, he was sure the party would win in all the 234 constituencies. Mr. Stalin said AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam had served as the Chief Minister, the Deputy Chief Minister and Minister. However, he did nothing to promote the welfare of people of the district from where he was elected to the Assembly. Knowing well that the AIADMK would not return to power, Mr. Panneerselvam “cleverly” proposed Edappadi K. Palaniswami as the AIADMK’s chief ministerial candidate, he said. Instead of inviting the farmers who had been protesting in New Delhi against the farm laws and assuring them that their interests would be guarded, Mr. Modi had left them in the lurch, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/why-didnt-modi-speak-about-hathras-pollachi-abuse-stalin/article34211191.ece
01 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Why is PM silent on women’s quota Bill:||CPI general secretary D. Raja on Wednesday questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his silence regarding the passage of the Women’s Reservation Bill in Parliament that proposes 33% reservation for women in Parliament and State legislatures. He was replying to a question from reporters on Mr. Modi’s speech in the Dharapuram public meeting, where he accused the Opposition parties of being against women empowerment. Asserting that the State has a history of fighting for social justice and women’s rights, Mr. Raja remarked that if the Prime Minister is concerned about women empowerment, he would have ensured the passage of the long-pending Bill in the Lok Sabha despite the BJP enjoying a majority. “[Mr. Modi] should not pretend as if he stands for women’s rights and gender equality in Tamil Nadu,” Mr. Raja said. Although Mr. Modi speaks about development in his speeches, it was only during his administration that the Gross Domestic Product and the value of rupee saw a sharp fall while the unemployment is at a 50-year high, Mr. Raja alleged. The development Mr. Modi talks about does not pertain to the people or the nation but only to the corporates, he claimed. The recent visits of Mr. Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to the State shows their desperation as the defeat of the AIADMK-BJP alliance in the Assembly election will mark the beginning of the fall of BJP, Mr. Raja asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/why-is-pm-silent-on-womens-reservation-bill-asks-d-raja/article34211205.ece
01 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Modi sidelined many leaders, alleges Udhayanidhi||DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin on Wednesday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of sidelining many senior leaders in the BJP. At a public meeting in Dharapuram on Tuesday, Mr. Modi criticised DMK leaders for their alleged misogynistic remarks. Without mentioning Mr. Udhayanidhi’s name, he called him a “crown prince” who “has sidelined many senior leaders” and made “horrible remarks” against women. “The DMK has done nothing to stop him,” Mr. Modi alleged during his speech. Mr. Udhayanidhi, who was in Dharapuram on Wednesday to campaign for the DMK’s Dharapuram (Reserved) constituency candidate Kayalvizhi Selvaraj, claimed that Mr. Modi was angry with the voters of the State as the AIADMK-BJP alliance won only one Lok Sabha constituency in the 2019 elections. “[Mr. Modi] says that I came [into the DMK] in a short-cut after sidelining senior leaders. Did I come in a short-cut?” he asked the crowd, and proceeded to list the names of BJP leaders who were allegedly sidelined by Mr. Modi, including L.K. Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Arun Jaitley and Venkaiah Naidu. BJP State president L. Murugan, who has been fielded in Dharapuram (Reserved) constituency, lost the deposit when he contested from Rasipuram in 2011, Mr. Udhayanidhi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/modi-sidelined-many-leaders-alleges-udhayanidhi/article34211225.ece
01 April 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Saplings planted to create awareness on achieving 100% voter turnout||In order to spread awareness among people to vote in the upcoming election, 400 saplings were planted in the Guinness Park in Kuruthukuli village near Udhagamandalam on Monday. The plantation drive was attended by the Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya and Monitoring Officer Supriya Sahu. The drive was conducted alongside the highways department. In a press release, the district administration said that for the last 20 years, the Guinness Park was being used for afforestation efforts in the district. I n order to achieve 100 % voting across the Nilgiris, the drive was conducted to symbolically “plant the seeds of democracy,” the press release said. Areas identified At the event, Ms. Divya said that the district administration had identified locations where there was less voter turnout in the last elections. The Collector said that efforts were being taken to spread awareness among residents in these areas to vote. She also urged people taking part in the plantation drive to convince their friends and family to vote in the elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/saplings-planted-to-create-awareness-on-achieving-100-voter-turnout/article34211222.ece
01 April 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Raja’s remarks an affront to women’||A “healthy democracy” is built on a respectful discourse, and Nilgiris MP A. Raja’s remarks against the Chief Minister and his mother constituted an affront to the women across Tamil Nadu, BJP leader and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said here on Wednesday. At a rally to endorse BJP candidate for Udhagamandalam M. Bojarajan, Mr. Singh said the DMK and its president M.K. Stalin were involved in “communal politics” and “appeasement”, while the BJP stood for an equal treatment of all. “Both the AIADMK and the BJP stand for equality and no special treatment of any caste, creed or religion.” Mr. Singh said the DMK’s “rising sun set after the death of M. Karunanidhi,” and Mr. Stalin was trying hard to stop the party’s slide but in vain. The Defence Minister said the Central and State governments were working hard to develop Tamil Nadu. Defence corridors, meant to promote indigenous production of defence and aerospace items, were being established in only two States: Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. The corridor in Tamil Nadu would bring in Rs. 8,000 crore in investments.  Special Correspondent from Krishnagiri adds:  Speaking at an election rally at Thally in Krishnagiri, Mr. Rajnath Singh said that total prohibition will be implemented in Tamil Nadu once the BJP-AIADMK combine came to power in the State. However, a section of the audience booed at the announcement, even while Mr. Singh urged them to clap. Calling the late AIADMK leader Jayalalithaa as having been a strong regional force with a national character, it was only natural that the BJP as a nationalist party would align with the AIADMK, when the time came. Alleging that the DMK-Congress combined played the politics of caste/and polarisation, “the BJP played the politics of humanity and justice,” claimed the Defence Minister. According to him, the BJP and the AIADMK were fighting this election with the vision of “development and welfare,” same vision held by MGR and Jayalalithaa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajas-remarks-constituted-an-affront-to-women/article34211178.ece
01 April 2021||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Ex-servicemen attested||A total of 141 ex-servicemen defence service corps (DSC) personnel were attested at the Shrinagesh Barracks in Wellington, Coonoor, after successful six-week training on Tuesday. "This is the first time that the DSC personnel have been trained and attested for their reorientation training in Madras Regimental Centre. The same was instituted due to the prevailing pandemic condition and restricted training capacity in DSSC, Kannur," a press release from the Madras Regimental Centre read. The attestation parade was reviewed by Brigadier Rajeshwar Singh, Commandant of the Madras Regimental Centre, Wellington.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/141-ex-servicemen-attested/article34211216.ece
01 April 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore district records 35 fresh cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 21,490 with 35 new cases reported on Wednesday. While a total of 20,939 have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 197. The district's death toll is 354. In Ranipet district, 21 cases were reported positive and the total number of cases in the district stood at 16,475. In Tirupattur district, seven new cases were reported on Wednesday and the total number of positive cases in the district stood at 7,806. In Tiruvannamalai district, 17 new cases of the infection were reported, taking the total number of cases in the district to 19,692. Out of this, 19,329 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 78.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-35-fresh-cases/article34211562.ece
01 April 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Centre has given new identity to T.N. with works, says Yogi||The NDA government led by Prime Minister, Narendra Modi has given a new identity to Tamil Nadu with a host of infrastructure development from highways to railways to the State, according to BJP leader Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister, Yogi Adityanath. Addressing an election rally in support of BJP Virudhunagar Assembly constituency candidate G. Pandurangan, on Wednesday, Mr. Adityanath contended that there was an overall development in infrastructure development like highways, railways and new airports in the country in the last six years. “All the major railway stations like Chennai Central and Chennai Egmore had looks like airport,” he said. The Prime Minister has given the country’s first defence corridor to Tamil Nadu, he added. The infrastructure development will take Tamil Nadu to newer heights, he said. The development in infrastructure front will give an impetus to economic development of the Tamil Nadu as well as India, he added. Stating that the previous Congress Governments that had ruled the nation for a very long period could not give even power supply to all the villages, he said that Mr Modi has taken power supply to all villages in the country. Besides, it was committed to providing protected drinking water to all households. Giving credit to the Centre for effectively handling COVID-19 pandemic in the country, Mr. Adityanath said that the Centre deposited Rs. 500 every month to Jan Dhan accounts, gave free ration to people, provided special packages to revive micro, medium and small enterprises. “The whole world was awe-struck by the way the Modi government handled the pandemic,” he said. However, on the other hand, when Congress and DMK were in power, they were known for corruption, atrocities and demeaning women, he claimed. Such parties should be defeated, and NDA should be given an opportunity for the AIADMK to come back to power to continue with the development works of the Centre. Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways V K Singh, BJP state general secretary, R. Srinivasan, party candidate, G. Pandurangan, were among those who were present.  Rameswaram The UP CM, on arrival at the Mandapam Camp, was received by the BJP functionaries led by Muralidharan and candidate Kuppuram among others. Mr. Yogi Adityanath drove to the Sri Ramanathaswamy Temple here and performed pujas. The BJP functionaries said that the UP CM would address the party workers at an indoor meeting. According to the party leaders, Mr Adityanath was scheduled to visit Dhanushkodi on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-has-given-new-identity-to-tn-with-works-says-yogi/article34211291.ece
01 April 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Candidate setting in 5,058 ballot units begins||The process of candidate setting, wherein the ballot papers containing name, symbol and photographs of each candidate, in each of the 5,058 ballot units for seven Assembly constituencies in Virudhunagar district began on Wednesday. Virudhunagar Collector and District Election Officer, R. Kannan, inspected the exercise being carried out at three centres in Virudhunagar, Kariyapatti and Aruppukottai. A statement said that election officials were involved in setting the pink colour ballot papers in the ballot units. While Rajapalayam and Srivilliputtur Assembly constituencies will have one ballot units each as they have only 14 and 15 candidates respectively in fray, other five constituencies where the number of candidates are more than 15 have two ballot units. Besides setting the ballot papers, the officials have to take up their sealing with appropriate forms. The officials have already sent 2,965 control units and 3,085 VVPAT machines to 2,370 polling booths in the seven Assembly constituencies. Later in the day, Mr. Kannan along with Virudhunagar District Superintendent of Police P. Perumal, inspected the facilities at the vote counting centre at Sri Vidhya College. He looked for the facilities like drinking water, power supply, toilet facilties, strong room for EVMs, parking facility, counting agents room and media centre. . District Revenue Officer, R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Sub-Collector (Sivakasi), C. Dinesh Kumar, and Public Works Department (Buildings) Ganesan, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/candidate-setting-in-5058-ballot-units-begins/article34211289.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 273 new cases, one death||Coimbatore district on Wednesday reported 273 new cases of COVID-19. The Health Department said that 1,551 persons from the district were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 as of Wednesday. It said that 116 persons from Coimbatore district recovered from the disease and got discharged from hospitals on Wednesday. The district’s death toll increased to 694 after a 66-year-old man died of COVID-19 on Monday. Fifty persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Salem on Wednesday. With the latest infections, the district’s overall tally rose to 33,488. While 46 persons were discharged after recovering from the viral disease, 304 persons were under treatment. Erode district reported 34 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 15,352. While 25 persons were discharged, 191 persons were under treatment. The 20 new cases reported in Namakkal took the district’s tally to 12,111. While 13 persons were discharged, 147 were under treatment. Tiruppur district reported 55 new cases, which took the overall tally to 19,324 cases. No deaths were reported and the toll remained at 226. As many as 18,733 patients have recovered and 365 were active cases in the district. On Wednesday, 41 patients from the district were discharged from various treatment centres. In the Nilgiris, 19 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 8,666. The number of deaths in the district stood at 50 on Wednesday while 132 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-273-new-cases-one-death/article34211215.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Voters want better transport services here||Improvements to transport, health and sanitation services are among key demands of voters in Papanasam Assembly constituency in the fertile Cauvery belt. The town located on the main thoroughfare connecting Thanjavur, the district headquarters, with the temple town of Kumbakonam, has adequate number of buses plying through it. But such services have failed to address the requirements of the locals, claims S. Saravanan. “Almost all buses passing through Papanasam are long-distance services in which short distance travelling is not encouraged by the bus crew. Though the bus crew cannot be blamed for this, a plea to set up a TNSTC depot at Papanasam to facilitate operation of town bus services to Thanjavur and Kumbakonam and to link Papanasam with Mannargudi, Orathanadu and Ariyalur is yet to get the attention of the officials,” he points out. Commuters headed for Mannargudi or Orathanadu have to pass through Thanjavur. Operating bus service via Saliamangalam to Mannargudi and Orathanadu would not only reduce the travelling time but also traffic congestion on the arterial Thanjavur-Kumbakonam Road though the ongoing Thanjavur-Vikravandi Road project, once completed, is expected to reduce the volume of traffic on the Thanjavur-Kumbakonam Road to a considerable extent. Further, completion of Ramanallur islet bridge project and introduction of public transport facility through the bridge would help people from Papanasam taluk to reach Ariyalur on time to utilise the train services operated during daytime from Madurai and Tiruchi to reach Chennai and vice versa. At present, a bridge between Ramanallur and Azhakiyamanavalam in Ariyalur district has been provided. Persistent plea to complete construction of the high-level bridge to connect the islet with Karuppur in Thanjavur district is yet to get addressed though the foundation was laid for the Rs. 55-crore project in 2017. Sudden withdrawal of stoppage for Chennai-Tiruchendur Express and Mayiladuthurai-Mysore Express trains at Papanasam recently has added to woes of commuters hailing from the taluk headquarters town. The step-motherly treatment meted out to Papanasam railway station, which contributes more than Rs. 1.50 crore annually through passenger ticket sale collection has annoyed commuters who relied on the train services for safe and comfortable travel. A total of 10 passenger trains, including express train services, operated through Papanasam had stoppages at Papanasam. With withdrawal of stoppages for Tiruchendur and Mysore Expresses, commuters headed for Bengaluru and Tiruchendur were forced to travel to Thanjavur by road to catch these trains, he further adds. “Ironically, stoppages have been provided to these two trains at a few smaller stations in the same section where the annual passenger fare collection is far below the earnings at Papanasam railway station,” says Saravanan, secretary, Train Passengers Association, Papanasam, and member, DRUCC, Tiruchi Region. Poor sanitation and lack of advanced health care services, community halls and higher education institutions are among the other issues in the constituency. Meanwhile, the ruling AIADMK, which has retained the Papanasam Assembly seat for the past 15 years, has fielded K. Gopinathan, AIADMK Papanasam West Union secretary. Former Agriculture Minister late R. Doraikannu of the party was elected from the constituency for three consecutive terms from 2006. On the other hand, DMK has allotted the seat to Manithaneya Makkal Katchi and its leader M.H. Jawahirullah is contesting from here on the DMK’s Rising Sun symbol. He is said to be heavily banking on the Congress support base in the constituency as the candidates fielded by the Congress and Tamil Maanila Congress led by late G.K.Moopanar managed to retain this seat from 1977 to 2001. M. Rengasamy of AMMK, N. Krishnakumar of NTK, K. Shantha of MNM, N. Mehraj Banu of All India Jananayaka Makkal Kazhagam, R. Muthukumar of Annaithu Makkal Puratchi Katchi and six independents are also in the fray at Papanasam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/voters-want-better-transport-services-here/article34211270.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Changes in train services||The Salem Division of Southern Railway has announced changes in timings, extensions and partial cancellation of trains. A release said the arrival/departure timings for Train No. 02644 Patna – Ernakulam bi-weekly super fast special train and Train No. 02642 Shalimar – Thiruvananthapuram bi-weekly special train are as follows: Salem Junction – 7.37 a.m. / 7.40 a.m., Erode Junction – 8.40 a.m. / 8.45 a.m., Tiruppur Junction – 9.28 a.m. / 9.30 a.m. and Coimbatore Junction – 10.27 a.m. / 10.30 a.m. The revised timings will come into effect from Thursday for Train No. 02644 and from Sunday for Train No. 02642. Regarding the extension of train services, Train No. 06232 Mysore – Mayiladuthurai festival special train has been extended to run till June 30 and Train No. 06231 Mayiladuthurai – Mysore will run till July 1. Train No. 06236 Mysore – Tuticorin festival special has been extended to run till June 30 and Train No. 06235 Tuticorin – Mysore festival special till July 1. Train No. 06526 KSR Bengaluru – Kanniyakumari festival special will run till June 30 and Train No. 06525 Kanniyakumari – KSR Bengaluru festival special will run till July 2. Train No. 06537 Yesvantpur – Kannur festival special will run till June 30 and Train No. 06538 Kannur – Yesvantpur will run till July 1. Due to the engineering works for laying the second broad gauge rail line between Thirumangalam – Tulukkapatti railway stations in Madurai – Tirunelveli section, train services will be partially cancelled on Thursday. Train No. 02667 Nagercoil – Coimbatore super fast, which will leave Nagercoil at 9.45 p.m. on Thursday, will be partially cancelled and will run from Madurai to Coimbatore. Similarly, Train No. 06321 Nagercoil – Coimbatore special train, scheduled to leave Nagercoil at 7.35 a.m. on Thursday, will be partially cancelled and will be operated from Madurai to Coimbatore. Train No. 06322 Coimbatore – Nagercoil special train, which will leave Coimbatore Junction at 8 a.m. on Thursday, will be operated till Madurai Junction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/changes-in-train-services/article34211211.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Industrial estates for MSMEs: Haasan||Makkal Needhi Maiam, if elected, would work towards establishing industrial parks for micro, small and medium enterprises, the party president and Coimbatore South Assembly constituency contestant Kamal Haasan said here on Wednesday while launching the manifesto prepared by party vice-president and Singanallur candidate R. Mahendran. If five lakh MSMEs were established in place of 50 multi-national companies, they would return the as much profit as the latter. Therefore, MSMEs ought to protected, Mr. Haasan said and added that his party would take steps to protect the sector by also helping in the establishment of an institution that would finance their day-to-day needs. The move would help the MSME entrepreneurs escape usury, he explained. Defending his ‘tukda’ comment against BJP candidate Vanathi Srinivasan, Mr. Haasan said it was not a slur. Those who perceived it a slur were proving themselves to be one by their reaction to the comment. Earlier, Mr. Haasan released the manifesto for Singanallur which promised to expedite the Coimbatore airport expansion, development of Irugur railway station, a public library, free Wi-Fi across constituency, efforts to improve groundwater table, food park, a garbage-free Singanallur by improving waste collection, upgrade of government schools among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industrial-estates-for-msmes-haasan/article34211220.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Now, local authorities can impose fresh restrictions||Action would be taken against them under the provisions of Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and other legal provisions. The government order also laid out the protocol for Test-Track-Treat and dealt with vaccination. “Vaccination against COVID-19, in the present scenario, is critical to breaking the chain of transmission. Therefore, the district administrations shall rapidly step up the pace of vaccination, to cover all priority groups, as recommended by NEGVAC [the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19] and approved by the Central government, urgently and in an expeditious manner,” it said. ( The government order can be found athttp://bit.ly/Guidelines_TN )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/local-authorities-can-impose-fresh-restrictions/article34211187.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||7 women||contestants — in Kolathur, Gudiyattam and Tirupattur constituencies — is the highest number of women candidates in a constituency this Assembly election, scheduled to be held on April 6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/7-women/article34211142.ece
01 April 2021||BASAVAKALYAN (BIDAR DISTRICT),KARNATAKA||‘Sharanu Salagar chosen because he has been working for the people’||After their efforts in their personal meetings failed to douse the rebellion posed by Mallikarjun Khuba, a BJP ticket aspirant for Basavakalyan byelection and who had been denied party ticket, the party leaders resorted to an appeal to Mr. Mallikarjun Khuba at a public meeting asking him to step down from contesting the bypolls as an Independent candidate and instead work for the victory of the party’s official candidate Sharanu Salagar. In a public meeting held at Shantiniketan Grounds in Basavakalyan before Mr. Salagar filed his nomination papers on Tuesday, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Housing Minister V. Somanna, Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan and Lok Sabha member from Bidar Bhagwanth Khuba initially assured Mr. Mallikarjun Khuba of a good position in the party and political future in return for his withdrawal from the contest and, later, verbally attacked him for being irresponsive to people’s problems, clearly indicating the party’s offensive position, if he failed to withdraw from the contest. “If he [Mallikarjun Khuba] files his nomination papers as an Independent candidate, let us convince him of the need for him to withdraw from contest. If he doesn’t, let us fight him... the BJP is not a party that sells its election ticket for money. It gives ticket only to those party workers who honestly work for the party expecting nothing in return. Mr. Salagar has been chosen as the party’s candidate for Basavakalyan only because he has been working for the welfare of the constituency’s people. When people in the constituency were in distress twice in the recent past, during the COVID-19 lockdown and floods, it was Mr. Salagar who stood with the people helping them. The person who is upset with the denial of ticket was in Delhi,” Mr. Savadi said without taking the name of Mr. Mallikarjun Khuba. Lok Sabha member from Bidar Bhagwanth Khuba said that only those who could make space in the hearts of people would get an opportunity to contest elections on BJP ticket. “Mr. Savadi got a survey done in Basavakalyan constituency and Mr. Salagar emerged the most eligible candidate to get BJP ticket. When Mr. Mallikarjun Khuba came to me requesting ticket, I clearly told him that his work for the people, not my influence, would matter. He was naturally disappointed when he was denied ticket. He should realise that the party never deserts any honest worker. I appeal to him to join the party ranks to work for the victory of Mr. Salagar,” Mr. Bhagwanth Khuba said. Taking exceptions to the projection of Mr. Salagar as an outsider by BJP ticket aspirants who were denied ticket, Mr. Bommai said that most of the Sharanas of 12th Century, including Basaveshwara, had arrived from different places of the State and country to make Basavakalyan as their place of work. “After testing many parties, you [Mr. Mallikarjun Khuba] came to a mainstream party [the BJP]. Don’t deviate from it to spoil your political career. You have a bright future in the BJP... the Congress is a sinking ship. Its leaders preach Basaveshwara’s ideology only in words and not in deeds. It is the B.S. Yediyurappa government that has sanctioned Rs. 500 crore to build a New Anubhava Mantapa. The Congress only announced the project, but did not start its construction,” Mr. Bommai said. Exuding the confidence of his victory, Mr. Salagar declared that after May 2, the date of election results, there would be no gambling or rowdyism in Basavakalyan. “I am the BJP candidate for Basavakalyan because the party has chosen me to serve you all,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sharanu-salagar-chosen-because-he-has-been-working-for-the-people/article34211330.ece
01 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Poll observers||The Election Commission of India has deputed two senior officers as observers to oversee the bypolls to the Belagavi Lok Sabha seat. Senior IAS officer Chandrabhushan Tripathi is the general observer. He will hear grievances in his camp office in the new government guest house room number 4 every day from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. The contact details are Ph: 9480770830 and email generalobserver001@gmail.-com. Senior IRS officer R. Gulzar Begum has been sent to keep a watch on expenditure. She will sit in her camp office in the old government guest house room number 8 every day from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. Her contact details are Ph: 9481123130 and email expe- nditureobserver001@-gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/poll-observers/article34211318.ece
01 April 2021||Bengalruu,KARNATAKA||State gears up to vaccinate everyone aged above 45||With COVID-19 vaccination beginning for all above 45 years from Thursday, the State has geared up to inoculate a target population of around 1.66 crore in this age group in 5,500 vaccination centres. Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra told The Hindu , “Of the 1.66 crore target population, 70 lakh fall under the category of senior citizens and those above 45 years with comorbidities.” In addition to existing vaccination centres, the State has planned to intensify the drive by extending services at Health and Wellness Centres (HWCs) and sub-centres. “This will help people to access vaccination at their nearby locations. Vaccination will continue at all PHCs, UPHCs, CHCs, taluka hospitals, district hospitals, medical colleges and private hospitals as already being done. Apart from these, districts have flexibility to schedule vaccination in HWCs and sub-centres under the supervision of medical officer as per micro-plan on prior intimated dates,” said an official statement. Besides, the State has provided broad guidelines to districts to strategise vaccination through support from all the line departments and NGOs. Vaccine stock With the current stock of 13.5 lakh doses of Covishield and 1.5 lakh doses of Covaxin vaccines, the health department has dispatched vaccines to cold chain points across the districts as per their requirement. “The Centre has assured the State that additional vaccine doses will be supplied regularly in the coming days as per daily coverage,” the statement said. Anyone above 45 years, who wants to get vaccinated, should register on Co-WIN portal https://selfregistration.cowin.gov.in/ or through Arogya Setu app to book their desired vaccination date. Also, walk-in registration will be available at all the centres. Outgoing BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said around 25 lakh individuals in the city were eligible for vaccination under this phase. A total of 535 institutions have been registered as vaccination centres, where around 85,000 individuals can be inoculated every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-gears-up-to-vaccinate-everyone-aged-above-45/article34211102.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Exemption for KRIDL projects annoys SC/ST contractors||An exemption provided to the government-owned Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Ltd. (KRIDL) from tendering process for projects up to Rs. 2 crore by amending the Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurements Act (KTPPA) has grossly undermined the level-playing field among government agencies and defeated the purpose of the Act enacted over two decades ago, according to stakeholders, contractors, experts, and leaders of political parties. Contractors and leaders say the amendment will open the floodgates for other government agencies to seek similar exemptions in future and will be a big blow for SC/ST contractors. According to sources, despite strong reservations expressed against the amendment to the Act by departments concerned and the Advocate-General, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa introduced the Bill “hurriedly” and pushed the amendment to the Act without debate in the Assembly on March 23. The Siddaramaiah-led Congress government had provided 50% quota for SC/ST contractors in construction works up to Rs. 50 lakh. Mr. Siddaramaiah hit out at the government for amending the Act and said SC/STs would be “cheated under the new law” and would lead to corruption, as there would be no scope for competition through tenders given the exemption now. While the Karnataka SC/ST Contractors’ Association termed the changes to the law as “discriminatory and against the spirit of Article 14 of the Constitution”, the Bengaluru NavaNirmana Party (BNP) called it “a huge scam in the making”. N. Mahadevaswamy, president, Karnataka SC/ST Contractors’ Association, said the changes in the law were aimed at “looting funds through the KRIDL”. A large number of SC/ST contractors could be denied work, as more than 85% of them are now executing works below Rs. 2 crore, he said. Sources said the Advocate-General in his opinion said that “there is no overwhelming material to show that KRIDL should be exempted from the Act”. The exemption granted in 2019-20 by way of notification has been challenged in the High Court and the court passed an interim order directing that the said “notification should not be acted upon”. Questioning the new law, Mr. Mahadevaswamy said the new law could be challenged in court. The amendment was applicable to only KRIDL and other government agencies/boards/corporations would seek similar exemptions in the future, and such amendments would defeat the purpose of the original Act, he claimed. Though the Bill was tabled after it was approved by the State Cabinet, critics say the amendments “may not stand the test of time”. Experts in the field of administration questioned the applicability of the law only to the KRIDL and said the law should be applicable to other infrastructure creating agencies. The BNP said it had done an in-depth analysis of BBMP projects in the last five years. Subbu Hegde of BNP said: “Senior BJP leaders had opposed giving contracts to KRIDL two years ago. But now that they are in power, they want to do the same thing that they had opposed earlier. Projects worth thousands of crores of rupees given to a single contractor without tendering process and with a commission, leaves a high degree of scope for corruption and bad governance,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/exemption-for-kridl-projects-annoys-scst-contractors/article34211120.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Air passengers hit by absence of taxis||Air passengers were hit hard by the non-availability of taxi services on Wednesday as drivers stayed off the road after a KSDTC airport taxi driver allegedly set himself ablaze near the terminal on Tuesday. The driver, Pratap, succumbed to burn injuries. Airport taxi drivers alleged that the deceased took the extreme step as he was not getting enough bookings due to the price war by taxi aggregators Uber and Ola. They accused taxi aggregators of paying drivers Rs. 7 to Rs. 9 per kilometre to attract customers, due to which traditional taxi operators were not getting enough bookings at the airport. In the absence of taxi services, air passengers relied on private vehicles or Vayu Vajra services of Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC). Many were caught off-guard as they were unaware about the disruptions in services. A senior official of the BMTC said, “We started running extra buses as per the demand. We used to operate 75 buses on the route. Due to non-availability of taxi services, additional 45 buses were operated on Wednesday.” On Wednesday evening, the Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL), the operator of the airport, claimed that all taxi services had been regularised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/air-passengers-hit-by-absence-of-taxis/article34211090.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Steep rise in COVID-19 cases impacts availability of beds||With the gradual resumption of non-COVID-19 services and most beds being converted into non-COVID-19 ones in several government hospitals, patients who need hospitalisation are already finding it hard to find a bed in Bengaluru, which is seeing the highest surge. With most beds in government hospitals full and very few COVID-19 beds in private hospitals, COVID-19 patients who need hospitalisation, especially in South and the East zones where clusters had been reported, are struggling to get a bed. Need for more Ameen e Mudassar, member, Emergency Response Team, a volunteer group that offers free services to people in getting tested and finding beds, said enquiries for beds have increased considerably in the last week. “With cases rising rapidly, the government should rope in private hospitals for government referrals at the earliest and ensure that at least 30% beds are set aside for COVID-19 patients there,” he said. Following a decline in cases, the referral of patients under the government quota to private hospitals was stopped since early December. Government hospital heads admitted that they are running full now. Victoria Hospital, which was a dedicated COVID-19 facility till a few months ago with 550 beds, has just 160 COVID-19 beds now and almost all are occupied. Smitha Segu, nodal officer for COVID-19 in Bengaluru Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI), said the hospital has been running full for the last few days. “Almost all the 160 beds are occupied. We are planning to convert another 140 non-COVID-19 beds into COVID-19 ones. But, this will take a couple of weeks,” she said. Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute, which earlier had 160 beds, currently has 110. Institute Dean and Director Manoj Kumar H.V. said over half of the COVID-19 beds have been occupied due to a rise in the number of cases in the past few days. “We are planning to add 50 more COVID-19 beds depending on the situation in the coming days. That apart, 100 of the 130 beds in Charaka Super Speciality Hospital will also be dedicated to COVID-19 from April,” the doctor said. Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD) that had 174 beds till a few months ago converted 150 exclusively for SARI/ILI cases and the remaining for non-COVID-19 problems. “Our SARI ward has been running full and nearly 2% of the patients are testing positive for COVID-19. We are shifting such patients to Victoria hospital,” said C. Nagaraj, RGICD director. TAC recommendation The State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended that the government should restart the centralised e-distribution of hospital beds incorporating private hospitals. Prasanna H.M., president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), said most smaller hospitals had completely converted into non-COVID-19 ones. “Only bigger chain hospitals and those with 100 beds and above still have some beds for COVID-19. We have been seeing a rush of patients since last week and the demand that till last week was high in South and East zones is seen across the city now,” he said. “We have requested the government not to create panic like last time. We are ready to share beds but this time we have requested that medical college hospitals be utilised first followed by chain hospitals and then 100 beds and above facilities. Hospitals with 50 beds and above should be roped in only if there is a dire need and those below 50 beds should be allowed to handle only non-COVID-19 cases. The government has orally agreed to this,” Dr. Prasanna explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/steep-rise-in-covid-19-cases-impacts-availability-of-beds/article34211097.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HAL reports revenue of more than Rs. 22,000 crore||Defence PSU HAL reported revenue of over Rs. 22,700 crore during 2020–21 despite disruption in operation owing to COVID-19 as supply chains within India and abroad were affected. The revenue is about Rs. 1,300 crore more than that reported in the corresponding period in the previous fiscal — Rs. 21,438 crore. “The company posted a revenue growth of around 6% in 2020–2021, thanks to improved productivity after suspending the operations for one month in the beginning of the year,” a company note on Wednesday said. The record revenue came with the help of production of 41 new helicopters/aircraft, 102 new engines, and overhaul of 198 aircraft/helicopters and 506 engines. The contract for production of 83 LCA Mk-1A has brought in advance payment of around Rs. 5,400 crore, which has helped liquidate all its borrowings availed of from banks. “The company ended the year with a positive cash balance of around Rs. 6,700 crore as against borrowings of Rs. 5,775 crore as on March 31, 2020,”the note said, adding that the cash flow position had improved significantly with about Rs. 34,000 crore, including Rs. 5,400 crore advance payment for LCA. Defence contract “The year was significant in terms of securing the largest ever defence contract of 83 LCA Mk-1A by an Indian company. This helped the company surpass the order book position in excess of Rs. 80,000 crore,” HAL chairman and managing director R. Madhavan said in the note. Considering the anticipated growth in profits, HAL paid an interim dividend of Rs. 30 per share during the current financial year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hal-reports-revenue-of-more-than-rs-22000-crore/article34211116.ece
01 April 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Chief Minister-led Finance Dept. is responsible for dissatisfaction’||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa, in the letter addressed to party national general secretary in charge of Karnataka Arun Singh, indirectly pointed an accusing finger at Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who also holds the Finance portfolio, for the dissatisfaction among party MLAs and workers about their constituencies not getting adequate funds. He appealed to him to change the administration style in Karnataka in the interest of the party. ‘Bias against BJP MLAs’ Stating that only Rs. 1,600 crore of the total sanctioned amount of nearly Rs. 4,000 crore had been released so far to the RDPR Department, he added, “Such actions of the Finance Department has put me in great embarrassing position in the eyes of party MLAs and workers who are very critical about release of special grants to the constituencies of Opposition MLAs”. He said they were also expressing concern that adequate funds had not been released to their constituencies despite having their own party government. He has also indirectly accused Mr. Yediyurappa of showing bias against BJP MLAs by sanctioning more funds to the constituencies of MLAs led by other parties. Of the 81 Assembly constituencies for which funds were released recently, only 32 belonged to BJP MLAs, he said in the letter. While the budgetary programmes had not got administrative approval, the Finance Department led by Mr. Yediyurappa had made “outside Budget allocations” from his department, including Rs. 1,439 crore for a bunch of works and Rs. 775 crore to 81 Assembly constituencies, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chief-minister-led-finance-department-is-responsible-for-the-dissatisfaction/article34211113.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Deve Gowda under observation for suspected COVID-19||Former Prime Minister and JD(S) chief H.D. Deve Gowda, 88, is under observation for COVID-19 at a private hospital as his wife Chenamma Deve Gowda, 84, tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. Although Mr. Gowda himself tweeted on Wednesday morning that he and his wife tested positive, later in the day Manipal Hospital where they have been admitted said that he was under observation for suspected COVID-19. C.N. Manjunath, director, Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, who is also Mr. Gowda’s son-in-law, said he had tested RT-PCR negative, but his chest CT showed mild features of a COVID-19 infection. Ms. Chenamma had developed a fever on Sunday after returning from Holenarsipura where she had visited a temple and participated in a fair. Their daughter Shailaja, gunman and other helpers at his residence have been quarantined and will be tested on the fifth day, said Dr. Manjunath. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Karnataka Health Minister K. Sudhakar and Opposition Leader Siddaramaiah took to Twitter to wish the couple a speedy recovery.  Mr Gowda’s wife Chenamma Deve Gowda, 84, tested positive for the virus on Wednesday.  Their daughter Shailaja, gunman and other helpers at his residence have been quarantined and will be tested on the fifth day||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deve-gowda-under-observation-for-suspected-case-of-covid-19/article34211099.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CD case: Woman undergoes medical examination||As part of the standard operating procedure (SOP), the woman in the CD scandal involving BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi underwent medical examination at Bowring Hospital on Wednesday, a day after she made an appearance for the first time since the scandal broke out and recorded her statement alleging sexual harassment. Special Investigation Team (SIT) officials are now preparing for inspection of the spot where the alleged crime took place. The SIT also questioned her for the second time based on her statement and the evidence it has collected during the course of the investigation. The SIT is learnt to have quizzed her about the incident and also how and through whom she was introduced to Mr. Jarkiholi. Meanwhile, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said the SIT was looking into all angles as per the criminal procedures, and would not buckle under any political pressure. “The SIT will have to do in-detail probe systematically. No one can intervene in it, so I will also not comment on it,” said Mr. Bommai, who also holds the Law and Parliamentary Affairs portfolio. He appealed that no one should try to cause any obstruction to the fair probe by making unnecessary comments or lowering seriousness of the probe, he said. Hits out at Congress The Minister hit out at the Congress for its criticisms against the SIT probe. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar on Tuesday alleged that the B.S. Yediyurappa-led government had been supporting and standing behind Mr. Jarkiholi. The Congress sought to know why the former Minister was not yet arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cd-case-woman-undergoes-medical-examination/article34211119.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||10% beds in pvt. hospitals to be reserved for COVID-19 cases||In the light of rising COVID-19 cases in the city, the government has resumed reserving beds in private hospitals, starting with 10% set apart for government quota this week. This will be increased in phases depending on how the caseload evolves, said civic commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad at a video conference with private hospitals on Wednesday. “At the peak of the pandemic last year, we had reserved 50% beds in private hospitals and as the caseload dropped, we gave away the government quota of beds in private hospitals accommodating all patients in government hospitals only. But the numbers are increasing rapidly. From an average of 600 cases in December 2020, caseload dropped to an average of 333 in January, 243 in February but has shot up to an average of over 1,500 cases in March. Roping in private hospitals is now inevitable,” Mr. Prasad said. Mr. Prasad said no COVID-19 patient, especially those with respiratory issues, must be turned away by any hospital. “Hospitals need to admit such patients and inform the civic body later,” he said. He also directed all hospitals to display on notice boards at their entrance details, including bed availability.  Epidemiologist Giridhar Babu, member, State COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, said the mistakes made in the first wave should not be repeated in the second, and there has to be a standardised treatment protocol as issued by All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/10-beds-in-pvt-hospitals-to-be-reserved-for-covid-19-cases/article34211092.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RT-PCR not mandatory for all passengers||The BBMP has clarified that negative RT-PCR test reports are not mandatory for anyone coming from outside the State to Bengaluru from Thursday. However, the State government guidelines making negative RT-PCR test reports mandatory for passengers from Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, and Chandigarh travelling to the State remain applicable. “We had proposed to make RT-PCR test reports mandatory for passengers from all States coming into Bengaluru. But the State government has not approved the proposal,” said civic commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad. It was opined at the review meeting chaired by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa that restricting commuters to the city will not only hit the economy, but is also tough to implement, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rt-pcr-not-mandatory/article34211091.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||LIDKAR workshop||LIDKAR had earlier this week organised a workshop on entrepreneurship and personality development for the beneficiaries of self-employment schemes. As many as 80 beneficiaries participated in the workshop. Additional Chief Secretary, Social Welfare Department, Nagambika Devi, inaugurated the workshop, according to a LIDKAR press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lidkar-workshop/article34211109.ece
01 April 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BHEL bags order for IOCL’s sulphur recovery unit||Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) has bagged a major order for a sulphur recovery unit from Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOCL). BHEL in a release said that, with this order, it has made an entry into the downstream oil and gas process package business. The package, valued at over Rs. 400 crore, envisages setting up a 525 TPD sulphur recovery unit at IOCL’s Paradip Refinery in Odisha. Notably, the company’s diversification strategy into non-coal-based business areas has begun paying dividends and this is a milestone order for BHEL as part of its new growth areas initiative. With the execution of this order, BHEL will establish itself as an LSTK player for process packages in the downstream oil and gas sector, the release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bhel-bags-order-for-iocls-sulphur-recovery-unit/article34211110.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||It was a strategy to delay plea to vacate stay: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday said that the State government had “adopted a strategy to procrastinate and delay the disposal) application”, filed by complaint Sharanagouda, for vacating the stay order on an investigation against Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in the audio clipping case. The court also expressed suspicion about the functioning of its own registry as the petitions filed by Mr. Yediyurappa and three others in questioning the probe were not found in the list of pending cases against MPs and MLAs in which probes were stayed. Justice John Michael Cunha, in his order of vacating the stay on probe in the case against Mr. Yediyurappa and three others, pointed out that the hearing on plea for vacating stay was adjourned many times between September 2019 and February 2020. on the same plea that “a special State Public Prosecutor was being appointed to appear for She state police” that was repeatedly made by the Additional State Public Prosecutor on behalf of the State government. “The above strategy appears to have been adopted only to procrastinate and delay the disposal of the application filed by Mr. Sharanagouda to vacate the interim order of stay,” the court said. Justice Cunha noted that the petitions filed by Mr. Yediyurappa and others were part of the list prepared by the court’s registry for disposing the pending cases against MPs and MLAs within two months by holding fday-to-day hearing based on the directions issued by the Supreme Court in September 2020. “Surprisingly, these two cases did not figure in the lists submitted to the court...”, Justice Cunha said while ordering the matter to be brought to the notice of the Chief Justice to take appropriate action against the erring officials||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/strategy-existed-to-delay-plea-to-vacate-stay-hc/article34211121.ece
01 April 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Water adalat today||Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) will hold a water adalat on April 1 between 9.30 a.m. and 11 a.m. at its sub-divisional offices. BWSSB said that the adalat will be held to settle grievances relating to billing, delay in supply and sanitary connections, delay in converting domestic connection to non-domestic. For any problems regarding supply, people can contact the 24x 7 call centre: 080-22238888, helpline number: 1916 and on WhatsApp no: 8762228888, the release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-adalat-today/article34211078.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bear spotted again, but yet to be traced||The bear, which had attacked six people on Tuesday on the outskirts of Bengaluru, was again spotted on Wednesday by local residents near Avadadenahalli lake. The forest department officials rushed to the spot, but were unable to trace the bear. They, however, found pug marks near the lake. “We got a call at around 9.30 a.m. and we reached round 10.30 am, but we were not able to locate the lake,” an official said. He also added that they were unable to find video footage of the bear. On Tuesday morning, the bear had first attacked a person near a godown in Kachanayakanahalli, behind Narayana Hrudalaya on Hosur Road and then the bear moved towards Chandapura KEB quarters and attacked two persons near Thattanahalli in Attibele hobli and three people in Shettahalli. Officials of the forest department suspect that the bear is the same animal that was rescued from Tumakuru and taken to Bannerghatta Biological Park, from where it escaped and entered the forest of Bannerghatta National Park. However, they are still not able to ascertain it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bear-spotted-again-but-yet-to-be-traced/article34211085.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man caught using visa with fake credentials||Immigration officials caught a 37-year-old man at Kempegowda International Airport on Friday who had allegedly used fake credentials to avail business visa from the United Kingdom. The accused has been identified as Picchakanu Prabhakaran, a resident of Mannargudi, Tamil Nadu, who had submitted the travel documents for clearance before boarding the flight. The officials found that the business visa was granted to the accused based on a recommendation from a Cambridge-based company. The officials found that Prabhakaran claimed that he is an employee of a company in Hosur and submitted a visiting card. On suspicion, the police cross-checked with the company in Hosur, who denied having any such employee. Further inquiries led Pabhakaran to confess that he created bogus letters to get the business visa. The officials said Prabhakaran was planning to stay illegally in the U.K. He was handed over to the airport police for further probe. Based on a complaint by Byri Srujan, immigration officer, the KIAL police have charged Prabhakaran under cheating and forgery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-caught-using-visa-with-fake-credentials/article34211094.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools complain about property tax||Private schools have taken exception to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) asking them to pay full property tax as commercial units. School managements say this is violation of law, and that they are not commercial units. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said that earlier, they were asked to pay 25% of the property tax, but are now being asked to pay the full amount. They said that they would appraise the Department of Public Instruction (DPI) and the BBMP. “Particularly during the pandemic, when we do not have a good source of income and many parents have not come forward to pay the fees, we cannot afford to pay 100% tax. Moreover, we cannot be treated like business enterprises and asked to pay taxes as commercial units,” he said. Many schools had laid off their teaching and non-teaching staff during the pandemic as they have been unable to collect the fees from a majority of students. Officials of the DPI said they would approach the BBMP and request them to waive the amount for schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-complain-about-property-tax/article34211095.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports over 4,000 cases after five months||Karnataka on Wednesday reported a steep rise with 4,225 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 9,97,004. Of these, 2,928 cases are from Bengaluru Urban alone. Cases had breached the 4,000 mark on June 3 last year. After that, they peaked and started declining since mid-October. The last time the State reported over 4,000 cases was on October 29. The number of fatalities also rose to 26 taking the toll to 12,541. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,492 persons were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total recoveries to 9,56,170. Of the remaining 28,248 active patients, 266 are being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 3.89%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.61%. Testing As many as 1,08,568 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,01,032 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 2,14,11,226.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-over-4000-cases-after-five-months/article34211101.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Demand for uniform rates||Airport taxi drivers have demanded the State government stop the price war and promotional fares by the aggregators, which they say impact finances of drivers, and introduce uniform taxi fare for all airport taxis. “Drivers have suffered a lot after the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. They are not in a position to pay EMIs and meet operational costs, especially diesel price. The State government had fixed Rs. 24 per km for AC taxi and Rs. 18 for non-AC taxi to the airport, but taxi aggregators are providing promotional fare to attract customers and offering Rs. 9 per kilometre for AC taxi. Because of this, air passengers started shifting to Uber or Ola while drivers of KSTDC airport taxi and others suffered losses, ” said D.Y. Basavaraj, vice president of Airport KSTDC Welfare Association. He added that other charges – Rs. 120 per trip payable to BIAL and Rs. 100 to the KSTDC – also turned into a huge burden for taxi drivers. Somashekar K., president of Namma Chalakara Trade Union, wants the State government to introduce ‘One airport, One taxi fare’. “Inaction of the Transport Department and authorities should be blamed for the death of the driver. Offering taxi rides with lower fares is impacting drivers. How can they afford fuel and other expenses by earning a meagre amount?” Unions of drivers met Transport Department officials on Wednesday and demanded action against aggregators providing illegal bike taxi services in the city. Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy demanded the intervention of the State government on the issue. “The KSDTC is following the taxi fare fixed by the State government, that is Rs. 24 per km, whereas taxi aggregators were offering fares of Rs. 9 per km. This has resulted in business loss for KSDTC drivers. The State government should initiate action against taxi aggregators and come to the rescue of the taxi drivers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demand-for-uniform-rates/article34211087.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Will it give a handle to Centre?||The action of RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa of petitioning the Governor has raised eyebrows as it gives the Centre a handle to deal with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa through the Governor, if need be. It is also being said that a host of other Ministers are upset that their departments too are being directly controlled by the Chief Minister with respect to release of funds. It remains to be seen if they too would make known their grievances to the party bosses or is Mr. Eshwarappa is representing them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-it-give-a-handle-to-centre/article34211112.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress says it is proof of corruption||Reacting to a rift between Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa, All India Congress Committee general secretary in charge of Karnataka Randeep Singh Surjewala on Wednesday said it was an indication of how “the BJP government is mired in corruption”. In a tweet, Mr. Surjewala said, “What @INCIndia always said about Yediyurappa Govt has been verified by his own minister. It’s an illegitimate Govt born through a stolen mandate. It is mired in corruption. It is run in an authoritarian fashion to serve one man only. It should be shown the door.” ‘Resign or sack him’ Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar also tweeted, “A senior BJP Minister has made very serious accusations against CM Yediyurappa in a letter to the Governor. The CM must either immediately submit his resignation or must sack the Minister if the accusations aren’t true.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-says-it-is-an-indication-of-corruption/article34211111.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Highest March temperature in over 4 years||Bengalureans have been feeling the heat, many complaining about the city’s usually salubrious climate giving way to unpleasant temperatures, and they seem to have a reason. The city recorded the highest temperature in March in at least last four years on Wednesday with a maximum of 37.2 degree Celsius. India Meteorological Department officials said the last time the same temperature was recorded was on March 26, 2017. Officials also added that Wednesday’s record was 0.1 degree Celsius lesser than the all time record of 37.3 degree Celsius which was recorded on March 29, 1996.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/highest-march-temperature-in-over-4-years/article34211086.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fare revision on the cards||In his response to the demands of drivers, Transport Commissioner N. Shivakumar said, “Earlier, there was a demand to increase the fare by city taxi drivers. As per our previous notification, Rs. 18 for non-AC and Rs. 24 for AC vehicles was fixed. “After this notification, demand came from taxi drivers who have attached their vehicles to mobile app based aggregators, such as Ola and Uber, and we have sent a proposal to revise the fare for aggregators to Rs. 13.5 to Rs. 27 per km for non-AC and Rs. 18 to Rs. 36 per km for AC. Aggregators are following a dynamic fare system, and they have to charge fare between the minimum and maximum fare fixed by the government.” He said that a meeting on fare revision was held on Wednesday. On some aggregators running bike taxi services in the city, he said, “We have not given any licence for bike taxi services in the city. If any one is operating, it is illegal.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fare-revision-on-the-cards/article34211088.ece
01 April 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||Power supply is likely to be affected till April 29, between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. in areas serviced by 66/11KV Kachamaranahalli MUSS. According to a Bescom release, the areas that will be affected are: Whitefield Main Road, Ramagondanahalli, Gunjur, Gunjur Hosahalli, Kachamaranahalli, Vinayaka Layout, Varthur Main Road, Balageri Road, Varthur, Gandhi Circle, Edga Road, Soranji, Sub-registrar Road, Prakash Layout Madura Nagar, Valepura Feeder. There will be no power supply on April 2 and 3 between 10 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. in the areas serviced from Khoday and RBI sub-stations. According to a release, the areas to be affected are: April 2: 66/11kV RBI, Feeder-2, RBI, Chunchagatta Main Road; April 3: 66/11kV Khoday, Feeder-9 Khodays, BCMC layout, Thippasandra, Channamma Garden and Raghuvanahalli; and April 3: 66/11kV RBI, Feeder-02: Ganapathipura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article34211093.ece
01 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Women activists stage protest over cases of sexual assault||Women activists of Hassan observed a ‘black day’ on Wednesday, condemning the recent cases of sexual assault on women in the district. Under the banner of Karala Mahila Dinacharana Samiti, the activists took out a silent march from Maharaja Park to the office of the Superintendent of Police in the city. They carried placards condemning the crimes against women and criticising the police’s failure to arrest the accused. A seven-year-old girl was sexually assaulted at the KSRTC bus stand in the city. A few months ago, a sexual minority was raped and murdered while she was sleeping on a sidewalk in the heart of the city. Both cases have not been cracked by the police yet. The protesters later submitted a memorandum to Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda. They demanded that the police take stern and swift action with regard to sexual harassment cases and arrest the accused immediately. In cases related to child marriage, they said the police have been negligent and many incidents remain unreported. The police should take up a campaign to spread awareness and ensure such cases are not resolved through mutual consultation at the police station level, they said. Writer and activist Rupa Hassan said that the SP and the ASP, B.N. Nandini, interacted with representatives of the protesters and assured them that the police would file cases with regard to child marriages. “They assured us that they would send a response to all our demands within 10 days. They also promised to constitute a Mahila Jagruta Dala to spread awareness and prevent crimes against women,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/women-activists-stage-protest-over-cases-of-sexual-assault/article34211495.ece
01 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Internal matter’||RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa in Shivamogga sought to play down the matter and said he met the Governor with regard to issues concerning his department. Further, he said when it came to issues of his department, he would meet the Governor, national leaders of the party in Delhi, and the Union Minister for Rural Development. “It is an internal matter and I cannot discuss them through the media. We will sort them out,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/its-an-internal-matter-kse/article34211108.ece
01 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||DC warns ineligible BPL card beneficiaries||Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar has asked “ineligible beneficiaries” of BPL cards to surrender their ration cards immediately or risk facing legal action. In a communiqué issued earlier this week, the DC said that permanent employees of the State government and government-aided institutes, boards, corporations, and autonomous bodies were not eligible for the benefits of the schemes. Similarly, those paying income tax, service tax, professional tax, those who possess three hectares of dry land or equivalent irrigated land, and those who own a house measuring more than 1,000 sq.ft in urban localities were not eligible. Families owning personal four-wheelers or earning more than Rs. 1.2 lakh per annum cannot be beneficiaries either. “Responding to repeated pleas, some people have surrendered their BPL cards. Other ineligible persons should submit them to the tahsildars concerned immediately,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-warns-ineligible-bpl-card-beneficiaries/article34211492.ece
01 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Rs. 2.23 lakh fine collected||The Shivamogga district police collected Rs. 2.23 lakh as penalty by booking 1,694 cases against people not wearing face masks in public places in Shivamogga district in the month of March. In a communiqué, Shivamogga Superintendent of Police K.M. Shantharaju said the police have been taking strict measures to avoid a spread of the infection. Among the cases, 468 were registered in Shivamogga taluk, 827 in Bhadravathi, 83 in Sagar, 160 in Shikaripur, 67 in Sorab, 44 in Thirthahalli, and 45 in Hosanagar taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-223-lakh-fine-collected/article34211496.ece
01 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Tourists to be screened||In view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases, K.N. Ramesh, Deputy Commissioner of Chikkamagaluru, has ordered the screening of tourists arriving in Chikkamagaluru from other States and districts. The officer, on Wednesday, instructed the police and other officials to set up check-posts at entry points. A team of officers will be posted at check-posts to stop vehicles and check the health of all the passengers. Travellers from Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, and Punjab have to carry a negative RT-PCR test certificate of a sample collected within 72 hours of the journey. The staff at the check-points will check these certificates. The staff have also been instructed to screen those coming from other places. If someone is found to be showing symptoms of the infection, they have to be taken to the nearest primary health centre. The Deputy Commissioner has also appealed to the public to follow the guidelines issued by the State government to stop the spread of the infection. People should avoid attending functions, maintain social distancing, and wear face masks, he said, adding that those who violate the guidelines would attract legal action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tourists-to-be-screened/article34211497.ece
01 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Amrut Mahotsava planned in Shivamogga||The Shivamogga district administration has planned many programmes as part of ‘Amrut Mahotsava’ to commemorate 75 years of Indian independence. Additional Deputy Commissioner G. Anuradha on Wednesday held a meeting with officials. The administration will conduct freedom struggle-related programmes at places known to have witnessed the struggle. Every month, a district-level programme will be held. The places chosen are Esur, Balligave, Shivappanayaka Palace, Nagara Fort, Kavaledurga Fort, Kuppali, Mahatma Gandhi Park, and Arasalu. Esur will have an event on on April 13. A similar programme will be held at Shivappanayaka Palace on May 18. On June 10, a programme will be held at Arasalu, and on July 5, there will be a programme in Shivamogga corporation limits. An event in memory of the Quit India movement will be held at Mahatma Gandhi Park in Shivamogga on August 9. A group of students will be taken trekking at Kavaledurga on September 5. A programme on the role of women in the freedom movement will be held on October 27 at Nagara Fort, while another will be held at Kuppali in Tirthahalli taluk on November 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/amrut-mahotsava-planned-in-shivamogga/article34211332.ece
01 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘New farm laws will pose a threat to food security’||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Singh Tikait, who is travelling across India to mobilise support for the farmers agitation, said on Wednesday that the new farm laws would pose a severe threat to national food security, if they are not repealed. Mr. Tikait, who addressed two public rallies, one in front of the Gandhi statue near the Deputy Commissioner’s office and the other at Kadapa Maidan in Dharwad, said that the farm laws would ultimately lead to handing over food distribution to a few corporate players. Mr. Tikait said that corporate houses and private players would together market hunger as ultimately all foodgrains procured from farmers would end up in private warehouses. For long, farmers have been denied the right recompense for their hard work that goes into producing food for the nation, he said and added that the new farm laws would close down the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) and hand over the entire set-up to private players on a platter. Contradicting the claim by the BJP-led Union government that selling agriculture produce outside mandis (APMCs) by farmers would help them fetch better prices, Mr. Tikait said that in fact, the opposite would happen leading to produce being taken away from farmers at throwaway prices. What is even worse is that the end-users would be forced to pay double the price to purchase foodgrains, if the farm laws are allowed to be implemented, he said. He emphasised that the farmers agitation would be taken to all States in a bid to build more pressure on the apathetic and adamant Union government. Referring to the reports about farmers being duped by buyers who had purchased their produce outside APMCs in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, he sought to know how the government would protect farmers from such deceit and exploitation. Elaborating on the need for ensuring minimum support price (MSP) for all agriculture produce, he said that the Centre should ensure MSP for all produce and continue to allow trading in APMCs in the interest of farmers. Linguist and social activist Ganesh Devy said that as the Centre was building a new Parliament, farmers should send soil to lay a strong foundation to the new building because the “temple of democracy” worked for the welfare of the farming communities. Addressing the gathering, the former Union Minister Babagouda Patil said that the problem of unemployment could be easily resolved if farming was made viable. Representatives of various organisations, including Chukki Nanjundaswamy and K.T. Gangadhar, anti-corruption crusader S.R. Patil, KPCC media analyst P.H. Neeralakeri and others took part. To intensify protest On Tuesday, categorically stating that there was no question of withdrawing the indefinite agitation seeking repeal of the three farm laws, Mr. Tikait announced that the agitation would be taken to all States as a part of their efforts to intensify it. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad, he said that having completed 125 days, the agitation in Delhi was gaining momentum day by day and to intensify it, a decision had been taken to tour the entire country and sensitise and motivate farmers further to revolt against the farm laws. Mr. Tikait said that after Raita Mahapanchayats in Karnataka, a team led by himself and Yudhvir Singh and Darshan Pal would be proceeding to Gujarat, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. On the claim by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Cabinet colleagues that the new farm laws would double farmers income, Mr. Tikait said that if the new farm laws were so much beneficial, why the BJP leaders were not telling about the benefits of the new laws to voters in the five States where elections are being held. The new laws were meant for monopolising the agriculture marketing system and put farmers and consumers to hardships, he said. Mentioning that several corporate houses were on their toes to take up contract farming, he said that contract farming would be detrimental to the farm sector in the country. “Therefore, the Union government should relent and repeal the farm laws and work for the welfare of farmers by fixing MSP not only for foodgrains but also for vegetables, fruits and milk,” he said. On the efforts to silence farmers leaders, he said that such acts would only further strengthen the movement and farmers would not require any permission from the government to speak their mind out. Another BKU leader Yudhvir Singh, said that with an objective of helping corporate houses, the farm laws had been enacted and already, the big players are building large capacity warehouses for storing foodgrains. The entry of corporate players would only monopolise the agriculture system, he said. On the BJP’s promise of creating two crore jobs every year, he said that the BJP was instead cutting down jobs through privatisation of public sector undertakings. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal has already communicated that 5.50 lakh employees out of the total 11 lakh railway employees would lose their jobs. He said that people should stand up against such an apathetic government and uproot it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-farm-laws-will-pose-a-threat-to-food-security/article34211324.ece
01 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Submit proposal for air connectivity to West Asia from Hubballi, official told||Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi on Wednesday said that the director of the Hubballi Airport has been asked to send a proposal to the Union government for starting direct flight services to West Asian nations from Hubballi. Speaking after launching flight services to Hyderabad from Hubballi at the Hubballi Airport on Wednesday, Mr. Joshi said that runway extension would be required for further upgradation of Hubballi Airport and international flight services would be possible after the completion of runway extension. The Union Minister said that further development of Hubballi Airport with advanced facilities would be initiated soon. On the launch of flight services to Hyderabad by Alliance Air, Mr. Joshi said that the pending demand for air connectivity to Hyderabad had been met now. The flight services, which would be available thrice in a week, would be extended to all days after considering patronage, he said. Mentioning that the flight services to Hyderabad had materialised because of the special efforts of Union Minister for Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri, Mr. Joshi said that he would thank the Minister for the gesture. He also said that the demand for flight services between Hubballi and Mangaluru would materialise soon. Already, air connectivity to Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Kochi, Kannur, Goa from Hubballi had been established and more cities would be added to the air network from Hubballi after considering the COVID-19 situation, he said. Chief Executive Officer of Air India’s regional subsidiary Alliance Air Harpreet A. De Singh said that Air India was doing the work of blending the hearts of India. “With Hubballi being an important city, following a request by Minister [Pralhad Joshi], air services to Hyderabad have been launched now. This will help improve Karnataka and Telengana relations,” she said. Ms. Harpreet Singh said that already, Alliance Air had extended air services from Gorakhpur to Lucknow, Bareilly to Delhi, Bilaspur, Jabalpur and other cities and in Southern India, services had been launched from Mysuru to Mangaluru, Calicut and Kalaburagi to Mumbai. “Under Make In India project, MoU has been signed with HAL for purchase of civil aircraft. Flight services to north-eastern States will be launched soon,” she said. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil, Director of Hubballi Airport Pramod Kumar Thakre, Airport Security Officer Jagadish Hanchinal and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/submit-proposal-for-air-connectivity-to-west-asia-from-hubballi-official-told/article34211326.ece
01 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Lay siege to Suvarna Vidhana Soudha, farmers told||Leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Rakesh Singh Tikait on Wednesday gave a call to farmers from the Belagavi region to lay a siege to the Suvarna Vidhana Soudha in Belagavi to register their protest against the new farm laws, seeking their repeal. Addressing a Raita Maha Panchayat organised at CPED College Ground in Belagavi on Wednesday, Mr. Tikait said: “We are fighting on the Delhi border using tractors as our arms and ammunition. Farmers from this region need not go to Bengaluru to fight, they can lay a siege to Suvarna Vidhana Soudha. They should not seek police permission for the purpose.” Mr. Tikait said that the government should withdraw the farm laws. He said that the agitation should force the police to lob tear gas shells. “One village, one tractor, 15- and 10- day formula should be followed. Stage agitation one after the other. There is nothing to fear. If police erect barricades, you park your tractors on road,” he said. He even gave a call to break police barriers and proceed further. Only when the agitations get intensified, the governments wake up and all should join hands in this purpose, he said. Mr. Tikait termed the Union government as “company sarkar” and said that it was under the control of companies as it was evident from the fact that even before the farm law amendments were introduced, huge warehouses had been constructed. BKU leader Yudhvir Singh said that the country was being taken over by Adani and Ambani. “The government in the country is not of the BJP. The workers of that party should understand it. The government is ‘Modi Sarkar’, that of Narendra Modi. In the last election, they repeatedly said that it will be ‘Modi Sarkar’. And, now, Mr. Modi is working as broker for Adani and Ambani. He is working for the conspiracy of privatising everything,” he said. The rally was addressed by farmers leaders K.T. Gangadhar, Chukki Nanjundaswamy, Kurubur Shanthakumar, former Union Minister Babagouda Patil, all of whom vehemently opposed the farm laws and sought their immediate withdrawal. Earlier, a protest march was taken out from Rani Chennamma Circle to the venue with farmers waving green towels and flags. Women carrying “poorna kumbha” took part in the protest march. BKU leaders were taken to the venue on bullock carts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lay-siege-to-suvarna-vidhana-soudha-farmers-told/article34211328.ece
01 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Jatra to be a low-key affair||The 199th Lord Sharnbasaveshwar Jatra Mahotsav, an important religious event in Kalaburagi, which was scheduled for Friday, will be a low-key affair this year due to the second wave of COVID-19. Dr. Sharnbaswappa Appaji, head of the Sharnabasaveshwar Samsthan that organises the event, reiterated his appeal to devotees to offer their obeisances and respects to the saint from their respective homes instead of visiting the shrine. This is for the second time in the history of the ancient Sharnbasaveshwar Shrine that the annual jatra would be conducted in a simple manner without the usual exuberance and grandiose. “In view of the increasing cases of COVID-19 and the new guidelines issued by the government for curtailing the congregation of a large number of people in jatras and other functions, the samsthan has decided to observe the jatra in a simple manner. It is the duty of every citizen to join hands with the government in its war against the pandemic,” Dr. Appaji said in a media release on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jatra-to-be-a-low-key-affair/article34211319.ece
01 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi records 41.1 degrees Celsius||Several parts of Hyderabad Karnataka, Bombay Karnataka and Central Karnataka districts continued to reel under severe spells of heatwave and many of the districts registered maximum temperatures as per observations recorded by India Meteorological Department at 8.30 a.m. on Wednesday. The State’s highest maximum temperature of 41.1 degrees Celsius was recorded in Kalaburagi. This is the highest maximum temperature for March. And, Vijayapura recorded a maximum temperature of 38.6 degrees Celsius, Bidar 38.5 degrees Celsius and Raichur recorded a maximum temperature of 38.4 degrees Celsius. Gadag recorded a maximum temperature of 36 degrees Celsius. It was 34.4 degrees Celsius in Dharwad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalaburagi-records-411-degrees-celsius/article34211321.ece
01 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Two men killed in road accident, two injured||Two persons died on the spot when the car they were travelling in collided with a bus near Bandenawaz Wadi in Basavakalyan taluk of Bidar district on Tuesday night. The deceased were identified as Subash Chavan (55), a resident of Gadlegaon tanda, and Chittanna Gudde (55) of Harkud village. The accident occurred when the victims along with two of their friends were returning to their villages after attending a political rally in Basavakalyan town. Tukaram Chavan and Bheemsha Chavan were injured in the incident. Rural Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-men-killed-in-road-accident-two-injured/article34211320.ece
01 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||KMC asked to provide more staff to Wenlock and Goschen||While urging Kasturba Medical College, Mangaluru, to submit a revised proposal about its memorandum of understanding for the use of Government Wenlock and Lady Goschen Hospitals to provide clinical training for students, Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar on Wednesday told the institution to provide more specialist doctors and other personnel to the two hospitals. During a review meeting held at the office of Deputy Commissioner here on Wednesday, Dr. Sudhakar said that KMC has greatly been benefited by its MoU with the Wenlock and Lady Goschen Hospitals. These two government hospitals, with a bed capacity of 1,300, have been of great support to students of the institution since 1955. “The institution should scale up and make available more specialist doctors, nursing staff and Group C and Group D personnel, which should be commensurate with the increase in the number of patients in the Wenlock and Lady Goschen Hospitals,” the Minister said. While asking KMC Dean M. Venkataraya Prabhu and other representatives of the institution to submit a revised proposal, he directed Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra to submit a report about the needs of the two hospitals. “We will have a discussion in Bengaluru,” the Minister said. Pointing out at the fewer number of speciality and super speciality treatment procedures available at the Government Wenlock and other government hospitals under the Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka Scheme, Dr. Sudhakar expressed the need to motivate doctors to take up the task. District Health and Family Welfare Officer Ramachandra Bairy said that though primary health centres (PHCs) were carrying out treatment procedures under the Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka Scheme, they were unable to claim the amount because of difficulty in uploading data due to the absence of data entry operators. There was an urgent need to fill 139 vacant posts of Auxiliary Nursing Midwifery, 189 posts of Male Health Workers and 15 posts of specialist doctors, he said. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Kumara said that compound walls for 34 primary health centres will be built using the funds of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. Medicinal and other useful saplings will be planted on those premises, he added. Dr. Sudhakar said that the old PHC in Punjalkatte in Bantwal taluk will be upgraded at a cost of Rs. 6 crore. This PHC will be among the 250 being modernised in the first phase of the work to upgrade infrastructure and other facilities in PHCs. More PHCs in Dakshina Kannada will be upgraded shortly, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kmc-asked-to-provide-more-staff-to-wenlock-and-goschen/article34211480.ece
01 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Guidelines issued by Chief Secretary hold good’||While refusing to say anything on the statement by district in-charge Minister Kota Srininvas Poojary to allow religious programmes, Yakshagana and other public programmes with participation of a maximum 500 people, Health and Family Welfare Minister K.Sudhakar on Wednesday said that the notification barring jatras and other programmes in public places issued by Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar for preventing the spread of COVID-19 holds good and it will be enforced across the State. “The notification has been issued in view of the directions from the Chief Minister (B.S. Yediyurappa) after a meeting held two days ago. When the Chief Minister has issued a direction, it should be followed in letter and spirit,” the Minister told reporters after his visit to a primary health centre in Vamanjoor on the outskirts of the city and to the Bantwal Taluk Hospital. After the notification by the Chief Secretary, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Monday issued a notification banning jatras and other programmes in public areas. On Tuesday, Mr. Poojary issued a statement that the notification by Dr. Rajendra has caused anxiety among people about the upcoming Neema, Kola, Yakshangana and other rituals to be held in public places. He said that these programmes can be held subject to the participation of a maximum of 500 people and where wearing of masks and social distancing are strictly followed. “I do not know what has happened here. We are bound by the notification issued by the Chief Secretary,” Dr. Sudhakar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/guidelines-issued-by-chief-secretary-hold-good/article34211477.ece
01 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Dacoits strike in Moodbidri, Bajpe||A group of dacoits robbed two persons of their cash and other articles and damaged two cars at two different places in the early hours of Wednesday. While three incidents were reported in the Moodbidri Police limits, one incident was reported in the Bajpe Police limits. All these incidents were reported between 2 a.m. and 5 a.m. Rajesh, a car driver, was robbed of Rs. 2,300 in cash, a mobile phone and his motorcycle while he was returning home on his motorcycle at Kadandale on Belman-Sachharipete Road in Moodbidri. The group of five dacoits came in a car and blocked Rajesh’s motorcycle at around 3 a.m. They threw chilli powder on Rajesh and robbed him of his cash and other valuables. At 3.50 a.m., the dacoits damaged the car that belonged to a relative of complainant Harishchandra Naik in Moodbidri and took away Rs. 4,000 in cash kept in the dashboard of the car. Naik’s family members were able to catch a glimpse of the faces of three of the five dacoits when they removed their masks as they fled the spot. At around 4.30 a.m., the dacoits knocked on the doors of Arun Salyan’s house in Todar village of Moodbidri and threatened him in Tulu asking him to open the doors. When Salyan and his family members raised their voice, the dacoits fled. They, however, damaged the windshield of Salyan’s car before going away in their car. The dacoits waylaid Kiran Kumar Shetty at Anechadavu, near Gurupura Pete, and robbed him of his mobile phone and Rs. 1,000 in cash. The dacoits also damaged his car. A case was registered in the Bajpe Police Station. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said that the four offences were committed by dacoits who came in two cars. These four robbery incidents were similar to three incidents reported in the area in a week’s time. The police are working on clues to trace the accused, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dacoits-strike-in-moodbidri-bajpe/article34211481.ece
01 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mayor defers decision on recognition for Leader of Opposition in council||The first general meeting of Mangaluru City Corporation council on Wednesday after Mayor Premanand Hegde assumed office witnessed noisy scenes with the Opposition Congress councillors urging the Mayor to immediately give his ruling on the issue of recognition to the Leader of the Opposition in the House. However, Mayor Premanand Shetty said that he could not give his ruling immediately as he needed time to study the file and asked the councillors to go through the question session. Amid heated arguments, Opposition councillors staged a walkout even as the Mayor continued the proceedings in the presence of the ruling party members. It all started when outgoing Leader of Opposition Abdul Rauf asked the Mayor as to why he did not welcome their new leader A.C. Vinayraj. To this, Mr. Shetty said that the District Congress Committee president has violated the convention by directly writing to the corporation commissioner informing him of the selection. Since, the commissioner put this up through a file, legal opinion was sought and he was informed that recognition could not be given. The file is pending for the Mayor’s consideration, Mr. Shetty said. Chief Whip Sudhir Shetty Kannur said that the Mayor was the supreme authority of the council and the Congress has violated the convention by writing to the commissioner. The next day, Mr. Vinayaraj occupied the chamber of Leader of the Opposition on his own, Mr. Kannur said. Moreover, the Congress with just 14 members in the 60-member council could not be considered as Opposition party leader, he added. Responding to this, senior Congress councillor and former Mayor K. Shashidhar Hegde said that the council had been functioning more on values than rules since its inception in 1984. Ruling as well as Opposition parties were conducting business through mutual understanding. “I admit we have committed a mistake. Let us not agitate over it and close the matter by according recognition to Mr. Vinayraj as Leader of Opposition,” he said. Mr. Vinayraj said that unnecessary allegations were being levelled against him. The commissioner, the Mayor and the council secretary were informed about his selection as well as the date of his taking charge. Everything was done as per law, he maintained. However, the Mayor said, “I have written certain observations on the file and also sought legal opinion. A suitable decision will be taken in due course. Let us concentrate on regular business,” he said. Mr. Shetty noted that he considered the monthly general meetings as most important to deliver services to people in a transparent manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mayor-defers-decision-on-recognition-for-leader-of-opposition-in-council/article34211474.ece
01 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Need for strengthening testing facilities at checkposts seen||Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar on Wednesday said that prima facie it cannot be said that the entry of people from Kerala to Dakshina Kannada will increase the number of COVID-19 cases in the State as such cases in Kerala have become comparatively fewer to Karnataka in the last fortnight. Dr. Sudhakar told reporters here that Dakshina Kannada was closely connected with the neighbouring Kasaragod in Kerala with a large scale movement of students, patients, workers and others on a daily basis between the two districts. “As there have been fewer number of COVID-19 cases in Kerala compared to Karnataka in the last 15 days, the fear that we will have more COVID-19 cases from Kerala, on the face of it, appears unfounded. But, we need to continue to be cautious and further tighten screening (of those entering Dakshina Kannada from Kerala) and strengthen testing facilities (at the border check-posts),” the Minister said. There were 579 active COVID-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada on Wednesday and the district was reporting an average of 70 cases each day in the last 15 days. Most of the positive patients were asymptomatic and there has been only one death in the last three weeks. “It is a matter of great relief that there has not been any increase in the fatality rate,” he said and asked people to come forward to take vaccination and also comply with wearing masks and social distancing norms while they are in public places. Dr. Sudhakar said that 2,000 sub centres, in addition to 3,000 vaccination centres, in the State will be used for vaccination of those aged 45 and above from Thursday. More health workers should come forward to receive the first and second doses of the vaccine in the district, he said, while pointing out that 80% and 63% coverage of health workers in the first round and second round of vaccination, respectively, was not a good sign for a literate district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/need-for-strengthening-testing-facilities-at-checkposts-seen/article34211478.ece
01 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||City to completely switch over to LED street lights by Dec.||Thousands of street lights in Mangaluru Cty Corporation limits will get LED lights with automated switching by this December even as the agency assigned with the work will complete a survey of existing street light infrastructure by April 20 under the Smart City Project. Making a presentation on LED street lighting at the corporation general body meeting here on Wednesday, a representative of the agency said that in all, about 65,000 street lights, including 5,000 LEDs, would be surveyed. The survey has already commenced and over 8,000 lights have been mapped. By September, 50% of the work should be completed and by December, the entire work has to be completed, he said. The representative said that installation of LED lights and their capacity depends upon the category of the road and its usage. Roads witnessing heavy vehicular or pedestrian movement have to be illuminated adequately. It is also not that the same number of lights have to be reinstalled on a particular stretch; but the amount of illumination required for that stretch would decide the number of lights, he said. He said that the agency would have to maintain the lights for the next seven years and hence, it takes utmost care while installing them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-to-completely-switch-over-to-led-street-lights-by-dec/article34211472.ece
01 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Syndicate member urges Registrar to seek professor’s response||A member of Mangalore University Syndicate on Wednesday urged the University Registrar to issue a show-cause notice to Professor M. Jayashankar who had given Rs. 17 lakh to secure the post of Vice-Chancellor of a university and get his response within 24 hours. K. Ramesh, in his letter to the Registrar, said that newspapers on Tuesday reported that Mr. Jayashankar had paid Rs. 17 lakh as part payment to Prasad Attavar for the post and filed a police complaint upon getting defrauded. The Syndicate member wanted to know from the Registrar whether the professor had obtained prior permission from the Syndicate to lodge a complaint as the Syndicate was his appointing authority. Approaching the police without bringing the matter to the Syndicate’s notice has affected the image of the university, he said. Furthermore, paying money to get a university post was illegal and such acts would demean the institution, the Syndicate and the government. Hence, a response should be sought from the professor and clarification be issued to media houses, Mr. Ramesh said.   P.S. Yadapadithaya, VC, told The Hindu that the professor was likely to submit his statement to him by Thursday on the events. The university has so far not received any official communication from the police in this connection. Yet, he would get legal opinion in the matter immediately. A special meeting of the Syndicate would be called on April 5 and all issues, including the professor’s response and legal opinion, would be placed before it to take a suitable decision, Prof. Yadapadithaya said. Police Commissioner N. Shashikumar said that the police would send a copy of the FIR registered by Prof. Jayashankar to the university on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/syndicate-member-urges-registrar-to-seek-professors-response/article34211484.ece
01 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Blood bank gets NABH certification||Kasturba Hospital, Manipal, has received certification from National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare (NABH) providers, Quality Council of India, for its blood bank. Pro-Chancellor of Manipal Academy of Higher Education H.S. Ballal handed over the certificate of accreditation to Director of Kasturba Hospital Blood Centre Shamee Shastry. Dr. Ballal appreciated the efforts of the entire team. MAHE Vice-Chancellor M. D. Venkatesh congratulated the team and emphasised the role of transfusion services in delivering quality healthcare. KMC Dean Sharath K. Rao said that the certification programme will help strive towards excellence. He said that Transfusion Medicine was an evolving branch of medicine and Kasturba Medical College, Manipal, also offers a post-graduate training programme in the field.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/blood-bank-gets-nabh-certification/article34211471.ece
01 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bank sets up subsidiary||Karnataka Bank on Tuesday operationalised its wholly owned non-financial subsidiary KBL Services Ltd. having its Registered and Head Office in Bengaluru. The subsidiary was established as conceptualised under the transformation journey ‘KBL – VIKAAS’ in achieving the bank’s strategic objectives in the long run. Bank MD and CEO M.S. Mahabaleshwara, who is also non-executive chairman of KBL Services Ltd., said that formation of the first wholly-owned non–financial subsidiary was a significant milestone. The bank is taking a big step in realigning its business strategy with the objectives of improving efficiency and achieving better results and valuation in the long run. By moving some of the non-financial operations of the bank such as management of alternate banking channels, back-end processing activities, IT project and support, digital capabilities, business sourcing, contact centre management to the subsidiary in a phased manner, Karnataka Bank would have a renewed focus on its core banking business, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bank-sets-up-subsidiary/article34211482.ece
01 April 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Heli-tourism could come at the cost of tree cover||The proposed heli-tourism project connecting places of tourist interest in the State may lead to the felling of scores of trees in Mysuru to pave the way for helipad construction and other facilities. Sources in the Forest Department confirmed that they have received an application from the authorities concerned seeking permission for clearing the vegetation near Lalitha Mahal Palace, where the helipad is proposed to come up. An official said there was a site inspection followed by a survey recently to identify the number of trees. But he said this would entail calling a public hearing and inviting objections from people, and a final decision would be taken by the higher authorities in the Forest Department. “Not all the vegetation cover in the area can be classified as trees, and a large swathe of the portion where the helipad is likely to be come up also has shrubs and weeds,” the official added. Meanwhile, activists are already perturbed by the development. Bhanu Mohan, a local resident who is vocal about environmental issues, has submitted her objections to the Forest Department in writing. She expressed concern that the land around Chamundi Hills was increasingly turning into a concrete jungle and the new helipad would contribute to it. She added that the government could identify a vacant land anywhere in Mysuru or even use the Mandakalli airport for the purpose, or use the existing helipad in front of Lalitha Mahal Palace. Ownership issue The helipad in front of Lalitha Mahal Palace was in use all these years, until a court recently ruled that the land in question belonged to the Wadiyars. Consequently, the area has been cordoned off and is now out of bounds for the public. According to a section of activists, the same could be used for the heli-tourism project as well and the government could pay a monthly rent for using the facility instead of creating a new helipad. It was only recently that activists staged a silent protest over the felling of a 30-year-old banyan tree at Srirampura. The Forest Department is also grappling with shortage of funds for shoring up urban greenery. There are growing concerns that the rapid “development” and creation of residential layouts abutting Chamundi Hills could affect its fragile ecology and the need of the hour is a buffer zone around it. But instead, a helipad has been proposed close to the foothills while a ropeway project is also in the pipeline linking the city to Chamundi Hills, which will lead to further erosion of green cover.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heli-tourism-could-come-at-the-cost-of-tree-cover/article34211502.ece
01 April 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Unique programme to promote book reading among doctors||A unique programme to promote book reading among doctors started by a small group of doctors from JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research (JSSAHER) about four years ago is slowly gaining popularity among medical professionals. The JSS DIAL (Doctors Interested in Alternative Learning) Book Talk, which started on the occasion of Doctors’ Day in 2017, has today become a platform for medical professionals, faculty and students of medicine to meet, connect and share views and insights on literature. As part of the JSS DIAL Book Talk, which is held periodically, doctors, faculty and students of medicine meet and discuss a book they have read and share their respective learnings from the books of their choice. The institutional book talk has now been opened to all medical colleges across India and the last edition of JSS DIAL Book Talk held on March 30 saw more than 80 participants discuss 10 books. “Due to requests, the book talk is now held simultaneously in online and offline mode with safety measures due to the pandemic,” said Kishor M., Associate Professor of Psychiatry, JSSAHER, who is also the Chairperson of Faculty Training Task Force of Indian Psychiatric Society. More than 80 doctors discussed 10 books taken up by the participants at the talk on Tuesday between 2.30 p.m. and 4 p.m. The books discussed included What are you doing with your life? by Jiddu Krishnamurthy that was presented by JSS Medical College Studet Akuti Khanna, The twelve week fitness project by Rujuta Diwekar, presented by Sunil Kumar, and Ikigai – The Japanese Secret to a Long and Happy Life by Francesc Miralles and Hector Garcia that was presented by Dean and Principal of JSS Medical College Basavanagowdappa, who was also chief guest. Dr Sudha Murty’s House of Cards that revolves around contemporary issues in medical practices and values was presented by Dr. Kishor. Dr. Kishor pointed out that doctorspractice with constant learning and interact with complexities arising from the biological, social, psychological, legal, political and economic world around them. “There is a need to constantly broaden understanding beyond medical textbooks so that we are enriched, inspired and remain humane,” he said. “This alternative learning can be through many means and mostly importantly through literature because literary works can be timeless capsules and varied experiences of wisdom, of insight, of perspectives, of vision and so on,” he said. Thus, considering that books on various topics can be a source of continuous learning for doctors, a group of JSS Medical College faculty had pooled all their books to create an exclusive library of about 700 books for common usage among the members, who are part of the JSS DIAL initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/unique-programme-to-promote-book-reading-among-doctors/article34211504.ece
01 April 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||People aged above 45 set to get vaccinated from today||The vaccination for persons aged 45 years and above (without any comorbidity certificate) will begin on Thursday. Earlier, the vaccination drive was limited to people above the age of 45 with comorbidities. The health authorities in Mysuru, Kodagu, and Chamarajanagar have geared up for the fourth phase of the vaccination, and adequate stock of vaccines have been kept ready. With the second wave of COVID-19 infection spreading faster than expected, the district administrations have urged all those eligible to get vaccinated at the earliest. In Kodagu, 1,55,606 people aged 45 years and above had been identified for the vaccination. Already, 22,433 of them carrying comorbidity certificates have been vaccinated, said Kodagu District Surveillance Officer Gopinath. He said the district has achieved a 79.95% target coverage of healthcare workers, with 5,048 vaccinated as against the target of 6,580 in the month of March. Earlier, at a meeting ahead of the start of the fourth phase of vaccination, Kodagu Deputy Commissioner Charulatha Somal reviewed the arrangements made for the vaccination and told the authorities to spread awareness about the need for people to take the jab in the wake of the rise in COVID-19 cases. Kodagu stands second in the State in vaccination coverage, she added. She said nodal officers have been appointed and teams constituted to ensure the implementation of the government guidelines in the wake of the second wave. The Deputy Commissioner said the festive season was ensuing and healthcare workers must take steps to ensure that people do not congregate, besides ensuring strict compliance with SOPs by the tourism industry. Meanwhile, the 650-bed COVID-19 Care Centre at the KSOU academic building near Mandakalli will reopen on Thursday. It was temporarily shut after the number of patients decreased. Amid the second wave, the centre was asked to reopen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-aged-above-45-set-to-get-vaccinated-from-today/article34211491.ece
01 April 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Long-pending roadwork begins||Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has begun the long-delayed work on removing encroachments on Azeez Sait Double Road and asphalting the pothole-ridden stretch. The authorities, who took up a drive to remove encroachments on the road by shops and other businesses with police security on Tuesday, were seen levelling and readying the stretch for development by deploying various equipment for debris removal on Wednesday. Though a section of the shop owners resisted the encroachment removal drive, the local representatives, including Deputy Mayor Anwar Baig and corporator Ayaz Pasha, prevailed upon the people to cooperate. Though many encroachments have been removed, a few shop owners have sought one or two days’ time to voluntarily remove their structures jutting on to the road. Shivakumar, Assistant Commissioner of Zone 8, told The Hindu that removal of encroachments would help widen the road and in the filling up of potholes and laying asphalt. Though an amount of Rs. 2.5 crore was sanctioned about three years ago, the work had begun with the construction of a roadside drain, only to be disrupted and kept pending. With the removal of encroachments, Mr. Shivakumar said the authorities would have a carriageway of 12 to 13 metres on either side of the divider at most places even if the entire stretch was not uniform in width. The encroachment removal and asphalting work will now be limited to the deplorable stretch of about 1.2 km between Shantinagar I Cross to Hilltop Bar on Azeez Sait Double Road, which is also called as Mahadevapura Main Road. After completing the exercise, the portion of the road between Udaygiri Circle and Shantinagar I Cross will also be taken up for development so that the entire stretch, from Forum Mall to Outer Ring Road, will afford a smooth ride for motorists, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/long-pending-roadwork-begins/article34211499.ece
01 April 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Music varsity, Sri Satya Sai University sign MoU||Karnataka State Dr. Gangubai Hangal Music and Performing Arts University has signed an MoU with Sri Satya Sai University for Human Excellence to cooperate and collaborate on promoting Indian music and performing arts. A release stated that the MoU was signed at Muddenahalli recently and both varsities were united by common interests and objectives. They will facilitate effective utilisation of their intellectual capabilities by providing significant input between them in developing suitable training systems, methods, courses, programmes, conferences, seminars, workshops, and other related initiatives. The MoU also envisages students from both universities playing a key role in knowledge upgrade, training, innovation, and competitiveness in the areas of music and performing arts. The release stated that the universities would jointly promote the knowledge and concepts of renowned musicians, the culture of traditional Guru Parampara within the student community, and participate in collaborative advanced research activities in music, performing arts, and related multi-disciplinary areas, apart from designing and conducting faculty development programmes. It has also been decided to institute gold medals and awards for students of the music university, apart from special awards and endowments. The release also stated that the Sri Satya Sai University for Human Excellence would sponsor the education of students under various schemes recommended by the music varsity, at a cost of Rs. 15,000 per student on an annual basis. The number of students eligible for the scholarship scheme will be jointly decided by both universities at the beginning of the academic year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/music-varsity-sri-satya-sai-university-sign-mou/article34211493.ece
01 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Mercury soars in Mysuru||The intensity of the summer is growing by the day, with Mysuru recording a temperature of 37.9°C on Wednesday, which is 4°C above normal for the period. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), even the minimum temperature in Mysuru — 24.4°C — was higher than normal by 3°C. Wednesday’s temperature equalled the all-time high temperature for the month of March recorded on March 8, 2019, as per IMD records. The forecast for the next seven days indicates scorching heat, with the maximum temperature likely to touch the 38°C mark with no respite in the offing. Though the forecast for Thursday is partly cloudy skies, the weather will remain torrid for the duration of the forecast.  Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre recorded a maximum of 36.3°C for Mysuru for the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 a.m. on Wednesday. Elsewhere Mandya was equally torrid, recording a temperature of with 36.1°C, while Chamarajanagar recorded 35.8°C for the same period. Private weather channels pegged Mysuru’s maximum temperature at 37°C. Meanwhile, parts of Chamarajanagar in the forest regions of Bandipur received thunderstorms and rains early in the week. Thoughit did not cover most of the tiger reserve, it brought some respite to the Moolehole range. But sources in the Forest Department said that the threat of forest fires was far from over and was at its highest, and hence the authorities and field staff have not let their guard down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mercury-soars-in-mysuru/article34211500.ece
01 April 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Farmers to lodge complaint against private company||Terming contract farming as another method to destroy agriculture, honorary president of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene Chamaras Malipatil has said that a private company from Sirsi has been declined to purchase millets grown by farmers and broke its contract with them. Thus, “we have decided to lodge a complaint against the company,” he added. He was addressing a press conference in Raichur on Wednesday. Mr. Malipatil said that a Sirsi-based private company had entered into an agreement with farmers of Amarapur and Ramadurga villages in Deodurg taluk of Raichur district for a two-year period and supplied seeds and fertilizers to farmers. Promise When farmers cultivated and harvested 110 quintals of millets in 60 acres of land this year, the company did not adhere to its promise and broke the agreement by purchasing only last year’s production. The company said that it will not purchase millets due to the COVID-19 situation, Mr. Malipatil added. “The company cheated 10 innocent farmers by declining to purchase the produce. Thus, we are going to lodge a complaint against the company,” he said. He pointed out that farmers could face such incidents if the new farm laws are strictly implemented. Budayya Swamy, Prabhakar Patil, K. Bheemeshwar Rao, Veerupakshappa Reddy and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-to-lodge-complaint-against-private-company/article34211322.ece
01 April 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Police have failed to protect Dalits: Samiti||District convener of Karnataka Dalit Sangharsh Samiti (Krantikari) Mallikarjun Kranti has said the Police Department has failed to protect Dalits from attacks and assaults in Yadgir. He was speaking outside the office of the Superintendent of Police here on Wednesday in protest against SI of Kembhavi Police Station Sudarshan Reddy and others who assaulted and abused - by way of naming the caste of a Dalit pump operator - Bassapp Tippanna Chalavadi, from Agni village in Hunsagi taluk. The protesters said that on the behest of contractor and engineers K. Bhupal, Pramod Reddy and Hanumath Reddy, Mr. Sudarshan Reddy had called the victim to the station where he assaulted him for askingfor two months pending salary. Chalavadi consumed pesticide and was taken to the district hospital in Kalaburagi where he died on March 25. Even after five days, there was no action against the accused, Mr. Kranti said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-have-failed-to-protect-dalits-samiti/article34211333.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Gaurav Gupta is new BBMP Commissioner||Amidst a spike in the number of COVID-19 cases in Bengaluru, the State government on Wednesday transferred Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad and Administrator Gaurav Gupta. Mr. Gupta has been appointed the new civic Commissioner and has also been given additional charge as Additional Chief Secretary, Commerce and Industries Department. Senior IAS officer Rakesh Singh has been appointed as Administrator of the BBMP. Mr. Singh has also been given concurrent charge as Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Water Resources Department. Amidst a second wave, both the Commissioner and Administrator of BBMP holding concurrent charge of key departments, like Industries and Commerce and Water Resources, has raised eyebrows. This arrangement will be unsustainable, senior civic officials said. Mr. Prasad has been posted as Principal Secretary in Revenue Deportment (Disaster Management, Bhoomi & UPOR), following retirement of Mahendra Jain, according to a notification issued by the government. Mr. Prasad was Principal Secretary of the Revenue Department before becoming the BBMP Commissioner on July 18, 2020, during the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic in the city. Mr. Gupta will be the third civic Commissioner in less than a year. B.H. Anil Kumar was the civic Commissioner when the pandemic broke out. He was transferred in July 2020 when the case load in the city began to peak. His place was taken by Mr. Prasad who had a stint as BBMP Commissioner earlier. Mr. Prasad had sought to be relieved of his responsibilities as the civic Commissioner in December 2020 when he tested positive for COVID-19 and was hospitalised for two weeks. However, the government convinced him to continue. Mr. Prasad had been in favour of imposing restrictions on people entering the city and regulating public gatherings, including in film theatres, malls and supermarkets, which the Chief Minister was not keen on. It is speculated that this may have played a role in Mr. Prasad's transfer, sources said. Other transfers Vandita Sharma, ACS and Development Commissioner, Bengaluru, has been given additional responsibility of ACS to Government, Bengaluru, following the retirement of Mahendra Jain. Rajeev Chawla, ACS, has been posted to Department of Personnel & Administrative Reforms (Administrative Reforms), Bengaluru, relieving Shalini Rajneesh, from concurrent charge. G. Kumar Naik, ACS, has been posted to the Energy Department, and Kapil Mohan has been transferred. Mr. Naik was also given concurrent charge of Department of Higher Education. Kapil Mohan, ACS, posted to Infrastructure Development Department. Pankaj Kumar Pandey, Secretary, Tourism Department, has been given additional charge of Commerce and Industries Department (MSME & Mines), relieving Mr. Kumar Naik from concurrent charge. V. Ponnuraj, Managing Director, Karnataka Power Corporation Limited, Bengaluru, has been given additional charge of Department of Personnel & Administrative Reforms (E-Governance). and Mr Rajiv Chawla has been transferred. Sindhu B. Rupesh has been posted as Director, Tourism Department, Bengaluru.B.R. Mamatha has been posted as Additional Mission Director, Sakala Mission, Bengaluru. H.N. Gopal Krishna has been posted as Managing Director, Karnataka Public Land Corporation Limited, Bengaluru. He was also given the responsibility of Director, IT/BT, Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gaurav-gupta-is-new-bbmp-commissioner/article34211084.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Appoint IIMB to cross-check details of metro project: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation (BMRCL) to appoint Indian Institute of Management, Bengaluru, to verity whether all the terms and conditions imposed by the Central government while sanctioning the metro project Phase 1 and Phase 2 were adhered to by the State government and the BMRCL. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj issued the directions during the hearing of a PIL petition filed in 2019 by D.T. Devare and the Bangalore Environment Trust. The petitioners had contended that conditions like Comprehensive Mobility Plan (CMP) and Integrated Traffic Ratio Rationalisation Plan (ITRRP) were not implemented by the State government and the BMRCL. The bench, during the earlier hearing, had expressed dissatisfaction on the report filed by an officer of the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs on compliance of the conditions, and had indicated to the authorities that it would direct IIM or IIT to examine whether conditions were adhered to or not. There is a need to take views of experts to consider the claims made by the petitioners and the authorities as the conditions involve technical aspects, the bench said. The bench also said that the IIMB will have to verity all the relevant documents, inspect the works carried in relation to conditions imposed by the Central government, and hear State and Central governments, BMRCL and the petitioners before submitting its detailed report to the court. Also, the bench directed BMRCL to submit by April 8 a draft terms of reference to be given to the Indian Institute of Management before entrusting the task of verification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/appoint-iimb-to-cross-check-details-of-metro-project-hc/article34211082.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC allows probe against Yediyurappa||The allegations squarely attract the ingredients of the offences under the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act 2018 for an attempt to induce an elected representative to tender his resignation in return for a bribe of Rs. 10 crores and promise of a position, the court observed. Justice John Michael Cunha passed the interim order while vacating the earlier interim order of February 22, 2019, staying the investigation into the case. While the stay of investigation was ordered after preliminary hearing of petitions filed by Mr. Yediyurappa, who was then BJP State unit president, two BJP MLAs --- Shivanagouda Naik of Deodurg and Preetham Gowda of Hassan, and M.B. Maramkal, a former journalist and then adviser to Mr. Yediyurappa. The stay order has now been vacated on an application filed by Mr. Sharanagouda, who had lodged the complaint on the basis of the audio clip of the recordings of his conversation allegedly with Mr. Yediyurappa and three others at Deodurg circuit house in the early hours of February 8, 2019. The court noted from the complaint that Mr. Yediyurappa had told Mr. Sharanagouda to join BJP and persuade his father to resign as MLA for Gurumitkal by offering Rs. 10 crore bribe for that purpose. Besides, Mr. Yediyurappa had told him that he would ensure his win in the byelection from the Gurumitkal constituency.  The court also noted the allegation that Mr. Yediyurappa had told the complainant to go to Mumbai and stay in the resort along with other MLAs who were already staying in the resort and the amount would be delivered to the house of the complainant when the complainant’s father tenders his resignation as a MLA. Besides, the petitioners had also threatened the complainant that the political career of the his father would be tarnished by making false allegation when he refused to accept their offer, the court noted from the complaint. Justice Cunha observed that the petitioners have not filed any rejoinder to the complainant’s claim that Mr. Yediyurappa later did admit before the presspersons that he had met Mr. Sharanagouda in the circuit house, besides not disputing the claim that the voice in the audio clip was of Mr. Yediyurappa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-allows-probe-against-yediyurappa/article34211122.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Commissioners for 8 zones||The Karnataka government has, in accordance with the new Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Act, 2020, issued a notification on Wednesday appointing zonal commissioners for eight zones and upgrading the post of BBMP Commissioner to Chief Commissioner, BBMP, with effect from April 1. The BBMP Act, 2020 provides for empowered zonal committees for decentralisation of the administration. The recently presented civic budget also authorises decision-making on funds to the tune of Rs. 2,000 crore at the zonal level. Additional charge The government has given Special Commissioners additional charge as Zonal Commissioners. While D. Randeep has been given charge of two zones, the rest have been given charge of one zone each. Joint Commissioners of the zones will now work under the Zonal Commissioners, the notification says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/commissioners-for-8-zones/article34211077.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||PA to joint commissioner of BBMP found dead||A 33-year-old man working as the personal assistant to joint commissioner, BBMP, East zone, allegedly ended his life in his house at Vijayanagar on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Rakesh Gowda. He was staying with his niece after his wife and children had left the city to attend a family function. Brother informed The incident came to light when his niece, worried that Rakesh was not responding to repeated calls nor opening the door, alerted his brother. The brother reached the house and broke open the door to find him dead. They rushed him to a nearby hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. No dispute The family members told the police that Rakesh didn't have any dispute with anyone in the family or in the office. A case of unnatural death has been registered by Vijayanagar police and investigation is on to ascertain the cause of death.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph: 104 for help )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pa-to-joint-commissioner-of-bbmp-found-dead/article34211080.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Fire in scrap yard on Devanahalli bypass road||Tension gripped residents of Devanahalli for some time following an accidental fire at a scrap yard near Parivala Gudda on Devanahalli bypass road on Wednesday. The scrap yard had water sport equipment and structures made of fibre and plastic, which aggravated the fire, Nagesh M.N., district fire officer, Devanahalli, said. Except a security guard, no one was at the scrap yard, he said, adding that no one was injured. The fire helpline received the message around 3 p.m. The officials are looking for the owner of the scrap yard to question him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fire-in-scrap-yard-on-devanahalli-bypass-road/article34211079.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Drenched in lights||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drenched-in-lights/article34211470.ece
01 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||State yet to cancel deep-sea fishing deal: Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Wednesday said that the State government had hoodwinked the fishers by not annulling the deep-sea fishing deal. He was speaking to reporters at Haripad on Wednesday. “As to my knowledge, the government has not yet cancelled the original agreement it signed with a U.S.-based firm, EMCC International, even a month after the Chief Minister promised to do so. This shows that the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government is eager to implement the deal if it comes back to power,” Mr. Chennithala said.  The Leader of the Opposition also disparaged Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s assurance of ‘fast’ development of Kerala. He said that the Centre had totally ignored the State in the past five years. “While the Centre disregarded the State, the State government has failed to obtain its due share from the Centre. Both Mr. Vijayan and Mr. Modi are bhai-bhai,” he said. ‘PM deceived devotees’ Mr. Chennithala also criticised Mr. Modi for stating that the BJP would not remain a mute spectator in the Sabarimala issue. He said that the Prime Minister had deceived believers. “Mr. Modi had earlier promised to enact a law to protect the custom of the temple. Where is that legislation,” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-yet-to-cancel-deep-sea-fishing-deal-chennithala/article34211445.ece
01 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||House of UDF candidate comes under attack||The house of United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate in the Kayamkulam constituency Aritha Babu allegedly came under attack on Wednesday. The incident happened when Ms. Babu and family members were campaigning for the polls. The family said three windowpanes of the house at Govindamuttom were found broken. Some people had trespassed into the house compound and livestreamed video of the house. The Kayamkulam police said they had taken a person into custody. The person has been identified as a neighbour of Ms. Babu. The UDF has blamed the CPI(M) for the attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/house-of-udf-candidate-comes-under-attack/article34211405.ece
01 April 2021||Haripad (Alappuzha),KERALA||Development and stagnation the key words here||It is half past noon and the sun is belting down on Parayankari, near Pallippad, in the Haripad Assembly constituency. At the reception point, a small but vibrant crowd consisting of every age group is eagerly awaiting the arrival of Leader of the Opposition and United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate Ramesh Chennithala. A few minutes later, Mr. Chennithala, sitting MLA, arrives in a specially designed open vehicle, shaded by a makeshift roof and accompanied by a small convoy of vehicles. He gets down and greets people who surround him. With a smiling face, he poses for photos and selfies with some of them. Crisp speech  After a brief introductory message by a Congress worker, the microphone is handed over to Mr. Chennithala. Setting aside the traits of a rugged Opposition leader, he makes a crisp speech. “I have become an MLA and Minister (1986-1987 and 2014-2016) with your support. I tried my best to fulfill your needs. I promise to do more for the development of the Haripad constituency. Pray for me,” says the Congress leader. Mr. Chennithala, confident of representing Haripad in the Assembly for a fifth term and the possibility of him leading a future UDF government, waves and sometimes stops to talk with people who turn up by the side of the road, as his convoy heads to the next reception point. Prior to this, he had contested to the Assembly from Haripad in 1982, 87, 2011 and 2016, winning all battles. In the last election, he won by a margin of 18,621 votes. At Vettuveni in Haripad municipality, Left Democratic Front (LDF) workers are busy making last-minute arrangements to welcome LDF candidate R. Sajilal, a young face of the Communist Party of India. As the campaign song from the convoy of the candidate gets louder, there is a bursting of firecrackers. Mr. Sajilal is given a rousing welcome and garlanded with red ribbons. Expressing his regret for being late, he says the constituency has been facing a development stagnation for the past 15 years. “We can see development across Kerala. But in Haripad it is a different story. Even roads are in a dilapidated state. Only a change can bring it to the path of development,” says Mr. Sajilal, who is also the State president of the All India Youth Federation. National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidate K. Soman of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is on a whirlwind tour of the constituency seeking votes at various places, including Kumarapuram, Cheruthana and so on. Former BJP district president Soman’s campaign is focussed on the Union government’s achievements, lack of development in Haripad, and LDF-UDF unholy alliance. “Results of the recent elections reveal a trend of BJP steadily improving its position in the constituency. Wherever I go, I am getting a positive response. People are fed up with the lack of development and they will reject both the fronts this time,” Mr. Soman says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/development-and-stagnation-the-key-words-here/article34211439.ece
01 April 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Old rivals will fight it out in the high ranges again||Green-capped mountains and light showers, accompanied by cool breeze in the evenings, have helped Idukki maintain a façade of tranquillity this summer. But, beneath the calm is simmering a high-octane political battle. From construction ban to title deeds and agrarian distress to a split in the Kerala Congress (M), issues abound its poll-scape, which began heating up much before the official announcement of the Assembly elections. At the same time, this also happens to be a battle where pressure groups other than major outfits such as the High Range Protection Council and the Pembilai Orumai do not have much of a role to play. The Catholic Church, which has been in the forefront of several public agitations over the decades, remains surprisingly silent this time. KC factor While the battle across the five Assembly segments here is primarily between the Left Democratic Front and the United Democratic Front, the stage is set for a direct fight between rival Kerala Congress groups in two seats. The LDF, which had won three seats in 2016, later added one more to its tally with the KC(M) switching sides. The UDF, which currently has just one seat, seeks to leverage the anger against the construction ban on buildings and the anti-incumbency factor to work in its favour. The coalition’s performance across the region primarily depends on the Kerala Congress led by P.J. Joseph. The LDF, on the other hand, counts on the development projects initiated across the region and the distribution of title deeds and welfare pension. However, the controversy over former MP Joice George’s derogatory remarks about Congress leader Rahul Gandhi appears to have dealt a major blow to its election campaign in the final lap. NDA’s poll plank The National Democratic Alliance is yet to gain a foothold across the region barring some pockets. Welfare programmes rolled out by the NDA government at the Centre and the issues concerning the plantation sector form the core of its election poll plank. Of the five Assembly constituencies, Thodupuzha is witnessing a battle between Mr. Joseph and K.I. Antony of the Kerala Congress (M). In Idukki, it is a role reversal of sorts with the UDF’s Francis George, who was the LDF candidate last time, facing KC(M) leader Roshy Augustine, who contested for the UDF in 2016. Udumbanchola, where farmers and plantation workers hold sway, is hosting a fight between CPI(M) strongman M.M. Mani and former legislator E.M. Augusthi of the Congress. The two coalitions stand neck and neck in Peerumedu where the LDF won the last election by a margin of 314 votes. The entry of two candidates of Tamil origin in both sides has added a new dimension to the fight in Devikulam. Though the UDF had held a considerable lead over the Left front across all five Assembly segments in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the LDF managed to retain some of its lost ground during the recent local body polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/old-rivals-will-fight-it-out-in-the-high-ranges-again/article34211435.ece
01 April 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Two drown in Thalappuzha||Two students drowned in the Thalappuzha river near Mananthavady in Wayanad district on Wednesday afternoon. The police identified the deceased as Mubasil, 15, son of Mujeeb of Nallakandy, Thalappuzha, and Anand, 15, son of Sadanandan of Edamana in the district. Police sources said the duo were Standard X students of the Government Higher Secondary School, Thalappuzha. They reached the spot around 3 p.m. for swimming in the river along with their friends after collecting hall tickets for SSLC examination from the school. The bodies were recovered in a joint search led by Fire and Rescue Services personnel and villagers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-drown-in-thalappuzha/article34211386.ece
01 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Four-cornered battle intensifies||All eyes are on Kunnathunad where the electoral battle is four-cornered and everyone, from the ordinary campaign worker to candidates and residents, are contemplating what impact the Anna Kitex-backed Twenty20 might have. Two-time MLA from the constituency and UDF candidate V.P. Sajeendran and a set of party workers power walk through the streets of Manayathupeedika in the Aikaranad panchayat of Kunnathunad, completing house visits on Tuesday morning. In the area dotted with rubber plantations, Mr. Sajeendran reminds women that the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme was introduced by a Union government helmed by the Congress. He tells them that the priority of the UDF government when elected will be to fulfil the promise of a minimum income of Rs. 6,000 to poor families. Aikaranad was one among four panchayats (the others being Kunnathunad, Kizhakkambalam and Mazhuvannoor) where the Twenty20 won a majority in the local body elections. Taking a break at a home in the panchayat, Mr. Sajeendran says that Twenty20’s welfare measures are selective. “People may have voted for the outfit in the panchayat elections, but they will not now,” says the MLA. LDF’s promises P.V. Sreenijin, the LDF candidate, is equally dismissive of the outfit. Addressing a gathering at Puliyampillimugal at Ambalamedu, Mr. Sreenijin says that the outfit in Kizhakkambalam is making promises, but has not been able to fulfil them. From the open vehicle he is standing in for the day’s campaign, Mr. Sreenijin promises residents in the area close to the BPCL refinery that a drinking water project will be launched and the problem of environmental pollution in the area will be addressed. Residents in the area are complaining about the absence of a green belt around the refinery. He tells The Hindu that the presence of Twenty20 will be beneficial for him since UDF voters are likely to gravitate towards the outfit. Twenty20’s claims Campaigning through Kunnathunad panchayat, Twenty20 candidate Sujit P. Surendran is greeted by supporters at different points when his vehicle halts. In raising the issue of providing basic facilities, Twenty20 is addressing a domain that other parties have failed to address, he said. Part of the campaign material is a booklet that lists the outfit’s contributions to Kizhakkambalam. When Renu Suresh, the NDA candidate, arrives after noon at a deserted Shappumpadi in Pazhanganad, she addresses a handful of party workers. “The benefits of Union government projects and welfare will be brought to the people of Kunnathunad,” she says into a microphone, before moving on to what she says is a larger event at Pookattupady.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-cornered-battle-intensifies/article34211401.ece
01 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam poll buzz hits fever pitch||“Do you remember me? I was there at St. Paul’s College when you were there,” asked a tall Andrews, who had anxiously been waiting to meet his college-mate. T.J. Vinod, the UDF candidate from Ernakulam Assembly constituency, looked at the middle-aged man as Mr. Andrews lowered his face mask. A broad smile flashed across the face of Mr. Vinod as he recognised his college-mate, at a narrow ally at Madavanathazham near Pachalam. After exchanging pleasantries, Mr. Vinod, clad in starched, sparkling white shirt and dhothi, moved on quickly as a Seva Dal volunteer announced the arrival of the candidate through a hand-held mike in Malayalam and Hindi. Kajal Salim, a Congress councillor and Smrithi Haris, a Congress worker, introduced the candidate to residents. A few party workers, including Rinu Paily, the Mandalam president of the Indian Youth Congress, accompanied him. Wooing voters With one week left for the polling, campaign in Ernakulam has reached the fever pitch as every candidate is striving hard to woo voters. “I am seeking another term as a legislator. I have proposed an urban transport model connecting road, rail and water networks, which would make urban transport a smooth affair,” said Mr. Vinod. “This time, we expect around 70% voter turnout, which will ensure us an impressive win,” said Mr. Vinod, while adjusting the tricolour shawl wrapped around his neck. During the 2019 bypoll, only 56% of voters exercised their franchise. Wearing a white t-shirt with photos of Shaji George Pranatha, the LDF candidate, and a football, his election symbol, printed on it, Vipin, an employee of the Cochin Shipyard, and his friends quickly converted thoroughfare that passes through Velleparambu colony near Foreshore Road into a football field. They put on display their dribbling skills, while waiting for the candidate. E.M. Sunilkumar, a former councillor of the Kochi Corporation, oversaw the preparations for the reception. Someone ignited firecrackers as Mr. George arrived at the place in an open vehicle. Mr. Vipin and his friends moved ahead of the candidate as they exchanged short passes with the football. In his short address, Mr. George sought support for ensuring the continuity of the Left Democratic Front government. Before getting back to the vehicle, he also sought the blessings of a few elders who were present there. Earlier, a group of autorickshaw drivers accorded Mr. George a reception near Lakshmi Hospital. “These workers, who take care of the polling booth in the area, have already completed three rounds of house visits,” said Mr. Sunilkumar. Enthusiastic workers Union Minister V. Muralidharan gave the required impetus for the campaign of the NDA candidate Padmaja S. Menon by participating in a roadshow from Menaka Junction to Kaloor. Waving flags and shouting slogans, scores of enthusiastic party workers joined the event as the candidate waved at the passers-by.  We expect around 70% voter turnout, which will ensure us (UDF) an impressive winT.J. Vinod||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/electioneering-reaches-feverish-pitch-in-ernakulam/article34211454.ece
01 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||This panchayat sets a model in vaccinating its elderly||Varapuzha panchayat in Ernakulam district has set a model of sorts for the rest of the State by vaccinating for free a majority of the people aged 60 years and above against COVID-19 through a week-long mega camp. The vaccination drive on a mission mode was undertaken realising that it will take long to cover the priority group of 60-year-olds through its sole community health centre. Brainstorming session Following a brainstorming session of all stakeholders, a plan was drawn up to conduct a mega camp across seven centres, mainly schools and parish halls, covering the targeted people spread over all 16 wards of the panchayat. “We began with fieldwork in order to estimate the number of persons to be vaccinated. The idea was to vaccinate the majority of the 60-year-olds before April 1 when the vaccination of people aged 45 years gets under way. Going by our initial estimates, we have managed to cover about 95% of the target,” said Appu Cyriac, Chief Medical Officer, Varapuzha Community Health Centre (CHS). The participation of schools also facilitated the service of teachers, NCC cadets and Scouts cadet corps not to mention the internet connectivity and laptops for spot registrations. Factoring in hardships “The camp was aimed at the aged without the faculty or facility to register online. Initially, the plan was to restrict the camp to a single centre, which was later changed taking into account the hardships of people having to return without vaccination after taking the pain to visit the centre. The camp turned out to be a success eliciting inquiries from other local bodies on how to go about it,” said Kochurani Joseph, Varapuzha panchayat president.  The idea was to vaccinate the majority of the 60-year-olds before April 1||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/this-panchayat-sets-a-model-in-vaccinating-its-elderly/article34211547.ece
01 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||City sees over 300 drug cases in first three months of year||The Kochi city seems to have started the New Year on a high going by the number of drug cases registered by the City Police Commissionerate in just the first three months of the year. The number of cases stood at 368 and arrests at 406. Among the seized items were 26.34 kg of ganja, 733 LSD stamps, 108 nitrazepam tablets, 116.59 grams of MDMA, 1.34 kg of hashish oil, 5 grams of hashish, and Rs. 8.04 lakh. It was for the first time that 733 LSD stamps were seized in a single operation anywhere in the State. Four persons were also arrested in that connection. Constant inspections are being conducted to check the drug flow into the city at the direction of the District Police Chief (Kochi City) C.H. Nagaraju. The operations are being supervised by Deputy Police Commissioner (Law and Order and Traffic) Aishwarya Dongre and Narcotic Cell Assistant Commissioner K.A. Thomas and conducted by the Kochi City District Anti-Narcotics Special Action Task Force (DANSAF) and the special operation group members with the help of the sniffer dog Bravo specially trained in detecting drugs. Awareness classes are being held for cops registering the cases to ensure that those arrested in connection with drug hauls didn’t go scot-free. Classes were being held by officials of the Narcotics Control Bureau and the Forensic Science Laboratory. Checks are being held jointly with the Excise Department, Central Industrial Security Force, Railway Protection Force, and Railway Police at railway stations, bus stands, metro stations, port, and tourist centres. Yodhav So far, the city police have received 267 complaints over its drug alert app Yodhav, of which action has been taken on 240. The police have found the accused arrested to be mostly highly educated with criminal antecedents, and even students and professionals. A drug disposal committee chaired by Ms. Dogre has so far auctioned off four vehicles seized in connection with drug case and deposited the proceeds in the State exchequer. The public has been asked to tip-off police on drug movements on the WhatsApp number 99959-66666, by way of video, text, or audio on the Yodhav app, or with the narcotics cell assistant commissioner’s number 94979-90065 or the DANSAF number 94979-80430||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/city-sees-over-300-drug-cases-in-first-three-months-of-year/article34211397.ece
01 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Worry over fish drought, rights over resources||The continuing fish drought, proposals that threaten the rights of traditional fishers over the sea and its fish resources, a lack of initiatives for protecting the coast in places such as Chellanam and Fort Kochi, continuous threat of eviction and rising price of kerosene and diesel are giving nightmares to the fishing community, which has slammed the “apathy” displayed by successive governments to their plight. While the government is sternly denying housing rights to fishers in the coastal area under the cover of Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ), the State has not come forward to tell the people whether it has made a proper survey of the situation. Which is the survey on which the government is denying poor fishers their right to have residences, asks Raju Asrayam, a fisherman. The traditional fishing community must be given the rights they truly deserve. They should have the first rights over sea resources, says Anthony Kurisinkal in Arthunkal. He says the new government should address the issue seriously. All Kerala Fishing Boat Operators' Association general secretary Joseph Xavier Kalapurakkal says the new government should address the issue of how Kerala fishers, who are extremely talented, are being kept away from deep-sea fishing under one excuse or the other. The devastating effect of COVID-19 needs to be addressed as the fishing sector directly employs around three lakh people, he says. Charles George of the Fisheries Coordination Committee says the new government must first formulate a fish drought package for the community of fishers because they are reeling under an unprecedented fall in fish landings. Besides, the issue of petroleum price hike is so serious that it has turned all fishing expeditions uneconomic. Blue Economy Mr. Asrayam expresses anxiety about the proposals under the Blue Economy by the Union government, which will, he feels, turn traditional fishers out of the marine economy. There will be several zones and fishers will be restricted to a particular fishing zone and the proposals will have serious impact. The new State government should surely take these worries into serious consideration, he says. Jackson Pollayil, State president, Swathanthra Matsya Thozhilali Federation, says while relief measures are needed to ease the lives of fishers, the broader and deeper issue of environmental protection should be taken up for action by the new government. Residents in the coastal areas in Ernakulam district, stretching from South Chellanam through Fort Kochi and Vypeen, say that coastal protection measures have been lagging. Chellanam resident T.A. Dalphin says successive governments ignored coastal people. The issue must be addressed now, he says.  Fishers are denied housing rights in the coastal area under the cover of Coastal Regulation Zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/worry-over-fish-drought-rights-over-resources/article34211440.ece
01 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC acquits former PS of ex-Minister||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday set aside the Manjeri Additional Sessions Court’s verdict awarding life imprisonment to B.K. Biju, a former private secretary (PS) of then Power Minister Aryadan Mohammed, and his accomplice K. Shamsuddin, alias Baputty, in a case relating to the murder of Radha, a sweeper at the Nilambur Congress block committee office. The murder took place on February 5, 2014. The body was found on February 9, 2014 in a sack in a pond at Chulliyode, near Nilambur. The murder was a sequel to a threat held out by the deceased to expose the flirtations of the private secretary, the prosecution had alleged. The appellants contended in the appeal that the political overtones led the investigation astray and the trial had gone haywire with tutored witnesses, concocted confessions, and manufactured evidence. The Bench comprising Justice K. Vinod Chandran and Justice M.R. Anitha acquitted the accused as it found many inconsistencies in the evidence starting from the medical evidence. The court observed that lingering doubts that pervaded every aspect of the evidence persuaded it to give the accused the benefit of doubt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-acquits-former-ps-of-ex-minister/article34211387.ece
01 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Keep postal ballots safely: HC||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) to take adequate steps to ensure that all polled postal ballots are stored with adequate safety and security and without any chance for tampering or corrupting the votes. The Bench comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali issued the directive while disposing of a petition filed by K. Muraleedharan, Anad Jayan, and Deepak Joy, Congress candidates from the Nemom, Vamanapuram and Vypeen constituencies respectively, seeking a directive to the Election Commission of India (ECI) to keep all polled postal ballots in safe custody as is being done in the case of VVPAT (voter verifiable paper audit trail) machines. When the petition came up for hearing, counsel for the ECI informed the court that Wednesday was the last day of securing such votes and that the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) had made necessary arrangements for videography of the process of deposit of the polled postal ballots in strong rooms. ECI’s counsel submitted that adequate Central Reserve Police Force and the State police force would be deployed to ensure safety. Counsel informed the court that polled postal ballots would be secured by the Returning Officer in strong rooms in accordance with the directions of the CEO and at the time of depositing the polled postal ballots, candidates or their authorised representatives would witness the said event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keep-postal-ballots-safely-hc/article34211406.ece
01 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Tanker water supply to six coastal panchayats||Bringing relief to the water-starved coastal villages of the district, a meeting chaired by District Collector S. Suhas on Wednesday directed the local bodies concerned to distribute drinking water in tankers. The emergency meeting was held to take stock of the drinking water shortage in six coastal panchayats. Mr. Suhas said that the people cannot be put to hardships for want of water. The sudden drinking water shortage was attributed to the power disruption at the Chovvara water treatment plant in heavy rain and wind. The absence of power affected the treatment and pumping of water. The District Collector asked KSEB officials to take necessary steps to avoid power disruptions at water treatment plants. He urged local bodies to ensure supply of drinking water sourced from Paravur in water tankers in the affected panchayats. The meeting was held to address the drinking water shortage in Pallippuram, Kuzhipilly, Edavanakkad, Nayarambalam, Njarakkal, and Elamkunnapuzha panchayats. Kerala Water Authority superintendent engineer Preethi Mol, and executive engineer Muhammad Shafi was among those who attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tanker-water-supply-to-six-coastal-panchayats/article34211395.ece
01 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Bail denied to Roopesh||Maoist accused Roopesh was denied bail by the special court of the National Investigation Agency here on Wednesday in a case of threatening a police officer at gunpoint. Issuing the order, NIA special judge K. Kamanees noted that prima facie there existed more than sufficient grounds against the accused. Though the petitioner submitted that he had been imprisoned for more than six years and the trial in the case was yet to begin, the court said the period of incarceration was insufficient to enable him bail, considering the facts and nature of the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bail-denied-to-roopesh/article34211388.ece
01 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||15,452 complaints received through cVIGIL||Complaints regarding violation of the election code of conduct, through the mobile application cVIGIL has reached 15,452 till March 31, said a communication here. Sticking election publicity bills without permission and irregular use of posters are among the major complaints raised through the mobile platform, said the communication. The complaints are transferred from the cVIGIL control room to officials in charge of various constituencies in the district for enquiry and appropriate action. Enquiries into the complaints had revealed that 15,092 complaints were genuine and 360 complaints did not have any base, the communication added. The largest number of complaints (1,951) were received from Kalamassery constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/15452-complaints-received-through-cvigil/article34211398.ece
01 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CPI(M) condemns attacks on candidate, vendor||The CPI(M) on Wednesday said that the attack in Kothamangalam against the LDF candidate and against a fish vendor in Padivattom were aimed at sabotaging the pro-Left public sentiments by creating provocation. In a statement issued here, CPI(M) district secretary C.N. Mohanan demanded police action against UDF workers who he alleged were trying to cause violence in Kothamangalam. Videos made the rounds on social media showing some people ransacking the campaign vehicle of Antony John, the LDF candidate from Kothamangalam, and manhandling him. Mr. Mohanan also condemned the attack on a fish vendor at Padivattom for alleged refusal to give a donation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-condemns-attacks-on-candidate-vendor/article34211416.ece
01 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||316 fresh COVID cases in district||A total of 316 fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in Ernakulam district on Wednesday. There were 232 recoveries. Two health workers were among the infected. Kalamassery and Thrikkakara reported 12 cases each followed by Thripunithura which saw 11 new infections. 2,241 cases The district had a total of 2,241 infections as on Wednesday and 5,458 samples were sent for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/316-fresh-covid-cases-in-district/article34211396.ece
01 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ex-clerk gets seven years’ jail for corruption||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau Court at Muvattupuzha sentenced a former UD clerk in the Kochi Corporation to seven years’ rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 6.20 lakh. The convict was identified as T.T. Sudheer of Nayarambalam. He was convicted for embezzling Rs. 5.35 lakh from various pension accounts. The conviction was in a case registered by the Ernakulam unit of Vigilance. He will have to undergo an addition two months’ rigorous imprisonment if he fails to pay the fine. Former DySP of Vigilance, C. S. Majeed, registered the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ex-clerk-gets-seven-years-jail-for-corruption/article34211399.ece
01 April 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||R&D building inaugurated at KMML||Managing Director J. Chandrabose inaugurated the new research and development building of Kerala Minerals and Metals Limited (KMML) here on Tuesday. Rs. 2-crore project The Rs. 2-crore project has facilities such as lab, testing room, and provision to store new machines. Officials, unit heads, trade union representatives and staff attended the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rd-building-inaugurated-at-kmml/article34211446.ece
01 April 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||1,511 cast postal votes in Kottayam||As many as 1,511 people availed themselves of the postal voting facility for employees in essential services in Kottayam. With 376 votes, Vaikom recorded the highest number of votes while Changanassery had the lowest with 90 votes. Meanwhile, the emergency training for presiding officers in Kottayam will be held at the designated venues on Thursday. The training for officers in Pala and Kaduthuruthy will be held at the parish hall of St. Thomas Cathedral at 10 a.m. and 11.30 a.m. respectively. The training in Vaikom will be held at the Swami Athuradas birth centenary auditorium at 10 a.m. and at the auditorium of Mannanam KE School in two batches in Ettumanur. The training for Poonjar and Kanjirappally will be held at St. Dominics HSS and at the EMS memorial municipal hall in Changanassery. In Kottayam, the training for officials will be held at CMS College Great Hall and at the Sopanam hall inside RIT, Pampady, at Puthuppally. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, as many as 495 of the 571 applicants for postal vote made use of the facility. With 193 votes, Adoor recorded the highest number of votes and Thiruvalla recorded the lowest with 31 votes. Meanwhile, authorities opened facilitation centres enabling polling officers to cast their votes through postal ballot. The facilitation centres, coming up in the five Assembly segments, will be functional for three days starting from April 1, Narasimhugari T.L. Reddy, District Collector, Pathanamthitta, said.  Authorities opened facilitation centres enabling polling officers to cast their votes through postal ballot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1511-cast-postal-votes-in-kottayam/article34211447.ece
01 April 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||KC(M), CPI(M) councillors come to blows in Pala||Even as the high-profile electoral campaign in the Pala Assembly segment entered its final leg, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) on Wednesday suffered a major embarrassment with two members of the Kerala Congress (M) and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) coming to blows at a meeting of the Pala municipal council. The incident took place when Binu Pulikkakandam, the lone CPI(M) councillor in the municipality, entered into a fight with Baiju Kollamparambil of the KC(M) at a meeting of the health standing committee. Eyewitness accounts suggested that the clash broke out when Mr. Pulikkakandam raised the allegation of procedural violation in convening the standing committee. “The KC(M) councillor picked up an argument with the CPI(M) councillor after the later objected to the convening of the meeting without informing him. The argument, which broke out in the presence of municipal chairman Anto Jose Padinjarekkara, gave way to a physical assault. But an intervention by other councillors avoided a flare-up,” said an eye witness. A blot Though the issue was settled after intervention from leaders of parties, the incident put a blot on the LDF’s efforts to put up a united show in the Assembly segment to ensure the victory of KC(M) chairman Jose K. Mani against UDF candidate and sitting legislator Mani C. Kappan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kcm-cpim-councillors-come-to-blows-in-pala/article34211407.ece
01 April 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Hindu Parliament to back UDF||Hindu Parliament, a collective of different Hindu organisations in the State, on Monday announced that it would resort to tactical voting in the upcoming assembly elections in favour of the UDF. In a statement, C.P. Sugathan, State secretary of the outfit, said after consultations with its member organisations, the collective had set its eyes on ousting the LDF from power to ensure a safe future for Kerala. It also decided to extend support to Democratic Social Justice Party candidate in Guruvayur and P.C.George in Poonjar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hindu-parliament-to-back-udf/article34211404.ece
01 April 2021||Koyilandy,KERALA||UDF hopes to stop Left in its tracks||Kanathil Jameela, Kozhikode district panchayat president, has a calm demeanour. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate from Koyilandy exudes confidence that her victory is a certainty, as she sits for a quick interaction on Wednesday afternoon. She was at the house of her colleague M.P. Sivanandan at Muchukunnu after a hectic campaign schedule. “The development projects initiated by the incumbent MLA, K. Dasan, will boost my chances. Works taken up by the LDF government have benefited the people too. My administrative experience as the head of three-tier panchayats is an added advantage,” she says. For the record, Ms. Jameela had been president of the Thalakkulathur grama panchayat and Chelannur block panchayat. This is her second tenure at the helm of affairs of the district panchayat. However, Ms. Jameela claimed that her political opponents had now resorted to a social media campaign against her to mislead the Muslim community. “Some people have edited the video of a speech that I delivered at a seminar long ago, to claim that I am an atheist. It is completely false, and the move is to confuse people. My opponents have nothing else to say against me. That is why they are personally targeting me,” she said. LDF candidates have been winning from Koyilandy for three successive terms now, and Ms. Jameela is quite sure of retaining the seat. The United Democratic Front (UDF) believes that voters will have a rethink this time around. N. Subrahmanyan, senior Congress leader and UDF candidate, said the situation in Koyilandy was favourable to him, as he seeks votes at Thazheangadi. “Since my defeat last time, I have been part of the constituency for five years. I have visited each nook and corner of Koyilandy. I have been with the people in their hours of sorrow,” he claimed. Mr. Subrahmanyan pointed out that unlike before, the party rank and file never raised a banner of revolt against the candidature in Koyilandy this time. “Leaders such as P. Sankaran, M.T. Padma, and K.P. Anil Kumar have had to face local rebellion when their candidatures were announced here. It was not the case this time. The LDF had a lead of over 3,000 votes in the local body polls. But we will overcome it easily,” Mr. Subrahmanyan added. N.P. Radhakrishnan,NDA candidate, meanwhile, dismisses questions about his chances of victory. “We are not contesting to increase vote share. We want to win,” as he campaigns around Manayilparambu in Chengottukavu. “I have been active in the coastal belt for 35 years. There is a secret pact between the UDF and the LDF, and our effort is to convince people about it,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-hopes-to-stop-left-in-its-tracks/article34211384.ece
01 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Campaign reaches fever pitch||Amid soaring mercury levels, electioneering has picked up pace in Kozhikode. With just four more days to go for public campaign to end on April 4, candidates along with local leaders are criss-crossing the length and breath of their constituencies. Parties are also holding street-corner meetings and road shows to woo voters. Meanwhile, stage has been set for a three-cornered battle in some segments, where the BJP has emerged as a force to reckon with, especially in Kozhikode North, Kozhikode South, Beypore, Elathur, and Kunnamangalam. National leaders of various parties will also campaign in the district in the coming days. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will take out a road show in Thiruvambady and address a public meeting on Friday. He is also expected to campaign in Koyilandy. All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, who will campaign in Wayanad district, is also expected to campaign for United Democratic Front (UDF) candidates in Kozhikode on Sunday. However, her schedule has not been confirmed by the party. Home Minister Amit Shah will also participate in a road show in Kozhikode city on Saturday. In most segments, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) appears to have stolen a march on its rivals in campaigning. This is mainly because its nominees had gained the advantage of kicking off campaign early when the UDF was yet to decide its candidates. Campaign has reached fever pitch in the prestigious Kozhikode North segment, where the CPI(M) has fielded Thottathil Raveendran, two-time Mayor, while the Congress has nominated Kerala Students’ Union (KSU) State president K.M. Abhijith, and the BJP, its State general secretary M.T. Ramesh. In Elathur, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran is way ahead of his opponents. However, Nationalist Congress Kerala (NCK) State vice president Sulfikar Mayuri, who is in the fray, is catching up with his political rival. Another key segment is Vadakara where the UDF backed Revolutionary Marxist Party candidate K.K. Rema and Manayath Chandran of the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) are locked in a fierce battle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/campaign-reaches-fever-pitch/article34211377.ece
01 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Pinarayi’s emergence has parallels with Achuthanandan’s||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s emergence as Left Democratic Front’s mascot in the Assembly elections has some parallels with how V.S. Achuthanandan, his one-time mentor and former Polit Bureau colleague, became a crowd-puller. While Mr. Achuthanandan is perceived as a crusader against corruption with a tough stand on environmental issues and atrocities against women, Mr. Vijayan is seen more as a crisis manager, and ‘fatherly figure’ who gets things done. Mr. Achuthanandan was perceived as a typical party boss between 1980 and 1992 when he was CPI(M) State secretary. The LDF’s chief ministerial face in the 1991 Assembly polls, Mr. Achuthanandan was chosen as Leader of the Opposition since the front could not come to power. It was then that he raked up corruption scams such as the ‘palmolein case.’ Second tenure But even then, the veteran was described in the media as ‘Kerala Stalin’ owing to his hard-line ideological stance. However, it was Mr. Achuthanandan’s second tenure as Leader of the Opposition, between 2001 and 2006, that changed the public perception about him. His popularity soared as he was perceived to be a champion for the rights of women and downtrodden sections of society, environmental protector, and a crusader against corruption. Riding on this wave, Mr. Achuthanandan became Chief Minister in 2006, and narrowly missed a second term in 2011. Similarly, many viewed Mr. Vijayan as a no-nonsense, unsmiling party apparatchik when he was CPI(M) State secretary between 1998 and 2015. The SNC-Lavalin case and his alleged involvement in political violence reinforced that image. Though Mr. Vijayan was a lead campaigner in the 2016 Assembly polls, it was Mr. Achuthanandan who led the LDF from the front. That perception slowly changed only after he displayed his skills as a crisis manager when Kerala faced back-to-back floods in 2018 and 2019, the Ockhi cyclone, and public health emergencies such as the Nipah outbreak and the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Critics’ view Somebody who scorned the media as a “syndicate” working against his party, Mr. Vijayan warmed to the press during the floods and the earlier days of the pandemic. Though the Chief Minister’s public meetings in support of the Supreme Court order allowing women’s entry to the Sabarimala in 2018 was the first indicator of his popularity, the LDF was humbled in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The front has claimed to have gained lost ground with impressive victories in the subsequent Assembly bypolls and local body elections. Critics, however, are not happy as they allege that the image makeover is just a public relations exercise. Those on the far Left accuse him of deviating from core Marxist principles. People on the other side of the political spectrum abhor his style of functioning. What the electorate thinks will be clear on May 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayis-emergence-has-parallels-with-achuthanandans/article34211403.ece
01 April 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Action sought against denial of vote to MGS||The Mananchira-Vellimadu Road Action Committee has demanded strict action against officials responsible for historian M.G.S. Narayanan being denied his chance to cast vote from home. Mathew Kattikkana, working president of the committee, said in a press release that the argument of the booth level officer that he was influenced by social media posts was suspicious. MGS is over 85 years old. All his neighbours aged above 80 were provided postal ballots at home by officials. M.P.Vasudevan, general secretary of the committee, said Mr.Narayanan was not in a position to travel to the polling booth even if the district administration made special arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-sought-against-denial-of-vote-to-mgs/article34211379.ece
01 April 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Vigil against unauthorised constructions||Acknowledging the possibility of unauthorised constructions during continuous holidays, the Kozhikode Corporation has appointed overseers to monitor such activities in April. Overseer Jitheshini (9747505663) will be on duty on April 1, Sanoj (9447094091) on April 2, Muhammed Iqbal (9895360943) on April 4, Jolly (9846325325) on April 10, Lally (8547105388) on April 11, Aashiq (8086816220) on April 14, Sajith (9744466467) on April 18, and Satheesh (9946415162) on April 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vigil-against-unauthorised-constructions/article34211378.ece
01 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Green groups’ blueprint for saving rivers||Environmental organisations in Kerala working for the protection of rivers have submitted a manifesto for river protection to all political parties contesting in the polls. One of their major demands is to protect river banks from encroachments. The manifesto, which was submitted a few weeks ago, points out the need to measure all sources of water, including rivers and ponds, however small they are, and their banks and to clear encroachments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/green-groups-blueprint-for-saving-rivers/article34211546.ece
01 April 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||398 test positive||As many as 398 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Wednesday. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 383 locally acquired infections, and the source of infection in 13 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 95 cases of local transmission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/398-test-positive/article34211385.ece
01 April 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Fronts ride a wave of confidence in State granary||Palakkad district with 12 constituencies is witnessing one of the hottest electoral contests in recent times. When the CPI(M) is struggling to safeguard its fortresses such as Shoranur, Ottappalam, Malampuzha, Tharoor, Nemmara and Alathur, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is trying to trump this election by presenting technocrat E. Sreedharan in Palakkad. UDF strategy The United Democratic Front (UDF) is putting up a brave front in a bid not only to retain three of its young and energetic MLAs in Palakkad, Thrithala and Mannarkkad, but also to grab one or two additional seats from the Left Democratic Front (LDF). Tough fights are taking place in Palakkad, Thrithala, Pattambi, Kongad, Mannarkkad, Malampuzha, Chittur and Nemmara. All players are talking about development of the region, cutting across borders of constituencies. When the LDF is harping on the Pinarayi Vijayan government’s welfare programmes, the BJP is keen on praising the Central government led by Narendra Modi for its definitive actions and people-friendly projects. The UDF has no choice but to catcall both governments and their actions. In several constituencies, especially the district’s eastern regions of Chittur and Malampuzha containing Palakkad’s famous rain-shadow areas, water scarcity continues to be the key issue. No candidate in these regions can shy away from addressing water-related issues. Minister for Water Resources K. Krishnankutty, the Janata Dal (S) veteran who is seeking a fifth term from Chittur, is pinpointing the government initiatives done in the last five years to address the region’s water scarcity. Mr. Sreedharan brought out a seven-point development master plan for Palakkad touching upon drinking water, tourism, sports, education, culture, industry and health. Although it looked cursory and sketchy, the master plan won Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s approbation and assurance of support during his rally in Palakkad on Tuesday. Sreedharan factor BJP candidates E. Sreedharan and C. Krishnakumar are giving a tough fight in Palakkad and Malampuzha, where the BJP had stood second in 2016. It is neck and neck in Palakkad for Mr. Sreedharan and UDF incumbent Shafi Parambil. Although caste and community factors are deeply entrenched in Palakkad’s electoral mind, the key players have been careful not to touch upon them in their open campaign. Yet they expect those factors to reflect in the polling. The LDF is currently holding nine of the 12 seats in Palakkad. Although the front is confident of retaining its seats and throwing a solid challenge in UDF constituencies such as Thrithala and Mannarkkad, what remains to be seen is how much the BJP will continue to chip away at the LDF-UDF vote banks. The BJP’s growth trajectory in recent years in several constituencies, including Palakkad, Malampuzha and Shoranur, has been worth taking note of. Both the LDF and the UDF may not admit it, but it is gaining strength to give them both jitters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fronts-ride-wave-of-confidence-in-state-granary/article34211444.ece
01 April 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Prakash Karat defends LDF govt.||CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Prakash Karat here on Wednesday defended the LDF government against attacks from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. Mr. Modi had accused the LDF government of betraying Kerala for a few pieces of gold, like Judas betrayed Jesus Christ for a few silver coins. “It’s ironical that Mr. Modi made such a false statement. The Modi government is busy selling off national assets. All major public sector undertakings are being privatised. Mr. Modi is selling off the country bit by bit,” said Mr. Karat. The CPI(M) leader said that it was Mr. Modi who was selling off national assets like airports for “mere copper and bronze.” Countering Rahul Gandhi’s allegation that the LDF was trying to drive a car without fuel, Mr. Karat said that the financial condition of the States ruled by the Congress was worse than Kerala’s. “Rahul shot at the wrong direction and missed the target. All Congress governments are facing serious financial crises,” he said. Bad tactics Mr. Karat blamed the Congress for legitimising the BJP’s bad tactics by training its guns on the LDF government. Both the BJP and the Congress were raising false allegations against the LDF in the State, he said. “I have not seen any election when central investigating agencies played a direct role. The BJP has been using the Central agencies like Enforcement Directorate (ED) to silence its opponents and to get them to join the BJP.” Praising the LDF government for standing up against the ED, Mr. Karat said that the agency had violated the federal principles followed in the country. Describing the ED as a lawless body, Mr. Karat said that the ED was being widely misused by the Modi government. “It is a body under the Finance Department and it cannot independently file a case. Then how does this body get widespread powers?” he asked. “The conviction rate of cases followed by the ED is negligible. It is a political agency,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/karat-defends-ldf-says-modi-selling-off-nation-cheaply/article34211449.ece
01 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Will Aruvikkara shake off a 3-decade-old habit?||An air of predictability had marked the Assembly elections in the Aruvikkara constituency for the past three decades, with the United Democratic Front (UDF) winning each of the contests. Yet, this year, there is evidence of the three fronts giving it their all in the intense campaigning. Sitting MLA K.S. Sabarinadhan, who arrived as a political novice in 2015, after the passing away of his father and the then sitting MLA G. Karthikeyan, is mounting a starkly different campaign this time. He stresses on the familiarity he has gained with the people here, walking in for easy chats at a small eatery and at the bus stop in Aruvikkara junction. ‘Familiarity’ factor “I am stressing three things in my campaign — development, presence and compassion. I was a newcomer back then, but now I have gained political experience and have the freedom to go into the kitchen of any house here and have food. As an MLA, my thrust has been on education and in basic infrastructure. In my next term, I want to project Aruvikkara as a weekend destination, and to carry out desilting in the Aruvikkara dam,” Mr. Sabarinadhan tells The Hindu . Addressing ‘concerns’ The Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate G. Stephen is making his way through the interiors of Kuttichal in his campaign vehicle, followed by a band of youngsters on motorcycles, waving flags. Mr. Stephen, who grew up in party offices after being orphaned at a young age, has his grassroots work of many decades to back him. At each of the campaign stops, he reminds the gathering that they have to prove that Aruvikkara is not the private property of any party or family. “The LDF government’s achievements of the past five years will convince the people to vote for me. They have issues, from drinking water scarcity to lack of educational institutions and good roads in the interior areas. If I win, I promise to give priority to each issue,” says Mr.Stephen NDA takes expo route At Thevancode, National Democratic Alliance (NDA) workers are drumming up interest with a grand exhibition complete with Theyyam, Kummatti and band performers, ahead of the arrival of their candidate C. Sivankutty. In a constituency that witnessed erosion of votes for the BJP in 2016, he is highlighting the lack of development here and mentioning the Central governments projects. “There are only two government hospitals catering to this vast area, with many from the interiors finding it hard to access these. The hill highway has come, but it ends at Aryanad,” says Mr. Sivankutty. There is also a contest in claiming credit for projects like the Aruvikkara water treatment plant, a Central project built with fund shares from the State government and the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. The preferences of a large tribal population in the hilly regions and the Nadar population could be crucial. The CPI(M) believes that the LDF government’s decision to include Nadars in the OBC category and the presence of a candidate from the community could turn things their way this time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/will-aruvikkara-shake-off-a-3-decade-old-habit/article34211594.ece
01 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chennithala lists details of 4.34 lakh ‘fake voters’||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Wednesday released what he claimed to be the particulars of 4,34,000 persons with multiple voter identity cards. He published the details on the website https://www. operationtwins. The website tabulates the booth-wise distribution of persons with more than one electoral identity card. It also lists the “bogus cards” issued in the name of the same set of persons in neighbouring constituencies and booths. The website gives the voter’s name, constituency and booth number. It juxtaposes the details of the so-called “original card” with the “bogus card” issued in the same person’s name in another constituency or booth. In most “fake cards”, the photograph is the same with minor alterations to name and residential address, Mr. Chennithala said. Mr. Chennithala said he would update the online repository of electoral information of persons with more than one voter identity card when his research team dug up more such instances. EC’s figure He said the Election Commission of India had told the High Court that it had detected only 38,000 persons with multiple vote identity cards. The stated number was just the tip of the iceberg. The public can verify the online list and provide information to the Election Commission, Mr. Chennithala said. The EC had failed in assessing the scale of voter fraud in Kerala. It had tasked block level officers (BLOs) to detect the organised wrongdoing. However, the BLOs were restricted to their jurisdiction and could not see the scam that spanned constituencies. Mr. Chennithala said the number of people with multiple electoral identity cards could be higher than the total detected by him so far. He did not see any point in insisting that such voters depose that they would exercise their right to franchise only once. It was unreasonable to expect that bogus voters would file affidavits. Some people have eight or more electoral identities, he said. He also alleged extensive fraud in postal ballotting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chennithala-lists-details-of-434-lakh-fake-voters/article34211414.ece
01 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vaccination for 45+ to begin today||COVID-19 vaccination for all those above 45 years in the State begins on Thursday. This is a mega vaccination drive being planned by the State, with an aim to cover as many people above 45 years as possible in the next 45 days, in an attempt to outpace the rising infection being reported from across the country, including Kerala. Those eligible for vaccination can register themselves online on the www.cowin.gov.in and schedule an appointment for vaccination at the hospital of their choice or they can go directly to hospitals and get themselves vaccinated. The Health Department said prior registration and scheduling would help to reduce crowding in vaccination sites. In order to vaccinate as many people as possible, the government also proposes to increase the number of vaccination sites, which are being readied in selected private hospitals, Central and State health institutions and public places. The Union Health Ministry has promised to make available more vaccines for the State, a press release issued by the department said. The State will receive 9,51,500 doses more of vaccines in the next two days. Of these, 4,40,500 doses are for the Thiruvananthapuram region and 5,11,000 doses for the Ernakulam region. The State has so far administered 35,01,495 doses of vaccine. A total of 3,15,226 health-care workers have received both doses of the vaccine. Among poll officials, 3,22,548 have received the first dose, while only 12,123 among them have received both doses. Among senior citizens and those in the 45-59 age group with comorbidities, whose vaccination began on March 1, till now 21,88,287 persons have received the first dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-for-45-to-begin-today/article34211392.ece
01 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BJP roadshow at Kazhakuttam||The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) pepped up its campaign in the Kazhakuttam Assembly constituency on Wednesday with a roadshow by BJP State president K. Surendran and the candidate, Sobha Surendran. The roadshow from Nalanchira to Mannanthala began at 11 a.m. with BJP workers greeting the two leaders by waving flags and shouting slogans. Ms. Surendran, who is a State vice president of the BJP, received Mr. Surendran by draping a shawl on him. BJP workers on motorcycles rode in front of the campaign vehicle, cheering on the two leaders who waved to the crowd lining the route. Refuting rumours Mr. Surendran said the BJP would emerge victorious in several constituencies in Thiruvananthapuram district including Kazhakuttam and Nemom. Mr. Surendran refuted the allegation that senior party leaders were not campaigning in Kazhakuttam. Such allegations, he said, are a media creation. “Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is visiting the constituency on Thursday and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Friday. In no election in the past has so many BJP leaders attended the election campaigns in Kerala,” Mr. Surendran said. Invite for Kadakampally Ms. Surendran also issued an invitation to LDF candidate Kadakampally Surendran for the events which will be attended by Mr. Modi and Mr. Adityanath. Ms. Surendran said she was inviting the LDF candidate as he had alleged that BJP national leaders were not dropping in at Kazhakuttam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-roadshow-at-kazhakuttam/article34211596.ece
01 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||BJP raises ‘love jihad’ again||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday raised the spectre of ‘love jihad’ again, ostensibly to woo Christian voters ahead of the Assembly elections on April 6. BJP State president K. Surendran said “deceptive conversion to Islam” using interfaith love marriage as a cover was a matter of grave concern to Christians. Kerala Congress (M) leader Jose K. Mani had given voice to the community’s worry early this week. However, Mr. Mani backtracked from the candid observation, obviously under pressure from the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)]. ‘An afterthought’ Campaigning in Kottayam, Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan said Mr. Mani had tiptoed around the love jihad issue as an afterthought. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) were disinclined to spotlight love jihad owing to the outsize influence of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), he said. The BJP appeared to calculate that love jihad and Sabarimala would gain traction among Christian and Hindu voters as the Assembly campaigning races to a close. Stand of Church forums It seemed not lost on the BJP that the synod of the Syro-Malabar Church had passed a resolution expressing concern over the “rising cases of love jihad.” The party also felt buoyed by Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council spokesperson Fr. Jacob Palakapally’s statement that mainstream political parties should address the deep worry about love jihad instead of dismissing it as a myth. The BJP had also found a common cause with the Church on the controversial change of status of the iconic Hagia Sofia in Istanbul from a heritage museum to a mosque. Laws promised The BJP seemed to sense a political opportunity in the Nair Service Society (NSS) leadership’s perceived antipathy to the LDF on the emotive issue relating to the entry of women of childbearing age into the Ayyappa temple. The BJP manifesto promised a law against love jihad and another to protect the “traditions and customs” of Sabarimala. Meanwhile, the LDF has attempted to play down both issues. The Congress-BJP attempt to rake it up would fail at the hustings, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-raises-love-jihad-again/article34211412.ece
01 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Case graph on the rise again||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph which had begun to fall by February end is once again on the rise. New cases are on the rise in almost all districts. The State added 2,653 new cases to its tally on Wednesday when 49,427 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the cumulative case burden to 11,24,582. The test positivity rate (TPR), which had been brought down below 3% two weeks ago, was 5.37% on Wednesday. At the same time, the government’s efforts to increase RT-PCR testing as directed by the Centre and to conduct at least one lakh tests per day, of which 75,000 were to be PCR tests, seem to have failed miserably. The total PCR tests have never gone above 30,000 on most days. The general rise in fresh cases is beginning to reflect on the active case pool also. The active case pool on Wednesday had 25,249 cases. With 2,039 recoveries being reported on the day, the cumulative recoveries reported by the State have risen to 10,94,404. The addition of 15 new deaths to the official list of COVID fatalities took the State’s cumulative toll to 4,621.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-graph-rising-again/article34211393.ece
01 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Order on exam for those in child care||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has directed that students living in child care institutions or observation homes should be allowed to appear for examinations in centres nearest to the institution they live in or in any centre they ask for. This should be arranged through the superintendents of the home the child is living in. Acting on a petition from the Wayanad District Child Protection Officer, the commission directed the Pareeksha Bhavan Secretary and the Director of General Education to issue orders. The petitioner cited the case of a boy in conflict with law from Wayanad, a resident of the Government Observation Home in Kozhikode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/order-on-exam-for-those-in-child-care/article34211548.ece
01 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CB gives clean chit to Vinodini Kodiyeri||The Crime Branch (CB) of the Kerala Police has reportedly given a clean chit to Vinodini Kodiyeri, wife of CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, in the so-called mobile phone scandal. Ms. Balakrishnan had come under a cloud after the Customs (Preventive) in Kochi issued a summons to her recently to question her purportedly on the charge of accepting an expensive cell phone as a gift from UAE gold smuggling case accused and COFEPOSA detainee Swapna Suresh in 2019. At the time, Swapna was the executive secretary to the UAE Consul General and a familiar go-between in the foreign mission’s interaction with the State officialdom and the political leadership. The broad outline of the Customs inquiry was that a builder had handed over six costly phones to Swapna for nudging a multi-crore UAE Red Crescent contract to construct modern housing for low-income families in Thrissur in his direction. The Customs suspected the devices were part of a more significant kickback, a chunk of which the beneficiaries had allegedly smuggled to Dubai as foreign currency with the possible help of consulate officials. The CB concluded recently that Ms. Balakrishnan had purchased the phone legally. It identified the vendor, checked the IMEI number of the device, and verified its usage history. The CB’s reprieve for Ms. Vinodini came when State-Central relations were strained over the multiple inquiries by Central agencies into the gold smuggling case that appeared to target the CPI(M) leadership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cb-gives-clean-chit-to-vinodini-kodiyeri/article34211389.ece
01 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Event marks Gagarin’s feat||Festival Poehali, a seven-day event marking the 60th anniversary of Yuri Gagarin’s space flight, has started in the city under the aegis of the Russian House here. Poehali is Russian for Let’s Go. In 1961, Gagarin achieved what was till then thought impossible, C.R. Thomas, former Deputy Director, Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre, said, inaugurating the festival. The Russian House is organising a series of events including contests, seminars and film screenings to mark the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/event-marks-gagarins-feat/article34211598.ece
01 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Postal voting for poll staff from today||The postal voting for officials on election duty will begin at 14 voter facilitation centres in the district on Thursday, District Collector Navjot Khosa said. Officials who have applied for postal votes can visit the centres in their constituencies from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. to cast their votes. The voters should produce the Electors Photo Identity Card (EPIC) or any other document approved by the Election Commission of India to establish their identity. The exercise will be on till April 3. Each centre will have two polling officials, a police officer and also a gazetted officer for attesting the declaration forms of the voters. Designated centres The following are the centres: Nedumangad (Town LP School); Vamanapuram (Venjaramoodu Government HSS); Neyyattinkara (office of the Tahsildar (Revenue Recovery)); Kattakada (Kulathummal Government LP School); Nemom (Chithira Thirunal College of Engineering, Pappanamcode); Attingal (Government Model HSS); Chirayinkeezhu (Government LP School, Korani); Kazhakuttam (Block Development Office); Vattiyurkavu (office of the Special Tahsildar (LA, KIIFB 1) near the Kowdiar village office); Varkala (LMS LP School, Puthenchantha); Kovalam (Balaramapuram Government HSS), Parassala (MGNREGS Hall, Block Panchayat Office, Parassala); Aruvikkara (Vellanad Government UP School); Thiruvananthapuram (SMV Boys HSS).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/postal-voting-for-poll-staff-from-today/article34211597.ece
01 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Shajahan is new SEC||A. Shajahan took charge as State Election Commissioner (SEC) on Wednesday. He succeeds V. Bhaskaran. Mr. Shajahan's term ends on March 30, 2026. He has taken up the new assignment after retiring from government service. Mr. Shajahan has served as Secretary in various government departments, including General Education, Sports and Youth Welfare, Minority Welfare, Social Justice and Local Self-Government. He has also held the posts of Rural Development Commissioner, Director of General Education and Director of Panchayats and Urban Affairs. He has also served as District Collector of Kollam. Mr. Shajahan called on Governor Arif Mohammed Khan after assuming office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shajahan-is-new-sec/article34211390.ece
01 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Training for poll officials||Those who could not attend the second phase of Assembly poll training from March 25 to 29 will be given training from 9 a.m. on Thursday, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. Strict action will be taken against those who fail to attend the training, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training-for-poll-officials/article34211589.ece
01 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||234 new cases in capital||The district reported 234 new COVID-19 cases and 194 recoveries on Wednesday. Local transmission accounted for 178 of the new cases. One of them is a health worker. The administration placed 1,322 people displaying symptoms under observation. This takes the total number of people under quarantine to 16,589. As many as 1,083 people completed the observation period without developing any symptoms. Containment zones Containment zones were declared in the following places in the district: Palliveta in Aryanad grama panchayat and Kurumbayam and Mulayilkonam in Kallara grama panchayat. Surrounding areas should maintain utmost caution, District Collector Navjot Khosa said. No one should go out of containment zones except for emergencies, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/234-new-cases-in-capital/article34211590.ece
01 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||TTP resumes partial production after oil leak||The Travancore Titanium Products Ltd. (TTP) has resumed production, albeit on a limited scale, after the February 10 furnace oil leak which forced the State government undertaking to abruptly halt operations. Operations have been partially re-started on the strength of a permission issued by the Kerala State Pollution Control Board. The board, which is monitoring the troubleshooting measures launched by the company in the aftermath of the leak, has permitted production of 10 tonnes a day. Engaged in the production of titanium dioxide, TTP has a daily capacity of 40 tonnes. Limited production was started less than 10 days ago and the waste generated is being treated at the neutralisation plant on the TTP campus, a TTP official said. Full-scale production may take more time, but TTP officials have sought the PCB’s permission to scale up production to 30 tonnes, a senior PCB official said. A decision is awaited on the request. “The emissions and effluents are within the permissible limit. We will look into the company’s request on scaling up production,” a PCB official said. Several hundred litres of furnace oil had leaked from a ruptured pipeline into the coast via a drain on February 10, prompting an emergency clean-up along the coast and monitoring of the coastal waters. The incident sparked outcry in the region and concerns about environmental damage, forcing the Industries Department to constitute a three-member panel to investigate the incident. A drain opening into the coast was plugged by irked local residents following the leak. It has not been opened yet.  PCB allows production of 10 tonnes of titanium dioxide a day   PCB allows production of 10 tonnes of titanium dioxide a day||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ttp-resumes-partial-production/article34211417.ece
01 April 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Reject BJP’s divisive politics, LDF’s violence: Priyanka||Coming down heavily on the Centre and the State governments, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi has asked the people to reject the divisive and fascist politics of the BJP and the Left Democratic Front’s politics of violence and favouritism. Addressing a campaign meeting at Thekkinkadu Maidan here on Wednesday, Ms. Gandhi said the people of Kerala deserve a better politics of real issues. Modi and Bible Criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who quoted from the Bible during a recent campaign in Palakkad, she said, “I suppose he quoted the Bible because the election is nearing. I haven’t heard him uttering a single word against the attack on nuns in Jhansi. Perhaps he may not be able to understand what the nuns work for. He does not understand them, who spend their lives serving the poor.” ‘‘I worked as a volunteer for many years with the sisters of Mother Teresa’s order. They taught me the dignity of service. They taught me how to clean maggot-infested wounds of the destitute.... Now when they meet me, the nuns tell how they have been persecuted.’’ ‘Hollow quotes’ “There is nothing more hollow quoting the Bible by those who sow the seeds of division and hatred. It would be better for the PM to heed to the words of the Bible than use them in his hollow political speeches.” She quoted from the Bible for the PM. “Truthful lips endure forever. Lying tongue is but for a moment.” Unfortunately in Kerala people are suffering from both sides. “With their absurd policies, the Centre destroyed the economy. Unfortunately, the State government didn’t do anything except promises and betrayal. “The LDF deceived the youth. They promised 20 lakh jobs. But they filled the posts with their people. They crippled the rubber sector with uncontrolled impost of rubber.” When it is election, the LDF started thinking and acting like the BJP, she said. Mocking at the sexist comment by former Idukki MP Joice George, Ms. Gandhi said the LDF has been taking lessons of campaigning from the Chief Ministers of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. “All they are concerned is about what the women wear, how they behave and who they love. You don’t tell us what to wear, how to live our lives, and certainly whom we should love. We the women will teach them what is progressive. We are the 50% of the country and its strongest force.” United Democratic Front’s candidates from 13 Assembly constituencies in the district attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reject-bjps-divisive-politics-ldfs-violence-priyanka/article34211411.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Chennithala has a lie machine: Brinda Karat||Accusing Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala of churning out fresh allegations everyday against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government, CPI(M) leader Brinda Karat has said that Mr. Chennithala has a lie machine at his house. Addressing mediapersons here on Wednesday, Ms. Karat said the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the BJP had been unleashing baseless allegations against the LDF. “The UDF and the BJP have lost sense of reality and are making absurd and ridiculous promises everyday.” Criticising Congress Criticising Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi, who said during the campaign on Tuesday that like the Centre, the State government too was selling assets of the State, Ms. Karat said she should have done her homework better. During the UDF rule, 42 public sector units in the State were making a cumulative loss of Rs. 230 crore. Now they are making a profit of Rs. 105 crore. But selling PSUs was the agenda of both the Congress and the BJP at the Centre, she alleged. Responding to the argument that continuation of the same rule is destructive to democracy Ms. Karat said the LDF should be re-elected to protect constitutional values. The Congress had been mum when our constitutional rights and secular values were on horrendous attack. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was preaching about protecting the culture of Kerala. They were opening violence against minority communities. “Is this the culture he wants to bring to Kerala,” she asked. “His Minister Amit Shah was more than a Home Minister, he is a Hate Minister,” she alleged. Sabarimala, a non-issue She said Sabarimala was a non-issue now. It was before the Supreme Court. The BJP and the Congress were continuing to raise the issue as they did not have anything else to discuss. They wanted to divide the people on communal lines, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chennithala-has-a-lie-machine-brinda-karat/article34211409.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Why your vote matters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/why-your-vote-matters/article34211442.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||HC asks poll panel to take steps to prevent double voting||The signature and thumb of impression of all absentee and shifted voters should also be obtained. The Bench also directed that all photographs of the ASD voters taken in the booths be collected, digitised, and kept by the election panel. The court directed the ECI to permit absentee and shifted voters to leave the polling booth only after the indelible ink on their fingers had dried. The court ordered that after finalising the verification of DSE (demographically similar entries)/EPIC/ASD, a list be furnished to political parties and presiding officers forthwith. Safeguards The court also directed that all safeguards provided in the Act for free and fair election should be scrupulously followed to avoid multiple/bogus voting. It said fair, free and purity of elections should be maintained. The court directed the ECI and the Chief Electoral Officer to ensure that sufficient Central and State forces were deployed in all polling booths, especially in booths found to be in a disturbed area. The direction was to ensure compliance with the High Court directions and for the safety of polling agents of various political parties. The High Court also called for making arrangements for the presence of polling agents of parties in the polling stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-asks-poll-panel-to-take-steps-to-prevent-double-voting/article34211415.ece
01 April 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB seeks probe against AMVI||The Anti-Corruption Bureau(ACB) Deputy Superintendent of Police Kulasekhar Reddy said that a report has been sent to Director-General of ACB on the unaccounted cash seized from the RTO premises on Tuesday. In a surprise check conducted on the premises on Tuesday, officials confiscated Rs. 1,15,000 unaccounted cash from Assistant Motor Vehicle Inspector’s(AMVI) car and another Rs. 50,320 from the office. The ACB DSP expressed displeasure that the people had not come forward to complain in writing about the alleged corrupt practices of staff, though they orally made a complaint. “We have recommended departmental action after a thorough inquiry into the alleged monetary gratifications sought by the AMVI through some agents. If someone had given a written complaint, we could have remanded him and filed a case,” the DSP said. Deputy Transport Commissioner N. Sivaram Prasad told The Hindu that there was no scope for any outsiders to come and interfere in the work here, but promised to get an internal probe instituted against the AMVI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/acb-seeks-probe-against-amvi/article34211047.ece
01 April 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor to take part in JNTU-A convocation||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan will participate in the eleventh convocation of the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Anantapur on April 24, said Vice-Chancellor G. Ranga Janardhana. This will be the first time the Governor will be grace the ceremony in person, said JNTU-A Registrar M. Vijayakumar at a preparatory meeting held on the campus on Wednesday. Several committees have been formed for the smooth conduct of the convocation, the Vice-Chancellor said. AICTE Chairman Aniel D. Sahasabudghe will be the chief guest of the convocation. Y. Venkatarami Reddy, former Vice-Chancellor of the JNTU will be conferred with an honorary doctorate during the convocation, scheduled to begin at 11 a.m. on April 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-to-take-part-in-jntu-a-convocation/article34211539.ece
01 April 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||15 staff of tax office test positive for coronavirus||The Commercial Taxes office was closed here on Wednesday after 15 of the 120 staff tested positive to COVID-19. According to COVID Task Force officials, when some of the staff showed symptoms, the entire staff was made to undergo tests on Tuesday. While 15 of them turned out to be positive, results of others were awaited. Red zone On instructions from the District collector, M. Harinarayanan, the office was closed and a red zone was created in the vicinity. The District Medical and Health Officer, M. Penchalaiah, said that as the staff belonged to several places of the Chittoor Municipal Corporation and surrounding areas, the exercise of identifying the primary and secondary contacts was expedited. Meanwhile, Chittoor district reported 115 new cases on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15-staff-of-tax-office-test-positive-for-coronavirus/article34211050.ece
01 April 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two inter-State burglars nabbed in Chittoor||The Chittoor One-Town police on Wednesday arrested two members of an inter-State gang reportedly involved in the housebreak-in incident in Chittoor on March 22 night. According to Circle-Inspector (Chittoor One-Town) Narasimha Raju, a four-member gang from Haryana broke into an apartment at Kattamanchi locality in Chittoor on March 22 night, and decamped with 260 grams of gold jewelry, 7 kg silver ornaments and Rs. 4 lakh cash, after intimidating an elderly woman. Based on a complaint from the family members, the police registered a case and took up investigation. On Wednesday morning, the police were conducting regular vehicle-checks at Rangampeta Cross in Puthalapattu mandal. Seeing the police, a car tried to take an U-turn, but was intercepted. Finding the movements of the two inmates suspicious, they were taken into custody. The police seized a car used by the accused, while search is launched for two others and the stolen property. During interrogation, the duo was identified as Amith Parmar (20) and Gowrav Parmar (23) of Dadri district in Haryana, who had committed house burglary on March 22 night. The duo was also wanted in several cases of housebreak-ins in Rajasthan and other northern States. The duo was sent for remand.  Special parties formed The police said that special parties were formed to nab two more youth of the gang and recover the stolen property of gold, silver and cash. Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar appreciated sub-inspectors Vikram (Taluq station), Mohan Kumar (Urban) and Shaiksha Wali (Palasamudram mandal) for leading the operation to nab the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-inter-state-burglars-nabbed-in-chittoor/article34211049.ece
01 April 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Mana Badi - Nadu Nedu’ works will be monitored by SHG women: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that the women of Self Help Groups will monitor the works of ‘Mana Badi - Nadu Needu’, and asked the officials to prepare a questionnaire to enable the women send feedback on the works. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy spoke to the officials after reviewing the works under the programme, and said that focus should be on running the schools. ‘Ensure quality food’ “We want to dedicate the schools renovated under Nadu-Nedu on April 30, and I want the officials to focus on the works. I also want the Education Department officials to focus on complaints under ‘Jagananna Gorumudda’, and ensure that food quality is not compromised. Ensure that an SOP is in place for making of food,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The CM also reviewed the ‘Jagananna Vidyakanuka’, and said that students should get study material, school bags by the time the academic ysear begins. “We have taken several revolutionary measures aimed at improving the school education system in the rural areas, and I am confident that the efforts will yield results and bring a radical change in the lives of the poor,” said the Chief Minister. CBSE syllabus He also reviewed the implementation of CBSE syllabus in government schools, and said that by the time the new academic year begins in 2021, all schools would have CBSE syllabus. “Ensure that teachers are trained in teaching of CBSE syllabus. We are spending lot of money towards improving the infrastructure in schools, and I want periodical review of infrastructure. We are also introducing English medium in Pre-Primary and anganwadi schools,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Minister for Higher Education A Suresh, Special Chief Secretary, School Education, B. Rajasekhar, Commissioner of School Education Chinabhadradu and SSA Project Director Vetri Selvi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mana-badi-nadu-nedu-works-will-be-monitored-by-shg-women-jagan/article34211341.ece
01 April 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Control room set up to monitor heatwave||With severe heatwave conditions prevailing in the district, Collector Vivek Yadav has given orders for setting up a Command Control Room at the Collectorate. A command control room has been set up at the District Emergency Operating Centre in the Collector’s office with the phone number 0863-2234014. Mr. Vivek Yadav, in a press note, said that early warnings of a severe heat wave blowing across the district have been received by the A.P. State Disaster Management Agency, and the APSDMA has asked the various line departments to conduct coordination meetings on heat wave and also on lightning and create public awareness. The Collector also issued orders appointing D. Manorama, District Project Manager, Disaster Management, Guntur as the nodal officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/control-room-set-up-to-monitor-heatwave/article34211607.ece
01 April 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Government offers Rs. 4.15 lakh aid to family of tribal boy||Andhra Pradesh State Scheduled Tribes Commission Chairperson K. Ravibabu and Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Wednesday condoled the family members of 15-year-old Singam Siva Krishna, a tribal boy who was killed by a man in an inebriated condition on the night of March 28 under Kirlampudi police limits in East Godavari district. The accused, Kovvuri Veerababu, a resident of the same village, had driven his car over Siva Krishna and his father S. Yesu following an argument at a chicken shop run by the boy’s family at Veeravaram village. Siva Krishna died while undergoing treatment at the Government General Hospital on March 29, leading to tension flaring up in the village. On Wednesday, Mr. Ravibabu and Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna met the family members of the victim and handed over a cheque of Rs. 4.15 lakh and a house site patta. A government job was also promised to the elder sister of the victim. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Ravibabu said action will be taken against the guilty. “The incident of an Erukula tribal boy being killed is inhuman. Police have been directed to register a case against the accused under the SC, ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. The accused has been arrested on Wednesday,” he said.Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna promised all support from the government to the victim’s family and said a piece of cultivable land will be assigned to the family to eke out a livelihood. Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/government-offers-rs-415-lakh-aid-to-family-of-tribal-boy/article34211569.ece
01 April 2021||KURNOOL / ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shade nets put up for commuters in Kurnool, Anantapur districts||The day temperature crossed 40 degrees Celsius in Anantapur and Kurnool districts for the first time this season on Wednesday, with the majority of the towns in registering a maximum temperature of 41 degrees C. While people have been taking their own precautions, the Kurnool Municipal Corporation and the Anantapur Municipal Corporation have come up with a novel idea of putting up green shade nets as a canopy at all major junctions in both cities. At the traffic signals of the busy junctions at Raj Vihar and Five Road Junction on the road leading to the National Highway, temporary wooden structures have been erected to support a green shade net cover generally used for plants in the ‘Greenhouse’, as the waiting time for the two-wheelers is very long. A 20-foot high and 30-foot long corridor has been put up at two places, and work is on at other junctions in Kurnool. “During the waiting period, the scorching sun rays have a debilitating impact on the commuters, hence we have thought of providing some shade to two-wheeler riders, as they are fully exposed,” said Anantapur Municipal Commissioner P.V.V.S. Murthy. The civic body has put these shades on all the four sides of the junctions on the roads leading to them. In Anantapur, the work on three main junctions at Sapthagiri Circle, Srikantham Circle, and Tower Clock has been completed in the past two days. Work is on at the other places, where the traffic congestion is heavy and waiting time long, the Commissioner added. Citizens happy Sk. Shafiullah, a daily commuter, expressed happiness at the thoughtfulness of the municipal corporation to come up with the idea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shade-nets-put-up-for-commuters-in-kurnool-anantapur-districts/article34211541.ece
01 April 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 nominations for byelection rejected||Four nominations filed for the Tirupati Lok Sabha byelection were rejected on scrutiny by Nellore District Collector and Returning Officer K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu here on Wednesday. The Collector, who examined the nomination papers filed by the candidates, found the papers of 30 of them in order. Prominent candidates who threw their hat into the ring included former Union Ministers Panabaka Lakshmi (Telugu Desam Party) and Chinta Mohan (Congress), political novice M. Gurumoorthy (YSR Congress Party), bureaucrat-turned-politician K. Ratna Prabha (Bharatiya Janata Party) and N. Yadagiri (Communist Party of India-Marxist).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4-nominations-for-byelection-rejected/article34211530.ece
01 April 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Designer of tricolour remembered||Students from different schools paraded a giant national tricolour on the streets of Ongole to exhibit their patriotism as part of the centenary celebrations of the national flag designed by freedom fighter Pingali Venkayya. The tricolour was hoisted at a mammoth flag post erected at the railway station here by the Junior Chambers International’s Ongole unit led by its president Pawan Kumar and secretary L. Prasanna Kumar. It was on this day that the noted freedom fighter from Andhra Pradesh had handed over the design to Mahatma Gandhi in Vijayawada in 1921, which underwent some changes before its adoption as the country’s national flag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/designer-of-tricolour-remembered/article34211523.ece
01 April 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Economy still not out of the woods’||The pandemic has adversely affected all sections of people, including the working class, and stretched the ability of the administration to cope with the crisis, said Prakasam District Collector and Andhra Kesari Tanguturi Prakasam University Vice-Chancellor(AKTPU) Pola Bhaskar. The economic downturn was visible even during the pre-pandemic phase and the pandemic had only aggrevated the risks further, he noted while addressing a national seminar on “The effects of COVID-19 on Indian Economy” organised by the Acharya Nagarjuna University at the Ongole campus here on Wednesday. The economic growth was the lowest since the New Economic Policy was launched in the 1990’s, he said. When the administration was of the view that the economy was out of the woods, the second wave threatened to undo the gains, he noted. The governments did everything possible to revive growth by announcing an economic package with a focus on reconstruction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/economy-still-not-out-of-the-woods/article34211521.ece
01 April 2021||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘State implementing YSR Bima despite lack of Central aid’||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Wednesday said that the State government was proceeding with the YSR Bima scheme despite absence of timely support from the Centre. Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna has disbursed Rs. 15.16 crore to the 701 claimants under the scheme at the Collectorate here. Of the total claims, 45 are pertaining to the road accidents, in which the beneficiaries had lost their breadwinners in the East Godavari district. Speaking on the occasion, the Minister has said, “The State government is proceeding with the scheme irrespective of financial burden to come to the rescue of those who lost their breadwinners.” Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna has directed the officials to create awareness among people about the scheme. Joint Collector Ch. Kirthi, District Revenue Officer Ch. Sattibabu, District Rural Development Agency Project Director Y. Hari Haranath and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-implementing-ysr-bima-despite-lack-of-central-aid/article34211571.ece
01 April 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Human hair case: TTD sees conspiracy to malign image||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy on Wednesday expressed anguish over the “false” reports regarding the seizure of human hair along the Myanmar border, and termed it a conspiracy to malign the image of the prestigious institution. Addressing a press conference, Mr. Reddy took strong exception at the way the TTD was being targeted and lodged a complaint against a vernacular daily for damaging the reputation of the institution with a maligned intention. The TTD had already lodged a complaint against a Telugu channel and few social media users for wilfully hurting the sentiments of devotees and misleading the public with false and baseless information. The episode relating to the seizure of human hair has nevertheless caused an irreparable damage to the image of TTD which finds it hard to wriggle out of the conundrum. Even though the TTD has categorically made it clear that it has no role in the alleged seizure of 120 bags of human hair by Assam Rifles along the Myanmar border, it remains trolled on the social media. Further compounding its difficulties, leaders of various political parties also levelled severe allegations that human hair worth Rs. 2 crore was illegally smuggled out of the country and accused both the government and officials of being part of the conspiracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/human-hair-case-ttd-sees-conspiracy-to-malign-image/article34211543.ece
01 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials ramp up inoculation drive as COVID cases surge||Even as the State is witnessing a spurt in COVID-19 cases, the official machinery in Tirupati is on its toes to create awareness, enforcing wearing of masks and maintenance of social distance, apart from giving an impetus to the vaccination drive. The two-day special vaccination drive conducted for frontline workers by the TUDA Chairman C. Bhaskar Reddy ended on Wednesday. Media persons, teachers, police pesonnel, health professionals, lab technicians and government employees took the first dose of the vaccine. Similarly, the two-day vaccination camp conducted at the corporate headquarters of Andhra Pradesh Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (APSPDCL), drew to a close on Wednesday. Discom Chairman and Managing Director H. Haranatha Rao cautioned against shying away from getting inoculated. “It will not only put their lives at stake, but also their colleagues and family members,” he said and mentioned that the Discom had lost several lives last year due to virus. He urged the employees to get vaccinated immediately. Meanwhile, the Industries Department organised an awareness campaign for all senior HR managers in Sri City, where Pratap Reddy, General Manager of District Industries Centre, Chittoor, APIIC Zonal Manager Shuvana Sony and Sri City Managing Director Ravindra Sannareddy cautioned the participants on the precuationery measures in view of the surge in the infection. Standard Operating Procedure They explained the need to adhere to the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) and adopt measures to reduce the severity of the disease such as periodical sanitation of factories, machinery and vehicles entering the premises and thermal scanning of employees. ‘Wearing mask must’ In Kadapa district, police personnel led by Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan stood at Utukuru circle and explained the people about the importance of wearing mask. He distributed masks to the passers-by and violation of mask rule would be viewed seriously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-ramp-up-inoculation-drive-as-covid-cases-surge/article34211525.ece
01 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP-JSP combine will fight ‘rowdy rajyam’: Deodhar||After highlighting the developmental projects sanctioned by the Centre to Tirupati in the last few days, the BJP has extended its narrative now to focus on “rowdyism” and “misuse of official machinery in the State.” Sunil Deodhar, the party’s co- in-charge for the State, raised the issue at a media conference here on Wednesday, when he said the BJP and the Jana Sena Party combine would join hands to fight against the “rowdy rajyam” in the State. Since the JSP candidates were prevented from filing nominations and roughed up in the recent municipal elections, the alliance partner had extended its support to the system that would prevent ruffian elements from becoming a part of the administration. Claiming people’s overwhelming support to the BJP in its fight against the ‘Goonda Raj’ in West Bengal and Tripura, Mr. Deodhar maintained that only the BJP and the Jana Sena Party could fight the “rowdy elements, red sanders smuggling mafia and conversion mafia” in the State. On the YSRCP bringing a Cabinet Minister to every Assembly segment forming part of the Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency, BJP State president Somu Veerraju wondered as to why the ruling party needed a star-studded campaign if it was confident that its welfare schemes would fetch votes. ‘Tall promises’ He said the Navaratnalu remained tall promises. “Andhra Pradesh is witnessing a state of emergency, though in an apparent democratic format, where the official and police machinery are in the tight grip of the rulers. We will shatter YSRCP’s domination from the Tirupati byelection,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-jsp-combine-will-fight-rowdy-rajyam-deodhar/article34211532.ece
01 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vijayawada simmers at 43°C||Vijayawada witnessed the highest maximum temperature in March in at least a decade as the mercury level touches 43 degrees Celsius, a six-degree departure from the average normal temperature on Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The city experienced heatwave conditions for several hours, forcing the denizens to stay indoors. In March, the highest maximum temperature recorded in the city was 43.3 degrees Celsius in 1953 as per IMD’s extreme weather events report. In the past 10 years since 2011, the highest maximum temperature recorded in March was 42.4 degrees Celsius in 2016 and it was the only year the city record more than 40 degrees Celsius maximum temperature in March. Shade nets put up Special Correspondent reports fro Anantapur: The day temperature crossed 40 degrees Celsius in Anantapur and Kurnool districts for the first time this season on Wednesday, with the majority of the towns in registering a maximum temperature of 41 degrees C. While people have been taking their own precautions, the Kurnool Municipal Corporation and the Anantapur Municipal Corporation have come up with a novel idea of putting up green shade nets as a canopy at all major junctions in both cities. At the traffic signals of the busy junctions at Raj Vihar and Five Road Junction on the road leading to the National Highway, temporary wooden structures have been erected to support a green shade net cover generally used for plants in the ‘Greenhouse’, as the waiting time for the two-wheelers is very long. A 20-foot high and 30-foot long corridor has been put up at two places, and work is on at other junctions in Kurnool. “During the waiting period, the scorching sun rays have a debilitating impact on the commuters, hence we have thought of providing some shade to two-wheeler riders, as they are fully exposed,” said Anantapur Municipal Commissioner P.V.V.S. Murthy. The civic body has put these shades on all the four sides of the junctions. In Anantapur, the work on three main junctions at Sapthagiri Circle, Srikantham Circle, and Tower Clock has been completed in the past two days. Work is on at the other places, where the traffic congestion is heavy and waiting time long, the Commissioner added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mercury-level-touches-43c-in-vijayawada/article34211073.ece
01 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM lays stone for flood retaining wall||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy laid the foundation stone for the construction of a 1.5 km-long flood retaining wall alongside the Krishna at Kanakadurga Varadhi in the city on Wednesday. A pylon for the same was unveiled by Mr. Jagan. Completion of the project would bring in a huge relief to the residents in the flood-prone areas of Krishnalanka. Ministers Velampalli Srinivasa Rao, Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao, Perni Venkataramaiah, P. Anil Kumar Yadav, Mayor R. Bhagya Lakshmi, Collector A. Md. Imtiaz, and VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh and others took part in the ceremony. The retaining wall project taken up by the Water Resources Department will protect over 3,000 households and 31,000 people living in low-lying areas of Ranigari Thota, Bhupesh Gupta Nagar, Taraka Rama Nagar and Krishnalanka which is prone to flooding when Prakasam Barrage discharges floodwater. The project cost is estimated to be Rs. 122.90 crore. Over 524 houses and other structures were relocated to pave way for the construction of the wall. The wall will be more than two feet wide and raised to 8.9 m in height. It can withstand 12 lakh cusecs of floodwater discharge from the Prakasam Barrage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-lays-stone-for-flood-retaining-wall/article34210961.ece
01 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC recommends changes for efficient poll management||On the final day of his eventful term as the State Election Commissioner (SEC) on Wednesday, N. Ramesh Kumar recommended certain changes to the election law for efficient management of polls, and measures to enhance transparency and reduce opaqueness and bias in the system. He sent a draft of these recommendations to the Governor, Special Chief Secretary and Principal Secretary (Panchayat Raj) and Principal Secretary (Municipal Administration & Urban Development) for necessary action. Addressing the mediapersons, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said the most important one was to set up a three- member collegium, comprising a judge of the High Court, that suggests a panel of names to be chosen by the Governor as the SEC. He said a provision was needed in the A.P. Panchayat Raj (APPR) Act, 1994, and the Municipal Acts that would vest complete responsibility as well as determination of all matters pertaining to the elections with the commission. This, he insisted, would improve the election environment by centralising all the related decision-making processes in due consultation with the State government and political parties. Further, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said the Constitutional provisions related to the local body elections contained in Articles 243-E(3) and 243-U(3) should be strictly complied with, and an enabling provision be made for it in the APPR and Municipal Acts. The SEC said the concurrence of the commission should be obtained in writing for the appointment of person- in-charges in case the elections could not be held as per schedule due to natural calamities, or other compelling reasons, but this interim arrangement should not be for more than six months. The other recommendations made by Mr. Ramesh Kumar are for vesting the determination of reservations and preparation of electoral rolls with the commission exclusively. Mr. Ramesh Kumar went on to press for full financial and functional autonomy to the commission, and said its mandate should be duly recognised by the government. He said the State administrative machinery should be completely accountable to the commission in the same manner as the Central administrative machinery was accountable to the Election Commission of India in the light of the Supreme Court judgment in the Kishan Singh Tomar v/s Municipal Corporation of Ahmedabad. The SEC said the old and tested 21-day schedule for elections should be brought back as the abridged 15-day schedule was found to be lacking in transparency as well as a level-playing field for the stakeholders. Besides, he suggested that Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) should be the preferred mode of elections to the urban local bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sec-recommends-changes-for-efficient-poll-management/article34211535.ece
01 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. misleading courts over NREGS dues: TDP||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leader Alapati Rajendra Prasad on Wednesday alleged that the State government has diverted crores of rupees meant for payments under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). “The State government has mislead both the judiciary as well as the Centre in order to misuse and divert funds of over Rs. 6,400 crore under the NREGS programme. The court has ordered payment of NREGS dues along with interest for the 2018-2019 and 2019-2020 financial years but the State government is turning a blind eye,” he alleged. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, Mr. Rajendra Prasad accused the State government of adopting a politically vengeful attitude even towards those who carried out MGNREGS works during the previous TDP regime. “The Centre had released Rs. 6,400 crore to make payments towards NREGS works. The government, had diverted the funds without giving valid reasons,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-misleading-courts-over-nregs-dues-tdp/article34211608.ece
01 April 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||DGP orders probe into ‘delay’ in booking case against fraudster||Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang on Wednesday ordered an inquiry into the “negligence” in registering a case against a fraudster, who had allegedly married nine women in Visakhapatnam and was harassing them. The first and ninth wives of the accused were allegedly making the rounds to the Kancharapalem and Disha police stations for the last 45 days. The police registered a case against the accused only after the DGP’s intervention. Arun Kumar, who claimed to be a police informer, was arrested in ganja smuggling case recently. He had allegedly married the women by concealing his criminal history. Unable to bear the torture, the victims had lodged complaints in the Kancharapalem and Disha police stations on February 15. However, the police allegedly did not register any case, and were reportedly passing on information to the accused on the complaints received against him. The DGP, who responded to media reports on illegal activities of Arun Kumar, spoke to Visakhapatnam Police Commissioner M.K. Sinha, and sought to know the reasons for the delay in registering a case against the accused. “ It is unfortunate that the Visakhapatnam police have not responded to the complaint for over 45 days. We will provide protection to the complainants and take stern action against the accused,” the DGP told The Hindu . Inquiry was ordered into the alleged negligence and connivance of the police with the accused, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dgp-orders-probe-into-delay-in-booking-case/article34211611.ece
01 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vigilance officials raid Durga temple||Sleuths of the Vigilance and Enforcement (V&E) conducted searches at the Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devastanam on Wednesday. The teams checked the documents relating to Nitya Annadadam, stores and the administrative office. The officers enquired about the donations to the Annadanam scheme for the last one year. The officials verified the bills of purchases made for the Annadanam scheme, and questioned the temple Executive Officer and other staff. The raids would continue on Thursday also, the officials said. Recently, the ACB officials conducted raids on the temple and seized certain records. They reportedly found irregularities in the allotment of tenders, purchases, recruitment of contract staff, ‘potu’ (prasadam making unit) and Annadanam scheme. The officials submitted a report to the government on their five-day searches at the Durga temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vigilance-officials-raid-durga-temple/article34211613.ece
01 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM permits relieving of Telangana staff||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has permitted 711 employees who hail from Telangana and are presently working in the Andhra Pradesh government to return to Telangana. A delegation of AP Government Telangana-native employees has called on the Chief Minister at his camp office on Thursday and requested him to relieve them from services in Andhra Pradesh so that they could join duties in Telangana. The Chief Minister conceded their request, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-permits-relieving-of-telangana-staff/article34210969.ece
01 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 254.72 crore released under YSR Bima||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday released Rs. 254.72 crore under YSR Bima to the families of 12,039 deceased persons, who were eligible for the scheme but did not enrol themselves with the banks. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the government had not backed out in providing financial assistance to those families who lost their sole breadwinner. “Though the government pays premium to the banks, due to non-enrolment under the YSR Bima, these beneficiaries have been left out. The government has come forward to pay for the 12,039 claims,” he said. The Chief Minister explained that there were about 1.40 crore ration card-holders in the State, and the government started YSR Bima in October 2020 by paying a premium of Rs. 510 crore to the banks despite the Central government withdrawing from the scheme. The Centre was earlier paying 50% of the premium. After the Centre’s withdrawal, the entire premium was paid by the State on humanitarian grounds to provide security for those families in need. “However, the Centre has put more clauses, closing the existing group insurance system and made bank accounts mandatory for every person in a family. The Centre has put another clause of a 45-day cool-off period from the day of account opening. That is, if someone dies within 45 days, the insurance will not be paid,” the Chief Minister said. He further said that 62 lakh accounts had been opened so far, and the remaining 70 lakh accounts were yet to be opened. The Chief Minister said that any eligible person who was left out from YSR Bima could call the toll-free number, 155214, for getting registered. The government would take steps to ensure that they received the benefit, he added. Scheme benefits Under the scheme, insurance amount for accidental death and total permanent disability for people aged between 18 and 50 is Rs. 5 lakh. For those between 51 and 70 years, it is Rs. 3 lakh. Similarly, for natural death (18-50 years) Rs. 2 lakh and for partial, permanent disability in an accident (18-70 years) Rs. 1.5 lakh assistance would be provided. Deputy Chief Minister (Revenue) Dharmana Krishnadas, Labour Minister G. Jayaram, Special Chief Secretary (housing) Ajay Jain and Principal Secretary (labour) B. Udaya Lakshmi were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-25472-crore-released-under-ysr-bima/article34211533.ece
01 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman guard robbed of jewellery, cash on train||In a daylight robbery, a miscreant attacked a woman guard in a goods train, proceeding towards Bitragunta from Vijayawada, and allegedly relieved her of gold ornaments and cash. The incident occurred near Tadepalli railway station in Guntur district. The guard, G. Grace, lodged a complaint with the Government Railway Police (GRP), Guntur. The accused allegedly threatened her with a blade, tied her hands in the brake van and committed the offence on March 28, the victim said in her complaint. The accused entered into guard’s cabin through the emergency window when the goods train stopped at Tadepalli railway station around noon. He allegedly gagged her, tied her hands with the dupatta and took her ear studs, gold chain and Rs. 3,000 cash, said the police. The police registered a case and took up investigation. The South Central Railway (SCR) officials ordered a departmental inquiry into the robbery. They intensified patrolling at Tadepalli and Krishna Canal Junction stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-guard-robbed-of-jewellery-cash-on-train/article34210970.ece
01 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Desam seeks action against TTD EO, AEO||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) senior leader Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy has accused the TTD officials of making irresponsible statements on the seizure of the human hair when it was illegally being smuggled to China. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, Mr. Satyanarayana Murthy demanded that the government take stringent action against Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy and Additional Executive Officer A.V.Dharma Reddy for their failure to prevent smuggling of human hair. The TTD on Tuesday had denied the reports that the 120 bags of human hair seized by the Assam Rifles on Mizoram-Myanmar border belonged to it. “How come the officials who run the TTD were unaware of the credentials of the firms that have bagged the contracts,” he asked, adding that the officials should be made accountable. The EO and the additional EO should be arrested for this serious wrongdoing. Mr. Satyanarayana demanded the dismissal of the TTD Trust Board, led led by Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy following its failure to uphold the sanctity of the Seven Hills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-desam-seeks-action-against-ttd-eo-aeo/article34211526.ece
01 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bharat Ratna sought for Pingali||Telugu Desam Party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu urged the State government to take necessary steps to ensure that Bharat Ratna is conferred posthumously on Pingali Venkayya in recognition of his untiring service to the nation. The Centre must bestow the Bharat Ratna to honour his memory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bharat-ratna-sought-for-pingali/article34211609.ece
01 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Christian leaders seek protection||Alleging that some communal forces are harassing pastors and preachers in the State, the members of Andhra Pradesh Christian Leaders Forum (APCLF) have urged the government to provide protection to the religious heads and their properties. Addressing the media on Wednesday, forum State chairman Oliver Rai alleged that some miscreants were collecting information on the Christian leadersand were blackmailing the religious heads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/christian-leaders-seek-protection/article34211610.ece
01 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. will set up Kadapa steel plant on its own’||While acknowledging the fact that the U.K.-based Liberty Steel has not been financially sound, Minister for Industries Mekapati Goutham Reddy has denied reports that the Andhra Pradesh Government has tied up with it for the establishment of the 3 MTPA integrated steel plant in Kadapa district. Addressing the media after holding a review meeting on industrial promotion on Wednesday, Mr. Goutham Reddy said the government had talks with Liberty Steel, but did not sign any MoU with it as was widely reported. He asserted that the State government would take up the responsibility of setting up the steel plant on its own, for which various plans were being discussed. He pointed out that the Kadapa steel plant was connected with people’s sentiment. The Minister said incentives to industries for the 2014-21 period was Rs. 4,104 crore, and it was being cleared in a phased manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-will-set-up-kadapa-steel-plant-on-its-own/article34211536.ece
01 April 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor, wife take second vaccine dose||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan and his wife Suprava took the second dose of vaccine against COVID-19 at Raj Bhavan on Wednesday. Mr. Harichandan said he did no suffer any adverse effects, and appealed to all eligible persons to take the vaccine and fight against the virus. Staff from the New Government Hospital administered the vaccine to Governor and his wife at Raj Bhavan. A team of doctors under the supervision of Krishna District Medical and Health Officer M. Suhasini, Governor’s personal physicians, Dr. Ramakant and Dr. Fatima, monitored the arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-wife-take-second-vaccine-dose/article34211538.ece
01 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 186 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district reported 186 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours, the highest single-day tally this year, taking the cumulative tally to 62,298 as on Wednesday morning. The district recorded the second highest COVID-19 single-day tally after Guntur district (352). The death toll stands at 546, as no death was reported in the last one day. The total deaths reported in this month are seven, as against five in February. After recovery of 54 persons, the number of recoveries has increased to 60,563. The month of March saw almost six times increase in the cases when compared to the previous month. The total number of cases reported in this month was 1,758, while in February, it was 268. The number of active cases by the end of March is1,189. On March 1, the total active cases were 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-district-reports-186-new-cases-highest-single-day-tally-this-year/article34211574.ece
01 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man who ‘duped’ several women taken into custody||The city police have taken into custody one Dhanapala Arun Kumar, who allegedly cheated a number of women, including his wife, and had forced them into flesh trade, here on Wednesday. Prior to the arrest, Mahila Chetana, a women rights organisation, organised a press meet on Wednesday, along with two victims, including the wife of the accused. According to the allegations made by the two victims and Ms. Padma of Mahila Chetana, Arun Kumar, who worked as a casual worker in a cinema theatre, had befriended Geetanjali and married her about 11 years ago. Later the couple had two children. According to Ms. Geetanjali, her husband had been mentally and physically torturing her to get into flesh trade. Ms. Geetanjali alleged that in the last couple of years, Arun Kumar had sweet-talked about nine other young girls and married them. But after spending a few days with them, he had forced them into prostitution or sold them to brothels at different places.  Murder allegation The other victim, Lakshmi, alleged that her husband Ramu was a friend of Arun Kumar. And in 2019, Arun had confessed to her that he had killed Ramu. In 2019, Ramu had died under mysterious circumstances outside a bar and since then, Arun had been threatening Lakshmi to live with him and trying to force her into prostitution. Unable to bear the harassment, both the women had approached the police and Mahila Chetana, for help. According to the police, Geetanjali had approached Disha Police Station on February 18 that Arun Kumar had been harassing her and sought counselling. Arun Kumar was an accused in a prostitution case in Anakapalle Town and a ganja case under Two Town Police Station. He was arrested in July 2020 and was released on bail in February 17. The police also said that a complaint from Geetanjali through WhatsApp was received on March 18 and the same was forwarded to Kancharapalem Police Station, for further action. Her statement was recorded on March 19 at the police station. Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha said that an FIR has been registered and the accused has been taken into custody. DCP (Law and Order) Aishwarya Rastogi will supervise the investigation of the case and all allegations, including trafficking of women and murder of Ramu, will be thoroughly investigated, he said. Reacting to the media reports, DGP Gautam Sawang has asked the city police to speed up the investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-who-duped-several-women-taken-into-custody/article34211578.ece
01 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||468 families from the district will be benefited from YSR Bima, says Minister||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao said that about 468 families from Vizag district are being benefited from the YSR Bima launched by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, here on Wednesday. The State government is releasing about Rs. 99.4 crore into bank accounts of these families, he added. Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday handed over financial assistance under the YSR Bima to families who have lost the head of household due to a disaster, from Tadepalli. Mr. Srinivasa Rao along with MP B. Sathayavthi, MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar and a few others attended the programme from Visakhapatnam district online. He said that earlier, the Centre and the State government used to bear 50% premium each. But now, the total premium amount of YSR Bima is being borne by the State government only, he said. Later, the Minister handed over cheques to the beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/468-families-from-the-district-will-be-benefited-from-ysr-bima-says-minister/article34211619.ece
01 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No hike in power tariff, says APERC Chairman||Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission Chairman Justice C.V. Nagarjuna Reddy has said that the Retail Supply Tariff Order for 2021-22 was prepared taking into consideration the aspirations of the consumers and the financial requirements of the distribution companies. He said that there was no hike in tariff and no extra financial burden on all categories of consumers. He said there would be some relief to the consumers as the minimum charges have been removed. The APERC Chairman released the Retail Supply Tariff Order along with APERC Members P. Rajgopal Reddy and Thakur Ram Singh at the EPDCL Corporate Office here on Wednesday. Mr. Nagarjuna Reddy said the issues brought up at the virtual public hearing were considered in the preparation of the tariff order. The representations of consumers, various organisations and political parties were analysed and considered in the fixation of power tariff. The APERC Chairman explained that the three distribution licensees (APSPDCL, APEPDCL and APCPDCL) had projected a combined deficit of Rs. 12,549 crore at current tariff and a deficit of Rs. 11,741.18 crore at the proposed tariff with tariff hikes to certain categories of consumers and RESCOs. The Commission had determined the net deficit of Rs. 7,433.80 crore for the three licensees, thereby avoiding a possible burden of Rs. 4,307.38 crore to the consumers. While arriving at the revenue gap for 2021-22, the Commission has taken into account the true-up amount of Rs. 3,013 crore determined for the financial year 2014-15 till 2018-19 and provisional true down of Rs. 3,373 crore for the 2020-21 fiscal. The State government had agreed to bear a total amount of Rs. 9,091.36 crore for the subsidised power supply to be given to various sections like farmers, socially backward classes, free to as subsidies during 2021-22. The subsidies were brought under Section 6 of the Electricity Act. The proposal of the Discoms to bring apartment complexes and group houses under ‘HT’ category was rejected by the Commission. The tariff for electric vehicles was being continued at Rs. 6.70 a unit to encourage their use. The licensees have been directed to indicate the per unit details of cost of service, cross-subsidy and government subsidy on the backside of the electricity bills to all categories of customers. The proposal of the Discoms to change the present peak ToD timings from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. to 4 a.m. to 8 a.m., was rejected as it would reduce off-peak timings by two hours to the industry. Free power up to 200 units/month would be given to consumers in SC/ST colonies, 150 units/month to laundries run by Rajaka community, 100 units a month to BPL and Most Backward Communities, 100 units/month to BPL professional goldsmiths, up to 150 units/month to BPL Nayee Brahmin community, 100 units/month to handloom weavers and tariff subsidy of Rs. 2.35 per unit on the cross-subsidised tariff of Rs. 3.85 a unit to aquaculture consumers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-hike-in-power-tariff-says-aperc/article34211074.ece
01 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoist link case: NIA raids houses of accused across State||The National Investigation Authority (NIA) on Wednesday raided the houses of all the accused in a case pertaining to the recovery of Maoist literature, and other incriminating material in Munchingput, in Visakhapatnam and across the State. Munchingput police arrested Pangi Naganna on November 23 last year, and allegedly recovered revolutionary Maoist literature, wire bundles and other incriminating material. He reportedly confessed to be a sympathiser and an informer for the Maoists. He had named 64 persons who are reportedly connected to the banned CPI (Maoist). An FIR was filed against 64 persons. The NIA took over the case on March 5 this year. It is learnt that raids were held on the houses of Chalam and Padma of the Committee for Release of Political Prisoners and V.S. Krishna of the Human Rights Forum (HRF). Houses of activists of Revolutionary Writers’ Association, Civil Liberties Committee (CLC), Amaraveerula Bandhumitrula Sangham (Association of Friends and Relatives of Martyrs), Praja Kala Mandali were raided. Special Correspondent from Kurnool adds: The NIA officials based on a court warrant searched the houses of Pinakapani and Somasekhar Sarma in Arora Nagar. Mr. Sarma is a member of Rayalaseema Vidyarthula Sangham and Pinakapani, a journalist, is an executive committee member of Viplava Rachayuthala Sangham (VIRASAM).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maoist-link-case-nia-raids-houses-of-accused/article34211537.ece
01 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘poisons’ 2 children, ends life||A 40-year-old-man allegedly ended his life after poisoning his two children to death, at Sarada Nagar in Anakapalle (Town) police station limits, in the early hours of Wednesday. Police suspect that depression could be the reason. The deceased were identified as K. Satyanarayana (45), K. Siddharth (10) and K. Tejaswi (7). According to the police, Satyanarayana used to work as a security guard in Parawada. Three months ago, Satyanarayana’s wife K. Pushpalatha had died due to some health issues. Since then he had been allegedly depressed. On Wednesday, at around 7 a.m., he, along with his two children, was found dead in the house. Police said that Satyanarayana might have poisoned his children and then ended his life by allegedly hanging himself from a ceiling fan. A case was registered and investigation is on. Those who are in distress can contact police helpline No. 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-poisons-two-children-ends-life/article34211575.ece
01 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU V-C releases project work on COVID impact||Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy released the project work on “Impact of the Pandemic COVID-19 on Youth, Women and Family – The perceptions of educated youth,” which will be submitted to UGC New Delhi by P. Usha, Director of Dr. Durgabai Deshmukh Centre for Women’s Studies, as Principal Investigator. According to Dr. Usha, the study mainly focusses on two dimensions of the impact of pandemic and the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-v-c-releases-project-work-on-covid-impact/article34211618.ece
01 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||First block of solar plant inaugurated at NTPC||The first 5 MW block of the proposed 25 MW Floating Solar PV Project, being developed in RW Reservoir spread over 150 acres at NTPC Simhadri at Parawada, here, was inaugurated by Diwakar Kaushik, Head of the Plant, and other officials from executing department and other sections. Officials of BHEL EDN and site team and agencies were present. Power flow of more than 2MW was witnessed with present solar irradiance. This would be the single largest Floating Solar PV Project in the State once commissioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/first-block-of-solar-plant-inaugurated-at-ntpc/article34211616.ece
01 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Low pressure over the Bay may not bring respite||Many pockets in the State were reeling under scorching heart, though a low pressure formed over the south-east Bay of Bengal and its adjoining south Andaman Sea on Wednesday. The meteorologists said even as the low pressure is likely to become more marked over the Central Andaman Sea in the next 24 hours, the heatwave condition may prevail in the State. “The chances of the weather system concentrating into a depression over the Bay Of Bengal during the subsequent 24 hours appear bleak,” according to the Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC) in Visakhapatnam. Fishermen cautioned CWC chief Sunanda M. said fishermen have been advised not to venture into the Andaman Sea and its adjoining south-east Bay of Bengal on April 1, and into north Andaman Sea on April 2. “The trough over south coastal A. P. is resulting in hot winds. The coastal areas are comparatively cooler due to the sea breeze. Insolation and geographical features such as hills blocking the sea breeze cause temperature variations within the city,” said P.V. Rama Rao, retired Director of IMD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/low-pressure-over-the-bay-may-not-bring-respite/article34211545.ece
01 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag-LTT express cancelled till April 8||Train no. 08519/8520 Visakhapatnam-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT)-Visakhapatnam special express will remain cancelled till April 8 due to safety-related modernisation works in connection with ongoing doubling works in Bhalawani-Bhigwan single line section in Solapur Division of Central Railway system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/train-cancelled-till-april-8/article34211567.ece
01 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU reschedules examinations||Officials from Andhra University on Wednesday announced that that M.C.A. third-semester examinations of Andhra University colleges and its affiliated colleges and M.Sc. Applied Chemistry (two years course) 3 rd Semester; and 7th semester examinations of five-year Integrated MS (Applied Chemistry) of A.U. Colleges, which are scheduled to be conducted from April 1 to April 3 respectively, have been rescheduled to a later date . Controller of Examinations S.V. Sudhakar Reddy also informed that BE/B.Tech,/B.Arch. fourth year semester examinations of A.U. colleges and its affiliated colleges scheduled to be conducted from April 12 have been rescheduled. The students were informed to visit website: www.andhrauniversitv.edu.in (or) www.exams.andhrauniversity.eduin, for revised schedule of examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-reschedules-examinations/article34211576.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ameenabad fishing harbour works to begin in April||The Hyderabad-based M.R.K.R. Constructions and Industries is all set to begin the construction of the fishing harbour proposed at Ameenabad on the Uppada coast of East Godavari district in April. “The company will begin the works with dredging operations on the project site in April,” Fisheries Department Joint Director (East Godavari) P. Koteswara Rao told The Hindu.  The Fisheries Department has proposed the harbour in the Survey No. 74-82, to facilitate anchoring of 2,500 boats and handling of 1.10 lakh tonnes of fish per annum. The harbour will have a 1.5 km-long training wall as per the project design. The WAPCOS has conducted the topography and sub-soil surveys and the Madras University has carried out the High Tide Level (HTL) survey. Cost sharing The State will bear Rs. 20.04 crore of the total project cost of Rs. 350.44 crore, while Rs. 330 crore will be funded by the Centre from the Fisheries and Aquaculture Infrastructure Development Fund (FIDF) and NABARD Infrastructure Development Assistance (NIDA). Andhra Pradesh Maritime Board Port Officer (Kakinada) G.V. Raghava Rao said an agreement for the constriction of the fishing harbour was signed with the M.R.K.R, firm on March 18. The project design and other technical parameters are yet to be received from the firm,” he said. Mr. Raghava Rao said that a target had been set to complete the construction of the fishing harbour within 24 months after the works commenced. In November, 2020, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy laid the stone for the Ameenabad harbour in a virtual meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ameenabad-fishing-harbour-works-to-begin-in-april/article34211542.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State sees 83% rise in monthly COVID infection tally in March||The State has reported four new deaths and 1,184 COVID-19 infections, the highest single-day tally since November 21, in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. In March, the number of infections increased by 82.7% compared to that in February. A total of 12,075 infections were reported in March, while only 2,080 infections were reported in February. In January too, only 5,550 infections were reported. The number of deaths also increased by 67% as 48 persons succumbed to the virus in March and only 16 died in the previous month. The cumulative infections increased to 9,01,989  and the toll reached  7,217  with a death rate of 0.80%. In the past day, 456 patients have recovered and the number of active cases increased to 7,338. In March, 11.31 lakh samples were tested and their positivity rate was 1.07%, which is the highest since November. The positivity rate in February was only 0.25% and it was 0.42% and 0.80% in January and December last year. Guntur reports 352 cases Meanwhile, the positivity rate of 30,851 samples tested in the past day was 3.84%, the highest in five months. Three of the four new deaths occurred in Chittoor district and the other in Nellore district. Guntur, which is one of few districts witnessing a rise in infections, saw 352 new cases in the past day. It was the highest single-day tally reported by a district in several months. It is followed by Visakhapatnam (186), Chittoor (115), Krishna (113) which account for 65% of the State's tally in the past day. Also, 62% of March's infections come from these four districts. Meanwhile, three districts have more than 1,000 active cases. They are Chittoor (1,333), Visakhapatnam (1,091) and Krishna (1,058).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-sees-83-rise-in-monthly-covid-infection-tally-in-march/article34211528.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Severe heatwave conditions in State||A similar situation is likely to prevail for the next days. As per the forecast, at least 113 mandals in the State are likely to witness severe heatwave conditions on April 1 and 217 mandals may expereince normal heatwave conditions. On Friday (April 2), at least 148 mandals are likely to witness severe heatwave conditions. The most affected districts would be Guntur, Krishna, East Godavari, West Godavari, Visakhapatnam and Srikakulam. Heat wave conditions are likely to prevail at isolated places over south coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseema on April 1 and 2 and dry weather may prevail for next two days, according to the IMD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/severe-heatwave-conditions-in-state/article34211544.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Venting their fury||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/venting-their-fury/article34211622.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||King of fruits arrives!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/king-of-fruits-arrives/article34211615.ece
01 April 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Bhadrachalam temple moots hike in ticket prices||The historic Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple in Bhadrachalam has proposed to increase the prices of tickets for various pujas/sevas as well as the tariff of temple cottages and rooms soon. According to the temple authorities, the upward revision of ticket prices and the cottage tariff has become inevitable in view of the increased prices in the market so as to offer better services to devotees. The move comes at a time when the temple is grappling with a significant drop in revenue. The decline in footfall of devotees in the aftermath of last year’s COVID-19 induced lockdown hit the temple’s revenue hard, sources said. It has been proposed to increase the prices of tickets of Nityakalyanam from the existing Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 1,500, Mulavarula Abishekam (every Sunday) from Rs. 1,100 to Rs. 1,500, Sahasra Namarchana from Rs. 100 to Rs. 500 and other pujas from Rs. 116 to Rs. 516. As per the revised rates, the ticket prices of Archana, Suprabatha Seva and Pavalimpu Seva will be doubled from Rs. 150 to Rs. 300, Rs. 100 to Rs. 200 and Rs. 100 to Rs. 200 respectively. The tariff of single AC room, non-AC room, double bedroom cottage and single bedroom cottage will go up from Rs. 800 to Rs. 999, Rs. 300 to Rs. 400, Rs. 1,500+GST to Rs. 2,500+GST and Rs. 800 to Rs. 1,200+GST, as per the revised rates, sources added. The temple authorities invited suggestions/objections if any on the proposed upward revision of the ticket prices and tariff of cottages and rooms from devotees within 15 days from March 30, 2021. According to temple sources, the temple staff can be contacted on the following numbers: The temple superintendent: 9705192935, CRO superintendent: 8008429229. Meanwhile, the temple authorities have announced an online initiative to enable devotees get pujas performed on their behalf at the temple and also receive Kalyana Talambralu and prasadams through post/courier on payment of the prescribed fee online. The decision has been taken in the wake of the State government’s decision to conduct Sitarama Tiru Kalyana Mahotsavam in a simple manner devoid of devotees inside the temple complex on April 21 as a safety precaution to prevent spread of coronavirus. Further details on online puja services can be had over phone numbers: 9603408456 and 08743-232428.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bhadrachalam-temple-moots-increase-in-ticket-prices/article34211317.ece
01 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Employees of TS origin to come back||After a long wait, 711 Class III and IV employees of Telangana origin, who were sent to AP against their wishes by the Kamalanathan committee during the final allocation of State cadre employees, have been relieved by the government of the neighbouring State. The process followed a series of communications between the governments of the two States. Telangana Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, in his recent letter to his AP counterpart Aditya Nath Das, conveyed the government’s decision to bring back these Telangana local employees to the State. Govt. list The government had communicated the list of 698 employees of Telangana origin working in AP and said it was based on the available information. “However, the government is willing to take back all the employees of Class III and IV, who are locals to Telangana and allotted to AP against their ‘options’,” the Chief Secretary said. While the government has forwarded the list of 698 employees, 13 more employees who were appointed on compassionate grounds subsequently are added to it. These employees are supposed to give an undertaking to join wherever they are posted in Telangana and take last rank in the respective cadre working in the State. The government had attached a proforma containing the details of the employees as well as their willingness to be posted according to administrative convenience and take last rank in the cadre. Employees willing to return should sign the proforma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/employees-of-ts-origin-to-return/article34211361.ece
01 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||When Eastern Railway was run from Secunderabad||When senior IRTS - Indian Railway Traffic Service (IRTS) officer Ravi P. Padi reached home after a normal day’s work earlier this March, little did he realise that not only he, but his entire team would had had to rush back and literally be on their toes for the next four days. CRIS (Centre for Railway Information Systems), the IT arm of the Indian Railways, and its Secunderabad unit had to scramble to take over the computerised railway operations of the entire Eastern region within a couple of hours on March 8 night. The region has East Coast Railway, Eastern Railway, East Central Railway and Northeast Frontier Railways with at least 1,000 trains, passenger and freight trains moving to and from across various terminals. The massive fire which broke out in the high-rise Eastern Railway headquarters at Kolkata killed nine persons, including a senior railway officer, on the day and the rescue teams had immediately cut power supply to all systems, shutting down the UPS too. This led to an unprecedented massive breakdown of services. With most departments taking to e-office modules and running trains is a round-the-clock job even if ticketing is shut for a few hours, the ‘SOS’ call was made to CRIS office here. "Railways has four data centres in Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai and Chennai but the only Recovery Centre is in Secunderabad. It was set up to deal with these kinds of emergencies for a fail-safe system in 2013. “We are trained to handle this but like any rescue team, we always hope and pray such a day should not arise, but it did come," said Mr. Ravi Padi, General Manager. CRIS not only handles the popular IRCTC for ticketing but also the freight movement, train control, crew movement, mobile apps etc. "We got the emergency call around 7.45 p.m. and by 11 p.m., we were able to restore all services including ticketing for 1100+ terminals connected across 15 eastern and north-eastern states/Union Territories. We maintained the systems for four full days till 11.45 p.m., March 12, providing seamless business continuity for millions of rail users from our servers,” he attests. A 12-member team, including engineers, worked on shifts to keep the systems running round the clock till the Eastern region was ready to accept the load. “We are trained to handle this situation, so we had an action plan ready, still it was a challenge as it has never happened before. It has been satisfying to do a smooth transition in taking over the systems and also in handing over without major data loss or hiccups,” says the senior officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/when-eastern-railway-was-run-from-secunderabad/article34211374.ece
01 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||At 684 COVID cases, State sees highest daily count since Dec. 9||A sharp spike in COVID-19 cases was recorded in Telangana on Tuesday with 684 persons testing positive for coronavirus from among 56,122 samples that were put to test. Results of 1,392 were awaited. Three more COVID patients died. This is the second highest number of cases in a day in almost four months, and a big jump over the previous two days. Only 403 and 463 cases had been recorded on Sunday and Monday, respectively. On December 8, the State had logged 721 cases. Comparison of the numbers recorded in the State from February as against those in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region will put the spike in perspective. From February 1 to March 9, the highest daily count across the State was 189. On Tuesday, 184 cases were detected in GHMC alone! Other districts The new 684 cases included 61 from Medchal -Malkajgiri, 48 from Nizamabad, 45 from Rangareddy, 30 from Nirmal, 24 from Nalgonda, 23 each from Karimnagar and Mahbubnagar, and 21 from Sangareddy. The lowest of three cases were detected from Jogulamba-Gadwal. So far, the State has conducted 1,01,51,609 tests, leading to the detection of 3,07,889 cases. Of the total, 4,965 were active cases while 3,01,227 have recovered, and 1,697 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/at-684-covid-cases-state-sees-highest-daily-count-since-dec-9/article34211346.ece
01 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Parigi MPDO and 7 others in ACB net||Pargi MPDO A Subash Chandra Goud and seven other outsourced employees working at his office were arrested by the Anti Corruption Bureau officials on Wednesday for accepting a bribe of Rs. 2 lakh. They demanded Rs. 4.62 lakh from the complainant, Bantu Chakravarthi, a contractor from Gunthamarpally village in Sangareddy district. The accused, Mohammed Rafi Ahmed, engineering technical assistant, A Gopal, and K Srinivas, both technical assistants, accepted Rs. 2 lakh as initial payment on behalf of other accused, to record the works in M Book and pass the bills. The other accused are A Narsimulu, additional programming officer, B Hanumanthu, V Narsimhulu, J. Jamla, all technical assistants. Another accused Anjalaiah is currently absconding. They were arrested and produced before the Special Principal Judge for SPE and ACB cases in Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/parigi-mpdo-and-7-others-in-acb-net/article34211372.ece
01 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Round 2 of vaccination for high-risk groups begins||People above 60 years of age, and those belonging to the 45-59 years age group with co-morbidities started to take the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine from Tuesday. The first dose was administered to the two high-risk groups from March 1 onwards. Recently, the Centre wrote to States and Union Territories to increase the interval between two doses of Covishield to four to eight weeks, stating that there is evidence of increased protection. The earlier practised time interval for Covishield was four to six weeks. The revised time interval between two doses is, however, not applicable to Covaxin. On March 1, a total of 4,558 people in Telangana from the two groups had taken the COVID vaccine, but only 1,234 of them took the second dose after a gap of 29 days. Since there is more time to take second dose of either vaccine, it is expected that the turnout will improve in the coming days. Low turnout for second dose was observed in the case of healthcare workers (HCWs) too. The first priority in the vaccination drive was given to HCWs when it was launched on January 16. The second dose started to be administered from February 13. Back then, senior officials from the Health department listed three reasons for HCWs skipping the follow-up jab — illness on the scheduled day, personal engagements, Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) such as fever and giddiness from the earlier dose. Till March 31, as many as 2,24,834 HCWs had taken the first dose and 1,70,007 received the second dose. In case of frontline workers, 1,15,080 took the first dose and 65,474 received the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/round-2-of-vaccination-for-high-risk-groups-begins/article34211348.ece
01 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Free Software Movement of India’s Twitter handle locked||Free Software Movement of India (FSMI)’s Twitter handle was locked over a tweet posted in December last year which sought Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In)’s intervention to investigate a data breach reported at online grocery delivery service, Big Basket. FSMI describes itself as a coalition of regional and sectoral free software movements with an aim to work towards e-literacy and bridging the digital divide based on free software. It is also working towards a policy change favouring free software. According to FSMI general secretary Y. Kiran Chandra, FSMI, it was in November that the organisation had written to CERT-In, the nodal agency that responds to computer security incidents. Citing newspaper reports of the data breach, FSMI requested CERT-In to investigate the incident. However, when they did not receive a reply, a copy of the letter was tweeted around a month later. It is this tweet which led to Twitter locking the FSMI handle. On March 30, reacting to locking of the account, Mr Chandra tweeted, “Twitter has locked out @fsmi_in’s account for publishing our letter to grievance officer @IndianCERT about data breach incident involving bigbasket. We did not publish any personal information and demand immediate restoration of the account. @fsmi_in @TwitterIndia (sic).” Speaking to The Hindu , Mr Chandra maintained that no personal data was tweeted. “There is no private information in the tweet. Even after the appeal, Twitter hasn’t allowed access to the handle. We will gain access as soon as we delete the tweet. [But] We will not delete it as there is no private information in it. We have gone for an appeal. There is no response as yet. Twitter will have to come out clean and give the reason behind locking our account. People can still view the tweets in the account barring the one that Twitter has asked to delete,” he said.  We have gone for an appeal. There is no response as yet. Twitter will have to come out clean and give the reason. Y. Kiran Chandra, General secretary, FSMI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/free-software-movement-of-indias-twitter-handle-locked/article34211353.ece
01 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘What action did govt. take against online classes fee?’||Telangana High Court on Wednesday directed the State government to furnish details of the action initiated by it against schools that collected more than the tuition fee during the COVID-19 pandemic period. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy wanted to know against how many schools the government had cracked the whip for violating the government’s order not to collect more than the prescribed tuition fee. During the lockdown imposed in 2020 following the outbreak of coronavirus, Telangana government issued instructions to schools not to collect the total ‘school fee’ from students. The school managements were instructed to collect only tuition fee. However, some schools allegedly urged the parents to pay more than the tuition fee citing “online classes”. A couple of PIL petitions and some writ petitions were also filed by different persons questioning collection of fees more than the tuition fees. When one of the PIL petitions came up for hearing on Wednesday, Special Government Pleader Sanjeev Kumar informed the bench that some other writ petitions and another PIL plea with the same content were pending for hearing. The SGP told the court that government had filed a detailed counter affidavit citing the actions taken against managements of schools that had collected fees in addition to the tuition fees. The CJ directed the Registry to tag all writ petitions and PIL pleas with same content and post on the same date for next hearing. However, she made it clear to the SGP to ensure that details furnished by government comprised all details like the number of schools against which the government acted and the nature of action initiated for violating the government directions on school fees issue. A contempt of court petition in which parents sought action against some schools which did not declare results of their respective wards even after appearing for exams on the issue of payment of schools fee was heard. The HC bench directed the parents to deposit the tuition fee to be paid to the schools in the court in the form of demand drafts within a week. The CJ instructed the schools concerned that the latter should announce results of the examinations or promote the students a day after the one week time given to parents to deposit the school fee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/what-action-did-govt-take-against-online-classes-fee/article34211356.ece
01 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Registration dept. reports impressive revenue, third month in a row||The Registration and Stamps department continued to report significant improvement in revenue through sale deeds and registration of open plots for the third month in a row. The department has registered more than Rs. 900 crore revenue till March 29 and the figure is expected to be around Rs. 960 crore till March 31 after reconciliation of the revenue figures from across the State. The department had earned revenue of Rs. 995 crore in January and Rs. 865 crore in February. As anticipated, it reported impressive figures in March too owing to various factors like the rush for concluding the transactions before the end of the financial year. Senior officials said the department had posted overall revenue in excess of Rs. 5,200 crore through registrations in spite of the odds it had to face during the year that ended on Wednesday. Registration process suffered on account of COVID-19 pandemic since the beginning of the fiscal year, reporting sharp decline. This was followed by the government’s decision to halt registration owing to enactment of new revenue laws, which brought the process to a grinding halt. The process, however, started picking up after passage of the new revenue laws aimed at overhauling the revenue administration by the legislature. Registration process was opened up initially for the agricultural properties in November and non-agricultural properties the next month. Agricultural properties are being registered through the Dharani portal and the registration of non-agricultural properties has been progressing in the normal mode. The department reported revenue of Rs. 456 crore — Rs. 375.99 crore through sale deeds and registration of open plots and another Rs. 80.99 crore through other charges — since December after the restrictions on registrations were relaxed. The State government, in the budget estimates for 2021-22, set a stiff target of Rs. 12,000 crore for the department during the next financial year starting Thursday. “We expect significant natural growth next fiscal which shows good prospects as far as land transactions are concerned,” a senior official told The Hindu . Added to this, the department is hopeful that the government gives its go ahead for revision of market values, the process which has not taken place since eight years. Officials said the last time the market values were revised in the State was in 2013 and since then, there had been no revision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/registration-dept-reports-impressive-revenue-third-month-in-a-row/article34211359.ece
01 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Big relief for 787 govt. staff||Retirement of officers and employees at government offices on the last day of a month became a thing of the past with the State government giving them a three-year extension of service. As a result, the festive atmosphere associated with farewell functions at the offices was missing on Wednesday. With no more retirements for the next three years, the government has inherited a saving of Rs. 7,265 crore on account of pay out of terminal service benefits like pension, gratuity, general provident fund contributions, group life insurance, 40% pension surrender and arrears of salary due to implementation of Pay Revision Commission report. As many as 787 employees were supposed to retire on Wednesday on attaining the age of 58 years but the government had recently raised the age to 61 years and appointed March 30 as the effective date. They were supposed to get annual pensionary benefit of Rs. 268.76 crore, which has been deferred till March 2024. The net deferment was Rs. 84.7 crore (Rs. 268.76 crore mentioned in column 9 of the table given below minus Rs. 184.06 crore towards payment of salary in column 8). A total of 29,669 employees have benefited by the extension of service with a liability on the government to pay them a total salary of Rs. 2,414 crore (column 3) for the next three years. But, the pensionary benefits that would have accrued to them if they had retired was Rs. 11,364 crore (column 9). The year wise break-up of number of employees, who would have retired, salary payable to them per annum and adjusted against their notional pensionary benefits and the net deferment is mentioned in columns two, three, nine and ten respectively. The financial implications of salary are mentioned in columns four to seven. A senior official said the retirements were generally high in June and July because the employees were recruited three decades ago in those months on the basis of school certificates. In the absence of birth certificates, uneducated parents in villages enrolled their children in schools in June/July when the institutions reopened and the teachers marked their dates of birth in conformity with dates of admission and age in years to the class in which they joined. He added that the employees stood to lose immediately a gratuity of Rs. 16 lakh on account of their continued service. The employees also lost leave encashment of nearly Rs. 6-8 lakh, which got accumulated in their service period, general provident fund of Rs. 7-10 lakh, GLIC of about Rs. 3 lakh and surrender of 40% of their pension beside PRC arrears.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/big-relief-for-787-govt-staff/article34211363.ece
01 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Jab for all above 45 years from today||The vaccination drive every citizen aged above 45 years, regardless of co-morbidities will begin from Thursday. Until now, apart from healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs), people aged 60 years or above, and those belonging to 45-49 year age group with co-morbidities were eligible for the vaccination. Certificate of co-morbidity had to be produced to get the jab. However, the government announced a week ago that everyone above 45 years is eligible. Meanwhile, the highest number of daily vaccinations in Telangana for this month was recorded on Tuesday — 42,399 beneficiaries took the jab, which included 22,841 people aged 60 years or above, 17,737 in the 45-49 age group with co-morbidities, 780 HCWs and 1,041 FLWs. According to the daily media bulletin issued by the State Health department, the highest number of beneficiaries who took the jab was on January 19 when 51,997 HCWs took the first dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jab-for-all-above-45-years-from-today/article34211349.ece
01 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Weavers left in the lurch, alleges BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday lamented that the weaver community was left in lurch and demanded the government to form a task force to address their issues on a war footing on Wednesday. Senior leader Gudur Narayana Reddy pointed out that the allocation of Rs. 338 crore in the State budget for weavers’ welfare and progress was not sufficient as there were no allocations for schemes like the Integrated Handloom Development, Telangana Handloom Weavers’ Thrift Fund, Integrated Skill Development, ‘Chenetha Mithra’, marketing support, credit support, ‘Pavala Vaddi’ and many others. Mr. Reddy pointed out that government has allocated Rs. 3,000 crore for shepherds for providing them sheep whereas just 10% of that amount has been earmarked for weavers with no subsidies or tariff cuts or health schemes. Cloth from weavers was not being purchased properly and Bathukamma sari orders were not given to weavers evenly with those from Sircilla getting preference. Elections too, were not held to the weavers’ cooperatives for the past four years and the Telangana State Handloom Weavers’ Co-operative Society Ltd. (TSCO) was not remitting the amounts to the weavers from whom it has purchased cloth. The government therefore should hold a meeting with the elders of the weaver community and discuss the issues being faced by weavers, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/weavers-left-in-the-lurch-alleges-bjp/article34211357.ece
01 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||ASI hit by Uber car driver succumbs||Annapu Mahipal Reddy, an Assistant Sub-Inspector with KPHB Colony police station, who was injured in a road accident at a drunk driving checkpoint at Nizampet on Sunday, succumbed to his injuries in the wee hours of Wednesday. The ASI was declared dead by the doctors of a corporate hospital at Gachibowli around 1 a.m. His family members came forward to donate his organs for the State-run Jeevandan Cadaver Transplantation Programme under Cyberabad police’s ‘Maro Janma’ initiative. Education Minister P. Sabitha Indra Reddy, Cyberabad Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar, Deputy Commissioners of Police N Prakash Reddy, Vijay Kumar SM and other officers consoled the family members of the victim and took part in his last rites. According to KPHB Colony police, on Sunday night, Reddy, who was the Night Round Officer (NRO), visited the drunk driving checkpoint to inspect the accident vehicle of one Srujan, who was driving under the influence of alcohol, tried to escape the checkpoint, and met with an accident. When he was inspecting the crime scene,a speeding Uber cab hit the ASI, as a result of which he suffered severe injuries on his head. His left leg was also fractured. He was rushed to a nearby hospital, from there he was shifted to a corporate hospital where he died while undergoing treatment. The accused cab driver Mohammed Alam was arrested on Thursday. Meanwhile, Mr.Sajjanar lauded the family of Reddy for donating his organs and saving the lives of eight persons with those organs. The deceased officer was given police respect and a customary salute with a police band and full honour bestowed on him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/asi-hit-by-cab-succumbs/article34211369.ece
01 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RT-PCR tests on priority for five patient categories, orders govt.||Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao has reiterated that RT-PCR tests should be conducted as priority on five categories of out-patients and in-patients in hospitals. In a communication issued by the senior official on Wednesday, he asked the managements to subject the following categories of patients to RT-PCR test — all patients of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection; all patients with Influenza Like Illness (ILI) symptoms in a hospital setting; asymptomatic high-risk patients who are hospitalised or seeking immediate hospitalization; asymptomatic patients undergoing surgical or non-surgical invasive procedures (not to be tested more than once a week during hospital stay), and pregnant women in labour or near-labour who are hospitalised for delivery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rt-pcr-tests-on-priority-for-five-categories/article34211350.ece
01 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Alliance Air flight to Hubballi||A Hubballi-bound Alliance Air aircraft took off from Hyderabad at around 6.35 a.m. amid a gathering of airport officials and other stakeholders. With this sector, the number of domestic destinations from Hyderabad has reached 57. Alliance Air has deployed a 70-seater ATR 72 600 on this sector. Flight No. 9I 879 will depart from Hyderabad at 6.25 a.m. and arrive in Hubballi at 8 a.m. In the return direction, Flight No. 9I 880 will depart from Hubballi at 8.25 a.m. and arrive in Hyderabad at 9.55 a.m. The direct air service is scheduled to operate three days every week — Monday, Wednesday and Friday. “Recommencement of this service testifies that passenger confidence in flying is gradually increasing and GMR Hyderabad International Airport is geared up to meet the growing demand. These services, which were launched under UDAN, a regional connectivity scheme launched by the Central Government to enhance air connectivity to Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities, are very crucial in re-establishing connectivity with metros,” said Airport CEO Pradeep Panicker. “Alliance Air aims to connect India with an Alliance of Hearts across the country with unique routes, unique destinations overcoming unique challenges. We look forward to serving Hyderabad and Hubballi with safety and service as priority,” said CEO of Alliance Air Harpreet A De Singh, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/alliance-air-flight-to-hubballi/article34211351.ece
01 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘KCR’s remarks on Jana distasteful, indecent’||Telangana Congress took strong objection to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s reported comments with TRS leaders that he would ensure Congress leader K. Jana Reddy ends his political career, and termed the comments as ‘distasteful’ and ‘indecent’ on a man who turned down the Chief Minister post for Telangana. At a press conference here, former Minister Shabbir Ali and former MP Mallu Ravi said that it was Mr. Jana Reddy who vouched for KCR when no one was ready to trust him during the Telangana agitation. He had always spoken high of KCR with the Congress high command to create positive vibes for Telangana but instead of being thankful to him, KCR is shamelessly making indecent comments like sending Jana Reddy to ‘permanent retirement’, they said. Mr. Shabbir Ali said Mr. Jana Reddy was offered the Chief Minister’s post during the peak of the statehood movement but he declined the offer as he didn’t want to compromise on separate Telangana. Mr. Jana Reddy was instrumental in the formation of the Joint Action Committee (JAC) to spearhead the agitation and always believed in ethics, morals and value-based politics, he said. Mr. Shabbir Ali alleged that the TRS has already dispatched Rs. 30 crore (Rs. 5 crore per mandal) as the first instalment for Nagarjunasagar by-elections. Two more instalments of equal or more amounts are also lined up, he claimed and said still Mr. Jana Reddy will emerge as the winner. Rs. 10,000 crore scam The Congress leaders also alleged that the government was involved in scams of over Rs. 10,000 crore and demanded that the Central government order a probe into the financial irregularities pointed out by the Comptroller & Auditor General of India (CAG) in its latest report. Mr. Shabbir Ali said the CAG reports exposed the loot by the government and alleged that the TRS government did not even respond to the Inspection Reports (IRs) of CAG to clarify the allegations of financial irregularities. He demanded that KCR clarify the observations made by the CAG on all issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcrs-remarks-on-jana-distasteful-indecent/article34211365.ece
01 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Online counselling for respondents of SHE teams||The Women Safety Wing of Telangana police organised a State-wide online counselling session to the respondents of SHE Teams. As part of the online counselling, based on complaints of February, a counselling session was conducted on Wednesday. “The session was held for 188 majors and 36 minor respondents from 17 units along with officers of SHE Teams,” Additional DGP (WSW) Swati Lakra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/she-teams-holds-online-counselling/article34211370.ece
01 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Scheme extended for realtors||The government has extended the sops issued for the real estate sector during the post-COVID-19 economic crisis, for further period of three months. On March 31, orders have been issued extending the instalment scheme offered to the realtors in payment of various fee up to June 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scheme-extended-for-realtors/article34211373.ece
01 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||pAGE 5 State bags 12 Central awards||Telangana has bagged 12 Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar annual awards for best performing panchayats in district, intermediate and gram panchayat categories. The State got one award at district, two at mandal and nine at gram panchayat levels, a release said. The awards were won by Medak Zilla Parishad in district category, Korutla Mandal Parishad in Jagtial district and Dharmaram Mandal Parishad in Peddapalli district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-5-state-bags-12-central-awards/article34211364.ece
01 April 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||31-khm-BRF||A ‘kavi sammelan’ will be held in the town on April 3 as part of the ongoing “Swatantra Bharatha Amrut Mahotsavam” celebrations to commemorate 75 years of India’s Independence. The kavi sammelan will be conducted on the topic “Swatantra Spoorthi” under the aegis of the Department of Youth Services at Bhakta Ramadasu Kala Kshetram auditorium here at 4 p.m. on Saturday. A galaxy of literary personalities from various parts of the old undivided Khammam district are expected to attend the programme. Noted poets will be felicitated on the occasion. Those interested in participating can contact the organisers over phone number: 9849913068.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/31-khm-brf/article34211354.ece
01 April 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Amarinder hits out at Centre over virus remarks||Amid Centre’s criticism of his government’s management of COVID-19 surge, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said not only was the State consistently conducting more tests per million than the national average, but the situation would have perhaps been better had the Central government not delayed opening up of vaccination for 45-plus age group. “Had the Central government acceded the State’s request for allowing vaccination of all 50-plus category population earlier, the situation would perhaps have been better,” he said. He said the State government had been repeatedly requesting the Centre that the current strategy of immunisation needed a review. Capt. Amarinder also took note of the delay in receiving reports of genome sequencing. “Of the 874 samples sent, only 588 reports have been received so far, of which 411 samples were found positive for B.1.1.7 U.K. variant and 2 positive for N440K. The implication needs to be looked into and appropriate advice is required to be shared with the State,” the Chief Minister urged the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/amarinder-hits-out-at-centre-over-virus-remarks/article34211263.ece
01 April 2021||GURUGRAM,||Hooda lauds farmers for struggle against farm laws||Former Haryana Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has lauded the ongoing struggle of the farmers against the three farm laws, saying the decision to continue with the protest after four months is their biggest victory. Mr. Hooda, who once again reached out to the protesting farmers at the Makdoli toll plaza on Wednesday, reiterated his support to the farmers’ movement and said their demands were justified. “The movement continues to grow, and this is the biggest victory for the farmers,” he said. Later, addressing a press conference at the residence of Kapoor Singh Narwal in Sonipat, Mr. Hooda said the announcements made by the BJP-JJP government during the Baroda by-election had proved to be a lie and this was the reason why the government had lost the confidence of the people. He said the present government had betrayed not only Baroda but the whole of Haryana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hooda-lauds-farmers-for-struggle-against-farm-laws/article34211266.ece
01 April 2021||GURUGRAM,||Judge M.M. Dhonchak bids farewell after ‘eventful’ career||District and Sessions Judge, M.M. Dhonchak, known as a staunch advocate of individual liberty, attained superannuation on Wednesday, after an “eventful” career spanning over three decades. Serving as District and Sessions Judge for around six years in three districts of Haryana, including Nuh and Kaithal, Mr. Dhonchak laid special emphasis on adherence to Supreme Court guidelines in “Arnesh Kumar vs State of Bihar and Others” against arrest for offences punishable with imprisonment for a term of seven years or less. He tirelessly persisted in awakening the magistracy against such illegal arrests. He also stressed on priority hearing of under trials’ cases. Though the courts remained partially shut for a large part of his tenure in Gurugram due to the pandemic, the number of inmates in district jail went down from 2,880 on September 30, 2019 to 2,605 on January 31, 2020 during the first four months of his posting in Gurugram. Described as “honest” and “uncompromising” with zero tolerance for the police’s high-handedness by his colleagues, Mr. Dhonchak was transferred 30-odd times. He had the dubious distinction of never completing his mandatory three-year tenure except during his posting in Nuh. In 1993, Mr. Dhonchak, as Judicial Magistrate First Class at Kaithal, imposed fines on the police personnel for not turning up in court for evidence. Also, at least twice the Bar went on long strikes against him, but he never recognised any strike by the Bar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/judge-mm-dhonchak-bids-farewell-after-eventful-career/article34211252.ece
01 April 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan govt. extends night curfew by an hour||Amid an increase in COVID-19 cases, the Rajasthan government on Wednesday decided to extend the night curfew timings by one hour in eight cities and imposed night curfew in two more towns. Besides, the markets in the urban areas will close by 9 p.m. instead of 10 p.m. earlier. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot announced the decisions at a COVID-19 review meeting held through videoconferencing here. He gave instructions to the officials to formulate district-level action plans to contain the spread of the infection and regularly monitor the situation in addition to the assessment of mortality and growth rates. The District Collectors were authorised to take a decision on closure of educational institutions in their respective areas where the cases were rising. The teams of district administration, police and urban local bodies will regularly visit markets to conduct checking in order to ensure compliance with the protocol to check the spread of infection. The night curfew was imposed last week from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. The curfew will now start from 10 p.m. Two more towns where the curfew has been imposed are Chittorgarh and Abu Road (Sirohi).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rajasthan-govt-extends-night-curfew-by-an-hour/article34211264.ece
01 April 2021||Mumbai,||HC reserves order on Param Bir Singh’s plea seeking CBI inquiry||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday reserved its order on the maintainability of a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh seeking a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into his letter alleging that State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had directed suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze to collect Rs. 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants. After hearing the matter for over six hours, a Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni reserved its order on the maintainability of the petition filed by Mr. Singh along with two more PIL petitions and two other petitions seeking an investigation into the letter written on March 20 to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, representing the Maharashtra government, said, “The State is eager and anxious to lift this cloud of suspicion. Clear these wild allegations. This is unnecessarily affecting the morale of the force. I have a preliminary objection; the PIL is not maintainable.” After senior advocate Vikram Nankani appearing for Mr. Singh read the letter in the court, the Bench asked, “You are seeking an investigation into what? Where is the FIR? What stopped you from approaching the police. We are prima facie of the opinion that without an FIR there can be no investigation. In a PIL can any dispute related to service matters be adjudicated?” Mr. Nankani said this matter was related to the interference in the police force by political masters. “Mr. Singh is not challenging his transfer order from commissioner to Director General of Maharashtra Home Guard,” he said. The HC then said, “You have to satisfy us on — is the PIL maintainable and can the court direct investigation without an FIR?” Chief Justice Datta asked, “Is there an affidavit annexed of any officers that whatever the letter contains was said to them or in their presence?” The Chief Justice continued, “Assuming whatever you have said is correct, do you support the principle of law that without an FIR there cannot be an investigation?” Mr. Kumbhakoni contended that Mr. Singh was a disgruntled litigant, and cited judgements to show that the senior IPS officer had vested interests in filing the PIL petition. Chief Justice Datta said, “This petition in the absence of an FIR prima facie appears to be without substances. Mr. Singh is a police officer; if he finds an offence has been committed, he is duty bound to file an FIR.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-reserves-order-on-param-bir-singhs-plea-seeking-cbi-inquiry/article34211262.ece
01 April 2021||Mumbai,||‘Committee to probe allegations against Deshmukh an eyewash’||The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday claimed that the retired Justice Kailash U Chandiwal Committee set up by the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is an eyewash as it has no powers to probe the allegations against State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. Refuting the claim, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), an MVA partner, reminded the BJP of a committee of retired Justice constituted by then Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis to investigate allegations of irregularities in land dealings worth Rs. 300 crore in Navi Mumbai. The NCP accused the BJP of involving in doublespeak. “Constitution of the Justice (retired) Kailash U Chandiwal Committee for probing the allegations against Mr. Deshmukh is just of committee nature and not as a judicial commission. Neither has it been constituted nor has been given the powers under the Commissions of Inquiry Act 1952 as was done in case of the Justice Zoting Committee during our tenure,” Mr. Fadnavis, Leader of Opposition, said. The Zoting committee, Mr. Fadnavis referred to, was set up by the previous BJP-led government to inquire into the allegations of land grab against then Revenue Minister Eknath Khadse. Mr. Khadse had to resign from the State Cabinet. Later, as an MLA of the BJP, he made several demands to make public the Zoting committee report in which he claimed that he had got a clean chit. Ultimately, the differences between Mr. Khadse and Mr. Fadnavis led to the former quitting the BJP and joining the NCP after the MVA came to power. Mr. Fadnavis said that the BJP was of the opinion that appointing such a committee was merely an eyewash. “It does not solve any purpose, looking at the gravity and severity of the allegations. Now the question is how a retired Justice without power will inquire against a sitting Home Minister,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/committee-to-probe-allegations-against-deshmukh-an-eyewash/article34211429.ece
01 April 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi sees 1,819 cases, govt. reserves 1,000 more beds||Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said that 230 ICU beds and 842 hospital beds have been added for COVID-19 treatment in 33 private hospitals in the city. He also said that vaccination drive will start for 65 lakh people, who are above 45 years of age in Delhi, from Thursday. “All 500 vaccine centres will be operational from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. Walk-in hours have been set from 3 p.m. onwards, in which those not registered can directly come to the centre and get inoculated,” Mr. Jain said 1,819 new cases Meanwhile, the surge in COVID-19 cases continued in Delhi with 1,819 new cases being reported in the last 24 hours. The total number of cases stood at 6,62,430, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. Eleven deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 11,027. A total of 67,070 tests were done in a day, the bulletin said. Of the total cases, 6,42,565 people have recovered and there are 8,838 active cases in Delhi at present. “We have enough vaccines available. The number of eligible beneficiaries is quite large. We will make efforts to complete the inoculation as soon as possible,” he said. “Orders were issued yesterday to add 230 ICU beds in private hospitals. Along with this, 842 normal beds were directed to increase. In Delhi government hospitals, enough beds are vacant. Overall occupancy rate including private and government hospitals is 25%. It is a comfortable situation, but there were instances of shortage of beds in two-three hospitals. Therefore, orders were issued yesterday to increase 220 ICU beds in 33 hospitals,” he said. Positivity rate The Minister said that Delhi’s positivity rate at 2.7% is much lesser than several other States with more than 10% positivity. He also said that the government is still discussing whether people coming from States with a heavy case load should require a COVID-19 negative report to come to Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-sees-1819-cases-govt-reserves-over-1k-more-beds/article34211255.ece
01 April 2021||New Delhi,||BJP leaders visit vaccination centres||Concerned over the rising number of COVID-19 cases in Delhi, the senior leadership of the BJP, including MP Anil Jain, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta and Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Wednesday visited vaccinations centres to assess the situation. They also met some of those getting vaccinated and enquired about their well-being, in addition to interacting with doctors who briefed them about various measures being taken by the authorities to ensure a smooth vaccination process. Mr. Gupta sought to allay any fear of the side-effects of vaccination, saying that India-made vaccines are quite effective and their results are coming out good. Mr. Bidhuri said the need of the hour is for everyone to get vaccinated in the light of increasing COVID-19 cases. He also asked partymen to help people in registering themselves for vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-leaders-visit-vaccination-centres/article34211253.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Heritage, cultural and public spaces discussed at MPD-2041 meeting||In the second Advisory Council meeting for the preparation of the Master Plan for Delhi-2041 on Wednesday, Delhi Development Authority officials said that heritage, cultural and public spaces, transport and mobility and physical infrastructure were some of the areas discussed, among others. The meeting, which was chaired by Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal, who is also the Chairman of the DDA, saw the participation of 18 members from various departments. “Members suggested enhancement of circular economy, significance of cultural heritage and explore economic viability by recognising the role of PPP [Publi-Private Partnership] in all sectors. They also highlighted the need to prepare safe neighbourhood guidelines and to explore the establishment of a unified body for “Business or Economic Bureau” and to facilitate digital infrastructure through a unified command centre,” the urban body said. Special emphasis Stating that DDA was asked to incorporate suggestions made by the members, Mr. Baijal added that special emphasis was laid on promotion of renewable energy, integrated water management and solid waste management. Enhanced share of public transport, moving towards low carbon mobility, including a walkable and cycling city, provision for dynamic parking systems, regeneration of unplanned areas and provisioning of affordable and liveable housing were some of the issues discussed, said Mr. Baijal. DDA officials added that the next meeting, which is scheduled for April 5, will have members deliberate on proposed plans, which include spatial development framework, action and monitoring framework and development code of MPD-2041.  Members highlighted the need to explore the establishment of a unified body for ‘Business or Economic Bureau’ Delhi Development Authority||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/heritage-cultural-and-public-spaces-discussed-at-mpd-2041-meeting/article34211259.ece
01 April 2021||New Delhi,||AAP attacks BJP over dry rations for students||The AAP on Wednesday alleged that the BJP is an “anti-poor” party and the BJP-ruled civic bodies distributed dry ration to only one school. The party also said that the BJP has stalled the home delivery of ration, a scheme of the Delhi government, to “harass” the poor. “It’s shameful that the BJP-ruled civic bodies distributed dry ration to only one school and the tender of this scheme is yet to take place. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, North Corporation Mayor and other BJP leaders inaugurated this scheme in a school,” AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said. The AAP leader said that on March 19, Mr. Gupta and others inaugurated the scheme of providing dry ration to municipal corporation-run schools. “The North body distributed the Delhi government-allocated ration to only one school, and soon after, conveniently did away with the scheme. Yesterday, when our councillors raised this issue in the House, they learnt that the tender process has not yet begun,” Mr. Bharadwaj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aap-attacks-bjp-over-dry-rations-for-students/article34211250.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shops must display if meat halal, jhatka: North body||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has made it mandatory for all restaurants and shops falling within its jurisdiction to display whether the meat being sold or served is ‘halal ’  or ‘jhatka ’. A proposal to make it “mandatory” to display the method by which the animal was slaughtered was cleared in a meeting of the House on Tuesday. North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash said, “Restaurants and shops in north Delhi will now have to mandatorily display whether the meat being sold or served is ‘ halal ’ or ‘ jhatka ’ as certain religions permit eating one form of meat, while others do not.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/shops-must-display-if-meat-is-halal-jhatka-north-body/article34211258.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||IGI Airport to hold random COVID-19 tests||The Delhi airport on Wednesday informed all domestic passengers arriving at the airport that the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) will conduct random COVID-19 test of passengers coming from States where there has been a surge in cases recently. The Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), which runs the airport, in a tweet said: “As per the latest government mandate, the DDMA shall conduct random COVID-19 testing of passengers coming from the states where cases are increasing.” It added, “After the collection of samples, the travellers would be allowed to exit. However, the passengers testing positive shall be mandatorily quarantined as per Ministry of Health and Family Welfare protocol.” Six States, including Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, have reported a high number of daily cases, the Union Health Ministry had said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/random-screening-for-covid-at-igia/article34211251.ece
01 April 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. trims process to get learner’s licence for e-rickshaws||The Delhi government has decided to allow applicants seeking a learner’s licence for e-rickshaws to directly approach the licencing authority without taking a prior appointment. According to another decision taken by the transport department, driving tests will also be conducted on Sundays. The applicants can directly approach the licencing authority between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. on every working day after depositing fee through the online software of Sarthi. Transport department has issued an official order in this regard. Over the past few months, the government has put in place contactless service for registration certificates and licence-related activities, which are currently undergoing trial. The department is planning to scale up this to 70 essential services in two phases over the next few months. In another significant decision, the department has given the option to applicants to take a driving licence test on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-trims-process-to-get-learners-licence-for-e-rickshaws/article34211257.ece
01 April 2021||New Delhi,||DTC signs deal with IGL on CNG for buses||The Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) on Wednesday signed an agreement with Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL) for the supply of CNG to DTC buses and private vehicles in Delhi. The agreement was signed by Vijay Kumar Bidhuri, Managing Director of DTC, and A.K. Jana, Managing Director of the IGL, in the presence of Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot. The agreement will be operational for 10 years, the government stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dtc-signs-deal-with-igl-on-cng-for-buses/article34211256.ece
01 April 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra adds 39,544 cases, 227 deaths||Maharashtra posted its second-highest single-day spike ever on Wednesday, reporting a surge of 39,544 new COVID-19 cases as its active case tally breached the 3.50 lakh mark to reach 3,56,243. An alarming fatality spike of 227 deaths (129 of which were reported in the last 48 hours while the rest were from an earlier period) pushed the death toll to 54,649. As many as 23,600 patients were discharged. The State’s recovery rate dipped to 85.34%. A record-high 1.67 lakh samples were tested in the last 24 hours as well. While the total case tally has touched 28,12,980, the cumulative recoveries stand at 23,77,127. “Of a total 1,96,25,065 laboratory samples tested thus far, 28,12,980 (with the average case positivity rising to 14.21%) have returned positive with over 1.67 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate had incrementally dipped to 1.94%. Given the increased emphasis on testing, Health Minister Rajesh Tope announced on Wednesday that the rates for COVID-19 tests performed in private laboratories in the State had been revised once again and that henceforth, only Rs. 500 would be charged for RT-PCR testing. In addition, the rate of rapid antigen antibody testing has also been reduced to Rs. 150. “Against the backdrop of increased cases, the State government has been continually revising rates of testing in private laboratories. It has so far revised the rates of these tests at least five to six times — from Rs. 4,500 to Rs. 500,” Mr. Tope said. As per a directive issued on Wednesday by the State Health Department, revised rates of Rs. 500, Rs. 600, and Rs. 800 have been fixed for RT-PCR tests. “A patient will be charged Rs. 500 for taking the sample from the collection centre and reporting it, while Rs. 600 will be charged for sample testing and reporting from the laboratory at the hospital, COVID-19 care centre, and quarantine centre, and Rs. 800 for sampling and reporting from the patient’s residence. No private laboratory can charge more than this ceiling,” said Dr. Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, Health Department. Pune district clocked a record surge of more than 8,500 new cases to take its total case tally to 5,36,262. Mumbai reported another massive surge of 5,399 new cases, taking its total tally to 4,14,773 of whom 49,953 are active. As many as 15 fatalities took the city’s death toll to 11,690. Cases continued to mount in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, with the Kalyan-Dombivli civic body recording 913 cases to take its total tally to 83,813. No deaths, however, were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-adds-39544-cases-227-deaths/article34211261.ece
01 April 2021||PUNE,||Tope: prepare for more stringent restrictions||No decision had yet been taken by the Maharashtra government on a possible lockdown, Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday. He, however, warned the public to be mentally prepared for more stringent curbs in the coming days. “The objective is to avoid large gatherings. We have thus far issued two notifications, on March 15 and March 27, in a bid to ensure pandemic norms are followed,” Mr. Tope said. The Health Minister refuted reports of bed shortages across hospitals in the State. “There is no such situation where there is a massive shortage of beds, either in Mumbai or in other districts. Yes, there may be specific instances of problems in certain hospitals in a particular district where there is a lot of demand. However, the situation is far from being dire,” said Mr. Tope. At present, there were 400 ICU beds, 2,160 oxygen beds and 213 ventilator beds available in Mumbai city itself. “Instructions to increase the number of beds have been given to all district administrations,” Mr. Tope said. He said that if citizens continued to behave irresponsibly and cases continued to rise unabated, then the government would be left with no recourse but to tighten the rules. Direct cash transfer Earlier, senior Congressman and former Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan had said that if the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government (of which the Congress is part) was indeed contemplating a lockdown, then it must compensate the loss of employment of daily wage labourers with direct cash transfer benefits. “The government must give prior notice to the general public before implementing a lockdown, if such a situation arises. Furthermore, it must keep the lockdown period as short as possible to keep the wheels of the economy moving,” Mr. Chavan said. “For this, MLAs and MPs can make use of local development funds. Importantly, the government must implement a lockdown in such a way that it avoids affecting the supply chain of farmers and business people by allowing the transport of agricultural and other industrial goods to continue,” Mr. Chavan said. He criticised the Modi-led government at the Centre for suddenly announcing a lockdown in March last year without any planning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tope-prepare-for-more-stringent-restrictions/article34211430.ece
01 April 2021||Washington,||Joe Biden set to announce $2 trillion infrastructure plan||U.S. President Joe Biden will visit Pittsburgh on Wednesday afternoon to announce a massive $2 trillion infrastructure plan, which will, over eight years, rebuild much of America’s infrastructure — from roads and bridges to high-speed Internet infrastructure and water pipes. The legislation, called the American Jobs Plan, is being pitched by the White House as America’s response to the climate crisis and “the ambitions of an autocratic China”, and is expected to be financed by corporate taxes. The plan will include $621 billion for modernising roads and bridges, modernising public transit (buses, rapid bus transport, railway tracks and coaches), passenger and freight rail services and electric vehicles, according to the White House. It will call for a $111 billion investment in drinking water infrastructure, including replacing all lead pipes. An outlay of $100 billion for clean power and another $100 for broadband infrastructure are also part of the plan. Mr. Biden will ask Congress for $180 billion in research and development (R&D), and $300 billion in supply chain investment and pandemic preparedness. The plan also goes into areas that are not normally considered ‘infrastructure’, with Mr. Biden asking Congress to fund a $400 billion expansion to home or community-based care for ageing relatives and the differently abled. To fund this, Mr. Biden will reverse some of the tax cuts pushed through by the Trump administration in 2017. “President Biden’s reform will reverse this damage and fundamentally reform the way the tax code treats the largest corporations,” a White House factsheet read. The plan proposes a hike in the corporate tax rate from 21% to 28% and seeks to set a global minimum tax of 21%. Mr. Biden will also encourage other countries to apply a “strong minimum tax” on corporations. Foreign tax preferences for fossil fuel companies will also be eliminated. Coming weeks after Congress passed his $1.9 trillion American Rescue Plan, the proposed infrastructure Bill and associated tax Bill is likely to face opposition from Republicans on Capitol Hill. “It seems like President Biden has an insatiable appetite to spend more money and raise people’s taxes,” GOP Whip in the U.S. House of Representatives, Steve Scalise of Louisiana, said, according to the Associated Press.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/joe-biden-set-to-announce-2-trillion-infrastructure-plan/article34210954.ece
01 April 2021||New Delhi,||Ex-PM Madhav Kumar Nepal to launch a political party||Nepal will soon have a new national political platform along the Marxist-Leninist ideological lines. Sources have told The Hindu that the new political outfit will be led by former Prime Minister Madhav Kumar Nepal, who had rebelled against Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli in the now defunct Nepal Communist Party. The decision to create a new political outfit was taken in the second week of March after PM Oli went ahead and held a meeting of the Central Committee of the party. “PM Oli held the meeting of the Central Committee without consulting the senior members of the CPN-UML. This showed that he is planning to centralise authority around himself. We do not believe that he alone should be allowed to lead a party on the Marxist-Leninist lines which is a popular ideology in Nepal. We have already begun reaching to the provinces and will soon formalise the launch of the new party,” said a source in Kathmandu. Back to two parties The Nepal Communist Party was scrapped by the Supreme Court in Kathmandu on March 7, which ordered that the two political formations of Communist Party of Nepal-UML and CPN (Maoist-Centre) that had united to form the NCP in 2018 should revert to their original forms. The order helped PM Oli as he became the leader of the largest political formation in Parliament with 121 members. The CPN (Maoist-Centre) of Pushpa Kamal Dahal 'Prachanda' was left with 53 members in the legislature. The court ruling came even as Mr. Oli faced a rebellion within ruling NCP led by Madhav Kumar Nepal and Mr. Prachanda which had prompted the PM to dissolve the House of Representatives in December 2020. Earlier, the court had reinstated the lower house in an order on February 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ex-pm-madhav-kumar-nepal-to-launch-a-political-party/article34210957.ece
01 April 2021||RIO DE JANEIRO,||Brazil military chiefs quit after Bolsonaro fires Defence Minister||The leaders of all three branches of Brazil’s armed forces jointly resigned on Tuesday following President Jair Bolsonaro’s replacement of the Defence Minister, causing widespread apprehension of a military shakeup to serve the President’s political interests. The Defence Ministry reported the resignations — apparently unprecedented since at least the end of military rule 36 years ago. Replacements were not named. But analysts expressed fears the President, increasingly under pressure, was moving to assert greater control over the military. “Since 1985, we haven’t had news of such clear intervention of the President with regard to the armed forces,” said Carlos Melo, a political science professor at Insper University in Sao Paulo. Mr. Bolsonaro, a conservative former Army captain who has often praised Brazil’s former military dictatorship, has relied heavily on current and former soldiers to staff key Cabinet positions since taking office in January 2019, but Mr. Melo said the military itself has so far refrained from politics. The announcement came after the heads of the Army, Navy and Air force met with the new Defence Minister, General Walter Souza Braga Netto, on Tuesday morning. Gen. Braga Netto’s first statement on the new job showed he is aligned with Mr. Bolsonaro’s views for the armed forces. The incoming Defence Minister, unlike his predecessor Fernando Azevedo e Silva, celebrated the 1964-1985 military dictatorship that killed and tortured thousands of Brazilians. “The 1964 movement is part of Brazil’s historic trajectory. And as such the events of that March 31st must be understood and celebrated.” Mr. Bolsonaro on Monday carried out a shake-up of top Cabinet positions that was initially seen as a response to demands for a course correction over his handling of the pandemic that has caused over 3,00,000 deaths. His slide in popularity, and the likelihood that he will face leftist former President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva in the 2022 presidential election, has analysts saying he is looking to the armed forces for support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/brazil-military-chiefs-quit-after-bolsonaro-fires-defence-minister/article34210951.ece
01 April 2021||Rome,||Italy expels Russians after Navy officer ‘caught’ selling secret files||Italy expelled two Russian officials on Wednesday after an Italian Navy captain was allegedly caught red-handed selling secret documents to a Russian military officer. The Italian frigate Captain was arrested on spying charges after a “clandestine meeting” with the Russian late on Tuesday in Rome, according to a police statement. Special operations police stopped both men but only the Italian was arrested. He is accused of passing on “confidential documents” in exchange for money. The Russian, an Embassy official, avoided custody thanks to diplomatic immunity, police said. Italian Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio summoned Russia’s Ambassador to Rome, Sergey Razov, on Wednesday morning to lodge a formal protest. The diplomat was notified of “the immediate expulsion of the two Russian officials involved in this very serious affair”, Mr. Di Maio said. According to La Repubblica newspaper, the Navy Captain worked at the office of Chief of the Defence Staff and had access “to a wide range of documents” concerning both Italian defence and NATO activities. The Corriere della Sera newspaper said the captain was paid €5,000 in cash by the Russian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/italy-expels-russians-after-navy-officer-caught-selling-secret-files/article34210952.ece
01 April 2021||Riyadh,||Saudi Arabia to unveil $3.2 tn investment drive||Saudi Arabia announced plans on Tuesday to pump investments worth $3.2 trillion into the national economy by 2030, roping in the oil-reliant kingdom’s biggest companies in a major economic diversification push. The announcement by de facto ruler Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman underscores an effort to jumpstart the domestic economy as the top crude exporter battles high youth unemployment and a coronavirus-triggered downturn. “The total investment injected... into the national economy is expected to reach 12 trillion riyals ($3.2 trillion) by 2030,” Prince Mohammed said in a speech carried by state television. Twenty-four of the kingdom’s biggest companies, including energy giant Aramco and petrochemical firm SABIC, will lead the investment drive by contributing five trillion riyals ($1.3 trillion) over the next decade, he said. The Public Investment Fund (PIF), the kingdom’s sovereign wealth fund, will provide three trillion riyals. And the remaining four trillion riyals will come from a new “national investment strategy”, which will soon be announced, Prince Mohammed told reporters later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/saudi-arabia-to-unveil-32-tn-investment-drive/article34210959.ece
01 April 2021||Niamey,||Coup bid in Niger ahead of presidential inauguration||Elite troops in Niger thwarted an “attempted coup” on Wednesday, a security source said, just two days before the historic inauguration of Mohamed Bazoum as President of the chronically unstable Sahel nation. Residents earlier reported hearing gunfire in the middle of the night near the presidency in the capital Niamey. “There were some arrests among a few members of the army who are behind this attempted coup,” said the source, speaking on condition of anonymity. “The Presidential Guard retaliated, preventing this group of soldiers from approaching the presidential palace,” the source said. A resident of Niamey’s Plateau district, which includes the President’s official residence and offices, said, “It was around 3 a.m., we heard shots from heavy and light weapons and it lasted 15 minutes before stopping, followed by shots from light weapons.” The alleged coup comes ahead of Mr. Bazoum’s inauguration on Friday — the first elected transition in Niger’s history since independence from France in 1960. Mr. Bazoum is a former Interior Minister and right-hand man of outgoing President Mahamadou Issoufou.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/coup-bid-in-niger-ahead-of-presidential-inauguration/article34210949.ece
01 April 2021||Berlin,||Pfizer: vaccine 100% effective in adolescents||BioNTech-Pfizer said on Wednesday their vaccine showed 100% efficacy against the coronavirus in 12- to 15-year-olds, as they eye approval for adolescents to get the jabs before the next school year. Phase 3 trials carried out on 2,260 adolescents in the U.S. “demonstrated 100% efficacy and robust antibody responses”, the companies said. “We plan to submit these data to FDA as a proposed amendment to our Emergency Use Authorisation in the coming weeks and to other regulators around the world, with the hope of starting to vaccinate this age group before the start of the next school year,” said Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla. BioNTech said the results showing high protection for teens were “very encouraging given the trends we have seen in recent weeks regarding the spread of U.K. variant”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pfizer-vaccine-100-effective-in-adolescents/article34210955.ece
01 April 2021||New York,||Suspect held over attack on Asian woman||Police in New York arrested on Wednesday a suspect in a brutal, videotaped assault of a 65-year-old Asian-American woman, the latest incident of anti-Asian violence in the U.S. Police announced the arrest on Twitter and said the man was charged with felony assault as a hate crime. The tweet did not give his name but U.S. news outlets identified the man as Brandon Elliot, 38. The attack, which took place on a sidewalk in Manhattan on Monday, was caught on CCTV footage from inside a building. In the video, posted online by police, the man can be seen walking up to the woman and kicking her in the stomach, knocking her to the ground. He then kicks her several times in the head before walking away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/suspect-held-over-attack-on-asian-woman/article34210958.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Still no recognition of the third tier||This article is a brief critique of the recommendations of the Fifteenth Finance Commission with regard to local governments. The primary task of the Union Finance Commission is to rectify the vertical and horizontal imbalances in resources and expenditure responsibilities between Union and States, which after the 73rd and 74th Constitutional Amendments includes the third tier of local governments. This Commission is the fifth after the incorporation of Part IX and Part IX-A to the Constitution which mandate the Union Finance Commission to supplement the resources of panchayats and municipalities on the basis of the recommendations of the State Finance Commission (another institution created by the Amendments). Now, nearly 2.5 lakh local governments and over 3.4 million elected representatives form the real democratic base of the Indian federal polity. Unlike the previous Commissions, the Fifteenth Finance Commission was in the background of the COVID-19 pandemic which reinforced the significance of local governments, gram sabha and other participatory institutions in containing the crisis and delivering social protection in India. Higher vertical devolution While there are some critical lacunae in its recommendations regarding local governments, the Fifteenth Finance Commission has several positive aspects to be said in its favour. For one, the vertical devolution recommended to local governments is raised remarkably high. From a measly share of 0.78% of the divisible pool with an absolute sum of Rs. 10,000 crore by the Eleventh Commission, the Fifteenth Finance Commission raised it to 4.23% with a reasonably estimated amount of Rs. 4,36,361 crore. Compared with the Fourteenth Finance Commission there is a 52% increase in the vertical share. Even if we deduct the grant of Rs. 70,051 crore earmarked for improving primary health centres, the share is still an all-time high of 4.19%. Continuity and change should be the overarching salience of a transfer system, which is designed to build a viable third tier to Indian democracy. All the Commissions since the Eleventh Commission have tied specific items of expenditure to local grants and the Fifteenth Finance Commission has raised this share to 60% and linked them to drinking water, rainwater harvesting, sanitation and other national priorities in the spirit of cooperative federalism. However, it reduced the performance-based grant to just Rs. 8,000 crore — and that too for building new cities, leaving out the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) altogether. The performance-linked grants thoughtfully introduced by the Thirteenth Finance Commission earmarked 35% of local grants specifying six conditions for panchayats and nine for urban local governments and covered a wide range of reforms: from the establishment of an independent ombudsman to notifying standards for service sectors such as drinking water and solid waste management. The Fourteenth Finance Commission, however, cut the performance grant share to 10% for gram panchayats and 20% to municipalities with the conditionality that all local governments will have to show improvements in own source revenue. Municipalities are additionally required to publish service level benchmarks for basic services. The transformative potential in designing performance-linked conditionalities for improving the quality of decentralised governance in the context of indifferent states is missed. Entry-level criterion An important recommendation of the the Fifteenth Finance Commission is the entry-level criterion to avail the union local grant (except health grant) by local governments (strictly speaking, it is performance-linked). For panchayats, the condition is online submission of annual accounts for the previous year and audited accounts for the year before. For urban local governments, two more conditions are specified: after 2021-22, fixation of minimum floor for property tax rates by the relevant State followed by consistent improvement in the collection of property taxes in tandem with the State’s own Gross State Domestic Product. It is not clear why gram panchayats (especially the affluent and semi-urban categories) are left out from this. Although Finance Commissions, from the Eleventh to the Fourteenth, have recommended measures to standardise the accounting system and update the auditing of accounts, the progress made has been halting. Therefore, the entry-level criteria of the Fifteenth Finance Commission are timely. The moot question is, will this bring about substantive changes? The Eleventh Finance Commission published the fiscal data of all tiers of panchayats and municipalities in its report. But the data proved defective. The Twelfth Finance Commission did not publish any local fiscal data. The Thirteenth Finance Commission published data online and some researchers did use them. Unlike the previous Commissions, the Fourteenth Finance Commission conducted a sample survey covering 15% gram panchayats, 30% block panchayats and all district panchayats besides 30% municipalities, presumably to ensure quality in canvassing data. The results too were not published. Interestingly, neither the Fifteenth Finance Commission nor the earlier counterparts took pains to examine how and where the financial reporting system has failed. Without reliable data can you ensure good governance? The Fifteenth Finance Commission, which generally takes care to go into details (see recommendations on health care, air pollution etc.) and is well aware of India’s regional heterogeneity, failed to carry policy choices forward systematically. Articles 243G, 243W and 243ZD read along with the functional decentralisation of basic services like drinking water, public health care, etc., mandated in the Eleventh and Twelfth schedules demand better public services and delivery of ‘economic development and social justice’ at the local level. While the grants to the primary health centres must be acknowledged as a great gesture, a good opportunity to ensure comparable minimum public services to every citizen irrespective of her choice of residential location has not been taken forward in an integrated manner. Equalisation principle It may be relevant to recall that the Alma-Ata declaration of the World Health Organization (1978) which outlined an integrated, local government-centric approach with simultaneous focus on access to water, sanitation, shelter and the like. The Fifteenth Finance Commission claims that it seeks to achieve the “desirable objective of evenly balancing the union and the states”. It is not clear why there is no recognition of the third tier in this balancing act. Although the Fifteenth Finance Commission outlines nine guiding principles as the basis of its recommendation to local governments, there is no integrated approach (in contrast to the recommendations of the Thirteenth Finance Commission). It is forgotten that public finance is an integrated whole. That the tasks of the Union Finance Commission were broadened as part of the decentralisation reforms (280(3) (bb) and (c)) is a firm recognition of the organic link of public finance with the development process at all tiers of government. Although the Fifteenth Finance Commission stresses the need to implement the equalisation principle, it is virtually silent when it comes to the local governments. It is equally important to note that in the criteria used by the Fifteenth Finance Commission for determining the distribution of grant to States for local governments, it employed population (2011 Census) with 90% and area 10% weightage the same criteria followed by the Fourteenth Finance Commission. While this ensures continuity, equity and efficiency criteria are sidelined. Equity is the foundational rationale of a federation. Abandoning tax effort criterion incentivises dependency, inefficiency and non-accountability. In sum, if decentralisation is meant to empower local people, the primary task is to fiscally empower local governments to deliver territorial equity. We are far from this goal. M.A. Oommen is Honorary Fellow, Centre for Development Studies and Honorary Professor, Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation, Thiruvananthapuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/still-no-recognition-of-the-third-tier/article34210936.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Re-examining the EPF tax rules||Gene Roddenberry’s Star Trek had a wonderful concept, one called ‘Prime Directive’. It required outer space explorers from Earth to avoid interference with the affairs of civilisations they came across. This ensured natural progression instead of a nudged progression, biased by Earth sensibilities. Events over the past few years in the Employees’ Provident Fund programme can make one think that policymaking should take a ‘Prime Directive’ break in affairs related to the EPF. Take, for instance, the recent amendments to tax regulation affecting EPF. For long, taxation surrounding the EPF was simple to understand and easy to execute. If one contributed more than the limit prescribed under Section 80C of the Income Tax Act, they did not get a tax break on the excess contribution. Earnings on contributions rarely suffered taxation since tax laws pegged tax-free earnings to rates higher than that of interest rate on the EPF. One paid tax on their corpus only if they withdrew it within five years of commencing contribution. Rightly so, since the EPF is a retirement product. This taxation framework incentivised employees to use the EPF as their primary retirement saving. Indeed, for many, the EPF remains the sole ‘risk-free’ retirement savings mode given its design, asset allocation and the ‘government-run’ tag.  ‘HNI’ individuals This will change for many because of the new tax regulation that, in effect, labels one “a high net worth individual (HNI) who is misusing EPF” if one contributes more than Rs. 2.5 lakh per annum to the EPF. The limit is Rs. 5 lakh in cases where employers do not make contributions to the provident fund. Indeed, the day after the announcement of this change, the media was filled with statistics of a staggering twenty members that had over Rs. 800 crore in their EPF accounts — just twenty out of the several crore accounts overseen by the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO). The move should be given a rethink because it is flawed in principle and difficult to administer. Regressive view The basis of this new tax law reeks of a 1970s’ Bollywood-style narrative where the affluent do only evil and need to be punished. The ‘rich man’s pension vs. poor man’s pension’ divide, that we have seen earlier in policymaking in case of superannuation plans (the Fringe Benefit Tax and the perquisite tax on superannuation contributions), and now in the case of EPF, is regressive. It assumes that the government knows what is adequate for an individual on retirement. We live in an era of evolving post-retirement aspirations, medical cost inflation, volatile interest rate cycles, credit busts and minimal choices for post-retirement investments. The best bet for employees, then, is to maximise savings via statutory and voluntary contributions. Intuitively, most employees who start to contribute large sums of money to their retirement plan do so when there are surpluses — when mortgages have been paid off and children’s education is funded. This occurs closer to retirement. So, the need to catch up is significant. While other investment products have grown in popularity, one does realise that for most working Indians, the EPF typifies safety with governance. For the government, therefore, to decide on a common threshold of adequacy is incorrect — it suffers the flaws of a one-size-fits-all approach.  Furthermore, the ‘misuse’ that was used to justify the imposition of the tax is difficult to comprehend. The EPF is solely a payroll deduction and cannot be contributed in any other manner. It, therefore, suffers taxation for amounts exceeding the limit prescribed in Section 80C of the Act. This last point makes the new clause bring the EPF to the borders of double taxation. Further, close to 65% of EPF is invested in government securities, with the rest being invested largely in PSU bonds and the equity index. Earnings are made available to the employee via an interest credit mechanism. Despite the stickiness of these interest rate declarations and their often being higher than market rates, it is certain that the government does not subsidise this interest rate credit. Unlike the Employees’ Pension Scheme (EPS), the EPF remains a subsidy-free, pay-what-is-earned retirement fund. The flaws it suffers are related to design and administration and are equally applicable to all segments of its members — the affluent and not-so-affluent. It is accessible to employees on permanent cessation of employment and, thanks to the Universal Account Number (UAN) regime, cannot be accessed easily before retirement. Given all this, the argument of misuse of the EPF by the higher-salaried segment is incorrect. In addition to flaws in the principle, there can be difficulties in the administration of the new tax rule. Various interpretative inadequacies surrounding the applicability to EPF, especially in light of the changed threshold from Rs. 2.5 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh, remain. It is also unclear if the interest on such excess contributions is taxed once during the year of contribution or throughout the term of investment in EPF. The mechanism of tax communication from the EPFO to the member also remains uncertain. One assumes that the systems at the EPFO will need changes and such ongoing taxation of the annual interest rate credit is a first-time measure for the organisation. The bigger picture In a wider context, it is important that policymakers reflect on what the EPF has come to signify. While pension funds are seen by governments in myriad policy contexts, they should remain, foremost, the retirement funds of their beneficiaries. Regulations governing contributions, taxation, investments, administration and benefits should be made in the interest of the beneficiary. But it may seem that other imperatives dominate the agenda in pension policymaking in India. Hence, the resultant outcomes are, at best, sub-optimal from a beneficiary point of view. An example of this is how regulation has obsessed over the coverage of lower-income employees, who have often preferred current compensation over deferred compensation such as retirement funds, while tax laws frown upon other segments of employees increasing voluntary provident fund. Some of these re-looks are important to execute over time, but an immediate rollback of the tax rules will demonstrate the will of the policymakers to encourage retirement savings. And then, a period of ‘Prime Directive’ adoption will help ‘energise’ the vision of a pensioned society. Amit Gopal leads Mercer's investment practice in India and has worked with retirement plan funds for over two decades||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/re-examining-the-epf-tax-rules/article34210944.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||A step that enhances cooperative federalism||On January 17, 2017, the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi wrote to the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly of Delhi stating that the President of India had considered the Delhi Netaji Subhas University of Technology Bill, 2015 and directed that it be returned to the Legislative Assembly of Delhi. One of the reasons stated for the return was the inconsistent definition of the term “Government.” In June 2015, when the Legislative Assembly of Delhi had passed the Delhi Netaji Subhas University of Technology Bill and sent it for the President’s assent, it had defined the term “Government” as the “Government of the National Capital Territory of Delhi.”  Formalises the definition After the Bill was returned, the Delhi Assembly sent a modified version of the Bill for the President’s assent where the definition of “government” was described as: “Lieutenant Governor of NCT Delhi appointed by the President.”  Last week, both Houses of Parliament voted overwhelmingly in favour of the amendments to the Government of the National Capital Territory (NCT) of Delhi Act. The aim of the amendments were to clear such ambiguities in the roles of various stakeholders and provide a constructive rule-based framework for stakeholders within the Government of Delhi to work in tandem with the Union Government. One of the changes made was to bring consistency in the definition of the term “Government”. In this instance, the government was only formalising the definition of a term that the Delhi Assembly itself had already accepted. This rule-based framework is especially important given that Delhi is also India’s national capital and the symbolism that comes with being the seat of the sovereign power. Partners not adversaries The National Democratic Alliance Government, under the leadership of the Prime Minister, has completely transformed Centre-State relationships. At the core of this transformation is the outlook that States — and by extension the Chief Ministers of the States — are partners in the national agenda, and hence must have platforms and frameworks available to work together. In earlier governments we saw State Chief Ministers queuing up in front of unelected officials in the erstwhile Planning Commission supplicating for grants. The creation of NITI Aayog, the establishment of the Goods and Services Tax Council, the restructuring of central schemes and accepting the Fifteenth Finance Commission’s recommendations for greater devolution are clear examples of the Union Government viewing States as equal partners. A legislative right This partnership requires an environment of trust and mutual co-operation. A necessary condition for such an environment is the distinct delineation of roles and responsibilities, the removal of ambiguities, and the definition of a clear chain of command among stakeholders. In this regard, it was important to define, without doubt, who represents the Government in the unique case of Delhi. On December 20, 1991, Home Minister S.B. Chavan tabled the Constitution Amendment Bill in the Lok Sabha to add Articles 239AA and 239AB into the Constitution that paved the way for the creation of a Legislative Assembly and a Council of Ministers for the National Capital Territory (NCT) of Delhi. This amendment passed in 1991 empowers Parliament to enact laws supplementing constitutional provisions. Similarly, the Government of NCT Delhi also has the power to enact laws regarding matters specified under the State list and Concurrent list, to the extent these are applicable to a Union Territory. It becomes important to ensure there is complete synchronisation between the Union Government and the Government of NCT Delhi and that there is no encroachment in legislative matters. In the case of the Government of NCT Delhi, it has no legislative competence in matters pertaining to the police, public order, and land. The risk of incremental encroachments on these subjects in the legislative proposals under consideration of the Delhi Legislative Assembly can have severe ramifications for Delhi. Thus, for the Opposition to portray a government exercising its constitutional responsibilities as an undemocratic act shows a wilful lack of understanding. The national capital hosts the country’s legislature, the seat of the Union Government, the judiciary, diplomatic missions, and other institutions of national importance. It deserves smooth functioning and cannot be subject to misadventures arising from the ambiguities in the roles and responsibilities of its stakeholders. A functioning relationship While some in the Opposition have accused the government of undermining the federal structure of the country, others have painted an even darker picture proclaiming the death of democracy itself. Nothing can be farther from the truth. Making Delhi Assembly rules consistent with the rules of the Lok Sabha or ensuring that the opinion of the Lieutenant Governor is taken can only ensure clarity and foster an environment of co-operation. In no manner do these amendments dilute or affect the powers of the Delhi Legislative Assembly. Various court judgments have also observed the ambiguities and lack of clarity. The people of Delhi deserve a functioning government, and the amendments made aid in creating such an environment. G. Kishan Reddy is Minister of State for Home Affairs and represents the Secunderabad Parliamentary constituency in the Lok Sabha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-step-that-enhances-cooperative-federalism/article34210939.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||A downward spiral in Assam||It is vital to assess the performance of incumbent governments, especially those that claim to have ushered in development. Let us take the case of Assam and examine the Sarbananda Sonowal-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government’s performance on key indicators. In 2015-16, before the BJP government had taken charge, Assam’s economy clocked the second-highest growth rate at 15.67%, and its per capita income was growing at 13.02%. A credible dialogue process was also initiated and taken forward over the 15 years of Tarun Gogoi-led Congress rule, which ushered in peace. In May 2016, the BJP assumed power and since then, the growth story has petered out and distress reigns supreme. Alarming numbers Assam’s economy had lost steam much before the COVID-19 pandemic impacted the State. In 2019-20, the economy grew at 6.30% and per capita income grew at a measly 3.46%. Within four years, Assam had gone from being ranked 2nd and 3rd on these counts to 20th and 26th respectively. Where Assam ranked highly was inflation — the fourth highest in the country. A responsive government would have reacted to provide relief to those hurting from the loss of incomes and price rise. But that is not what the BJP government did. Taking a cue from the Narendra Modi-led Central government, the State raised Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel in the middle of the pandemic. The price of LPG cylinders in Guwahati has risen by nearly Rs. 300 in the past ten months. Struggling with falling revenues, the government chose to burden the common people of Assam. Development work has suffered since the BJP-led Central government scrapped the special category status for States, affecting Assam and other northeastern States. The 2020-21 Assam budget also saw massive cuts in several important departments like agriculture, rural development, education, healthcare, and flood control. The BJP promised a ‘double-engine’ government. Instead, Dispur and Delhi demolished the double-digit development. The State is also facing a job crisis. The youth unemployment rate in urban areas for the January-March 2020 quarter was 29.3%. Only five years ago, the BJP had emphatically promised 25 lakh jobs. Earlier this year, it admitted that only 80,000 government jobs were provided. In contrast, the unemployment rate in April 2016, the last complete month when the Congress governed Assam, was 0.7%. This had increased to 7.6% by December 2020. Further, rapid development and robust job creation by the Tarun Gogoi-led Congress government had complemented its efforts towards ending insurgency. Between 2000 and 2015, major incidents of terrorism fell by 94%. Years of progress has been undone in the past five years. The NITI Aayog’s Sustainable Development Goal Index points to Assam’s worsening state on the poverty index. The National Family Health Survey-5 also supports these findings. The prevalence of malnutrition and anaemia has risen in the population. The proportion of children aged 6-59 months who are anaemic nearly doubled; the proportion of women who are anaemic increased by over 40%.  In its manifesto, the BJP has promised a “brighter future” for Assam’s children. It ignores how it presided over a rise in drop-out rates in secondary schools. Incidences of crime against children more than doubled, increasing by 133% between 2015 and 2019. Data from the National Crime Records Bureau suggests a complete breakdown of law and order in the State. Comparing the rate of crime, Assam leads other States in crimes against women, violent crimes, kidnapping and abduction of women, and procuration of minor girls.  Assam’s people bear the brunt of floods and the State has a multitude of issues to resolve. Even then, the BJP government’s campaign has communal and xenophobic overtones that seek to divide and pit one person against the other. How the BJP has failed Assam is best highlighted by its promise to review the National Register of Citizens (NRC), a process the party oversaw. The BJP plays up the controversial Citizenship (Amendment) Act in West Bengal, but refuses to discuss its implementation in Assam, which has seen huge protests against the law. Overall, the BJP’s five years in Assam have reversed economic growth in tangible and measurable ways. But it is the damage and division that it has unleashed in this sensitive, diverse State, which has caused immeasurable harm to the harmonious and inclusive development of Assam. Rajeev Gowda is Chairman and Akash Satyawali is National Coordinator at the Research Department, All India Congress Committee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-downward-spiral-in-assam/article34210947.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Turkey on edge||The recent removal of the governor of Turkey’s Central Bank, which initially sent the lira tumbling by 14% and rattled global investors, has yet again brought into sharp relief President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s long fixation with a debt-fuelled model of growth. The apparent reason why Naci Agbal, former finance and economy Minister, was eased out barely four months into his recent job was because he had raised the main rate of interest twice and too fast. Earlier in 2019, the term of Murat Cetinkaya, then head of the Central Bank, was ended a year prematurely because he had not reduced the lending rates soon and sharply enough. The legality of the decision was questioned by an opposition politician. Undermining independence Both instances underscore the extent to which Mr. Erdogan has systematically undermined the sanctity of the Central Bank’s independence. In a bid to shore up the country’s construction and consumption boom that has heavily relied on inflows of hot money, he has railed against high interest rates, dubbing them both the mother and father of all evil. In one of the hallmarks of his executive presidency since 2018, Mr. Erdogan has argued, in a seeming negation of orthodox monetary policy, that higher interest rates indirectly stoked rather than slowed inflation. This unconventional stance has underscored Istanbul’s reluctance to draw lessons from the 2018 currency meltdown, when 30% of the lira’s value was wiped off, triggering skyrocketing inflation and the first recession in a decade. When Mr. Agbal took over as the bank’s head in November, he inherited a much-weakened lira left behind by the former Finance Minister and Mr. Erdogan’s son-in-law Berat Albayrak. The currency had lost a quarter of its value to the U.S. dollar over the previous year, as investors withdrew huge volumes of lira-denominated bonds amid rising unemployment in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and more than 15% inflation. Istanbul has spent more than $100 billion to prop up the lira, eroding its foreign exchange reserves, prompting the ratings agency Moody’s to raise concerns about a potential balance-of-payments crisis. While at the helm, Mr. Agbal introduced a 6.75 percentage point benchmark rate increase, and more recently, a 2 percentage point rise. Both moves were hailed as a return to monetary orthodoxy, leading to an appreciation in the value of the lira. These gains compare favourably with the situation following the 2018 currency crisis. A 24 percentage point interest rate hike resulted in a significant drop in inflation from 25% to about 15% in the following year. The turnaround in inflation figures has evidently not influenced any real shift in the government’s position. On the contrary, Istanbul had last year taken recourse to proxy measures to raise the cost of borrowing and other unconventional steps to flatter its foreign exchange reserves. The new incumbent at the Central Bank, Sahap Kavcioglu, a former legislator from the ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP), is known to share Mr. Erdogan’s unconventional monetary policy stance. Observers, nonetheless, see hopeful signs in the Finance Minister’s promise following the recent slide in the currency to maintain price stability and Mr. Kavcioglu’s willingness to maintain the status quo at least until the next meeting of the Monetary Policy Committee in April. Investors can do little else than clutch at these straws given Mr. Erdogan’s highly erratic ways, as is evident from the replacement of the Deputy Governor of the bank on Tuesday. The reaction from currency markets towards Mr. Agbal’s sudden removal would suggest that the decision could not have been more at odds with the President’s recent remarks regarding the government’s single-digit inflation target. There are growing concerns over the implications of a potentially strengthening U.S. dollar following the Biden administration’s enactment of a $1.9 trillion economic stimulus package. The restoration of a semblance of stability to the volatile lira ought to top Turkey’s current priorities. The author is Director, Strategic Initiatives, AgnoShin Technologies Pvt. Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/turkey-on-edge/article34210948.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||The second wave||The rise in COVID-19 cases as part of India’s ‘second wave’ has the government and public health authorities truly worried. In many ways, the concern is larger than during last year when there were several more cases. V.K. Paul, Member, NITI Aayog, who has been in the forefront of public communication on all matters COVID-19, described the ongoing situation as going from “bad to worse.” The Health Secretary, Rajesh Bhushan, has also reiterated in the last two weeks that urgent action must be taken. On March 1, concerns of a spike were still on the horizon. In a month, however, the situation appears catastrophic. The number of new active cases added on March 1, around 3,000, has now become nearly nine-fold. Daily deaths too have, in that interval, skyrocketed three-fold — from around 112 to 354. As of this month, India has administered nearly 6.3 crore doses of Covaxin and Covishield and since March 20, has been inoculating a little over 2 million every day. What is apparent is that the States registering a high number of cases — Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh — are also those where many are signing up for their first dose. A notable exception is Punjab. The government is also bearing down on local vaccine companies to prioritise delivery to India over their international commitments as several other vaccine candidates line up emergency approvals from regulators. So, vaccine hesitancy is not India’s most pressing problem. India’s communication of the tides and ebbs of the pandemic has always been below par. The broader strategy by the Central and State governments is to take credit when there is a declining trend in cases and blame people’s laxity for an upward trend. More research needs to be conducted and communicated on whether mortality in the second wave is biased towards the group yet ineligible for vaccination, and whether reinfections are an emerging problem. It was always known, from the vaccine trial data, that the inoculations were extremely effective at addressing severe disease but less so in containing infections. This aspect needs to be amplified and communicated more clearly to encourage vaccination. It is hypocritical on the government’s part to allow large religious gatherings and political melas in election-bound States and also blame normal movement for the second wave. What is needed is messaging that emphasises the realistic protective abilities from vaccination and physical distancing measures. It is also unclear why new vaccines are not being accelerated for emergency use when Covishield and Covaxin were rushed through without any local efficacy data. More vaccines and a sharpening of India’s communication strategy are essential.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-second-wave/article34210931.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Enter the peace process||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar’s comment that India supports talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban signals a subtle shift in New Delhi’s approach towards the Afghan crisis. At the 9th Heart of Asia Conference in Tajikistan, he said India has been supportive of all efforts being made to “accelerate the dialogue” between the Afghan government and the Taliban, in a rare direct reference to the insurgent group. In the 1990s and 2000s, India was steadfastly opposed to any dealings with the Taliban. But its position seems to have evolved over the years. In 2018, when Russia hosted Afghan and Taliban talks, India had sent a diplomatic delegation to Moscow. In September 2020, at the intra-Afghan peace talks in Doha, Mr. Jaishankar was present at the inaugural session via a video link, reaffirming the long-held Indian position that any peace process should be Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. His latest comments come close on the heels of a new peace push by the Joe Biden administration of the U.S. The Biden plan includes two key proposals — a unity transition government between the warring parties and a UN-led multilateral conference of envoys from India, China, Iran, Pakistan, Russia, and the U.S. India has supported the UN-led process, in an apparent climbdown from its earlier position, and now shown willingness to deal with the Taliban. The evolution of India’s position is in sync with the evolution of the reality in Afghanistan. The Taliban, no longer an untouchable force, control much of the country’s rural territories. The U.S. has already signed a deal with the Taliban, wherein American troops are scheduled to pull back from Afghanistan by May 1. China had long ago reached out to the Taliban. Russia has hosted talks between the two sides. European powers have also shown interest in sponsoring talks. So, India has to be more flexible and adapt to the new strategic reality. Since the fall of the Taliban, India has cultivated deep ties with the Afghan people and the government, with investments in multiple projects dealing with education, power generation, irrigation and other infrastructure development. The first batch of vaccines Afghanistan got was from India, in February. Recently, India signed an agreement to build the Shahtoot dam near Kabul. Thus, its economic, strategic and security ties could be disrupted if the Taliban were to take over. The question India faces, like the other stakeholders, is how to help Afghanistan end the violence without a total capitulation to the Taliban. India joining the peace process could strengthen the hands of the Afghan government, which is negotiating from a position of weakness. New Delhi should, using its regional clout as well as its deep ties with both the U.S. and Russia, strive for what Mr. Jaishankar called “double peace”, both inside Afghanistan and in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/enter-the-peace-process/article34210932.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Film export to Ceylon||[Madras, March 31] Mr. AL Srinivasan, President of Commerce, will be leaving for Ceylon to-morrow, to participate in the trade talks to be held there between the Indian High Commissioner and the authorities of the Ceylon Government on the import of Indian films into the island. In a statement to-day, Mr. Srinivasan welcomed the move of the Ceylon Government to canalise the import of films through a State-sponsored agency and said the film industry in India would extend its fullest cooperation to the move. Eighty per cent of the Indian films imported into Ceylon were in Tamil language while the rest were Hindi films, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/film-export-to-ceylon/article34210941.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. retains 4% inflation target for RBI’s rate panel for 2021-26||The Centre has decided to retain the inflation target of 4%, with a tolerance band of +/- 2 percentage points for the Monetary Policy Committee of the RBI for the coming five years, a top finance ministry official said. “The inflation target for the period April 1, 2021, to March 31, 2026... has been kept at the same level as it was for the previous five years,” Economic Affairs Secretary Tarun Bajaj told reporters on Wednesday. He dismissed queries on whether the focus had shifted to core inflation or any other component of retail inflation and hinted that the framework would remain ‘the same’ as earlier. Economists welcomed the continuity in the framework, despite the recent spate of high inflation prints beyond the 6% upper threshold of the inflation target. “The range of 2%-6% as a flexible inflation target has worked reasonably well and continuing with the same target would not disturb the monetary policy framework as such going forward,” said M. Govinda Rao, member Fourteenth Finance Commission and former director of the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy. “Inflation may have breached the 6% mark a few times recently, but this has been during an exceptional situation in the economy.” The decision puts to rest speculation about the government considering a looser inflation target to enable a more growth-oriented focus in monetary policy. RBI officials had in a report in February stressed that “the current numerical framework for defining price stability” was appropriate for the next five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-retains-4-inflation-target-for-rbis-rate-panel-for-2021-26/article34210921.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||India GDP to grow 7.5%-12.5% in FY22, says World Bank||India’s economy is expected to grow at 10.1% for the year starting April 1, 2021, as the vaccine roll-out drives activity in contact-intensive sectors, as per the World Bank’s South Asia Economic Focus South Asia Vaccinates report. However, given the significant uncertainty around epidemiological and policy factors, real GDP growth could range from 7.5% to 12.5%, stabilising at 6-7% in the medium term, it said. “It is not normal to talk about these wide ranges in the forecast,” Hans Timmer, Chief Economist for the World Bank’s South Asia region, said on a briefing call with reporters. “The reason is that we are really in unprecedented circumstances,” he said. Fiscal year 2021 is expected to register the worst economic damage due to the pandemic, the report said (the economy contracted 8.5% in FY20-21 as per the World Bank’s estimate). The Bank expects public consumption to contribute positively, but pent-up private demand to fade by end 2021, as investment will pick up very gradually as a result of a large government capital expenditure push. Negative spillovers from financial sector distress (particularly concessions to debtors) are a risk to the growth outlook, the report warned. However, the Reserve Bank of India is expected to maintain an accommodative monetary policy stance during FY22. “So a big bounce back in India, but not completely out of the woods yet,” Mr. Timmer said.  As to the second wave that is possibly under way now in India and its impact on the economic outlook, Mr. Timmer said that these new waves and new variants of the virus were part of the risk factors to the outlook.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-gdp-to-grow-75-125-in-fy22-says-world-bank/article34210929.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre will front-load bulk of borrowings this year, says Bajaj||The government will front-load a bulk of its borrowing for 2021-22, and is confident that the Reserve Bank of India will manage to help raise the funds at reasonable rates, a top finance ministry official said on Wednesday. “In the Budget, we had announced a gross borrowing of Rs. 12,05,500 crore and a net borrowing of Rs. 9,37,221 crore,” said Economic Affairs Secretary Tarun Bajaj. “In the first half of the year, for which the detailed calendar is being released today, we will be borrowing Rs. 7.24 lakh crore... which is 60.06% of the gross issuances in 2021-22,” he added. The borrowings would be done across tenures ranging from two years to 40 years, Mr. Bajaj said. He added that any review of the borrowings plan would only be conducted later in the year depending on how the tax and non-tax revenue streams panned out. Despite record government borrowings in 2020-21, yields ‘generally remained very stable’, Mr. Bajaj said, but admitted “there was an issue in the last few auctions that happened in the month of March.” On whether the government was concerned about the possibility of paying higher rates for its borrowings in the coming year in the light of some recent securities auctions being cancelled, the Secretary said: “I have been in touch with the RBI as usual and I had a meeting with the central bank again before announcing the borrowing calendar. “I am sure they would take appropriate action in the market to ensure that yields remain within reasonable limits and I have no reason to believe anything else,” he added.   Despite record borrowings in 2020-21, yields remained very stable||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-will-front-load-bulk-of-borrowings-this-year-says-bajaj/article34210923.ece
01 April 2021||New Delhi,||Core sector output contracts 4.6% in Feb.||The output of eight core sectors declined by 4.6% in February, the steepest contraction in the last six months, which economists said could drag the overall industrial production in the month into the negative territory. All the key segments, including coal, crude oil, natural gas, and refinery products, witnessed a decline in production, according to the official data released on Wednesday. The growth rate of the eight infrastructure sectors — coal, crude oil, natural gas, refinery products, fertilisers, steel, cement and electricity — stood at 6.4% in February 2020. According to the data, coal production declined by 4.4%, crude oil by 3.2%, natural gas by 1%, refinery products by a steep 10.9%, fertilisers by 3.7%, steel by 1.8%, cement by 5.5% and electricity by 0.2% in February 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/core-sector-output-contracts-46-in-feb/article34211023.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||SpiceJet in plane leasing pact with Avenue of U.S.||Low-cost carrier SpiceJet announced a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with U.S.-based Avenue Capital Group for financing, purchase and sale and leaseback of 50 new planes. “The MoU sets out the next steps and conditions upon which Avenue, as part of the strategic alliance with SpiceJet, will assist in placing SpiceJet’s new aircraft portfolio, including sale and leaseback of and also assumption of ownership of potentially up to 50 of these aircraft,” the airline said. In a sale and leaseback model, an airline acquires the aircraft at an attractive price and sells it to a lessor and leases it back for its use. “This alliance will ensure a seamless induction of the planes in our fleet and help us plan better for the long term,” said Ajay Singh, CMD, SpiceJet. The airline has an agreement with aerospace firm Boeing for a total of 205 aircraft, including a firm order for 155 Boeing 737 MAXs. The airline already has a fleet of 100 aircraft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/spicejet-in-plane-leasing-pact-with-avenue-of-us/article34210919.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Divestment nets Centre Rs. 32,835 cr., betters RE||The government has mopped up Rs. 32,835 crore from CPSE share sale and buybacks, thus exceeding the disinvestment target set in the revised estimates (RE) for the current fiscal. The realisation is, however, lower than the record Rs. 2.10 lakh crore originally budgeted. In the RE, the target was scaled down to Rs. 32,000 crore as COVID-19 delayed planned big-ticket disinvestment. In a tweet, Department of Investment and Public Asset Management Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey said the total DIPAM receipts in 2020-21 stand at Rs. 71,857 crore, which include disinvestment receipts of Rs. 32,835 crore and dividend receipts of Rs. 39,022 crore. “Total dividend receipts from CPSEs in FY2020-21 have touched Rs. 39,022 crore, which exceeds the revised estimate (RE) of Rs. 34,717 crore, and is more than actual dividend receipts (Rs. 35,543 crore) during the previous financial year,” Mr. Pandey tweeted.  For 2021-22 fiscal, the Union government has set a disinvestment target of Rs. 1.75 lakh crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/divestment-nets-centre-rs-32835-cr-betters-re/article34210927.ece
01 April 2021||MUMBAI,||BPCL buys out OQ in unit for Rs. 2,400 cr.||Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (BPCL) has signed a sales purchase agreement (SPA) with OQ (formerly Oman Oil Company Ltd.) for the purchase of their entire stake in Bharat Oman Refineries Ltd. (BORL) for Rs. 2,400 crore. BPCL runs a 7.8 MMTPA refinery at Bina in M.P. Since March 2020, BPCL had been holding 63.4% and OQ 36.6% equity in BORL. The government of M.P. holds a minor stake through compulsorily convertible warrants. “This [acquisition] is expected to bring advantages to both the companies in terms of synergies and optimisation of returns and will facilitate future expansion or diversification in Bina,” said N. Vijayagopal, director (finance), BPCL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bpcl-buys-out-oq-in-unit-for-rs-2400-cr/article34210913.ece
01 April 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI defers e-mandate compliance||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has extended the timeline for stakeholders to migrate to the process of e-mandates on recurring online transactions by six months till September 30, 2021. The move came after the regulator found that many players had not met the deadline. “Any further delay in ensuring complete adherence to the framework beyond the extended timeline will attract stringent supervisory action,” the RBI said in a circular. In August 2019, the RBI had issued a framework for processing of e-mandates on recurring online transactions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-defers-e-mandate-compliance/article34210914.ece
01 April 2021||MUMBAI,||Piramal to buy peptide API firm Hemmo||Piramal Pharma Ltd. (PPL) has entered into an agreement to acquire a 100% stake in Hemmo Pharmaceuticals Pvt. Ltd. for an upfront payment of Rs. 775 crore and earn-outs linked to achievement of milestones, a top official said. Hemmo would form part of PPL’s contract development and manufacturing organisation (CDMO) Piramal Pharma Solutions. “Hemmo is one of the few pure-play synthetic peptide API manufacturers in the global marketplace,” said PPL. “Hemmo has demonstrated a great quality track record with a hard-to-replicate capability,” said Nandini Piramal, chairperson, PPL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/piramal-to-buy-peptide-api-firm-hemmo/article34210917.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. extends emergency credit till June||The government on Wednesday extended the Rs. 3-lakh-crore emergency credit line guarantee scheme by another three months till June 30 and also widened its scope to new sectors, including hospitality, travel and tourism. ECLGS 3.0 would involve extending credit of up to 40% of total credit outstanding across all lending institutions as on February 29, 2020, the Finance Ministry said. The tenor of loans granted under ECLGS 3.0 would be 6 years, including a moratorium period of 2 years. The last date for disbursements has been extended to September 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-extends-emergency-credit-till-june/article34210924.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Feb. fiscal deficit at 76% of RE: CGA||The Centre’s fiscal deficit at the end of February worked out to be 76% of the revised estimate, indicating that it is likely to remain within the projections made by Finance Minister (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman last month. The FM had revised the fiscal deficit projections for 2020-21 to Rs. 18.48 lakh crore, or 9.5% of the GDP from the original budget estimate of Rs. 7.96 lakh crore, or 3.5% of the GDP, mainly on account of additional outgo to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. According to the data released by the Controller General of Accounts (CGA), the fiscal deficit at the end of February stood at Rs. 14.05 lakh crore or 76% of the revised estimate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/feb-fiscal-deficit-at-76-of-re-cga/article34210925.ece
01 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||General insurers to offer three standard products from today||General insurers dealing in Fire and Allied perils insurance business will offer three standard products, as mandated by insurance regulator IRDAI, covering the risks of dwellings and enterprises from Thursday. Bharat Griha Raksha, Bharat Sookshma Udyam Suraksha and Bharat Laghu Udyam Suraksha will be available both as new policies and renewals with effect from April 1, according to the regulator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/general-insurers-to-offer-three-standard-products-from-today/article34210911.ece
01 April 2021||Hyderabad,||Dr. Reddy’s investing in industry digital initiative||Drugmaker Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories said it has entered into an agreement with ABCD Technologies LLP, an industry digital initiative, to facilitate and promote efficiency in pharma supply chain. It is contributing Rs. 40 crore to the firm, which is to be renamed as IndoHealth Services LLP. Dr. Reddy’s said the transaction is in line with its purpose of accelerating access and affordability of medicines to all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dr-reddys-investing-in-industry-digital-initiative/article34210912.ece
01 April 2021||Mumbai,||SBI raises additional $1 billion from JBIC||State Bank of India (SBI) has signed a loan agreement amounting to up to $1 billion with the Japanese Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC). The loan is intended to promote the smooth flow of funds for the whole range of business operations of Japanese automobile manufacturers in India. The public sector lender had signed a similar deal with JBIC in October 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sbi-raises-additional-1-billion-from-jbic/article34210916.ece
01 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Centre infuses fund in 4 PSBs||The Centre has infused a fresh capital of Rs. 14,500 crore in four public sector lenders to improve their financial health. The lenders said they received the funds as part of Central Government’s investment in the preferential allotment of equity shares for FY21. On Wednesday, Central Bank of India received Rs. 4,800 crore, IOB Rs. 4,100 crore, Bank of India Rs. 3,000 crore and UCO Bank Rs. 2,600 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-infuses-fund-in-4-psbs/article34210922.ece
01 April 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Rousing welcome for Gokulam Kerala||The cup is home. There were thousands to cheer Gokulam Kerala on as they took a victory parade around the city on Wednesday. It was indeed an evening to remember for the newly-crowned I-League champion and its fans. But for the coronavirus, Gokulam would have been able to play many of its matches at home, the Corporation Stadium, which witnessed some of the biggest crowds for the I-League in the last couple of seasons. The parade was a reminder of that. Fittingly, it was from the stadium that the parade kicked off. It culminated at the Kozhikode beach. Besides the entire team, coach Vincenzo Alberto Annese, technical director Bino George, Gokulam’s CEO Ashok Kumar, former international footballers Jo Paul Ancheri, N.P. Pradeep and M. Suressh were also there. As were the club’s chairman Gokulam Gopalan and president V.C. Praveen; their decision to invest heavily in football, some four years ago, gave Kerala an I-League club and now the State’s first ever title in the national league. Emotional moment It was an emotional moment for many associated with Gokulam from the early days. Like Bino, the team’s first coach. “It is great to be part of a victory parade like this,” he said. “It was very unfortunate that we could not play any match at home because of the pandemic. It would have been fantastic to be crowned at the home ground. This parade is some consolation, nevertheless.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rousing-welcome-for-gokulam-kerala/article34211432.ece
01 April 2021||Madrid,||Belgium and the Netherlands go on a scoring spree||Belgium and the Netherlands scored 15 goals combined in big routs in World Cup qualifying on Tuesday, while Portugal got one from Cristiano Ronaldo in its victory against a Luxembourg team that tinkered with another shock result. Belgium crushed Belarus 8-0 to stay at the top in Group E, while the Dutch trashed Gibraltar 7-0 to go second behind Turkey in Group G. Minnow Luxembourg, which opened with a surprising win against Ireland, looked on its way to pulling off another upset after it took the lead against Portugal, but the visitors came from behind to stay at the top of Group A along with Serbia, which earlier defeated Azerbaijan with another double by Fulham forward Aleksandar Mitrovic. After being held scoreless in the first two qualifiers this year, Ronaldo scored his 31st goal in World Cup qualifying early in the second half in Portugal’s victory at Luxembourg. Two goal heroes Hans Vanaken and Leandro Trossard both scored a pair of goals as Belgium trounced Belarus with four goals in each half. The home victory left Belgium three points ahead of the Czech Republic, which lost 1-0 at Wales thanks to a late Daniel James goal after an assist by Gareth Bale. Second half collapse Gibraltar, ranked 195th in the world, kept the Netherlands largely at bay before the break but collapsed in the second half on the artificial turf of Victoria Stadium. The visitors added to their 1-0 halftime lead with four goals by the 64th, then got two more closer to the end. Turkey missed a chance to earn its third straight win after squandering a 2-0 lead in a 3-3 draw with Latvia.  The results: Group A: Luxembourg 1 (Rodrigues 30) lost to Portugal 3 (Jota 45+2, Ronaldo 51, Joao Palhinha 80); Azerbaijan 1 (Makhmudov 59-pen) lost to Serbia 2 (A. Mitrovic 16, 81).   Group E: Wales 1 (James 82) bt Czech Republic 0; Belgium 8 (Batshuayi 14, Vanaken 17, 89, Trossard 38, 76, Doku 42, Praet 49, Benteke 70) bt Belarus 0.   Group G: Gibraltar 0 lost to the Netherlands 7 (Berghuis 42, L. de Jong 55, Depay 61, 88, Wijnaldum 62, Malen 64, Van de Beek 85); Turkey 3 (Kenan Karaman 2, Hakan Calhanoglu 33, Burak Yilmaz 52) drew with Latvia 3 (Savalnieks 35, Uldrikis 58, D. Ikaunieks 79); Montenegro 0 lost to Norway 1 (Sorloth 35).   Group H: Croatia 3 (Perisic 62, Modric 76-pen, Brekalo 90) bt Malta 0; Slovakia 2 (Skriniar 38, Mak 74) bt Russia 1 (Fernandes 71); Cyprus 1 (Pittas 42) bt Slovenia 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/belgium-and-the-netherlands-go-on-a-scoring-spree/article34211067.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Cellar dwellers last year, new-look Royals eye the penthouse||It has been a chequered journey for Rajasthan Royals in the IPL. It was the champion — against all odds — in the inaugural edition in 2008. Last season, it finished at the bottom. So this time around, things can only get better for the team, which is sporting a different look. It has a new captain in Sanju Samson, a new director of cricket in Kumar Sangakkara, the most expensive player in IPL history in Chris Morris, not to mention additions such as Shivam Dube and Liam Livingstone; and there is no Steve Smith, the skipper for most of the last two seasons. Archer-shaped hole While the Royals management has had time to think about re-jigging the top-order in the absence of the Australian run-machine, it probably would not have been prepared for the huge vacuum created by the unavailability of Jofra Archer, at least for the initial stages. The England star — as complete a fast-bowler as a T20 team could hope for — had surgery on his right hand on Monday. Archer was not just the Royals’ best cricketer last year, he was also the IPL’s best — he was adjudged the Most Valuable Player. His deadly spells were the main reason why his team was in with a chance of making the playoffs even at the business end. In Archer’s absence, Morris will have to spearhead the attack. The South African quick must be hoping to receive support in the pace department from the likes of Kartik Tyagi, who had impressed in his maiden IPL last year, Jaydev Unadkat, Mustafizur Rahman and Andrew Tye.  All-rounders Ben Stokes and Dube could also chip in with a few overs of pace. Leg-spinning all-rounders Rahul Tewatia, a revelation last year, and Shreyas Gopal could have important roles to play. Royals will need big shots to fly off the blades of Jos Buttler, Samson — it will be interesting to see how captaincy impacts his batting — and Stokes. There is quality in the support cast of Yashasvi Jaiswal, Riyan Parag, David Miller, Livingstone, Mahipal Lomror and Manan Vohra, too. If the Royals need inspiration or words of wisdom, they have Sangakkara to turn to. If the man can offer so much in his commentary stints, imagine what he could do in team meetings! Could Samson and Sangakkara turn Royals’ fortunes around? We will find out in a few weeks.  X-Factor  Ben Stokes: All-rounders have always been a precious commodity in cricket. None is more precious today than Stokes. He can bowl quick, block and blast with the bat, and take stunning catches in the slips and on the boundary. And yes, he can win Ashes Tests and World Cup finals single-handedly. Surely he will want to leave his imprint on the world’s most glamorous cricket league too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cellar-dwellers-last-year-new-look-royals-eye-the-penthouse/article34211018.ece
01 April 2021||KOLKATA,||We have a well-rounded squad, says Morgan||Captain Eoin Morgan feels Kolkata Knight Riders has ‘filled some gaps’ and got ‘some options’ to emerge as a well-rounded unit for the 2021 Indian Premier League (IPL). According to the Englishman, KKR is equipped to handle exigencies, including injuries and illnesses. “Planning needs to be put in place to strengthen your squad in all areas and we did that at the auction. I hope it will position ourselves to both have a versatile team when it comes to selection and also have strength and depth if needed,” said Morgan on Wednesday, at a virtual press conference to announce MPL as KKR’s principal sponsor for three years. Morganunderscored his point when he was asked about a key department – spin bowling. “Adding Harbhajan (Singh) to the squad has strengthened it. If you look at our spin department as a whole, on paper, it is one of the best. But the fact is you look at the options we have, and the conditions that we might play in, particularly in Chennai which notoriously can turn or at least raise the eyebrows of our spinners. If we play well in the tournament, I think our spinners will have bowled well. “Similarly our batting unit, if we really have a good campaign, a lot of our players will contribute and will have big impacts. Our squad is very well-rounded and extremely strong in certain departments.” Morgan reflected on KKR’s versatile middle-order last season. “If we play well, there are a lot of teams which will not enjoy playing against us. We need to make the right call when to play the best hand and that’s one of the things we learnt from last year.” Hoping to recover soon Morgan, who would get the stitches on his hand removed on Thursday, was hopeful about his recovery. KKR CEO Venky Mysore was upbeat about the hiring of England’s white-ball analyst Nathan Leamon, who was introduced to the franchise by Morgan. “The skill sets (A.R.) Srikkanth has and what Nathan brings are different and complementary,” said Mysore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-have-a-well-rounded-squad-says-morgan/article34211517.ece
01 April 2021||KOLKATA,||ATKMB keeps faith in Habas||Indian Super League runner-up ATK Mohun Bagan has decided to retain Spanish head coach Antonio Lopez Habas for one more season, it announced on Wednesday. Habas, the most successful coach in the ISL, will enter his sixth season with an Indian club. He won two ISL titles (2014 and 2019-20) with ATK before its merger with Mohun Bagan last year. The new agreement will mark Habas’ association with a Kolkata club for five seasons. The 63-year-old Spaniard had spent one season with the now-defunct FC Pune City (2016-2017). “I am happy that the officials have kept faith in me and our technical staff. It will inspire us all a lot before the AFC Cup and boost our moral strength. Our goal now is to bring success to the club at the international level,” reacted Habas from his home in Madrid. “We are committed to upholding the trust of the members, supporters and officials.” ATKMB’s next target will be to do well in the AFC Cup 2022 qualifiers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atkmb-keeps-faith-in-habas/article34211054.ece
01 April 2021||Chennai,||Malak stuns top seed Sunayna||Malak Kamal of Egypt upset the calculations of Sunayna Kuruvilla, the top seed, 13-11, 11-4, 9-11, 15-17, 11-8 to enter the women’s semifinals of the PSA Challenger Tour squash tournament here on Wednesday. Malak will next take on countrymate Rana Ismail for a place in the final. Tanvi advances Tanvi Khanna of India also reached the last four with a facile 11-8, 11-9, 11-6 win over Aparajitha Balamurukan. Tanvi will lock horns with Hana Moataz of Egypt, who put it across India’s Sanika Choudhari 11-3, 12-10, 11-3 in just 14 minutes.  Trailing by a game, Sunanyna went all out in the fourth game against Malak. The top seed finally closed out the game on her sixth game point while Malak couldn’t convert two match points. Malak went 5-2 and 9-5 up in the decider. And a backhand drive from the deep to the tin saw the end of Sunayna.  The results (quarterfinals):   Men: Abhay Singh bt Yahya Elnawasany (Egy) 11-6, 11-2, 6-11, 7-11, 11-7.   Karim El Hammamy (Egy) bt Moustafa El Sirty (Egy) 15-13, 11-4, 7-11, 13-11.   Toddy Harrity (USA) bt Aly Hussein (Egy) 11-9, 11-8, 12-10; Mahesh Mangaonkar bt Mazen Gamal (Egy) 11-6, 11-5, 11-8.   Women: Rana Ismail (Egy) bt Sachika Balvani 11-9, 11-4, 12-10; Tanvi Khanna bt Aparajitha Balamurukan 11-8, 11-9, 11-6.   Hana Moataz (Egy) bt Sanika Choudhari 11-3, 12-10, 11-3.   Malak Kamal (Egy) bt Sunayna Kuruvilla 13-11, 11-4, 9-11, 15-17, 11-8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/malak-stuns-top-seed-sunayna/article34211065.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Maxwell can turn a game on its head: Hesson||Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) Director of Cricket Operations Mike Hesson is confident that new signing Glenn Maxwell will add great substance to the middle-order. Maxwell, who was picked up by RCB for Rs. 14.25 crore in the recent auction, does not have a great IPL record. In his last five seasons, the Australian has scored only two fifties, and has not lived up to high expectations. Fantastic player “Maxwell is a fantastic player, and he fits what we require in the middle order. We want X-factor players; that high-impact player. In the middle overs, we need another player of quality to add to the likes of A.B. de Villiers. “Maxwell and A.B. de Villiers can form a two-pronged attack through the middle overs and in the back end. On his day, Maxwell can turn a game on its head,” Hesson said in a media interaction on Wednesday. Hesson added that the team management is working on plans to get the best out of Maxwell. “We need to use him in a space where we can maximise his skills. “We've spent some time looking at how we can do that. We’re really looking forward to working with him, and preparing over the next few days to be really clear about his role,” Hesson added.  Maxwell and de Villiers can form a two-pronged attack through the middle overs and in the back end||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/maxwell-can-turn-a-game-on-its-head-hesson/article34211107.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Good day in office for Arjun||National champion Arjun Khade had a fruitful day, beating Dominik Palan of the Czech Republic 6-3, 6-4 in singles and making the doubles quarterfinals with Saketh Myneni in the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament here on Wednesday. Arjun had perspired to beat the Czech in three sets last week in Pune. Big serves This time around, serving big and stroking with intensity, Arjun was able to assert his strong game against the Czech. Top seed Sidharth Rawat started well but allowed Filip Bergevi of Sweden to prevail over him in a three-set tussle. Bergevi meets Poonacha Bergevi will next challenge the former national champion Niki Poonacha.  The results:   Singles (first round): Filip Bergevi (Swe) bt Sidharth Rawat 4-6, 6-4, 6-1; Luca Castelnuovo (Sui) bt S.D. Prajwal Dev 6-4, 6-3; Aidan Mchugh (GBr) bt Henry Patten (GBr) 7-6(5), 6-4.   Nitin Kumar Sinha bt Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam 6-2, 6-0; Dalibor Svrcina (Cze) bt Rohan Mehra 6-3, 6-2.   Jonathan Mridha (Swe) bt Suraj Prabodh 6-3, 6-3; Arjun Kadhe bt Dominik Palan (Cze) 6-3, 6-4.   Alexander Kotzen (US) bt Chirag Duhan 6-3, 6-0; Oliver Crawford (US) bt Ishaque Eqbal 6-7(1), 6-1, 6-3; Manish Sureshkumar bt Preston Brown (US) 6-3, 6-3; Zsombor Velcz (Hun) bt Muthu Aadhitiya Senthilkumar 6-4, 6-1.   Marco Brugnerotto (Ita) bt Siddharth Vishwakarma 6-4, 5-7, 6-4; Simon Carr (Irl) bt Aryan Goveas 6-0, 6-1.   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Arjun Kadhe & Saketh Myneni bt Dev Javia & Adil Kalyanpur 6-2, 6-3; Anirudh Chandrasekar & Niki Poonacha bt Lorenzo Bocchi (Ita) & Chandril Sood 6-2, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/good-day-in-office-for-arjun/article34211228.ece
01 April 2021||Dubai,||Kohli stays on top||India captain Virat Kohli retained his top spot in the ICC rankings for ODI batsmen, while pacer Jasprit Bumrah slipped a place to fourth position in the bowler's list released on Wednesday. Kohli, who had scores of 56 and 66 in the first and second ODIs against England, has 870 points in his kitty. Bumrah, who was rested from white-ball series against England, slipped a place to the fourth spot among bowlers and has 690 points. India limited overs vice-captain Rohit Sharma is ranked third, behind Pakistan's Babar Azam, while K.L. Rahul has moved up from 31st to 27th spot. All-rounder Hardik Pandya has achieved a career-best 42nd position among batsmen after scores of 35 and 64, and Rishabh Pant has entered the top 100. In the T20 batting list, both Rahul and Kohli have dropped a rung and are now placed fifth and sixth respectively. No other Indian featured in the top-10 among bowlers and all-rounders in the latest T20I rankings. In the Test rankings, spinner Ravichandran Ashwin retained his second spot behind Australia's Pat Cummins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohli-stays-on-top/article34211056.ece
01 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Manpreet Singh optimistic of a strong show||Its morale high after an unbeaten tour of Europe, the Indian men’s hockey team left for a competition trip to Argentina on Wednesday with captain Manpreet Singh optimistic of a strong show against the reigning Olympic champion. A 22-member Indian team left for Buenos Aires from here this morning for its second outing in 2021 after an unbeaten tour of Europe last month where it took on Germany and Great Britain. Returning to the Indian team after a year, Manpreet shared his excitement about playing against a top-quality side. “Not playing competitive hockey for over a year has been a big setback but this is something every team in the world is facing due to the pandemic,”Manpreet said in a press release issued by Hockey India. The six-match tour against hosts Argentina includes four games matches apart from the back-to-back FIH Hockey Pro League matches on April 11 and 12. “Though I missed out the Europe tour due to personal reasons, I was closely following the matches and it was very encouraging to see how the team performed against Germany and Great Britain. We are looking forward to yet another unbeaten tour,” stated the optimistic captain. Exposure trip The tour is largely being viewed as an exposure for the team as it prepares for the Tokyo Olympic Games. Manpreet believes it will be a great opportunity for the youngsters to prove themselves in the lead up to the Games. Speaking about his personal goals, Manpreet said, “It has been a tough year for all of us. “I think personally for me, overcoming COVID last year was more of a mental battle than anything else.  “Over these past few months, I have put in a lot of hardwork to return to my earlier form. “This tour will not only be a good occasion for the team to assess our performance but also personally for me to understand the areas I need to improve individually too.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manpreet-singh-optimistic-of-a-strong-show/article34211063.ece
01 April 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Arun, Yuganand, Ankit, Ashrit, Sanjay crack tons||Arun Mishra (WMCC, 107, 104b, 17x4) and Yuganand Sree (Elegant CC, 105) scored centuries in the A2-Division (two-day) league championship here on Wednesday. Ankit Kumar (International, 119 n.o., 155b, 18x4, 1x6) and J. Ashrit (106) and Sanjay Pradhan (104 n.o.), both Osmania University, also batted well.  The scores:   A2 Div. (two-day): Sri Shyam 224 in 54.2 overs bt Galaxy 199 in 54.2 overs (G. Siddhanth 63, V. Shashank 37, B. Ankit 30 n.o., Vishnuvardhan 5/52).   Pasha Beedies 192 in 43.5 overs bt Visaka 187 in 64.2 overs (G. Rithish Reddy 58, Md. Farees Shareef 64, Faiz Ahmed 4/17, Vihaan Mishra 3/14).   Postal 367 in 81.2 overs bt Vijay Hanuman 79 in 30.5 overs (N. Jyothi Sai Krishna 4/17).   Cheerful Chums 163 in 48.1 overs bt Nizamabad Dist. 106 in 35.3 overs (Mourya 6/27).   Crown 227 in 55.4 overs lost to WMCC 228/3 in 42 overs (Arun Mishra 107, Sana Karthik 61).   National 380 in 82 overs bt HUCC 234 in 76 overs (Sree Madhav 86, Meeth 3/66).   Rakesh XI 527 in 83.3 overs bt Elegant 301 in 72.3 overs (Yuganand Sree 105, Syed Rehman 87, Razzaq 33, B.V.S.S. Harsha 35 n.o.).   Deccan Blues 395/6 in 82 overs bt Green Turf 102 in 32.3 overs (Gautam Sarika 32, Shiva Srikanth Naidu 6/30).   Young Citizen 292 in 56 overs lost to Osmania 294/6 in 54.5 overs (J. Ashrit 106, Sanjay Pradhan 104 n.o., Vishnu Prasad 3/75).   Khammam 200 in 43 overs bt Oxford Blues 157 in 52.2 overs (Virat Karthikeya 30, Naman Agarwal 39, Sd. Mohammed Hussain 4/35, Sk. Azhar 3/50).   Vijay 196 in 51.3 overs lost to Saleemnagar 202/8 in 49.4 overs (D. Hemanth 83, G. Sudhir 3/65).   Yadav Dairy 201 in 59.5 overs lost to PJL 204/7 in 42.2 overs (A. Himanshu 36).   Hyd. Patriots 263 in 63.1 overs lost to International 265/4 in 61.4 overs (K.V. Karthikeya 77, Ankit Kumar 119 n.o.).   Eklavya 314 in 68.5 overs bt Kishoresons 120 in 32.5 overs (Avatar Sahani 5/43).   A3 Div. (one-day): Amberpet 323/5 in 35 overs (Jithender, 46, Irfan 103, Srikanth 97, Dastagiri 53 n.o.) bt Mahesh 126 in 23.1overs (Sudarshan 37, Minhaj 5/10).   St. Mary’s 179 in 39.5 overs (Raghu Ram 34, Lavonn 30, Nihal 5/28) bt SUCC 116 in 33.4 overs (Seetharam 41, Aravind Paul 4/17).   PPM 340/4 in 40 overs (Shravan 183 n.o., Pavan 80) lost to Chums XI 145/8 in 40 overs (Vishal 48).   Deccan Colts 299 in 32.5 overs (Tyagi 163, Vinod 42, Praneeth 6/50) bt Starlets 105 in 23.4 overs (Naveen 6/30, Vignesh 3/20).   Victory 176 in 39.5 overs (Manish Singh 70 n.o., Vishal 42, Irfan 3/22) bt Southend Raymonds 143 in 37 overs (Noman 43).   Hyderabad Dist. 298/4 in 40 overs (Madhusudhan Sirvi 60, Deven Garag 43, Uday Kumar 141) bt Reliance 180 in 27 overs (Shravan 30, Keyur 58, Umang Jain 3/15, Sumit Ojha 4/11).  KNPL ties up with SRH Kansai Nerolac Paints Ltd. (KNPL) will continue its association with Sunrisers Hyderabad (SRH) for the 14th edition of the IPL. Nerolac’s logo will feature on the lead side of the team’s helmet and cap. The engagement will also witness on-ground branding on the perimeter board and giant screen. Harsha in semifinals P. Harsha defeated Arnav Bishoyi 7-5, 6-2 in the boys singles quarterfinals of the AITA Championship Series (under-16) tennis tournament at the Sania Mirza Tennis Academy (Murtuzaguda).  The results:   Boys, quarterfinals: P. Harsha bt Arnav Bishoyi 7-5, 6-2; Chris Hamilton bt Farhan Akthar 6-0, 6-2; T. Sri Pranav bt Thakur Arman Singh 7-6(5), 6-3; P. Sandilya bt U. Saneet 2-6, 6-0, 6-3.   Doubles, quarterfinals: G. Yashwanth & Trishant Reddy bt G. Bhavyanand & Murali Koushal 7-5, 6-1; V. Hrishik & Dhiraj Reddy bt Anish Jain & Rahul Lokesh 6-1, 6-4.   T. Sri Pranav & Rohan Sriram bt Thakur Arman Singh & D. Trishul 6-3, 7-6(2).   Nikhil d’ Souza & P. Sandilya bt Aarnav Bishoyi & D. Saha 3-6, 6-1, 10-8.   Girls, quarterfinals: K. Rithika bt Nirali Padaniya 6-2, 6-2; G. Hansika Rreddy bt M. Divija 6-3, 6-4; M. Manognya bt B. Rishitha 6-0, 6-2; 4. Pushti Laddha bt D. Laxmi Siri 7-5, 2-6, 6-1.   Doubles, semifinals: Laxmi Siri & Rithika bt Shreethika Reddy & Keerthika Reddy 6-1, 6-0; Yashasri & A. Sreemanya bt M. Princy & M. Divija 6-4, 7-5 .  Team Origins in lead Team Origins led with 793.14 points, followed by Markenzo Fairways (790.13) and Swans (790) at the end of the fifth round of the Hyderabad Premier Golf League championship at Boulder Hills (Gachibowli). Wednesday’s alternate shots top performers were G.L. Siva Reddy and Vijayanand Reddy of Civet Rangers (37.13), Sk. Abdul Pasha and K. Madhav of Origins (36.5), M. Vasu and G. Naveen of Lebonel (35.88), Raghavendra Rao and Agastya Reddy of Centro Eagle Hunters (35) and R. Shiv Kumar and Bhramanandam of Swans (34.5). SCR triumphs South Central Railway (SCR) won the inuaugural Pradeep Dakoor memorial open basketball tournament, organised by YMCA Secunderabad Alumni, defeating Army Ordnance Corps (AOC) 89-69 in the final.  The scores (final):   SCR 89 (Santosh 28, Raj 16) bt AOC Centre 69 (Sowmya 20, Manmeet 14).   Semifinals: AOC 72 (Irfan Khan 21, Sowmya 20) bt YMCA Sec’bad 71 (Ashu Tyagi 23, Harish Varma 18); SCR 70 (Vijay 19, Santosh 18) bt KVBR 33 (Prateek Reddy 10) .  EMESA camp concludes EME Sailing Association (EMESA) of Military College of EME (MCEME) conducted a 10-day Yachting Association of India (YAI) certification camp at Hussain Sagar Lake from March 21 with about 80 sailors between six and 21 years attending. The camp, which was conducted by professional and expert sailors of EMESA, provided a unique opportunity to acquire basic and advanced level of Sailing techniques. EMESA in conjunction with YAI facilitated providing training to 13 children of BASS Orphanage free of cost, as part of social responsibility. Yadadri triumphs Yadadri scored a 59-run win over Vikarabad in the final of the TCA West Zone inter-district (u-19) limited-overs tournament at IOC ground in Gajwel.  The scores:   Yadadri 88 in 16.5 overs (Praveen 4/10, Yuvaraj 3/10) bt Vikarabad 29 in 10.4 overs (Sriram 3/2, Venu 3/11, Kranti 3/12).   Special prizes: Kranti (Yadadri, player-of-the-final); Kalyan Pavar (Vikarabad, player-of-the-tournament); D. Sudeep (Sangareddy, best batsman); Vinay (Gajwel, best bowler) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arun-yuganand-ankit-ashrit-sanjay-crack-tons/article34211337.ece
01 April 2021||INDORE,||Rushil Khosla upsets Denim Yadav||Rushil Khosla beat fifth seed Denim Yadav 6-2, 6-4 in the boys’ second round of the National junior tennis championship at the Indore Tennis Club on Wednesday. In the pre-quarterfinals, Rushil will play Deep Munim. Krishan Hooda, Aayush Bhat, Nithlan Eric and Karan Singh were some of the prominent players to advance. In the girls’ section, Madhurima Sawant beat seventh seed Sai Rajesh Bhoyar 6-1, 6-2. Reshma Maruri, Sanjana Sirimalla, Suhitha Maruri and Anjali Rathi also made the pre-quarterfinals.  The results (under-18, second round): Boys: Krishan Hooda bt Saheb Sodhi 6-3, 6-4; Pragathesh Shivashankar bt Rakshit Dhankhar 6-4, 6-4; Parv Nage bt Sarthak Gandhi 3-6, 7-5, 6-4; Rishi Jalota bt Prasad Ingale 7-6(3), 6-3; Aayush Bhat bt A.S. Shyamsundar 6-1, 6-0; Adhirit Awal bt Abhay Chhabra 7-5, 6-4; Sandesh Kurale bt Vishesh Patel 6-3, 6-2; Aditya Nandal bt Ninaad Ravi 6-3, 6-1; Torus Rawat bt Yugraj Singh 6-3, 6-1; Daksh Prasad bt Anup Bangagri 6-2, 6-7(4), 6-1; Manas Dhamne bt Lokesh Pun 6-0, 6-3; Nithlan Eric bt Debasis Sahoo 3-6, 6-1, 6-4; Rushil Khosla bt Denim Yadav 6-2, 6-4; Deep Munim bt Prajwal Tewari 2-6, 6-4, 6-2; Skandha Rao bt Bharat Phulwaria 7-6(4), 6-3; Karan Singh bt Yashvardhan Singh 6-3, 6-2.   Girls: Reshma Maruri bt Depalakshmi Vanaraja 6-3, 6-4; Tejasvi Dabas bt Sai Diya Balaji 6-4, 6-3; Janani Ramesh bt Gia Alana Pereira 6-4, 6-1; Anjali Rathi bt Kashish Bote 6-0, 6-1; Suhitha Maruri bt Kanupriya Rajawat 6-3, 6-1; Harleen Kaur Dhanda bt Tanushri Pandey 6-0, 6-0.   Ruma Gaikaiwari bt Kaavya Palani 6-3, 6-2; Madhurima Sawant bt Sai Bhoyar 6-1, 6-2; Lakshmi Prabha bt Lakshmi Gowda 6-4, 6-2; Srivally Medhishetty bt Narem Pavithra Reddy 7-6(4), 7-5; Mirudhula Palanivel bt Riya Kaushik 6-2, 6-0; Apurva Vemuri w.o. Bhakti Shah; Riya Uboveja bt Radhika Mahajan 6-2, 6-2; Sudipta Senthilkumar bt Harshita Bangera 6-3, 6-1; Abhaya Vemuri bt Adithi Are 6-2, 6-2; Sanjana Sirimalla bt Harnoor Kaur Sidhu 6-0, 6-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rushil-khosla-upsets-denim-yadav/article34211229.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Archer set to miss first four matches||England’s Jofra Archer will begin two weeks of rehabilitation after undergoing surgery on his finger and is set to miss the first four matches for Rajasthan Royals in IPL 2021, according to ESPNcricinfo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/archer-set-to-miss-first-four-matches/article34211515.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bindra launches physiotherapy app||Former World and Olympic champion Abhinav Bindra has launched “one-tap solution for your healthier life”, a physiotherapy mobile application. The app will help people get high-tech physiotherapy and rehabilitation services from the six high performance centres across the country, as well as from the convenience of their home. The app will facilitate fixing appointments at specific locations apart from offering access to the expert physiotherapists through video call and chat features. “We have come up with ABTP physiotherapy@Home mobile application,” said Bindra. Chairman of Abhinav Bindra Targeting Performance venture, Dr. Apjit Singh Bindra said it was felt necessary to make it convenient for all age groups. The app will be accessible from all metro cities in the initial phase and will gradually cover other cities. The target is to eventually make it accessible to everyone in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bindra-launches-physiotherapy-app/article34211059.ece
01 April 2021||San Antonio (USA),||Lahiri seeks a good week||Anirban Lahiri will not need to wait long to tee off here on Thursday as he sets off in the first group at the Valero Texas Open golf on the PGA Tour. Lahiri will go out in the first group from the 10th tee alongside Sepp Straka and Kyoung-Hoon Lee. The Indian has not had a great run so far in 2021 and made the cut in just two of the seven starts with a tied 39th at Puerto Rico being his best finish. The other cut he made was in the opening event of 2021 at Sony Open. What must also be worrisome is that he has not broken 70 in last 11 rounds and given away a lot of shots as double bogeys. Lahiri decided to skip the Corales Punta Cana event in Dominican to work on his game after missing the cut at Honda Classic before that. Disappointed Looking forward to playing in windy conditions here, Lahiri admitted he was disappointed at missing the cut at Honda Classic.  Lahiri is also looking forward to having his coach with him next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lahiri-seeks-a-good-week/article34211060.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Archer set to miss first four matches||England’s Jofra Archer will begin two weeks of rehabilitation after undergoing surgery on his finger, and is set to miss Rajasthan Royals’ first four matches in IPL 2021, according to ESPNcricinfo . There were earlier doubts about his availability for the 14th edition of the tournament. Sanju Samson’s team meets Punjab Kings in its opening match on April 12. Royals’ next three games are against Delhi Capitals (April 15), Chennai Super Kings (April 19) and Royal Challengers Bangalore (April 22). On Monday, the 25-year-old had surgery to remove a fragment of glass from the middle finger on his right hand. “A consultant will review him before he returns to training,” the English and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) said in a statement on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/archer-set-to-miss-first-four-matches/article34211035.ece
01 April 2021||Hyderabad,||Jason Roy comes in for Marsh in SRH squad||England’s Jason Roy has signed up with Sunrisers Hyderabad as a replacement for Mitchell Marsh for the forthcoming edition of the IPL, according to a media release. Marsh, who has played 21 IPL games since his debut in 2010, made himself unavailable for the entire season owing to personal reasons. Roy made his IPL debut in 2017 for Gujarat Lions and later featured for Delhi Daredevils (now Delhi Capitals) in the 2018 edition. He has played a total of eight matches and scored 179 runs with one half-century. Sunrisers Hyderabad has acquired Roy at his base price of Rs. 2 crore.  Sunrisers Hyderabad has acquired Roy at his base price of Rs. 2 crore England opener has played eight matches, scored 179 runs with one half-century||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jason-roy-comes-in-for-marsh-in-srh-squad/article34211017.ece
01 April 2021||MUMBAI,||‘You need to perform no matter the price tag’||The Indian Premier League auction’s most expensive buy, Chris Morris, says leading the Rajasthan Royals’ pace attack in the absence of injured Jofra Archer will be an added responsibility but it doesn’t change his role in the team. “In every single team that I have played in the IPL, my role has been with the new ball and at the death. That doesn’t really change. I have always had fast bowlers in the team and I’ve been their supporting act,” Morris said at a virtual press conference. “It won’t be a new role if I am leading an attack, won’t be new if I am supporting. There is a little bit of responsibility when it comes to leading the attack. But like I said, it wouldn’t be alien to me,” he added. Pressure? Talking about the pressure that comes with such an expensive price tag, Morris said “I think it’s natural to have a little bit of pressure when something like that has happened. I’d be lying to you if there wasn’t any pressure but fortunately enough in the past, I have been coming in with quite a big price tag on my head. “At the end of the day, you need to perform, no matter what the price tag is.” Morris feels his role in the team is different to that of fellow all-rounder Ben Stokes, who he feels possess the “magic touch in cricket”. “I think we have got different roles. Stokes opens the batting. He is one of the best in the world if not the best. My role is to finish off games with the bat which I hope I can do more of this year. “With the ball it’s different. I think he bowled a lot less in the IPL last year than he did in the previous years. “But the guy has got the magic touch when it comes to cricket. So, you know, if we are feeding off each other in our different roles on the team, you know, I think we could be quite an interesting duo to come up against,” Morris said. Praise for Sanju The Royals have a new skipper in Sanju Samson this year. Morris, who has shared the dressing room with the 26-year-old in the IPL before, feels as someone who keeps wickets and also fields, the Indian will have a lot to offer while leading the side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/you-need-to-perform-no-matter-the-price-tag/article34211021.ece
01 April 2021||Mumbai,||RWITC auction: Two 2-year-olds fetch top price||Two lots from the blue pages, belonging to the Poonawalla stable, fetched the highest price of Rs. 17.36 lakh (including GST) each, at the one-day RWITC-organised auction of two-year-old thoroughbreds at the Mahalaxmi race course on Tuesday. A chestnut filly by Excellent Art out of Rainbow Queen, bred at the Poonawalla Exhilration Stud Pvt. Ltd., was purchased by Rajan Agarwal, while a colt (Roderic O’ Connor–Star Goddess) from the Poonawalla Mystical Stud Pvt. Ltd. was bought by Haider Soomar. 71 horses were paraded into the ring for sale out of which 10 were sold and 61 were bought in. Among those sold, eight belonged to the blue pages. The total price realised at the sale was Rs. 1,24,88,000 (including GST). RWITC complemented the live-streaming of the sale with telephone bidding to enable owners and trainers from the other racing centres to bid while the auction was in progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rwitc-auction-two-2-year-olds-fetch-top-price/article34211486.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Siva Advaita system||Spiritual tradition venerates the acharyas who are deemed as incarnations to spread the import of the Vedas and the agamas. Posterity is indebted to them as they lead the people to the path of moksha. They are thus more beneficial to people than the wish-granting divine Kalpataru. Apart from the direct exposition of the esoteric truths in the sastras to their disciples, they have written commentaries on the Prastanatraya texts, the Brahma Sutra, the Upanishads and the Bhagavad Gita. These are the fundamental texts from which the various prevalent systems of philosophy, such as Advaita, Visishtadvaita, Dvaita, Siva Advaita, and so on have grown and developed. In a discourse, Srimati R. Mathangi drew attention to the commentary on the Brahma Sutra by one Srikantacharya, known as the Srikanta Bashya, wherein he has established the Siva Advaita system that hails Siva as the Supreme Being. Siva is the primal source and the Supreme Lord of the whole of the universe comprising the material world and the subtle jivas. Siva possesses infinite attributes and prowess. Also known as Siva Visishtadvaita, it explains that the entire universe comprising Chit, the sentient, and Achit, the insentient, is the sarira of Siva. The differences in the forms of jivas, and in the varieties of gunas in each and every aspect of creation, are all sustained in Siva and are manifest as the Shakti of Siva. This can be compared to a tree that is the support for the root, the trunk, the branches, the leaves, flowers and fruits, etc. These parts belong to the tree, but they also remain as individual entities with distinguishing characteristics. But though there may be many varieties of trees of similar nature, there is only one Siva, who is the Adi Siva and is Supreme, and who creates the Trimurtis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/siva-advaita-system/article34211011.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jr. women’s Natl. hockey postponed||The 11th junior women’s hockey National has been postponed until further notice due to a surge in COVID-19 cases. The tournament was scheduled from April 3 to 12 at Simdega, Jharkhand. Following instructions and protocols from the district commissioner, Simdega and State authorities, the decision to postpone the championship was taken by Hockey India (HI). “In light of the rising number of COVID-19 cases and after advice from the local State authorities, Hockey India in consultation with the host Hockey Jharkhand arrived at the decision to postpone the 11th Hockey India junior women’s National championship 2021,” HI president Gyanendro Ningombam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jr-womens-natl-hockey-postponed/article34211061.ece
01 April 2021||Dubai,||Riya Bhatia bows out||Qualifier Riya Bhatia was beaten 6-2, 6-4 by Anastasia Zakharova of Russia in the pre-quarterfinals of the $25,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament here on Wednesday. In doubles, Ankita Raina, seeded No.1 with Valeria Savinykh of Russia, missed a match point and lost 12-10 in the super tie-break of the pre-quarterfinals to Sarah Beth Grey and Elitsa Kostova. In the $15,000 women’s event in Tunisia, Karman Kaur Thandi beat Andrea Renee Villareal of Mexico 4-6, 6-3, 7-5.  The results:   $25,000 ITF women, Dubai: Pre-quarterfinals: Anastasia Zakharova (Rus) bt Riya Bhatia 6-2, 6-4. Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Sarah Beth Grey (GBr) & Elitsa Kostova (Bul) bt Valeria Savinykh (Rus) & Ankita Raina 4-6, 6-4, [12-10].   Berfu Cengiz & Ipek Oz (Tur) bt Miriam Bianca Bulgaru (Rou) & Riya Bhatia 6-2, 6-1; Anna Danilina (Kaz) & Sofya Lansere (Rus) bt Humera Baharmus & Prerna Bhambri 6-1, 6-1.   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir, Tunisia: First round: Karman Kaur Thandi bt Andrea Renee Villareal (Mex) 4-6, 6-3, 7-5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/riya-bhatia-bows-out/article34211066.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Bright and beaming||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bright-and-beaming/article34211034.ece
01 April 2021||North Sound,||Sri Lanka wobbles||Sri Lanka was 189 for five, replying to West Indies’ 354, at lunch on the third day of the second and final Test on Tuesday. After scores of 70 and 76 in the first Test, Lahiru Thirimanne’s run — going back to the series in South Africa last December — continued with another composed innings of 55. Dinesh Chandimal (44) and Dhananjaya de Silva (39) added 75 for the fourth wicket before the former fell to Shannon Gabriel. Off-spinner Jermaine Blackwood then trapped Dhananjaya in front.  The scores: West Indies 354 vs Sri Lanka 189-5 in 82.2 overs (Lahiru Thirimanne 55, Dinesh Chandimal 44), at lunch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sri-lanka-189-for-five/article34211019.ece
01 April 2021||KOLKATA,||10 boxers test positive at Patiala camp||Ten boxers tested positive for COVID-19 at the National camp in Patiala. Abhishek Yadav, Ankit Kumar, Sanjeet, Naveen Boora, Sachin Kumar, Naveen Kumar, Deepak Kumar, Manjeet Singh, Narender and head coach C.A. Kuttappa have returned positive tests, as per the isolation list accessed by The Hindu . Deepak, Manjeet and Narender have been hospitalised after showing symptoms, according to a source. Neither team doctor Karanjeet Singh nor any Boxing Federation of India (BFI) official could be reached for further details. Without naming any athlete, a Sports Authority of India (SAI) release on Wednesday said that 26 of 313 had returned positive results at the NIS Patiala campus. Four of 428 tested at the National Centre for Excellence in Bengaluru were positive. All the Olympic-bound athletes tested negative, added the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/10-boxers-test-positive-at-patiala-camp/article34211055.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||MCC ‘A’ sails past Besant Nagar Club||Madras Cricket Club (MCC) ‘A’ lifted the Sanmar-TNTA tennis league 45+ A-zone title with a 2-0 win over eight-time champion Besant Nagar Club in the final.  The results (final): MCC ‘A’ bt Besant Nagar Club 2-0 (Rajeev Vijaykumar & RVRK Ranga Rao bt C. Rameez Samad & Rama Prasada Reddy 6-1, 6-3; Rajesh Ganapathy & Manoj Chandani bt Karthik Kailash & Kishna Kumar 6-4, 6-1; Vivek Reddy & Sundeep Bathija vs Shivakumar Palani and Nirmal Kumar 6-2, 3-6, abandoned) .    Southern Railway blanked Loyola College 3-0 in the N.P.V. Ramasamy Udayar Hockey Cup here on Wednesday.  The results: S. Rly 3 (Suresh Kumar 2, Verma) bt Loyola 0; ICF 3 (Sanjay Xalco, Deepak, Suraj Minz) bt Indian Bank 1 (Vinodhan) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mcc-a-sails-past-besant-nagar-club/article34211125.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Sharan, Alyssa on gold-winning spree||Sharan Sridhara and Alyssa Sweedal Rego bagged five gold medals each in the boys’ and girls’ Group IV-B categories of the Karnataka State sub-junior swimming competition at the Padukone-Dravid Centre for Sports Excellence on Wednesday. Sharan emerged the fastest in 50m freestyle (33.46s), 100m freestyle (1:12.94), 50m backstroke (37.78), 50m butterfly (35.85) and 200m IM (3:00.59). Alyssa took the honours in 50m freestyle (34.02s), 100m freestyle (1:14.94), 50m backstroke (43.19), 50m butterfly (37.97) and 200m IM (3:16.85).   Qualifier Dev Shivashanker ousted top seed Jason Michael David 6-4, 6-1 to enter the boys’ semifinals of the KSLTA-AITA under-16 Talent Series event on the Tattvam Junior Tour on Wednesday.  The results (quarterfinals):   Boys: Dev Shivashanker bt Jason Michael David 6-4, 6-1; Sriniketh Kannan bt Sooraj Vijaykumar 7-6(5), 6-1; Kriish Ajay Tyagi bt Srikar Doni 6-1, 6-0; Sehaj Singh Pawar bt Aman Rao 6-0, 6-0.   Girls: Gagana Mohankumar bt Hridayeshi Pai 7-5, 5-7, 6-1; Vanya Srivastav bt Mahika Suravaram 6-3, 6-1; Sree Tanvi Dasari bt Mrinali Navada 4-6, 6-1, 6-2; Anvi Punaganti bt Sushmitha Ravi 3-6, 6-1, 6-4 .      Athmika George scored a brace as Technico Sports FC beat Young Gems WFC 3-1 in the KSFA women’s ‘A’ division seven-a-side football tournament on Wednesday.  The results: North Karnataka 1 (Vaslaya 29 [OG]) bt FC Hydra 0; Technico Sports FC 3 (Athmika George 7, 22, Christian George 35) bt Young Gems WFC 1 (Natania Martin 3); Roots WFC 5 (Trisha 2, 7, Sharmila 23, Lakshmi 29, Shravya 37) bt Young Challengers 0; Modern Girls FC 2 (Trecia 10, Simran 23) bt Bangalore Panthers ‘B’ 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sharan-alyssa-on-gold-winning-spree/article34211057.ece
01 April 2021||TIRUNELVELI:,||Shadhursshaan in joint lead||R. Shadhursshaan defeated higher-ranked FM M. Vinoth Kumar in the fifth round of the 68th State Open FIDE-rated chess championship, organised by the Tirunelveli District Chess Development Association, at Thamirabharani EC on Wednesday. Shadhursshaan, Ramnathan Balasubramaniam and V. Pranav shared the lead with five points each.  Important results (fifth round): V. Pranav 5 bt J. Eshwanth Dev Kumar 4; Dinesh Kumar Jaganathan 4 lost to Ramnathan Balasubramaniam 5; S.S. Manigandan 4.5 drew with R.M. Subramanian 4.5; Arnav Maheshwari 4.5 drew with Nikhil Magizhnan 4.5; M. Vinoth Kumar 4 lost to R. Shadhursshaan 5; K. Nandha Kumar 4.5 drew with R. Srimathi 4.5; K. Senthil Maran 4 drew with S.P.K. Arul Anandh 4; G. Gugan 4.5 bt R. Aadith 3.5; M. Barath Kalyan 4.5 bt A. Kumaresh 3.5; A.R. Ilamparthi 4.5 bt P. Sree Veeramani 3.5 .    P.A. Deeprish Seng (six for 33 & 50) starred in Tendulkar's three-wicket win over Campion in the Tiruchi DCA third division league. In another match, S. Muraleeswaran’s 116 set up Young Sobers’ 83-run victory over Pudukottai RC.  The scores: I div.: Zephyr's 269/8 in 41 overs (R. Anand 69, S. Parasuraman 81, B. Prasad 25, M. Basavaraja 36, M. Arihantt 3/44, M. Ramasubbu 3/42) bt Golden Arrows 162 in 35.2 overs (G. Dineshkumar 52, J. Ebenezer Paul 3/31, S. Srinivasan 3/21).   II div.: Premier 125 in 40.3 overs (B. Silambarasan 29, B. Arul Prakash 25, M. Sree Mukeshwaran 3/20, M. Ramesh Moorthi 4/18) lost to St. Joseph's College 128/2 in 28.4 overs (R. Santhoshraj 57 n.o., K. Mohamed Faizal 40 n.o.).   III div.: Campion 195 in 41.4 overs (S.N. Lulith Purnesh 38, T.R. Rajesh Kumaran 76, P.A. Deeprish Seng 6/33) lost to Tendulkar 197/7 in 35.1 overs (P.A. Deeprish Seng 50, S. Udhayaraj 83 n.o.).   Associated 134 in 36.3 overs (B. Ramkumar 36, R. Neelakandan 3/20) bt Golden XI 50 in 23.3 overs (J. Murugavel 3/17, R. Manikandan 3/9).   Young Sobers 223/8 in 41 overs (S. Muraleeswaran 116, S. Srinivasan 50, P. Madhan 3/28, S. Elangovan 4/54) bt Pudukottai RC 140 in 33 overs (M. Nimilan Babu 26, S. Dhivan 36, J. Periyannan 3/31, R. Prasath 4/47).   IV div.: Golden Chariot-A 70 in 22.5 overs (S. Jayasurya 3/9, V. Vimal 4/12) lost to Clouds 71/7 in 24 2 overs.   Srinivasanagar Blues 123/8 in 28 overa (S. Yuvaraj 25, R. Rajalingam 3/26) lost to Manapparai 125/1 in 18.5 overs (R. Rajalingam 42 n.o., M. Balasubramani 69).   V div.: Golden Chariot-B 137/9 in 30 overs (M. Sri Nithya Swaroopan 35, M. Vinojan 36, M. Vasanthakumar 37 n.o., R. Eswar 3/27) bt Tough Guys-A 129 in 29.1 overs (V. Suryaprakash 43, K. Jayaprakash 33, S. Jalaludeen 4/22, M. Sri Nithya Swaroopan 4/18) .      Rajasekhar Mani Memorial CC edged out Jollyrovers SC by one wicket in the CDCA second division league.  The scores:   I div.: Cosmo Village SA 189 in 46.2 overs (P. Sugendhiran 46, R. Saravanan 51, J. Kousik 4/24, A. Godwin Rubesh 3/27) lost to Jolly Rovers 190/7 in 38 overs (J. Kousik 36, P. Nirmal Kumar 46 n.o., V. Karupusamy 3/26).   Kovai Knights 185 in 48.3 overs (R. Sri Neranjan 53 , R. Tarun 37, M. Shajahan 37, M. Sadiq Ul Ameen 4/16, M. Guhan 3/42) bt Rainbow 168 in 48.4 overs (M. Sadiq Ul Ameen 35 , M. Guhan 40 n.o.).   Suryabala 250/8 in 50 overs (J. Suresh Kumar 73, R. Karthikeyan 57, R. Vinod 44, V. Arumuga Pandi 4/38) bt SNR Sons Trust SC 208 in 50 overs (S. Harjith 50, S. Sachin 91, S. Shikap Deen 4/37).   II div.: Jollyrovers SC 169 in 44.3 overs (A. Bhavan Sree 34, R. Shanmugha Sundaram 3/24, T. Pradeep Kumar 4/36) lost to Rajasekhar Mani Memorial 170/9 in 42 overs (M. Kathiresan 37, L. Imran Khan 38 n.o., K. Praveen Kumar 4/33).   Red Diamonds 110 in 35 overs (V. Arun Kumar 30, I. Musharaaf Sherif 3/18, K. Baladharan 3/20) lost to RKS CA 111/4 in 29.2 overs (R. Santhosh 38, N. Thikish 31).   III div.: Suryabala CA 204 in 47.5 overs (R. Manikandan 51, J. Surya 36, A. Siddharth 37, K.B. Bineesh 4/34) bt Arumugam 127 in 40 overs (A. Arun 42, J. Surya 4/32, M. Gurubharan 3/35).   IV div.: PSG Tech 137 in 44.2 overs (S. Mohammed Sahul Hameed 46) lost to Magma 141/5 in 28.5 overs (K. Saravana Kumar 40, S. Jeevanantham 30 n.o.).   Coimbatore Friends 312/6 in 50 overs (G. Upendra 78, V. Rajasekhar 90, K. Gokul 3/34) bt Coimbatore Raiders CA 234 in 44.4 overs (T.K. Piranesh 37, R. Sujith 61, K. Thiagu 4/31).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shadhursshaan-in-joint-lead/article34211196.ece
01 April 2021||Anchal:,||Thiruvananthapuram, Kottayam win titles||Thiruvananthapuram boys and Kottayam girls won the titles in the 25th State sub-junior softball championships on Wednesday. Thiruvananthapuram edged out Malappuram 9-8 in the boys’ final. Kottayam overcame Thrissur 2-1 to win the girls’ title.  The results: Boys: Final: Thiruvananthapuram bt Malappuram 9-8. Loser's final: Kottayam bt Thrissur 3-0. Semifinals: Thiruvananthapuram bt Thrissur 15-3; Malappuram bt Kottayam 15-5.   Girls: Final: Kottayam bt Thrissur 2-1. Loser's final: Kozhikode bt Malappuram 1-0. Semifinals: Thrissur bt Malappuram 2-1; Kottayam bt Kozhikode 18-3 .    Tripunithura CA (TCA) crushed Devamatha CA by 139 runs in the Loongs Satish K. Pillai trophy under-14 cricket tournament at the Loongs Sports City here on Wednesday. Batting first, Tripunithura piled up 229 for five in 25 overs and then bundled out Devamatha for 90. In another match, RSC SG defeated S3 CA by eight wickets.  The scores: Tripunithura CA 229/5 in 25 overs (Hansil Jijo 87, Ananya K. Pradeep 45) bt Devamatha CA 90 in 18.4 overs (Nithin 43)   S3 CA 113/8 in 25 overs (J. Ragesh 30) lost to RSC SG 114/2 in 14.1 overs (P.A. Mithul 49 n.o.).    The inaugural Athreya Trophy under-22 cricket tournament will begin at the Athreya Cricket Academy ground on Thursday. Twelve teams will take part in the tournament, which will be played on a league-cum-knock out format. The matches will be of 30 over duration.   The 37th C.H. Mohammed Koya memorial football tournament, organised by Fort Kochi's Aboo Memorial Soccer Club and approved by the EDFA, will be held at the Veli Ground, Fort Kochi, from April 7 to 15. The event will feature 10 teams, including Udaya SC, Cochin Youth Soccer, Leaders FA, Byzantine, Grasshoppers and Wayna FC. Matches begin at 4.30 p.m. on all days.   H.U. Bhoomika scored 33 off 42 balls to help Sapphire score a one-wicket victory off the last ball against Emerald in the KCA Pink Challengers Women's T20 tournament here on Wednesday. In the day's other match, Amber defeated Ruby by four wickets.  The scores: Emerald 77/6 in 20 overs (Malavika Sabu 27, K.K. Aparna 2/18) lost Sapphire 78/9 in 20 overs (H.U. Bhoomika 33, Minnu Mani 3/20, Jipsa V. Joseph 2/2).   Ruby 79/7 in 20 overs lost to Amber 81/6 in 18.1 overs (T. Shani 2/6).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/thiruvananthapuram-kottayam-win-titles/article34211433.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Hockey: NPV Ramasamy Udayar Cup, TN Postal vs CHA u-21 (6.30 a.m.), St. Paul’s Combined XI vs Challengers (2.30 p.m.), IOB vs S. Rly (4 p.m.), NPV Ramasamy Centre (Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education & Research), Porur.  Squash: HCL-SRFI Indian Tour, semifinals, ISA, Nehru Park, 2 p.m. onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article34211123.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 07:53 IST,||Sudoku — April 1, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-1-2021/article34211647.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Ready, player one?||Lokesh Karakoti was introduced to Garena Free Fire, a mobile battle-royale game, four years ago by a friend. He had just completed Class XII. Instead of figuring out which college he wanted to join, like his parents wanted him to, he spent most of his day spraying bullets and throwing bombs at his opponents in the game. He soon dropped out of his BCA course, concerned more with the matters of life and death within Free Fire. Four years later, Lokesh, from Delhi, earns about Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 90,000 a month. About Rs. 40,000 of this comes through his YouTube channel, Pahadi Gaming (with over 9,27,000 subscribers), and the rest through sponsors and prize money earnings from Free Fire tournaments. Gaming, like Lokesh discovered, can be a career in itself. The Indian gaming industry is valued at US$930 million, and the estimated number of gamers, 628 million. Of these, a majority would be recreational gamers. But an increasing number of youngsters like Lokesh make a living from gaming. They either get into eSports, which involves competing, or gaming for audiences on streaming platforms like YouTube and Twitch. Both avenues appear lucrative. An underground community Competitive eSporting can be broadly classified into four main genres: fighting games (like Mortal Kombat), first-person shooters (Counter Strike and Battlefield), real-time strategy (Hearthstone) and multiplayer online battle (Battle Arena). Each game has a set of rules laid down either by the International Esports Federation (IESF) or Asian Electronic Sports Federation (AESF), based on which tournaments — both national and international — are organised. One of the major contributors to the growing eSports community, which is device-agnostic, has been gaming cafés in metropolitan cities. “Ten years ago, online socialising was not a thing. Even now, with Discord, WhatsApp and everything, I think socialising is better if you are with the person. And, these places also conduct tournaments,” says Kiran Noojibail, former director, Esports and Broadcasting at LXG, a gaming café in Bengaluru. He adds, “Last year, however, the role of cafés diminished because of COVID-19; only 10-20% activities happened in gaming cafés, the rest were online.” Yet, the pandemic also brought about a significant increase in gamers, observes Akshat Rathee, co-founder and managing director of Nodwin Gaming, Gurugram, Haryana. His company has organised over 120 tournaments and events since its inception in 2015. In the last year, they hosted over 40 (virtual) events, which had a much better response from gamers than in previous years. “Although it is difficult to quantify that data, I can say that our watchtime became extremely high; about 200-300% growth in these events. We measure participation based on our watchtime,” says Rathee, adding, “Gamers no longer have to hide from their parents since there are lots of monetary benefits.” Chennai’s Pranay M Bathija concurs. His parents have been largely supportive of his interest in gaming, as long as he “studies”. Pranay has been into competitive eSports since Class IX, spending six to eight hours daily on games, and has secured a place among the top gamers in India during the Fortnite Champion Series (FNCS) held in 2019, winning a prize money of $1,500. “I was one among the four Indian players who qualified,” says the Class XII student. “The FNCS is really hard for Indian players; we have to play on the West Asia server, with countries such as Singapore, Pakistan and the United Arab Emirates since we don’t have our own server.” There is a popular misconception that gamers are usually loners sitting in the comfort of their homes, living in a virtual world. Pranay dispels this notion saying that he is a lot more connected to the people he has befriended online. “I talk to them [most of whom are from the city] way more frequently than my immediate circle. Sometimes, we are on call till midnight,” he adds.  The Indian eSports industry is still at a nascent stage — largely unstructured without a uniform body or market research. And still, there are many who have made money off it. Where the money is Kiran, from LXG, says that one can earn by even talking about games. He used to be a shoutcaster, which is the equivalent of a commentator in sports. “I know people who charge up to Rs. 30,000 a day for shoutcasting,” he says. Observers (who control the in-game camera during broadcast), designers, animators, and video editors are among the other popular jobs in eSports. And then of course, are the gamers. One of India’s most popular YouTube channel Total Gaming, has 21 million subscribers; videos on it have been viewed over three billion times. It is run by Ajay (known as Ajjubhai in the gaming circle, who is from Ahmedabad). “Income generation is quite the same for both the gaming content creators and professional eSports players,” explains Ajay, “What the content creators earn in three months through YouTube or any other platform, the professional gamer can earn by winning one big tournament. However, the amount of time that goes behind preparing for the tournament is almost two to three months. And, gaming content creators need to invest a lot of time and effort in making videos engaging as YouTube and other platforms pay for views.” Putting together a tournament is just one part of the larger responsibility that involves “evangelising eSports” and nurturing the sporting culture in India, explains Lokesh Suji, director of Esports Federation of India (ESFI), a non-Government organisation. While acknowledging India as the next big market, he says the roadblocks are parental approval and the lack of support from the Government. “eSports is not recognised as an official sport in India which means that funds come from our pockets or from sponsorship,” says Suji. He is also the vice-president of AESFI (Asian Electronic Sports Federation), which has been recognised as the Technical Delegate for eSports events in the upcoming Asian Games 2022. “The biggest achievement for us was when India won its first-ever eSports medal at the 2018 Asian Games. Five years from the day the Government recognises eSports, I can promise you that we can become like the West.” India is expected to add nearly 40 million online gamers during 2020−22, according to Deloitte. Maple Capital Advisors’ report estimates that the Indian gaming industry will grow 41% annually due to the growth of digital infrastructure. By 2024, it claims, the gaming industry will be worth $3,750 million. Going by these numbers, we are on the cusp of a great Indian gaming boom.  The stats  Time:  Indian gamers spend an average of 8.6 hours playing every week. [Source: Limelight Networks]  Money:  The Indian gaming industry is valued at $930 million. [Source: Invest India]  People:  There are over 628 million gamers in India. [Source: Invest India]   Girls in gaming Gaming is often considered an all-boys club. But recent surveys disprove this popular notion. According to a 2020 study commissioned by Google, the number of females playing video games in Asia is growing at a faster rate than their male rivals. But India’s story is different: it had the lowest overall percentage of female gamers (18%) in Asia. “I think female gamers get demotivated by sexist and hate comments they get. A lot are discouraged by their families as well,” reckons Mansi Gupta, whose YouTube channel, MagsPlay, has over 1,75,000 subscribers. She started it during the lockdown last year. “I told myself I will post 100 videos no matter what. If the channel doesn’t take off after that, then, I will stop doing this.” However, it took just 15 videos to reach 1,50,000 subscribers.   The Indian eSports industry is still at a nascent stage — largely unstructured without a uniform body or market research||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/ready-player-one/article34210906.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||By the sword||In 2004, a shy 11-year-old girl walked into Chennai’s Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium for the first time, clutching her mother’s hand. A student at Muruga Dhanushkodi Girls’ Higher Secondary School, Tondiarpet, CA Bhavani Devi had just learnt the term ‘fencing’ as part of the ‘Sports in Schools’ initiative started by the late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa. Vishwanathan P, who would soon be her first coach, looked on from the parapet, and put the little girl to a 30-second test. “I don’t remember what the test was! But right then, I knew she had the talent,” laughs Vishwanathan. In 30 seconds, she secured a spot in the school’s fencing classes, among 40 other girls. Cut to March 15, 2021 in Budapest, Bhavani, now 27, made history by being the first Indian fencer to qualify for the Olympics. In July, she will represent India at the Tokyo Olympic games. Currently ranked 42nd in the world and 1st in the country, the sabre fencer from Old Washermanpet qualified through the Asia/Oceanic Zone of official rankings after Hungary lost to South Korea in the quarter-finals of the Sabre Fencing World Cup. Wielding a sword, dressed in an electric suit and mask that flickers when the opponent’s weapon lands a jab, her swift, calculated footwork and mental focus brought her this honour. She states, “In 2016, I realised that there is a limit to which you can put pressure on yourself. It backfires.” (She had failed to qualify for the 2016 Rio Olympics). Seventeen years on, Bhavani still seems uncomfortable with the spotlight. In the few days she got to spend at home before flying to Italy to resume coaching, she has had little time to relax. This week, the Olympic hopeful was named safety lifestyle company MY’s goodwill ambassador at an event in Phoenix MarketCity’s Club Crest where MetroPlus caught up with her. Bhavani remembers starting with bamboo sticks. The little equipment they had was saved for competitions. “We used all sorts of things to practice,” she reminisces. “We would go to the stadium at 5.30 am everyday and from there to school. In the evening, from school back to the stadium and then home. This was the routine for years.” Catching the public bus on time to get to the stadium and back, was a struggle she remembers. “But, we still enjoyed the process.” Vishwanathan quips, “She was a ‘jolly’ child, and it was fun to train her.” Bhavani’s first breakthrough came when Sports Authority of India (SAI) coach Sagar Lagu spotted her and invited her to train at the SAI academy in Thalassery, Kerala. She finished Class X packed her bags and moved to Thalassery where she continued her studies and trained at the same time. In 2017, she became India’s first international gold medallist at the Women’s World Cup held in Reykjavik, Iceland. The 40-member fencing group at school quickly diminished and five years down, Bhavani was the sole participant. Fencing then was still an unknown sport in India with no big achievements to point out, says Bhavani. “Some wanted to focus on education. Some felt fencing was not good for girls. There were no job prospects in the sport unlike athletics or volleyball,” Bhavani says. Many asked if the sport was “safe enough” for a girl to pursue. Bhavani’s mother Ramani, a constant and perhaps the most significant presence in her life, nipped such negative comments in the bud. Ramani says, “‘Why should you bother,’ I asked them. The girl is interested in this, so let her be.” The proud mother is now preparing to fly to Tokyo to watch her daughter’s most anticipated competition. Time and again, Bhavani reiterates that her parents — her late father was a priest and her mother, a homemaker — were her biggest support. Modern fencing is a combination of three disciplines: the épée, the sabre, and the foil. While in épée, the entire body is a valid target area, in sabre, the upper body becomes the target and in foil, only the torso can receive a strike. Weapons used in each also differ in terms of their make and flexibility. All eyes on her Bhavani specialises in sabre fencing, in which a typical competition lasts only 10 minutes. Has she ever felt been intimidated? “I have never been afraid, even my parents haven’t for that matter. You can get hurt anywhere, it’s all about how you take care of yourself,” she says. The novelty of fencing is what kept Bhavani going, despite briefly considering giving up in 2014 as she did not want to put her family through more financial pressure. The GoSports Foundation came to her support in 2015, and she currently trains under an athlete mentorship programme named after Indian cricketer Rahul Dravid. Bhavani has been training under renowned coach Nicola Zanotti in Italy for the past five years. Though she knows that all eyes are on her, ever since qualifying, Bhavani has tried to block out the pressure. Two fencing sessions of two to three hours each and physiotherapy schedules (to straighten out an injury that happened in 2015), make up most of her day. In addition, she has fitness sessions four times a week. “Fencing is a mental sport but physical strength is important for all sports,” she says.  With only months to the Olympics, Bhavani recalls the times she had to travel to international competitions alone. This time though, she has the entire country backing her. With her trademark shy smile, she concludes, “I will make you all proud. I am confident.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/by-the-sword/article34210899.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||The crossover idli||Driving past paddy fields touched with gold, and swaying palms, we reach Ramasseri, a dusty, nondescript village about eight kilometres from Palakkad, in time for breakfast. It is 8.30 am, and the village is still waking up from the celebrations of the temple festival the previous night. Yet, a line of swanky cars is already queuing up beside a small joint with bright green walls and a signboard bearing the name Sree Saraswathy Tea Stall, The Ramassery Idli Kada. Is it an idli or a dosa? An idli, insist locals. This is the famous Ramasseri idli, a fusion of the two. Soft and fluffy and the size of a pancake, the Ramasseri idli with its distinctive texture and taste has put this little village on the food map of India. From 5 am to 11 am the Ramasseri idli is made non-stop at the ‘tea stall’, one among the three or four small eateries on the roadside. A no-frills joint, it attracts diners from across the State and outside. The two women, busy in the kitchen, have little time for small talk. Vijayakumar PK, the owner, says the stall is 200 years old and that Smitha Vijayakumar, his wife is the fifth generation of women continuing the tradition of making the Ramasseri idli. Given the dish’s popularity, recently, for the first time, a branch of Sree Saraswathy Tea Stall was opened in Guruvayoor. Smita pours the dough on square pieces of cloth, stretched over a circular sieve-like clay steamer placed on aluminium pots. As she works, she explains how many of the families have roots in Kanchipuram in Tamil Nadu and most of them were weavers. The local story is that the idli was first made by Smitha’s ancestor, Chittoori Ammal to make ends meet when weaving failed to get enough patrons. Initially sold to labourers and farm workers in the village, the idli could keep for a week without spoiling. But not any more. Smitha says that is because the quality of the rice and urad dal has changed. Earlier, they used to mill and use paddy from their fields. “Rice and urad dal are soaked overnight, then ground. The proportion and ingredients are a family secret,” says Smitha, adding that they make the batter everyday. The pots and the clay ring to hold the sieve-like net used to be made by local potters. The sieve was made with fishing nets made of cotton threads. When fishing nets switched to nylon and synthetic threads, the women began plaiting cotton to make the net. The batter is poured on the dampened cotton cloth on the earthen steamer. Three are stacked, one above the other, on a blackened aluminium pot on the gas stove. Then it is covered with another aluminium pot. Till a few years ago, the idlis were made on firewood stoves and earthen pots. “Only firewood of the tamarind tree was used. However, all that is extremely difficult to buy nowadays. We have to move with the times,” she says. Now there are not enough potters to make the pots and rings. Only the circular steamers, chipped and aged, are still made of clay. As we speak, steam rises steadily from the pots. Ten minutes later, the one on the top is removed and hot idlis are slid on to a leaf set on a plate. Served with fragrant, creamy coconut milk stew, coconut chutney, tomato chutney and a fierypodi, the idli melts in the mouth. About 600 to 700 idlis are made every day and on weekends it increases to 1,500. Smitha has travelled to various places to make the idli as part of events organised by the Government and private organisers. They also cater to weddings and private functions. “We have been to Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode as part of fêtes,” she says. “Wherever we go, the Ramasseri idli is a hit with customers.”  Many of the families have roots in Kanchipuram in Tamil Nadu and most of them were weavers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-crossover-idli/article34210910.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Karthi and the 100 thugs||Can a peace-loving man manage a hundred rowdies at once? That is the one-liner that Karthi heard from director Bakkiyaraj Kannan a couple of years ago. The actor’s ears perked up. He listened to a 20-minute narration, and gave the green signal for the project, something he has never done before in his career. “I normally insist on reading the entire script. This one-line idea and the few scene arcs, however, sounded like it had a great scope for drama, and I went with my gut instinct,” says the actor, over a phone call, “In Kadaikutty Singam (one of the actor's previous hits), I had four sisters and that had so much drama. Now, I have hundred brothers who are all thugs!” It gave Karthi the notion of an arresting visual, and that got him excited. Producer SR Prabhu too shared the same emotion, and Sulthan was underway. “For the first few days, we did not know where to keep the camera...because there were just too many people in a single frame. The script was challenging for the technicians and cinematographers,” says Karthi, recalling the days of shooting in a village near Dindigul. Sulthan also stars Napoleon, Lal, Yogi Babu and Rashmika Mandanna in vital roles. ‘Don’t put marks’ He is still receiving acclaim for his portryal of Dilli in the 2019 Lokesh Kanagaraj-directed Kaithi , but Karthi feels that a balance of genres is a must for any actor. “With Kaithi , being an action film, the target group was clearly youngsters. Making a commercial film (like Sulthan) is the toughest, because you have to engage audiences of all age groups by packing in multiple emotions. One character has to pull off the different moods of the film. Also, audiences need to enter a commercial film with a relaxed mindset; they ought to come to be entertained, and not give marks for it!” Like his 2017 hit Theeran Adigaaram Ondru , Sulthan too will have a strong villain who will have an important space in the storyline, promises the actor. Here, Karthi comes face-to-face with Ramachandra Raju, who made his presence felt in the Kannada superhit KGF . “The hero can become bigger only if there’s a strong villain; only then does it become fun to watch. Thanks to KGF , Ramachandra had a great screen presence and following on set, despite not being from the film industry,” he says. Karthi and team have taken the theatre route to release Sulthan , despite offers from OTT platforms. “During the pandemic, we lost the sense of gathering and socialising. We filmed Sulthan long ago, but the fact that it is being released now is almost like it is bringing back celebration. For lovers of cinema, movie-watching in theatres is a cultural process.” That, however, does not to rule out OTT for the actor. He is willing to take up a project, provided it allows him to experience a completely different culture. “They (OTT platforms) give you the freedom to explore different types of content, things you cannot do for the big screen. Last year, when we were all unsure about theatres, OTT was the only relief for a producer. We have crossed that stage now; Master has proved that people will still throng cinema halls.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/karthi-and-the-100-thugs/article34210882.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Apolitical biryani||In Tamil Nadu, election season sees a dramatic rise in biryani sales as political parties place bulk orders for packets to distribute to the cadre, or even hire a ‘master’ to prepare it at their meeting location. Running a biryani catering service near Mamallapuram for 18 years, 53-year-old Basha bhai is popular with political parties looking to arrange an economical feast. He is taken to the venue three hours before a meeting ends, which gives him and his team time to cook a fragrant Tamil Nadu style biryani. “For wedding feasts, I use equal portions of meat and rice, but when it comes to a political party where there is a limitless crowd, I add slightly more rice just so that I can serve a dozen more,” he says. “There is never a compromise in quality. I always insist on using best qualitybasmatiand meat.” To this end, Basha insists on taking raw materials to the venue instead of letting his client supply them. The wages of a ‘biryani master’, who is accompanied by an assistant, is based on the number of kilograms of rice used and the kind of biryani — Rs. 100, Rs. 120 and Rs. 150 per plate, for vegetable, chicken and mutton respectively; the serving includes one piece of meat, one egg and a generous portion of rice. Usually one kilogram of biryani with the meat is sufficient to fill six to eight boxes. “There are two types of biryani that I prepare: dum and vadi biryani. For party cadres, I normally stick to vadi biryani, where we cook the rice and meat with masala and layer it before mixing and serving.” He adds, “This tastes good even if eaten later as the cadres prefer to take the packets and eat it leisurely. I prefer this method as I want every one to taste the best biryani.” When the order is too big for him to handle, he invites biryani masters from neighbouring districts to join him in the task. “To prepare for 1,000 people, we use multiple cauldrons and allot one master for two cauldrons. Normally, we cook 25-30 kilograms of rice and meat in each batch,” he says. Dull season This year, the city’s biryani kitchens are not as busy. “Even during lockdown, we had good sales but it dipped after the Assembly election dates were announced. None of the parties have placed bulk orders so far,” says Anees Ahamed, managing partner for all the 14 branches of Star Biryani outlets in Chennai. It is a similar story at the smaller stalls. Mohamad Nihal, who has a biryani stall on the ECR near Mamallapuram says, “During the previous elections, we supplied biryani parcels of 600 to 1,000 per day to all parties. This is the worst in the 20 years that we have been in business. There have been no orders mainly due to cash crunch and the pandemic situation,” he says. Muneer Ahamed, managing director, Star Biryani, Ambur, adds that the Election Commission of India has been “tracking biryani movement” and seeking details on who placed the order and how the payment was made. “Strict vigilance has made the parties avoid spending on biryani as it could be considered election expenditure,” he says. However, Basha is hopeful that there will be better sales on polling day — April 6 — as food will be served to cadres and polling booth managers. He adds, “Irrespective of which candidate people support, they all agree on biryani for lunch on election day.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/apolitical-biryani/article34210886.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||The van with the golden bun||“The van used to draw up just around 11 in the morning, when the Stations of the Cross gave over,” reminisces Jean Joseph, who lived in the Anglo-Indian stronghold of Foxen Street, Perambur, for decades. “Squidgy, soft buns were offloaded in trays, wrapped in butter paper and distributed to everyone in church. I remember it being warm in my hands as we carried it home to break the Good Friday fast,” she adds, wistfully. Foxen Street holds out as one of the last bastions of the fast vanishing world of Anglo-India, and for years has risen and slept under the warm blanket of comfort that the aroma of baking exuded from stellar bakeries such as Ajantha and Coronation. Ajantha Bakers, established in 1972 at the cusp of Paper Mills Road and Foxen Street, is known for its wedding cakes, pound cakes and marzipan-rich, soft and chewy Easter eggs, all made from old Anglo-Indian recipes. But it is in the week between Palm Sunday and Easter Sunday that it comes into its own. Its hot cross buns — eggless, slightly spiced, peppered with raisins and tinged in nostalgia — were sold in the thousands, and were ordered in bulk by churches before the COVID-19 pandemic. “This year, too, we are ready with the buns,” says Ashok, manager, adding that the bakery on the first floor overlooking quaint tiled houses, continues to churn out Easter goodies. The modern version of the hot cross bun is a British invention that came with Europe opening up to trade with the East. Spices and salt started to cost less and the sweet-savoury bun with a pasty white cross on its golden brown top became a Good Friday baker’s treat. The cross came to symbolise Christ’s Passion and death, and the spices, the mixture with which his body was embalmed with before he was laid in his tomb. A pinch of faith  Toasted, buttered, dunked in tea or eaten straight from the pack, the buns also have their share of lore. The bar at the Bell Inn, Essex, UK, has buns from every Good Friday since 1906 suspended as buntings. The belief is that hot cross buns were hung in kitchens to prevent fires and the spirit behind them would never let them go mouldy. They were also said to prevent shipwrecks. They have also been mixed with unusual flavours such as Earl Grey tea, rum-soaked sultanas and potato-bread dough. In Chennai, Ravi Varma, pastry chef at Taj Coromandel’s La Patisserie, has lent the classic bun a flavourful twist — sticky toffee hot cross buns with nuts, cinnamon sugar, crossed with salted caramel, and red velvet buns with cocoa and beet stuffed with mascarpone cream. Priced at Rs. 150 they are on sale till Saturday. “We also have the traditional buns with candied fruit, flavoured with home-ground spices and crossed with slurry. Before baking, we place the bun on a mixture of sugar and butter to give it a caramelised bottom,” says Varma, adding the buns are baked only for Good Friday, while designer eggs shaped as telephones and antique clocks are also on sale for Easter — all sold in sanitised packaging. Iconic Buhari Hotel on Anna Salai follows the traditional recipe for the buns. The hotel that has stood here since 1951 has had an in-house bakery since the 1960s. Above the roar of traffic and people sipping tea and tucking into samosas, Carlton Mark, general manager, says, “Our egg-free recipe for hot cross buns was handed down by Vietnamese bakers who worked in our bakery. The buns are priced at Rs. 50 and will be stocked until Saturday.” Back home, an early Good Friday arrives via Dunzo. Pumpkin Tales’ mix of the classic hot cross bun and another made with dough marbled with chocolate, comes wrapped in butter paper for old times’ sake. There is also a loaf of sourdough speckled with walnuts and cranberries. “We sold hundreds of hot cross buns last year in the midst of a lockdown Good Friday. It was comfort food for many,” says Chindi Vardarajulu, creative chef and partner. The bun is soft and subtly spiced; the raisins are plump and a citrusy aroma fills the air when it is broken; the cross sits on the golden-brown dome — all merging in a holy grail of flavours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-van-with-the-golden-bun/article34210896.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Your roses for my bonsai||“They are my prized possessions.” Mumbai-based Mamta Sukhija Joseph is talking about theDendrobium nobileorchid, a double-petalled red azalea and a cherry plum in her terrace garden. She got them from Darjeeling in exchange for a gulmohar bonsai from her collection. The pride of place in Sunita Hooda’s garden in Gurugram, Haryana, goes toSansevieria cylindrica, a snake plant variety, which she got from a grower in Chennai after she swapped her pink syngonium (arrowhead plant) for it. “I sent the person crinum lilies too because while my plant costs Rs. 30, sansevieria is usually priced at Rs. 800-900. Also, he might have spent quite an amount on packing and transportation as well,” says Sunita. Mamta and Sunita are gardening enthusiasts who trade seeds and plants online. Helping them do this are groups — both pan-India and city-specific — on Facebook, many of them started during 2020. There are also multiple swap groups for specific plant varieties. “I was part of several online gardening groups and these pages saw unprecedented traffic during the lockdown. It felt good to make new friends via these pages,” says Mamta. She is a member of five swap groups and co-admin of Free Seeds and plant for Swap, founded by Hyderabad-based P Anilkumar. Anilkumar, also a member of over 20-plus gardening groups, says that the group has 6,800 members, from across India and abroad. “Until I formed this group, I swapped plants only locally. After the lockdown restrictions were eased, new members are joining in large numbers,” he says. Hemant Dhingra, a teacher from Palwal in Haryana and admin of Spread free seeds and Plants is overjoyed that the membership in his group crossed 10,000 within six months of its launch. Chennai-based Minal Thamarai Selvan, member and moderator of one of the earliest swap groups, Seeds and Plants Swap Community (India), says that they get at least 50 requests per day for membership. The group, formed in 2017, has over 25,000 members. Why the rise now Ludhiana-based Mona Chopra, an avid gardener and a regular swapper, feels that the spurt in members has to do with people missing new friendships in a period of social distancing. “You interact with people from all over, some of whom you will probably never meet. I learn something new about plants and also get to share what I have with others. It is fun,” says Mona. While pan-India groups exist, it is easier to go hyper-local in hobbies like these. Cities such as Mysuru, Pune, and Ludhiania are popular for swap groups. Adventure coordinator and snake rescuer, Pradeep Gangarkar, who started the Mysuru group in January, says he returned to gardening and farming during the lockdown. “Mysuru is a beautiful city with blooms everywhere. Most of the plants in my garden were collected during my snake rescue missions and I began the group to share them with interested people.” Delhi-based Dimple Agarwal chooses to swap in and around the Capital, even though she runs a pan-Indian group (‘free plants exchange’). “The whole exercise makes me happy. I started this page because I had seeds and plants in excess even after distributing it to my relatives. However, I am not keen on sending them by courier and prefer people to come and collect,” says the 47-year-old entrepreneur. Swap, don’t shop The basic rule of these groups is that no buying or selling is allowed. However, postal charges can be claimed, especially if the other person does not have any plant or seeds to swap or share. An obvious advantage of swap/share groups is that those varieties priced high in nurseries can be purchased for free or by paying only postal charges. This makes it a good platform for gardeners to fulfil their wish list. “For example, a member in Khargone, Madhya Pradesh wanted succulents and cacti from me since they are expensive in the nurseries there (succulents cost up to Rs. 300). Swappers in North India ask for ground orchid prevalent in Kerala,” says Sabitha Sujith from Kollam, Kerala, a member of Seeds and Plants Swap Community (India). Ever since she came across these groups on Facebook last July, Sabitha has done over 20 swaps. “Thanks to these groups, now I know that there are so many varieties of the same plant. Pea plant, for instance,” she says, “I am part of a Kerala-based group where we even have competitions to keep the group active. Top contributors or those who get maximum likes and comments for their activities, get seeds as gifts,” she says. While Sunita, admin of Plants Paradise, says that she is “crazy about sansevieria these days” and Anil keeps looking for orchids, Minal is interested in any “unique”, sturdy plant. “ Philodendron pink princess is in demand and Kerala has the best climate to grow it. Hawaiin sunset vine is the latest addition from Kerala and I have promised my morning glory in return,” adds Minal, also a member of Chennai Plants & Seeds Exchange Group. Besides the no-sale policy, the groups do not allow members to post phone numbers and addresses, promotional posts and, in some cases, gardening tips. Minal says, “We don’t give membership to people abroad. Anyone wanting to join has to have a Facebook profile that is at least a year old. We neither allow posts asking to identify plants nor do we let members to show off their garden or plants! Also, people taking plants from multiple members and giving no seed or plant in return to any of them are not entertained.” And then there are some members who give away seeds and plants to multiple people without asking for a swap. “There are elderly members who send items to 10 or 20 people and expect only a word of gratitude on the page,” says Minal, adding, “swaps work on trust”.  What can you share Succulents and cacti have the largest fan base among swappers, because they survive the transit. Seeds, seedlings or cuttings of water plants, winter annuals, ornamental plants, leafy greens, table roses, orchids, gerberas, roses, hibiscus, medicinal plants, vegetables are often traded online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/your-roses-for-my-bonsai/article34210879.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Weave it yourself||Compact, mini looms at the Co-optex in Chennai are now open for the public. Visitors are encouraged to use and experience the sheer joy of weaving. In-house weaver M Kandasamy will be present at the centre on weekdays, to provide guidance . For weekends, prior appointments are required. Visitors can use yarn provided by Co-optex and weave mats or handkerchiefs, for a fee of Rs. 100 per hour. The event is the brainchild of Mythili Rajendran, IAS, who took over as the Managing Director of Co-Optex last September. She was determined to bring about many changes in the organisation hit by the pandemic. “I came across 17 mini looms that were in the attic, lying unused for many years. I had six of them repaired, overhauled and made functional. We then decided to establish the loom centre in the premises,” says Mythili, who hopes to popularise the art of weaving. “For special children, who have to be accompanied by their teacher or parent, we will provide the loom and yarn free of cost. For other schoolchildren, the rates would be subsidised,” says Mythili, adding, “These mini looms are compact and anyone can learn to weave by spending some time on them. The art can be mastered even by a novice.”  The looms can be handled by prior appointment at Co-Optex, Egmore, from 10 am to 5 pm. For details, call 9840925579.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/weave-it-yourself/article34210901.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Ready, player one?||Lokesh Karakoti was introduced to Garena Free Fire, a mobile battle-royale game, four years ago by a friend. He had just completed Class XII. Instead of figuring out which college he wanted to join, like his parents wanted him to, he spent most of his day spraying bullets and throwing bombs at his opponents in the game. He soon dropped out of his BCA course, concerned more with the matters of life and death within Free Fire. Four years later, Lokesh, from Delhi, earns about Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 90,000 a month. About Rs. 40,000 of this comes through his YouTube channel, Pahadi Gaming (with over 9,27,000 subscribers), and the rest through sponsors and prize money earnings from Free Fire tournaments. Gaming, like Lokesh discovered, can be a career in itself. The Indian gaming industry is valued at US$930 million, and the estimated number of gamers, 628 million. Of these, a majority would be recreational gamers. But an increasing number of youngsters like Lokesh make a living from gaming. They either get into eSports, which involves competing, or gaming for audiences on streaming platforms like YouTube and Twitch. Both avenues appear lucrative. An underground community Competitive eSporting can be broadly classified into four main genres: fighting games (like Mortal Kombat), first-person shooters (Counter Strike and Battlefield), real-time strategy (Hearthstone) and multiplayer online battle (Battle Arena). Each game has a set of rules laid down either by the International Esports Federation (IESF) or Asian Electronic Sports Federation (AESF), based on which tournaments — both national and international — are organised. One of the major contributors to the growing eSports community, which is device-agnostic, has been gaming cafés in metropolitan cities. “Ten years ago, online socialising was not a thing. Even now, with Discord, WhatsApp and everything, I think socialising is better if you are with the person. And, these places also conduct tournaments,” says Kiran Noojibail, former director, Esports and Broadcasting at LXG, a gaming café in Bengaluru. He adds, “Last year, however, the role of cafés diminished because of COVID-19; only 10-20% activities happened in gaming cafés, the rest were online.” Yet, the pandemic also brought about a significant increase in gamers, observes Akshat Rathee, co-founder and managing director of Nodwin Gaming, Gurugram, Haryana. His company has organised over 120 tournaments and events since its inception in 2015. In the last year, they hosted over 40 (virtual) events, which had a much better response from gamers than in previous years. “Although it is difficult to quantify that data, I can say that our watchtime became extremely high; about 200-300% growth in these events. We measure participation based on our watchtime,” says Rathee, adding, “Gamers no longer have to hide from their parents since there are lots of monetary benefits.” Chennai’s Pranay M Bathija concurs. His parents have been largely supportive of his interest in gaming, as long as he “studies”. Pranay has been into competitive eSports since Class IX, spending six to eight hours daily on games, and has secured a place among the top gamers in India during the Fortnite Champion Series (FNCS) held in 2019, winning a prize money of $1,500. “I was one among the four Indian players who qualified,” says the Class XII student. “The FNCS is really hard for Indian players; we have to play on the West Asia server, with countries such as Singapore, Pakistan and the United Arab Emirates since we don’t have our own server.” There is a popular misconception that gamers are usually loners sitting in the comfort of their homes, living in a virtual world. Pranay dispels this notion saying that he is a lot more connected to the people he has befriended online. “I talk to them [most of whom are from the city] way more frequently than my immediate circle. Sometimes, we are on call till midnight,” he adds.  The Indian eSports industry is still at a nascent stage — largely unstructured without a uniform body or even market research. And still, there are many who have made money off it. Where the money is Kiran, from LXG, says that one can earn by even talking about games. He used to be a shoutcaster, which is the equivalent of a commentator in sports. “I know people who charge up to Rs. 30,000 a day for shoutcasting,” he says. Observers (who control the in-game camera during broadcast), designers, animators, and video editors are among the other popular jobs in eSports. And then of course, are the gamers. One of India’s most popular YouTube channel Total Gaming, has 21 million subscribers; videos on it have been viewed over three billion times. It is run by Ajay (known as Ajjubhai in the gaming circle, who is from Ahmedabad). “Income generation is quite the same for both the gaming content creators and professional eSports players,” explains Ajay, “What the content creators earn in three months through YouTube or any other platform, the professional gamer can earn by winning one big tournament. However, the amount of time that goes behind preparing for the tournament is almost two to three months. And, gaming content creators need to invest a lot of time and effort in making videos engaging as YouTube and other platforms pay for views.” Putting together a tournament is just one part of the larger responsibility that involves “evangelising eSports” and nurturing the sporting culture in India, explains Lokesh Suji, director of Esports Federation of India (ESFI), a non-Government organisation. While acknowledging India as the next big market, he says the roadblocks are parental approval and the lack of support from the Government. “eSports is not recognised as an official sport in India which means that funds come from our pockets or from sponsorship,” says Suji. He is also the vice-president of AESFI (Asian Electronic Sports Federation), which has been recognised as the Technical Delegate for eSports events in the upcoming Asian Games 2022. “The biggest achievement for us was when India won its first-ever eSports medal at the 2018 Asian Games. Five years from the day the Government recognises eSports, I can promise you that we can become like the West.” India is expected to add nearly 40 million online gamers during 2020−22, according to Deloitte. Maple Capital Advisors’ report estimates that the Indian gaming industry will grow 41% annually due to the growth of digital infrastructure. By 2024, it claims, the gaming industry will be worth $3,750 million. Going by these numbers, we are on the cusp of a great Indian gaming boom.  The stats  Time:  Indian gamers spend an average of 8.6 hours playing every week. [Source: Limelight Networks]  Money:  The Indian gaming industry is valued at $930 million. [Source: Invest India]  People:  There are over 628 million gamers in India. [Source: Invest India]   Girls in gaming Gaming is often considered an all-boys club. But recent surveys disprove this popular notion. According to a 2020 study commissioned by Google, the number of females playing video games in Asia is growing at a faster rate than their male rivals. But India’s story is different: it had the lowest overall percentage of female gamers (18%) in Asia. “I think female gamers get demotivated by sexist and hate comments they get. A lot are discouraged by their families as well,” reckons Mansi Gupta, whose YouTube channel, MagsPlay, has over 1,75,000 subscribers. She started it during the lockdown last year. “I told myself I will post 100 videos no matter what. If the channel doesn’t take off after that, then, I will stop doing this.” However, it took just 15 videos to reach 1,50,000 subscribers.   The Indian eSports industry is still at a nascent stage — largely unstructured without a uniform body or market research||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/ready-player-one/article34211421.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||By the sword||In 2004, a shy 11-year-old girl walked into Chennai’s Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium for the first time, clutching her mother’s hand. A student at Muruga Dhanushkodi Girls’ Higher Secondary School, Tondiarpet, CA Bhavani Devi had just learnt the term ‘fencing’ as part of the ‘Sports in Schools’ initiative started by the late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa. Vishwanathan P, who would soon be her first coach, looked on from the parapet, and put the little girl to a 30-second test. “I don’t remember what the test was! But right then, I knew she had the talent,” laughs Vishwanathan. In 30 seconds, she secured a spot in the school’s fencing classes, among 40 other girls. Cut to March 15, 2021 in Budapest, Bhavani, now 27, made history by being the first Indian fencer to qualify for the Olympics. In July, she will represent India at the Tokyo Olympic games. Currently ranked 42nd in the world and 1st in the country, the sabre fencer from Old Washermanpet qualified through the Asia/Oceanic Zone of official rankings after Hungary lost to South Korea in the quarter-finals of the Sabre Fencing World Cup. Wielding a sword, dressed in an electric suit and mask that flickers when the opponent’s weapon lands a jab, her swift, calculated footwork and mental focus brought her this honour. She states, “In 2016, I realised that there is a limit to which you can put pressure on yourself. It backfires.” (She had failed to qualify for the 2016 Rio Olympics). Seventeen years on, Bhavani still seems uncomfortable with the spotlight. In the few days she got to spend at home before flying to Italy to resume coaching, she has had little time to relax. This week, the Olympic hopeful was named safety lifestyle company MY’s goodwill ambassador at an event in Phoenix MarketCity’s Club Crest where MetroPlus caught up with her. Bhavani remembers starting with bamboo sticks. The little equipment they had was saved for competitions. “We used all sorts of things to practice,” she reminisces. “We would go to the stadium at 5.30 am everyday and from there to school. In the evening, from school back to the stadium and then home. This was the routine for years.” Catching the public bus on time to get to the stadium and back, was a struggle she remembers. “But, we still enjoyed the process.” Vishwanathan quips, “She was a ‘jolly’ child, and it was fun to train her.” Bhavani’s first breakthrough came when Sports Authority of India (SAI) coach Sagar Lagu spotted her and invited her to train at the SAI academy in Thalassery, Kerala. She finished Class X packed her bags and moved to Thalassery where she continued her studies and trained at the same time. In 2017, she became India’s first international gold medallist at the Women’s World Cup held in Reykjavik, Iceland. The 40-member fencing group at school quickly diminished and five years down, Bhavani was the sole participant. Fencing then was still an unknown sport in India with no big achievements to point out, says Bhavani. “Some wanted to focus on education. Some felt fencing was not good for girls. There were no job prospects in the sport unlike athletics or volleyball,” Bhavani says. Many asked if the sport was “safe enough” for a girl to pursue. Bhavani’s mother Ramani, a constant and perhaps the most significant presence in her life, nipped such negative comments in the bud. Ramani says, “‘Why should you bother,’ I asked them. The girl is interested in this, so let her be.” The proud mother is now preparing to fly to Tokyo to watch her daughter’s most anticipated competition. Time and again, Bhavani reiterates that her parents — her late father was a priest and her mother, a homemaker — were her biggest support. Modern fencing is a combination of three disciplines: the épée, the sabre, and the foil. While in épée, the entire body is a valid target area, in sabre, the upper body becomes the target and in foil, only the torso can receive a strike. Weapons used in each also differ in terms of their make and flexibility. All eyes on her Bhavani specialises in sabre fencing, in which a typical competition lasts only 10 minutes. Has she ever felt been intimidated? “I have never been afraid, even my parents haven’t for that matter. You can get hurt anywhere, it’s all about how you take care of yourself,” she says. The novelty of fencing is what kept Bhavani going, despite briefly considering giving up in 2014 as she did not want to put her family through more financial pressure. The GoSports Foundation came to her support in 2015, and she currently trains under an athlete mentorship programme named after Indian cricketer Rahul Dravid. Bhavani has been training under renowned coach Nicola Zanotti in Italy for the past five years. Though she knows that all eyes are on her, ever since qualifying, Bhavani has tried to block out the pressure. Two fencing sessions of two to three hours each and physiotherapy schedules (to straighten out an injury that happened in 2015), make up most of her day. In addition, she has fitness sessions four times a week. “Fencing is a mental sport but physical strength is important for all sports,” she says.  With only months to the Olympics, Bhavani recalls the times she had to travel to international competitions alone. This time though, she has the entire country backing her. With her trademark shy smile, she concludes, “I will make you all proud. I am confident.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/by-the-sword/article34211509.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||The crossover idli||Driving past paddy fields touched with gold, and swaying palms, we reach Ramasseri, a dusty, nondescript village about eight kilometres from Palakkad, in time for breakfast. It is 8.30 am, and the village is still waking up from the celebrations of the temple festival the previous night. Yet, a line of swanky cars is already queuing up beside a small joint with bright green walls and a signboard bearing the name Sree Saraswathy Tea Stall, The Ramassery Idli Kada. Is it an idli or a dosa? An idli, insist locals. This is the famous Ramasseri idli, a fusion of the two. Soft and fluffy and the size of a pancake, the Ramasseri idli with its distinctive texture and taste has put this little village on the food map of India. From 5 am to 11 am the Ramasseri idli is made non-stop at the ‘tea stall’, one among the three or four small eateries on the roadside. The two women, busy in the kitchen, have little time for small talk. Vijayakumar PK, the owner, says the stall is 200 years old and that Smitha Vijayakumar, his wife is the fifth generation of women continuing the tradition of making the Ramasseri idli. Given the dish’s popularity, recently, for the first time, a branch of Sree Saraswathy Tea Stall was opened in Guruvayoor. Smita pours the dough on square pieces of cloth, stretched over a circular sieve-like clay steamer placed on aluminium pots. As she works, she explains how many of the families have roots in Kanchipuram in Tamil Nadu and most of them were weavers. The local story is that the idli was first made by Smitha’s ancestor, Chittoori Ammal to make ends meet when weaving failed to get enough patrons. Initially sold to labourers and farm workers in the village, the idli could keep for a week without spoiling. But not any more. Smitha says that is because the quality of the rice and urad dal has changed. Earlier, they used to mill and use paddy from their fields. “Rice and urad dal are soaked overnight, then ground. The proportion and ingredients are a family secret,” says Smitha, adding that they make the batter every day. The pots and the clay ring to hold the sieve-like net used to be made by local potters. The sieve was made with fishing nets made of cotton threads. When fishing nets switched to nylon and synthetic threads, the women began plaiting cotton to make the net. The batter is poured on the dampened cotton cloth on the earthen steamer. Three are stacked, one above the other, on a blackened aluminium pot on the gas stove. Then it is covered with another aluminium pot. Until a few years ago, the idlis were made on firewood stoves and earthen pots. “Only firewood of the tamarind tree was used. However, all that is extremely difficult to buy nowadays,” she says. Now there are not enough potters to make the pots and rings. Only the circular steamers, chipped and aged, are still made of clay. As we speak, steam rises steadily from the pots. Ten minutes later, the one on the top is removed and hot idlis are slid on to a leaf set on a plate. Served with fragrant, creamy coconut milk stew, coconut chutney, tomato chutney and a fierypodi, the idli melts in the mouth. About 600 to 700 idlis are made every day and on weekends it increases to 1,500. Smitha has travelled to various places to make the idli as part of events organised by the Government and private organisers. They also cater to weddings and private functions. “We have been to Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode as part of fêtes,” she says. “Wherever we go, the Ramasseri idli is a hit with customers.”  Many of the families have roots in Kanchipuram in Tamil Nadu and most of them were weavers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-crossover-idli/article34211422.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Apolitical biryani||In Tamil Nadu, election season sees a rise in biryani sales as political parties place bulk orders for packets to distribute, or even hire a ‘master’ to prepare it at their meeting location. Running a biryani catering service near Mamallapuram for 18 years, 53-year-old Basha bhai is popular with political parties looking to arrange an economical feast. He is taken to the venue three hours before a meeting ends, which gives him and his team time to cook. “For wedding feasts, I use equal portions of meat and rice, but for a political party where there is a limitless crowd, I add more rice so that I can serve a dozen more,” he says. “ Basha insists on taking raw materials to the venue instead of letting his client supply them. The wages of a ‘biryani master’, who is accompanied by an assistant, is based on the number of kilograms of rice used and the kind of biryani — Rs. 100, Rs. 120 and Rs. 150 per plate, for vegetable, chicken and mutton respectively. The serving includes one piece of meat, one egg and a generous portion of rice. Usually one kilogram of biryani with the meat is sufficient to fill six to eight boxes. “There are two types of biryani that I prepare: dum and vadi biryani. For party cadres, I normally stick to vadi biryani, where we cook the rice and meat with masala and layer it before mixing and serving. This tastes good even if eaten later as the cadres prefer to take the packets and eat it at leisure.” When the order is too big for him to handle, he invites biryani masters from neighbouring districts to join him. “To prepare for 1,000 people, we use many cauldrons and allot one master to two. Normally, we cook 25-30 kilograms of rice and meat in each batch,” he says. This year, the city’s biryani kitchens are not as busy. “Even during lockdown, we had good sales but it dipped after the Assembly election dates were announced. None of the parties have placed bulk orders so far,” says Anees Ahamed, managing partner for all the 14 branches of Star Biryani outlets in Chennai. It is similar at the smaller stalls. Mohamad Nihal, who has a biryani stall on the ECR near Mamallapuram says, “During the previous elections, we supplied biryani parcels of 600 to 1,000 per day to all parties. This is the worst in the 20 years that we have been in business, with no orders,” he says. Muneer Ahamed, managing director, Star Biryani, Ambur, adds that the Election Commission of India has been “tracking biryani movement” and seeking details on who placed the order and how the payment was made. “Strict vigilance has made the parties avoid spending on biryani,” he says. Basha is hopeful that there will be better sales on polling day — April 6. He adds, “Irrespective of which candidate people support, they all agree on biryani for lunch on election day.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/apolitical-biryani/article34211507.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Karthi and the 100 thugs||Can a peace-loving man manage a hundred rowdies at once? That is the one-liner that Karthi heard from director Bakkiyaraj Kannan a couple of years ago. The actor’s ears perked up. He listened to a 20-minute narration, and gave the green signal for the project, something he has never done before in his career. “I normally insist on reading the entire script. This one-line idea and the few scene arcs, however, sounded like it had a great scope for drama, and I went with my gut instinct,” says the actor, over a phone call, “In Kadaikutty Singam (one of the actor's previous hits), I had four sisters and that had so much drama. Now, I have hundred brothers who are all thugs!” It gave Karthi the notion of an arresting visual, and that got him excited. Producer SR Prabhu too shared the same emotion, and Sulthan was underway. “For the first few days, we did not know where to keep the camera...because there were just too many people in a single frame. The script was challenging for the technicians and cinematographers,” says Karthi, recalling the days of shooting in a village near Dindigul. Sulthan also stars Napoleon, Lal, Yogi Babu and Rashmika Mandanna in vital roles. ‘Don’t put marks’ He is still receiving acclaim for his portryal of Dilli in the 2019 Lokesh Kanagaraj-directed Kaithi , but Karthi feels that a balance of genres is a must for any actor. “With Kaithi , being an action film, the target group was clearly youngsters. Making a commercial film (like Sulthan) is the toughest, because you have to engage audiences of all age groups by packing in multiple emotions. One character has to pull off the different moods of the film. Also, audiences need to enter a commercial film with a relaxed mindset; they ought to come to be entertained, and not give marks for it!” Like his 2017 hit Theeran Adigaaram Ondru , Sulthan too will have a strong villain who will have an important space in the storyline, promises the actor. Here, Karthi comes face-to-face with Ramachandra Raju, who made his presence felt in the Kannada superhit KGF . “The hero can become bigger only if there’s a strong villain; only then does it become fun to watch. Thanks to KGF , Ramachandra had a great screen presence and following on set, despite not being from the film industry,” he says. Karthi and team have taken the theatre route to release Sulthan , despite offers from OTT platforms. “During the pandemic, we lost the sense of gathering and socialising. We filmed Sulthan long ago, but the fact that it is being released now is almost like it is bringing back celebration. For lovers of cinema, movie-watching in theatres is a cultural process.” That, however, does not to rule out OTT for the actor. He is willing to take up a project, provided it allows him to experience a completely different culture. “They (OTT platforms) give you the freedom to explore different types of content, things you cannot do for the big screen. Last year, when we were all unsure about theatres, OTT was the only relief for a producer. We have crossed that stage now; Master has proved that people will still throng cinema halls.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/karthi-and-the-100-thugs/article34211511.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Your roses for my bonsai||“They are my prized possessions.” Mumbai-based Mamta Sukhija Joseph is talking about theDendrobium nobileorchid, a double-petalled red azalea and a cherry plum in her terrace garden. She got them from Darjeeling in exchange for a gulmohar bonsai from her collection. The pride of place in Sunita Hooda’s garden in Gurugram goes toSansevieria cylindrica, a snake plant variety, which she got from a grower in Chennai after she swapped her pink syngonium (arrowhead plant) for it. “I sent the person crinum lilies too because while my plant costs Rs. 30, sansevieria is Rs. 800-900. Also, he might have spent quite an amount on packing and transportation,” says Sunita. The rise now Mamta and Sunita are gardening enthusiasts who trade seeds and plants online. Helping them do this are groups — both pan-India and city-specific — on Facebook, many of them started during 2020. There are also multiple swap/share groups for specific plant varieties. “I was part of several online gardening groups. These pages saw unprecedented traffic during the lockdown. It felt good to make new friends via these pages,” says Mamta. She is a member of five swap groups and co-admin of Free Seeds and plant for Swap, founded by Hyderabad-based P Anilkumar. “Until I formed this group, I swapped plants only locally. After the lockdown restrictions were eased, new members are joining in large numbers,” says Anilkumar. Hemant Dhingra, a teacher from Palwal in Haryana and admin of Spread free seeds and Plants is overjoyed that the membership in his group crossed 10,000 within six months of its launch. Chennai-based Minal Thamarai Selvan, member and moderator of one of the earliest swap groups, Seeds and Plants Swap Community (India), says that they get at least 50 requests per day for membership. The group, formed in 2017, has over 25,000 members. Ludhiana-based Mona Chopra, an avid gardener and a regular swapper, feels that the spurt in members has to do with people missing new friendships in a period of social distancing. “You interact with people from all over, some of whom you will probably never meet. I learn something new about plants and also get to share what I have with others. It is fun,” says Mona. Delhi-based Dimple Agarwal chooses to swap in and around the Capital, even though she runs a pan-Indian group (‘free plants exchange’). “The whole exercise makes me happy. I started this page because I had seeds and plants in excess even after distributing it to my relatives. However, I am not keen on sending them by courier and prefer people to come and collect,” says the 47-year-old entrepreneur. Swap, don’t shop The basic rule of these groups is that no buying or selling is allowed. However, postal charges can be claimed, especially if the other person does not have any plant/seed to swap or share. An obvious advantage of swap/share groups is that those varieties priced high in nurseries can be purchased for free or by paying only postal charges. This makes it a good platform for gardeners to fulfil their wish list. Ever since she came across swapping groups on Facebook last July, Sabitha Sujith from Kollam, Kerala, has done over 20 swaps. “Thanks to these groups, now I know that there are so many varieties of the same plant. Pea plant, for instance,” she says, “I am part of a Kerala-based group where we even have competitions to keep the group active. Top contributors or those who get maximum likes and comments for their activities, get seeds as gifts,” she says. While Sunita, admin of Plants Paradise, says that she is “crazy about sansevieria these days” and Anil keeps looking for orchids, Minal is interested in any “unique”, sturdy plant. The groups do not allow members to post phone numbers and addresses, promotional posts and, in some cases, gardening tips. Minal says, “We don’t give membership to people abroad. People must have a Facebook profile that is at least a year old. We neither allow posts asking to identify plants nor do we let members to show off their garden or plants!” “There are elderly members who send items to 10 or 20 people and expect only a word of gratitude on the page,” says Minal. “Swaps work on trust,” she says.  What can you share Succulents and cacti have the largest fan base among swappers, because they survive the transit. Seeds, seedlings or cuttings of water plants, winter annuals, ornamental plants, leafy greens, table roses, orchids, gerberas, roses, hibiscus, medicinal plants, vegetables are often traded online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/your-roses-for-my-bonsai/article34211510.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Weave it yourself||Compact, mini looms at the Co-optex in Chennai are now open for the public. Visitors are encouraged to use and experience the sheer joy of weaving. In-house weaver M Kandasamy will be present at the centre on weekdays, to provide guidance . For weekends, prior appointments are required. Visitors can use yarn provided by Co-optex and weave mats or handkerchiefs, for a fee of Rs. 100 per hour. The event is the brainchild of Mythili Rajendran, IAS, who took over as the Managing Director of Co-Optex last September. She was determined to bring about many changes in the organisation hit by the pandemic. “I came across 17 mini looms that were in the attic, lying unused. I had six of them repaired, overhauled and made functional,” says Mythili.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/weave-it-yourself/article34211420.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Free dental camp winds up at Singhu border protest site||A ‘free dental camp’ that had been running from inside a bus at the Singhu border protest site since December 2 last year shut its doors on Wednesday, possibly for good. Manjeet Singh, the driver of the bus and an employee at Jap Jee Family Clinic, and Dr. Gurpreet Singh sat in the vehicle with their luggage, mattresses, boxes of medicines, and chairs. The air-conditioned cabin they had built next to the bus has been dismantled. The men said they were disappointed with the leaders at the protest site. Manjeet said that a protesting farmer had been attacking them for a week, and even though they had complained to the stage management committee, no action was taken. “The old man would come and accuse us of giving him fake medicines. He just wouldn’t listen to us. He was probably mentally ill. He thrashed me with a stick and broke my phone on March 30,” he said. What really hurt the two volunteers, however, was the inaction by the protest leaders. “We showed them videos of the man but they still didn’t do anything,” Manjeet said, while asking who would be responsible if something happened to them. “We do not wish to go but we do not have any other option. If someone gives it to us in writing that we will be taken care of then we will stay,” said Dr. Gurpreet. He added that not a single protest leader had come to ask them whether they needed anything or had adequate food or water. “For us, those leaders were everything, but no one ever asked if we needed any medicines or how we were operating. We did everything ourselves. We came on our own and now we are leaving on our own,” said Dr. Gurpreet, visibly disheartened. The owner of the bus, Sunny Ahluwalia from Mohali, had come to the Singh border on November 26 and started a langar. He soon realised that the protesters also needed his dental clinic sewa . The dental camp was set up in the bus on December 2. An AC cabin was built next to the bus about a month ago as the mercury started rising. Future plan Dr. Ahluwalia, who was in Mohali on Wednesday, told The Hindu over the phone that they may shift the bus to a different location. A Nihang Sikh who didn’t wish to be named also shared his disappointment with the protest leadership. “People should only donate food here and not money. We keep saying that on social media platforms. The leadership is nowhere to be seen,” he said. Dr. Gupreet said they used to treat at least 40 patients daily. “Now, group leaders are coming and asking us not to leave, but we are hurt,” said Manjeet. “It is a great movement but it is directionless as of now,” Dr. Gurpreet said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/free-dental-camp-winds-up-at-singhu-border-protest-site/article34211248.ece
01 April 2021||Guwahati,||Will accept Assam NRC, issue ID card to every citizen: Cong.||Assam Congress president Ripun Bora on Wednesday announced that the Congress, if voted to power, will accept and notify the National Register of Citizens (NRC) and issue identity card to every citizen of the State. Addressing a rally in western Assam’s Barkhetri along with Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi, Mr. Bora also assured steps for early hearing and disposal of appeals of the 19.06 lakh people who were left out of the final draft of the NRC published in 2019. About 3.3 crore people had applied for inclusion in the NRC. “I promise you that if our party comes to power, we will take the help of the Supreme Court to accept and formally notify the NRC that has been stalled by the BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) government. We will also issue identity card to every citizen of Assam,” the State Congress president said. “We will also ensure that the hearings of the appeals by the 19.06 lakh excluded from the final draft at the earliest and the genuine Indian citizens’ names are enrolled without further delay,” Mr. Bora, who contested the Gohpur Assembly seat in the first phase, said.  Rejection slips According to the standard operating procedure, the NRC authorities would have to issue rejection slips to each of the excluded persons for them to appeal to a Foreigners’ Tribunal (FT) within 120 days of receiving the notice. The quasi-judicial tribunals would then have to weigh documents for declaring the appellant as an Indian or foreigner. The rejection slips were to have been issued soon after the final NRC draft was published on August 31, 2019. Congress has already set up a legal cell to deal with the NRC drop-out cases at the FTs. Meanwhile, released from their jobs, 272 contractual junior assistants engaged in the NRC updating exercise since 2014 have sought rehabilitation. On Wednesday, these contractual employees told journalists they had assisted regular State government employees in updating the complicated exercise and were initially given to understand that the NRC would be a continuous process. “On March 23, the Registrar General of India ordered the closure of the NRC office in the State and refused to sanction any further fund to run the office after March 31. On March 26, we were released from our responsibilities while some others have been retained,” the contractual employees said. “We were appointed under Assam’s Home and Political Department. We were told to go at a critical time when the government machinery is not working due to the elections. If the NRC authority thinks issuing rejection and other pending work can be done with regular employees, why did they appoint us in the first place?” the junior assistants said.  “Will SC intervene?” They also sought to know if the Supreme Court, which had monitored the NRC updating exercise, would intervene in their case. “We cannot be abandoned like this, particularly when the NRC authority refused to give us No Objection Certificates whenever some of us wanted to take up better job offers during the updating process,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/will-accept-assam-nrc-issue-id-card-to-every-citizen-cong/article34211234.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||50 patients evacuated after fire in Safdarjung Hospital ICU||A fire broke out in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of Safdarjung Hospital in south Delhi following which 50 patients were evacuated, fire officials said on Wednesday. No casualty has been reported in the blaze that broke out around 6.30 a.m. Nine fire tenders were rushed to the spot and the blaze was brought under control. At least 50 patients were shifted to others wards with the help of hospital staff, the officials said. Hospital officials said the fire probably broke out due to high voltage fluctuations and a short circuit. “There was a minor fire incident in medicine ward 11 [HDU] in Safdarjung Hospital around 6.15 a.m. on Wednesday probably due to high voltage fluctuations and short circuit. All the patients admitted in the HDU and ward were evacuated immediately to other wards by our nursing staffers and security personnel. There was no loss of life. The fire was brought under control by our hospital fire safety team. Regular fire drills in the hospital with cooperation from the fire department helped in managing the situation in time,” a spokesperson of the hospital said. Fire at garments factory A senior police officer said that prima facie, it looks like the fire broke out due to short circuit which was brought under control in time by the hospital staff. In another incident, a fire broke out at a garments factory in east Delhi’s Raghubarpura on Wednesday, Delhi Fire Service officials said. No injuries have been reported so far, they said. A call about the fire was received at around 8.15 a.m. after which 15 fire tenders were rushed to the spot, a senior fire service official said. The fire was brought under control within an hour. There was no loss of life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/50-patients-evacuated-after-fire-in-safdarjung-hospital-icu/article34211243.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two killed after tempo rams two-wheeler||Two persons were killed and two injured after a tempo ran over a footpath after hitting a two-wheeler in north Delhi’s Kashmere Gate in the early hours of Wednesday, the police said. The victim Vehram Khan (34), who was riding the two-wheeler died in the accident. The tempo driver, Ateek Ahmad, a resident of the city’s Nehru Vihar, Mustafabad, was nabbed by the patrolling team near the accident spot, the police said. The accident happened on the loop road towards Nigambodh Ghat from Yudhister Setu.  The tempo which was coming from Shastri Park, hit the two-wheeler before climbing the footpath where some people were sleeping, an officer said. An unknown homeless person died on the spot. Three injured persons, including Khan, were shifted to trauma centre where Khan was declared dead. The injured homeless are in a serious condition and are unfit to give statement, the officer said. An injured has been identified as Ramesh (52), a resident of Ludhiana, however, the identity of the other injured person is yet to be revealed. A case has been registered against the tempo driver, the police said. There were some plants and saplings in the vehicle, the police said. Khan, who used to work in civil defence, was returning home after dropping his mother. He is survived by his pregnant wife, mother and four brothers, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-killed-after-tempo-rams-two-wheeler/article34211239.ece
01 April 2021||Kolkata,||Goons have entered Nandigram, we want free and fair polls: CM||Alleging that goons from other States have taken shelter in Nandigram, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said she does not want any favour from the Election Commission and all she wants is free and fair polls. “Why are outsider goons allowed in Nandigram. Don’t want favour from Election Commission. We only want free and fair elections,” Ms. Banerjee told journalists in Goghat in Hooghly. She said her party has complained to the E.C. several times on the issue. Ms. Banerjee is contesting against BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram which is going to the polls on April 1. She said at a public meeting the BJP leaders are sitting in hotels with huge amounts of money under the nose of the Election Commission. “There are several BJP leaders sitting in hotels with huge amounts of money and distributing from there. Where is the Election Commission? Where is naka checking [checking at important intersections]?” She also took a dig at the hundreds of BJP leaders visiting the State. “They cannot take on Mamata Banerjee alone, so they are coming in hundreds. What kind of leaders are they?” Ms. Banerjee assured her supporters that she will leave Nandigram only after the election is over on Thursday evening. The BJP also registered a complaint with the EC alleging that the remarks made by the Chief Minister are resulting in political violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/goons-have-entered-nandigram-we-want-free-and-fair-polls-cm/article34211237.ece
01 April 2021||Guwahati,||Now, AJP complains against Congress over advertisement to influence voters||The Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) has accused the Congress of taking a leaf out of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) playbook to influence voters through an advertisement in the garb of news. In its complaint to the State’s Chief Electoral Officer, the AJP sought action against the Congress for publishing an advertisement designed as a banner headline below the mastheads of most local English and vernacular dailies. The headline read: “5 guarantees top agenda for voters – Congress wave across Assam”. AJP’s office secretary Nikhil Bhattacharya said the “advertisement in the garb of news” published in local dailies on March 30 was aimed at influencing voters in the next two phases of polling on April 1 and 6. The first phase covering 47 of Assam’s 126 Assembly seats was held on March 27.  EC intervention sought “…ECI should intervene in the matter immediately and stop INC (Congress) from publishing such unwanted and illegal advertisements. We request you to examine if the advertisements have amounted to exit poll of a political party,” the AJP said. The AJP, forged in the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act fire and formed in September 2020, had earlier asked the Election Commission of India to restrain the BJP from publishing similar advertisements. On March 28, the day after polling was held across 47 Assembly constituencies in the first phase, the BJP published a below-masthead advertisement reading like a banner headline. It claimed: “BJP to win all constituencies of Upper (eastern) Assam.” Congress too had lodged a complaint following which the ECI issued notices to eight dailies that carried the BJP advertisement. “Ours is different from that of the BJP. We separated our advertisement with a thick border and made it clearer that it was an advertisement from the party,” a Congress spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/now-ajp-complains-against-congress-over-advertisement-to-influence-voters/article34211235.ece
01 April 2021||New Delhi,||HC tells police to submit report on plea against FB||The Delhi High Court has asked the police to submit a status report on a plea seeking action against Facebook and its senior officials for their alleged criminal acts and ‘digital conspiracy’. The court was informed by the Delhi Police Commissioner and its Cyber Crime Cell’s counsel that the complaint made by a company Vas Data Services, which was running its operations through its website www.yepme.com. has already been closed. The plea said as per the platform’s offer, the firms opting to advertise on the space will have to pay for ad-services that would include clickable space on their website, as an advertisement, which when clicked by a Facebook user will redirect him to an external site or application link of the company. The plea said the main purpose of the company to spend huge money on advertisement through the platform was to convert “clickers into buyers” but due to the alleged deliberate technical discrepancies, the prospective buyer never reached their website, causing a loss of business and reputation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-tells-police-to-submit-report-on-plea-against-fb/article34211238.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||NGT directs panel to look into plea on environmental violations||Following a plea alleging violation of environmental clearances by a few builders in Gurugram, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed a committee comprising officials from the Environment Ministry, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and State Pollution Control Board to look into the petition. Noting the plea was similar to another matter, a Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed the committee to also look into the plea. “The joint committee, with the State Pollution Control Board as the nodal agency, may furnish a report with regard to the status of the said entities on same pattern as directed for another project on or before May 15,” the Bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ngt-tells-committee-to-look-into-plea-on-environmental-violations/article34211244.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man held for duping Army men with ‘housing scam’||Delhi Police arrested a man who allegedly duped several Army personnel after enrolling them in an NGO on the pretext of providing them affordable houses in Delhi, said a police officer on Wednesday. The police said that Economic Offence Wing of Delhi Police registered an FIR after Havaldar Chandan Kumar filed a complaint. It was alleged that he, along with 16 other victims had been cheated by Sainik Welfare Organisation (SWO) India Ltd., Dwarka, New Delhi, for over Rs. 88 lakh. Mr. Kumar told that the accused Saroj Rana showed them a rosy picture about the Bokaro project and assured that the company was an NGO for the benefit of Army personnel and it was not working for any profits. The accused asked the investors to deposit money in the account of SWO India Ltd. The NGO provided allocation letter-cum-agreement on receipt of total amount, but it neither provided the plots nor did they return their money. It was later found that the alleged company didn’t have land and requisite sanction from the authority concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-held-for-duping-army-men-with-housing-scam/article34211240.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Youth killed for intervening in quarrel||A youth was stabbed to death in central Delhi’s Patel Nagar when he intervened in a quarrel on Holi. Five persons, including two minors have been apprehended in connection with the case, the police said. The police said the man was identified as Krishna (21), a resident of Prem Nagar and his father Sharda Prasad told the police that Krishna had gone to play Holi at 9.30 a.m. and returned in the evening. He also told his family that a quarrel had taken place between him and a few others in the park. He left home again following dinner when he received a call. Later, the father was informed that Krishna had been stabbed. During investigation, it was revealed that Krishna’s friend’s t-shirt had been torn while playing Holi after which he went to the boys who had torn the t-shirt to tell them that they should not have done it. In the evening, the accused called him to the park to “sort out the matter” and stabbed him, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Jasmeet Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/youth-killed-for-intervening-in-quarrel/article34211241.ece
01 April 2021||April 01 2021 00:00 IST,||Defying gravity||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/defying-gravity/article34211246.ece
01 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Users can now recharge metro card via app||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Wednesday said that following a tie up with Amazon Pay, commuters will now be able to recharge metro cards through the Amazon application. Delhi Metro officials said that commuters travelling on the Delhi Metro network can recharge their metro cards by clicking on the “metro recharge” option under the Amazon Pay tab. “After entering their metro smart card number, they can choose any amount between Rs. 100 and Rs. 2,000. After successful payment, they need to tap the card at the automatic vending machine (AVM) at any Delhi Metro station and select “top-up” to add the balance to their card,” the DMRC said. DMRC Managing Director Mangu Singh said: “The initiative is in line with DMRC’s commitment towards supporting the digital drive to promote cashless transactions among metro commuters.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/users-can-now-recharge-metro-card-via-app/article34211249.ece
