03 April 2021||Chennai,||India records 89,019 fresh cases, highest in 6 months||India recorded the highest single-day rise in coronavirus cases in six months with 88,665 new infections in a span of 24 hours, taking the COVID-19 tally of cases to 1,23,90,775, according to State Health Departments and Ministries on Friday. The single-day rise in cases is the highest recorded since September 26, 2020, while the death toll increased to 1,64,062 with 634 new fatalities, the highest since December 3, the data updated at 10 p.m. showed. As many as 88,759 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on September 26, while 541 daily deaths were registered on December 3. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,15,61,261. The case fatality rate stood at 1.33%, the data stated. India’s COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. D||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-records-88665-fresh-cases-highest-in-6-months/article34227787.ece
03 April 2021||NEW DELHI/GUWAHATI,||4 poll personnel suspended in Assam for ‘lift’ in BJP vehicle||The Election Commission has suspended four polling personnel, including a presiding officer and an armed escort officer, besides ordering  a re-poll at a booth in southern Assam’s Ratabari Assembly constituency, after electronic voting machines (EVMs) were found in a vehicle linked to a BJP candidate contesting the adjoining Patharkandi seat. Both constituencies are in Karimganj district. Officials said the polling personnel were unaware they had — after their car broke down near Nilambazar, 20 km short of district headquarters Karimganj — taken a lift in a vehicle registered in the name of Madhumita Paul, the wife of Patharkandi BJP candidate Krishnendu Paul. The team was returning from 149-Indira MV School under the Ratabari constituency, about 70 km away. EVM seals intact The seals of the EVMs were found intact, but the EC decided to conduct a re-poll at the polling station concerned. The panel also sought a report from the special general observer, who found armed escort officer Luhit Gohain guilty of leaving the stranded polling party behind and not ensuring its safe arrival at the destination. Mr. Paul did not take calls. But his party members said the opposition had blown a “minor” incident out of proportion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/4-poll-personnel-suspended-in-assam-for-lift-in-bjp-vehicle/article34227775.ece
03 April 2021||Bengaluru,||As cases rise, State ushers in strict regulations again||With the rise in COVID-19 cases during the last one month, the State government on Friday issued a fresh set of guidelines ordering a ban on use of gyms and swimming pools, holding rallies and protests, while allowing operation of cinemas with only 50% seating capacity. The State government, which had suspended regular classes for VI to IX students in Bengaluru on Thursday, extended the rule to all districts on Friday. However, classes for 10, 11 and 12 students will continue but attendance will not be mandatory. Students residing in hostels and writing board exams of X and XII standards are allowed to attend classes. Classes of higher and professional courses will be suspended, except classes due for board or university examinations and of Health Sciences. No lockdown, curfew Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar, who held a meeting with the Union Cabinet Secretary earlier in the day, issued the guidelines after reviewing the current scenario of COVID-19 cases in cities, particularly in Bengaluru. However, the government has decided against imposition of lockdown or night curfew. The notification said that gyms and swimming pools across the State will remain closed. All facilities in apartment complexes such as gyms, swimming pools, community gatherings, club houses, and party halls would remain shut. In public transport vehicles, the number of passengers should not be more than the available seats. The notification also said that office employees will be encouraged to work from home to the maximum extent. Capacity in hotels Cinemas would operate with 50% seating capacity in Bengaluru Rural and Urban, including BBMP limits, Mysuru, Dakshina Kannada, Kalaburagi, Udupi, Bidar, and Dharwad districts, the guidelines said. With many people found eating in hotels, the government said consumers should not be more than 50% the capacity in bars, pubs, restaurants, and clubs in these districts. For containing the pandemic, COVID Appropriate Behaviour (CAB) has to be followed in public places. Wearing of masks, maintaining social distance and use of sanitisers has been made mandatory in bars, pubs, restaurants, and clubs. “Eateries would be closed till the end of the pandemic if they found violation of COVID-19 rules,” the Chief Secretary said. Public gatherings at festivals, social, religious and cultural programmes have been banned too. The guidelines allowed only individual prayers at religious places. The government has already ordered that there would be no public celebrations in the State during upcoming religious festivals such as Ugadi. If people were found violating the orders, action would be taken against defaulting persons under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020, the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/as-cases-rise-state-ushers-in-strict-regulations-again/article34227943.ece
03 April 2021||CHENNAI/ TIRUCHI,||I-T searches on premises of Stalin’s kin||The Income Tax (I-T) Department on Friday knocked on the doors of V. Sabareesan, the son-in-law of DMK president M.K. Stalin, a few of his associates and former Transport Minister Senthil Balaji. The searches were conducted at over five places in Chennai, including Mr. Sabareesan’s residence in Neelankarai on East Coast Road. Late in the evening, the Department said the searches on three different groups and a few individuals by its Chennai Directorate were continuing. “These groups and individuals are involved in businesses ranging from running distilleries and breweries, real estate, local financing, solar power EPC to handling cash of politically exposed persons for the ongoing election. Part of these groups and individuals are alleged to have been actively assisting in political cash distribution. Searches have been conducted to verify and unearth such activities too,” the agency said. The premises searched were in Chennai, Coimbatore, Karur and Thanjavur. A total of 28 premises were covered under Section 132 of the I-T Act. CBDT Officials said several incriminating materials on tax evasion had been found. Sources said the premises of two of Mr. Sabareesan’s close aides, Bala of G Square Realtor’s Private Limited, and Karthik Mohan, son of DMK’s Anna Nagar MLA M.K. Mohan were also searched.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/i-t-searches-on-premises-of-stalins-kin/article34227777.ece
03 April 2021||VISAKHAPATANAM,||Trade unions launch fast to save VSP||Senior Congress leader and former MP V. Hanumantha Rao has said that the Visakhapanam Steel Plant, which was the result of the sacrifices of several people, should be protected at any cost. The privatisation of such a plant should not be allowed. He was speaking at the launch of a relay hunger strike, under the aegis of various trade unions, against privatisation of the steel plant at the Gandhi statue, near GVMC, here on Friday. He alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had come to power with the false promises of bringing back the black money stashed away in Swiss banks, depositing Rs. 15 lakh in everyone’s account and creation of two crore jobs every year. Visakhapatnam Steel Plant had achieved a turnover of Rs. 18,000 crore in this fiscal, without even having its own mines. CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao said the struggles would not be stopped till the Modi government withdrew its policies of privatisation of VSP and other PSUs. The VSP had achieved a net profit of Rs. 740 crore in the last three months.  Former MP GV Harsha Kumar demanded withdrawal of the proposal to privatise VSP.About 50 persons participated on the first day of the relay hunger strike. Earlier, the trade union leaders, garlanded the statue of Mahatma Gandhi and raised slogans against privatisation and seeking continuation of VSP in the public sector. They also raised slogans of ‘Visakha Ukku – Andhrula Hakku’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trade-unions-launch-fast-to-save-vsp/article34227785.ece
03 April 2021||Srinagar,||Two attackers of BJP leader killed in Pulwama||Three militants, including the two persons who attacked the house of a BJP leader on Thursday, were killed in an operation of the security forces in south Kashmir's Pulwama on Friday. Around 10 civilians, including a woman, were injured in clashes near the encounter site. “Just after the attack on the BJP leader in Srinagar’s Nowgam, the police acted on a lead regarding the presence of terrorists in the residential house of Nawaz Ahmad Dar in Dhobi Mohalla of Kakapora. They were given an opportunity to surrender. However, they started firing indiscriminately. Later, all the three trapped terrorists were killed,” Inspector General of Police (IGP) Vijay Kumar said. The police said it tactfully rescued five civilians taken hostage by the trapped terrorists. “During the encounter, a stray bullet hit a woman in her leg. Her condition is stable,” the police said. The police identified the slain militants as Junaid Ahmad Nengroo from Prichoo in Pulwama, Suhail Nisar Lone and Yawar Ahmad Wani, both residents of Khrew in Pampore. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the terror attack on a BJP leader’s house was jointly carried out by Srinagar and Pulwama-based terrorists of the Lashkar-e-Taiba and Al-Badr,” said IGP Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-attackers-of-bjp-leader-killed-in-pulwama/article34228508.ece
03 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||TDP to boycott MPTC, ZPTC polls||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has decided not to contest the ZPTC and MPTC elections. This is for the first time that the TDP is boycotting the elections in the last 39 years. Disclosing this at a press conference on Friday, party president N. Chandrababu Naidu said the TDP has taken a tough decision to boycott the ZPTC and MPTC elections owing to lack of trust in the State Election Commission and its “unilateral decisions” taken in the past two days. State Election Commissioner Nilam Sawhney had not consulted the political parties before issuing the poll notification, he alleged. As per the Supreme Court guidelines, it was necessary to take the opinion of the political parties in the State before issuing poll notifications. But the new SEC had dared to violate the court's orders, he said, adding that the TDP lost all faith in the State Election Commission considering the fact that Ms. Sawhney did not follow the court direction that the model code should be reimposed four weeks before the notified date of polling. Stating that the TDP had never boycotted elections, Mr. Naidu said the party was not contesting the elections due to “atrocious Jagan Reddy regime”. “It is new to us to fight with the police who are conniving with and abetting the election offences being committed by the YSRCP. Yet we will continue our legal fight and we have filed a petition in the High Court against the SEC’s latest notification,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tdp-to-boycott-mptc-zptc-polls/article34227715.ece
03 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Drugs beat BMWs this poll season in Assam||Elections in Assam have often been associated with the doling out of ‘BMWs’, a coded contraction for blanket, money and wine. Going by the seizures by various enforcement agencies, the ‘BMWs’ appear to have lost out to narcotic drugs during the ongoing poll. Between February 26, when the model code of conduct came into force, and March 31, the enforcement and regulatory agencies seized cash, illegally transported liquor and other items worth a record Rs. 110.83 crore. Officials said there was nothing unusual about seizing cash, liquor and other valuables during the campaign phase. What stumped them was the seizure of narcotic substances worth more than Rs. 34.29 crore. Freebies of the intoxicating kind, such as Indian and foreign brand cigarettes and tobacco products, also touched a record value of Rs. 14.91 crore. The drugs seized included 6,892.82 kg of cannabis, 10.27 kg of crystalline methamphetamine, 4.22 kg of heroin, 1 kg of morphine and 252.85 gm of brown sugar. The surveillance teams also recovered 3,02,188 methamphetamine capsules and pills of other narcotic substances. “The seizure of drugs was highest in eastern Assam,” State Nodal Officer Rahul Das said. Most of the tea plantations are in eastern Assam. For Excise and Revenue Intelligence officials, this could be a disturbing trend, as other parts of Assam have been notorious for drug trafficking. These include the Barak Valley, used by dealers on the Myanmar-Mizoram-Bangladesh axis to illegally transport heroin, methamphetamine and high-codeine cough syrups. Western Assam’s Dhubri district is also a conduit. “The seizure of cannabis in eastern Assam is not unusual since it is grown in parts of southern Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland. It is the other substances confiscated in the area that we are more worried about,” an Excise official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/drugs-beat-bmws-this-poll-season-in-assam/article34228509.ece
03 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Drugs beat BMWs this election season in Assam||Elections in Assam have often been associated with the doling out of ‘BMWs’, a coded contraction for blanket, money and wine.  Poll code Going by the seizures by various enforcement agencies, the ‘BMWs’ appear to have lost out to narcotic drugs during the ongoing poll. Between February 26, when the model code of conduct came into force, and March 31, the enforcement and regulatory agencies seized cash, illegally transported liquor and other items worth a record Rs. 110.83 crore. Officials said there was nothing unusual about seizing cash, liquor and other valuables during the campaign phase. What stumped them was the seizure of narcotic substances worth more than Rs. 34.29 crore. Freebies of the intoxicating kind, such as Indian and foreign brand cigarettes and tobacco products, also touched a record value of Rs. 14.91 crore. The drugs seized included 6,892.82 kg of cannabis, 10.27 kg of crystalline methamphetamine, 4.22 kg of heroin, 1 kg of morphine and 252.85 gm of brown sugar. The surveillance teams also recovered 3,02,188 methamphetamine capsules and pills of other narcotic substances. “The seizure of drugs was highest in eastern Assam,” State Nodal Officer Rahul Das said. Most of the tea plantations are in eastern Assam. For Excise and Revenue Intelligence officials, this could be a disturbing trend, as other parts of Assam have been notorious for drug trafficking. These include the Barak Valley, used by dealers on the Myanmar-Mizoram-Bangladesh axis to illegally transport heroin, methamphetamine and high-codeine cough syrups. Western Assam’s Dhubri district is also a conduit. “The seizure of cannabis in eastern Assam is not unusual since it is grown in parts of southern Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland. It is the other substances confiscated in the area that we are more worried about,” an Excise official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/drugs-beat-bmws-this-election-season-in-assam/article34227789.ece
03 April 2021||New Delhi,||‘4th wave in Delhi; no lockdown plans’||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the Delhi government was not planning any lockdown in the wake of the ‘fourth wave’ of COVID-19 in the Capital. The city recorded 3,594 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday, the highest daily count since December 4 last year, taking the tally to 6.68 lakh. Terming the latest surge “less serious” than the previous ones, Mr. Kejriwal said any decision on lockdown will be taken “after due consultation with the public”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/4th-wave-in-delhi-no-lockdown-plans/article34228374.ece
03 April 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha to add more beds as COVID-19 cases surge||With COVID-19 cases nearly quadrupling in Odisha over the past 10 days, the State government on Friday directed district administrations to ensure the availability of beds with oxygen supply to treat patients at district hospitals, medical college hospitals and private hospitals. “Adequate stock of medicines such as Flavipiravir and Remdisivir should be maintained at the district level, while district teams should be reoriented on the standard operating procedures for treatment of patients under home isolation,” said Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Pradipta Mohapatra in a letter to district collectors and municipal commissioners. Mr. Mohapatra also said that vaccination of people with comorbidities needed to be stepped up. The State on Friday reported 461 new cases, taking its total case tally to 3,41,772. The districts bordering Chhattisgarh reported a surge in cases. At 86, Nuapada recorded the most new cases in the State, followed by Sundargarh (62), Kalahandi (36) and Bargarh (32). In Malkangiri, the administration issued strict instructions to ensure social distancing while shopping. In Jharsuguda, weekly markets have been shut down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/odisha-to-add-more-beds-as-covid-19-cases-surge/article34228005.ece
03 April 2021||Srinagar,||Two attackers of BJP leader killed in J&K||Three militants, including the two persons who attacked the house of a BJP leader on Thursday, were killed in an operation of the security forces in south Kashmir's Pulwama on Friday. Around 10 civilians, including a woman, were injured in clashes near the encounter site. “Just after the attack on the BJP leader in Srinagar’s Nowgam, the police acted on a lead regarding the presence of terrorists in the residential house of Nawaz Ahmad Dar in Dhobi Mohalla of Kakapora. They were given an opportunity to surrender. However, they started firing indiscriminately. Later, all the three trapped terrorists were killed,” Inspector General of Police (IGP) Vijay Kumar said. The police said it tactfully rescued five civilians taken hostage by the trapped terrorists. “During the encounter, a stray bullet hit a woman in her leg. Her condition is stable,” the police said. The police identified the slain militants as Junaid Ahmad Nengroo from Prichoo in Pulwama, Suhail Nisar Lone and Yawar Ahmad Wani, both residents of Khrew in Pampore. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the terror attack on a BJP leader’s house was jointly carried out by Srinagar and Pulwama-based terrorists of the Lashkar-e-Taiba and Al-Badr. It was Lone and Nengroo, who used an Alto-800 vehicle to commute from Nowgam to Pulwama. The car belonged to the owner of the house, where the encounter took place,” Mr. Kumar said. The police said an SLR rifle, which was snatched from a policeman in Srinagar on Thursday, had been recovered. The police said the owner of the house will be booked under the Unlawful Activities and Prevention Act (ULPA). “We managed to crack the Srinagar attack within 24 hours. Two out of the four militants involved in the attack have been killed,” IGP Kumar said. The police said last rites of the slain militants will be carried out in Baramulla and the nearest family members shall be allowed to participate. Around 10 civilians were injured in clashes that broke out near the encounter site. Locals alleged police used pellet shotguns and firearms to disperse the youth. “During the withdrawal of the security forces from the encounter site, some miscreants resorted to stone pelting and were dispersed by using non-lethal weapons, in which a few miscreants received minor injuries,” the police said. Meanwhile, J&K Police said it’s working on new measures to improve security cover of protected persons in Kashmir, especially leaders associated with BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-attackers-of-bjp-leader-killed-in-pulwama/article34227779.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Highest single day vaccine coverage||More than 36.7 lakh COVID-19 vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours, the highest single day coverage till now, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. Of the 36,71,242 vaccine doses, 33,65,597 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 3,05,645 beneficiaries received the second dose of the vaccine.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/highest-single-day-vaccine-coverage/article34227790.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Catastrophe on rails||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/catastrophe-on-tracks/article34227792.ece
03 April 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata: will win from Nandigram||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday resumed her campaign in the districts, and asserted that she would win the Assembly election at Nandigram. The Chief Minister held three rallies at Dinhata, Natabari and Falakata. Reacting to a remark by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that she could contest from a seat other than Nandigram, Ms. Banerjee said: “I have contested from Nandigram and will win from there.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-will-win-from-nandigram/article34228006.ece
03 April 2021||Mysuru,||KSE claims to have support of party leaders||Sticking to his stand on the issue of alleged violation of rules in grant of funds by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and his “interference” in the Ministry, senior BJP leader and Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) K.S. Eshwarappa claimed to enjoy the support of senior party leaders on the “just stand” he has taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kse-claims-to-have-support-of-party-leaders/article34228303.ece
03 April 2021||Mysuru,||MNREGA wages now revised to Rs. 289 per day||The daily wages under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) have been revised to Rs. 289 in Karnataka. Disclosing this to reporters after a review meeting, RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa said the daily wages for MGNREGA workers, which had been revised from Rs. 245 to Rs. 275 in Karnataka, will be Rs. 289 with effect from April 1, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mnrega-wages-now-revised-to-rs-289-per-day/article34228304.ece
03 April 2021||JAIPUR/Ghaziabad,||Rakesh Tikait’s convoy attacked in Rajasthan||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait’s convoy was allegedly attacked in Rajasthan’s Alwar district on Friday. He was on his way to address a farmers’ rally in Bansur. A group of people allegedly pelted stones at the cavalcade, damaging the rear windscreen of his car. Mr. Tikait, who escaped unhurt, blamed ‘BJP goons’ for the attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rakesh-tikaits-convoy-attacked-in-rajasthan/article34228373.ece
03 April 2021||Mysuru,||KSE claims to have support of party leaders||Sticking to his stand on the issue of alleged violation of rules in grant of funds by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, RDOR Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa claimed to enjoy the support of party leaders on his “just stand”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kse-claims-to-have-support-of-party-leaders/article34228468.ece
03 April 2021||Mangaluru,||Man stabbed in city||A group of Bajrang Dal activists allegedly assaulted a 23-year-old man and stabbed him after finding him travelling with a woman from another community in a Bengaluru-bound bus here on Thursday night. The police have taken eight people into custody in connection with the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-stabbed-in-city/article34228469.ece
03 April 2021||Pune,||Second Mumbai nearby||Eateries, bars and restaurants in Pune district of Maharashtra will remain shut for seven days starting April 3 in view of the spike in coronavirus cases of late, a senior official said on Friday. A curfew will be in place across the district from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m., and malls, cinema halls and places of religious worship will also be shut during this seven-day period, he said. The administration introduced these “stricter restrictions” in the district, which has reported more than 8,000 COVID-19 cases in the past two consecutive days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-mumbai-nearby/article34228489.ece
03 April 2021||MUMBAI,||Eight groundsmen test positive at Wankhede||Eight groundstaff members at Wankhede Stadium have tested positive for COVID-19 ahead of the Indian Premier League’s 2021 edition. The Wankhede is scheduled to host 10 league games from April 10 to 25. All 19 groundstaff members at the stadium underwent RT-PCR tests over the last week. While three were confirmed to have contracted the virus during the tests conducted on March 26, five more test reports conducted on April 1 returned positive on Friday. It could not be ascertained whether the remaining staffers were isolated after a few had been infected during the first round of testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eight-groundsmen-test-positive-at-wankhede/article34228490.ece
03 April 2021||Bengaluru,||750 children in Bengaluru got COVID-19 in March||Children below the age of 10 appear to be prone to COVID-19 in the second wave and Bengaluru, which is seeing the highest spike, recorded infections in nearly 750 children in this age bracket in March alone. According to data from the BBMP, 77 children below the age of 10 were infected on Thursday alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/750-children-in-bengaluru-got-covid-19-in-march/article34227945.ece
03 April 2021||KALABURAGI,||Car festival is low-key||The 199th annual car festival of Sharanabasaveshwar Temple, commemorating the death anniversary of the seer, in Kalaburagi on Friday was a low-key affair this year owing to COVID-19. At 2 p.m., Sharnbaswappa Appa, eighth peetadhipati of the samsthan, signalled the beginning of the festival by displaying the holy silver bowl (prasada battalu) and the Linga Sajjike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/car-festival-is-low-key/article34227946.ece
03 April 2021||JAIPUR/Ghaziabad,||Rakesh Tikait’s convoy attacked in Rajasthan||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait’s convoy was allegedly attacked in Rajasthan’s Alwar district on Friday. He was on his way to address a farmers’ rally in Bansur. A group of people allegedly pelted stones at the cavalcade, damaging the rear windscreen of his car. Mr. Tikait, who escaped unhurt, blamed ‘BJP goons’ for the attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rakesh-tikaits-convoy-attacked-in-rajasthan/article34228507.ece
03 April 2021||Bengaluru,||750 children in Bengaluru contracted COVID-19||Children below the age of 10 appear to be prone to COVID-19 in the second wave and Bengaluru, which is seeing the highest spike, recorded infections in nearly 750 children in this age bracket in March. According to data from BBMP war room, 77 children aged below 10 were infected on Thursday Overall, over 1,000 children have been infected in State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/750-children-in-bengaluru-contracted-covid-19/article34228100.ece
03 April 2021||Mysuru,||KSE claims to have support of party leaders||Sticking to his stand on the issue of alleged violation of rules in grant of funds by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and his “interference” in the Ministry, senior BJP leader and RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa claimed to enjoy the support of senior party leaders on the “just stand” he has taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kse-claims-to-have-support-of-party-leaders/article34228101.ece
03 April 2021||Jayamkondam,||‘DMK will not be cowed down by I-T searches’||The DMK will not be cowed down by the Income Tax Department’s searches and the more such raids are conducted, the more will be the party’s resurgence, party president M.K. Stalin said on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dmk-will-not-be-cowed-down-by-i-t-searches/article34227847.ece
03 April 2021||Tiruchi,||Case registered against Annamalai||The police in Karur district have registered a case against K. Annamalai, Bharatiya Janata Party candidate for the Aravakurichi constituency, for his alleged remarks intimidating DMK Karur candidate Senthil Balaji, during a poll campaign recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/case-registered-against-annamalai/article34227896.ece
03 April 2021||Mumbai,||First Mumbai nearby||On April 5, the Bombay High Court will pronounce its order on the PIL petition filed by former Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh seeking a probe by the CBI into his allegations against Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. On March 20, Mr. Singh wrote a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging that Mr. Deshmukh had directed suspended police officer Sachin Vaze to collect Rs. 100 crore from bars and restaurants a month. The senior IPS officer then moved the Supreme Court seeking a CBI probe into the matter. However, the top court directed him to move the Bombay High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-mumbai-nearby/article34228488.ece
03 April 2021||MADURAI,||Polls piquantly poised in southern Tamil Nadu||A combination of factors seems to give the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)-led coalition an edge over the front headed by the ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) in the southern districts of Tamil Nadu. Apart from anti-incumbency and the discontent over the rise in prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas, the ruling front is also troubled by other disadvantages. Quota questions The presence of the breakaway Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) led by T.T.V. Dhinakaran, nephew of former AIADMK’s interim general secretary V.K. Sasikala, and the strong pushback from sections of Mukkulathors, a dominant community in the region, to the State government’s decision providing 10.5% reservation to Vanniyars within the overall quota of 20% for Most Backward Classes and denotified communities have thrown up serious challenges for the ruling party. A functionary of the AIADMK in charge of the southern zone feels that the party should not have distanced itself from Ms. Sasikala, who belongs to a sub-sect of Kallars, one of the three constituent-castes of the Mukkulathors (the other two being Maravars and Agamudaiyars). Key role Though she hails from the central region of the State, she was said to have played a key role, according to the community, in getting a golden armour presented by Jayalalithaa in 2014 for the bust of U. Muthuramalinga Thevar, an icon of the community. He said Ms. Sasikala’s hold over sections of the community should have spurred the party to revive its ties after her release from prison earlier this year. Across the divide, a young DMK leader in Virudhunagar district said though his party has not played up the reservation issue, it is aware the two factors will enable Mr. Dhinakaran to cut into the AIADMK vote share. Yet another challenge looming for the ruling front, given its ties with the BJP and its hardline Hindutva politics, is the considerable presence of religious minorities in the southern districts such as Ramanathapuram, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari. A veteran AIADMK leader from Ramanathapuram pointed out that “they [DMK] are banking on the overwhelming support from the minorities — Muslims and Christians. This is a huge plus factor for them.” Infrastructural projects Economic backwardness and strong caste affiliations in the southern districts have led to heightened communal sensitivities. Lack of progress in high-profile infrastructure is also likely to affect the fortunes of the ruling AIADMK. A case in point is the widespread impact of DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin recently holding up a brick to symbolise the slow progress of the proposed AIIMS in Madurai. Subhasan, a trader who hails from Watrap and frequently visits Madurai, said that regardless of political affiliation, the general feeling among people is that an expeditious execution of the hospital project would make a huge difference to the region. While the project itself has made very little headway, real estate in and around the proposed site is on the rise. Politically speaking, the south has favoured the AIADMK more in the last 40-odd years. Like her mentor and the party founder M.G. Ramachandran, former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa represented the south thrice in the Assembly. In 2016, which was the last Assembly election for her, the region returned 32 candidates of the AIADMK. Several party heavyweights are contesting from the region. Deputy Chief Minister and party coordinator O. Panneerselvam is contesting from Bodinayakkanur, Forests Minister C. Sreenivasan in Dindigul, Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar from Thirumangalam, former Electricity Minister R. Viswanathan from Natham, and former PWD Minister N. Thalavai Sundaram in Kanniyakumari. The DMK has nominated veterans including former Ministers I. Periasami, K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran and Thangam Thennarasu from Athur, Tiruchuli and Aruppukottai, respectively. Conceding that the party is facing an uphill task in repeating its 2016 performance, two senior leaders of the AIADMK said that the organisation should have retained the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam and Puthiya Tamilagam within its fold, as both can supplement the AIADMK’s base to a certain extent. Strengths However, they also pointed out that the organisation’s inherent strengths cannot be underestimated or brushed aside. The recent measure of providing the generic name of Devendrakula Velalars to a group of castes of the Scheduled Castes will expand the party’s votebase, they said. Despite the ruling party giving ticket to a substantial number of persons from the Mukkalathor community in the region, the talk in political and public discourse about the chasm between certain sections of the Mukkulathors and the AIADMK will yield support from other communities to the party. Besides, there is a “sense of complacency” in the DMK, sources said. Rough estimate “We in the party strongly believe that winning 60% of the seats — 35 out of 58 — is a doable, even though we are aware that it is not that easy,” a young AIADMK leader said. Mr. Dhinakaran, who is a sitting legislator of R.K. Nagar, a constituency in northern Chennai, has surprised many by choosing Kovilpatti, which comes under the Thoothukudi Lok Sabha constituency, as he had earlier said he would contest from one of the constituencies in Theni district. Ms. Sasikala’s visits to many important temples in the region during the past 10 days and AMMK functionaries greeting her in a few places have added to the morale of the workers of the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/polls-piquantly-poised-in-southern-tamil-nadu/article34227682.ece
03 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cong. raises doubts over Assam polling||The Congress on Friday questioned the electoral process in Assam after a polled electronic voting machine (EVM) was being transported in the vehicle of a BJP candidate, with party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi asking for a “serious re-evaluation” of the use of EVMs by all national parties. Violence broke out in Karimganj district on Thursday night after a crowd discovered that the vehicle of Krishnendu Paul, the BJP candidate from Patharkandi, was being used to transport the EVM to the strong room. Repoll ordered While the police is reported to have fired in the air to bring the situation under control, the Election Commission (EC) ordered a re-poll in the booth where the particular EVM was used for polling and suspended four polling officials. A Congress delegation, led by former Law Minister Ashwani Kumar, met the Election Commission (EC) and raised the Karimganj incidents as well as the defection of an Opposition candidate to the BJP just days before polling. “Every time there is an election, videos of private vehicles caught transporting EVMs show up. Unsurprisingly they have the following things in common: 1. The vehicles usually belong to BJP candidates or their associates. 2. The videos are taken as one off incidents and dismissed as aberrations 3. The BJP uses its media machinery to accuse those who exposed the videos as sore losers,” Ms. Vadra alleged. The Congress leader’s comments could restart the debate on the use of EVMs. In August 2018, at an all-party meeting convened by the Election Commission (EC), Opposition parties had demanded a return to paper ballots. “The fact is that too many such incidents are being reported and nothing is being done about them. The EC needs to start acting decisively on these complaints and a serious re-evaluation of the use of EVMs needs to be carried out by all national parties,” Ms. Vadra added. ‘Minor incident’ However, Karimganj Deputy Commissioner Anbamuthan M.P. said it was a minor incident involving a polling party from a polling station in the adjoining Ratabari constituency. “The vehicle from the polling station to the district headquarters broke down about 20 km away at Nilambazar. The polling party was waiting for transport to come when a private vehicle was passing by. The driver stopped and offered a lift since he was going in the same direction. While we were organising another vehicle to bring them, the presiding officer took the offer to reach Karimganj. The vehicle was mobbed by some people near the headquarters and it was only then that the presiding officer realised his folly,” he told The Hindu on Friday, adding that the vehicle was registered in the name of the Patharkandi MLA’s wife. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “EC’s car has broken down, the BJP’s intentions are bad and the condition of democracy has worsened.” While Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the “EVM fraud” was there for all to see and asked whether the EC needed the BJP’s help to carry EVMs, Lok Sabha MP Manish Tewari demanded a probe by a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) to find out ‘collusion’ between officials and the ruling party. “If the ECI doesn’t wake up even now and remains mute or complicit, it is fatal for democracy,” Mr. Surjewala said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-raises-doubts-over-assam-polling/article34227737.ece
03 April 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,||LDF is destabilising holy places in Kerala: Modi||Accusing the Left Democratic Front (LDF) of making attempts to destabilise places of worship through their agents, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) activists will stand in the way of any attempts to tamper with Indian culture. Addressing a rally organised by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at Rajiv Gandhi Indoor Stadium at Pramadam, near Konni, on Friday, Mr. Modi invoked the Sabarimala episode as a case in point. “At first, they tried to portray the culture of Kerala as regressive and tried to destabilise places of worship by sending their agents,” he said. “The devotees of Lord Ayyappa, who should have been welcomed warmly, were greeted with lathis. The innocent devotees are not criminals,” he said. PM invokes Ayyappa Earlier, the Prime Minister started his speech by chanting ‘Swamiye Saranam Ayyappa.’ He then paid tributes to various temples in Pathanamthitta, including the Thiruvalla Sreevallabha temple, Aranmula Parthasarathy temple and Malayalapuzha Devi temple, besides Sabarimala. The services and sacrifices made by Jesus Christ too were remembered in view of the observance of Good Friday. He lashed out at the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the LDF of engaging in “competitive corruption”. “The lust for power has made the UDF and LDF form alliances with all communal, criminal and regressive forces,” he said, pointing out the regressive social policies adopted by the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and the Popular Front of India (PFI). The BJP, on the other hand, brought in professionals and educated people to politics as was evident in the case of technocrat E. Sreedharan. He termed Mr. Sreedharan’s entry into politics as a game changer in Kerala's path of progress. He elaborated on the development projects allotted to Kerala in the Union Budget and noted the potential that the State holds in the area of tourism development. Mr. Modi criticised the State government for its under-achievement in the Jal Jeevan Mission programme and attributed the shortfall to an attempt to deny credit to the Prime Minister. BJP State president K. Surendran, Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan, and Bharat Dharma Jana Sena State president Thushar Vellappally were present. Second rally Addressing another rally in Thiruvananthapuram, Mr. Modi described the two fronts as twins of misgovernance, corruption and political violence, among others. “The UDF and the LDF are twins. They are twins of misgovernance, corruption, political violence, communalism, casteism, cronyism, nepotism and more,” Mr. Modi said. Citing the alliance between the Congress and Left parties in West Bengal, he said, “the political picture in West Bengal is clear to everyone. Election after election, Congress and Left are getting closer. The logical step after such closeness is a full merger of Congress and the Left. They can call the new party CCP-Comrade Congress Party.” “Because they are twins, the UDF lacks the ability and willingness to defeat the LDF. No wonder there is a surge in support in favour of the NDA,” Mr. Modi said.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ldf-is-destabilising-holy-places-in-kerala-modi/article34227707.ece
03 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Karnataka shuts gyms, cuts cinema seats||Kerala reported 2,508 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 4.84%. Public health experts said the State should have a mitigation plan to counter a more severe and fast-paced second wave. “We do not have adequate knowledge about the virus and should be very careful about extrapolating its behaviour during the last wave. Unlike in the first, we find the virus is creating more immune mischief now so that our margins for treatment are much narrower and the time to respond, much less,” said Subramanian Swaminathan, an infectious diseases specialist at Global Hospital, Chennai, and governing council member, Clinical Infectious Diseases Society. The State added 14 more virus deaths. Kozhikode district reported the maximum new cases at 385. Andhra Pradesh witnessed five more deaths and added 1,288 infections on Friday. It was the highest single-day tally in past four and a half months. The cumulative tally increased to 9,04,548 and the death toll reached 7,225 with a death rate of 0.80%. The TPR of 31,116 samples was 4.14%. One death each occurred in Anantapur, Chittoor, Guntur, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam districts. Guntur reported 311 new infections, the highest among the districts in the past day. Telangana reported 965 cases on Thursday and five fatalities. The Hyderabad region recorded 254 cases, the highest in around 120 days. The fresh infections have pushed up the total number of cases to 3,09,741.  After five months, fresh COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu exceeded 3,000 on Friday. A total of 3,290 persons tested positive for COVID-19, taking the State’s overall tally to 8,92,780. The last time the State had recorded 3,000-plus cases (3,057 cases) was on October 23, 2020. The new high since then pushed the active caseload to 18,606, of which Chennai alone accounted for 7,161 cases. Chennai, for the second consecutive day, reported 1,000-plus cases. A total of 1,188 persons tested positive and seven died in the city. While there were 280 COVID-19 cases in Chengalpattu, Coimbatore reported 277 cases. There were 183 cases in Tiruvallur, 120 in Thanjavur and 119 in Kancheepuram. The State recorded 12 more fatalities — eight in private hospitals and four in government hospitals.  (With inputs from Vijayawada Hyderabad, and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-shuts-gyms-cuts-cinema-seats/article34227722.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||India wants total disengagement||The remaining points of tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh should be resolved “quickly”, said an official of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Friday. Addressing the weekly press briefing, official spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said “prolongation” of differences in the remaining points of friction was not helpful for restoration of peace and tranquillity along the LAC. “There is a consensus that the two sides should now quickly resolve the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh,” said Mr. Bagchi, highlighting the positive outcome from the 10 rounds of Senior Commanders-level talks which helped in achieving “disengagement” in the Pangong Tso area. The official indicated that despite negotiations, similar disengagement is yet to be achieved at the remaining friction points. “At both the senior commanders’ meeting and the WMCC (Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination), the two sides had detailed exchange of views on the remaining issues. The two sides continue to remain in touch through military and diplomatic channels,” said Mr. Bagchi, emphasising the need to resolve the issues. Following months of tension on the LAC, Indian and Chinese Senior Commanders had managed to disengage on the north and south banks of the Pangong Tso. However, the Chinese forces are yet to disengage from Gogra, Hot Springs, Depsang and Demchok. “We therefore hope that the Chinese side will work with us to ensure that disengagement in the remaining areas is completed at the earliest. This would allow both sides to consider de-escalation of forces in eastern Ladakh as that alone will lead to the restoration of peace and tranquillity and provide conditions for progress of our bilateral relationship,” said the official spokesperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-wants-total-disengagement/article34227724.ece
03 April 2021||Kolkata,||I will win from Nandigram, says Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday resumed her campaign in the districts, and asserted that she would win the Assembly election at Nandigram. The Chief Minister held three rallies at Dinhata, Natabari and Falakata. Reacting to a remark by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that she could contest from a seat other than Nandigram, Ms. Banerjee said: “I want to tell the Prime Minister to control his Home Minister first and then try to control us. We are not your party’s members.” Addressing a rally at Dinahata in Cooch Behar district, she said: “I have contested from Nandigram and will win from there.” She also added that she went to a polling booth in Nandigram on Thursday only because she received a complaint that goons had come from outside and gathered there with guns. 88% vote in Nandigram The Nandigram constituency remained at the centre of political discourse. According to the updated voting percentage provided by the Election Commission, the constituency recorded 88% polling on Thursday . Representatives of both the Trinamool Congress and the BJP both met the Chief Electoral Officer in Kolkata and raised allegations against each other. The BJP delegation, led by party leader Sishir Bajoria, questioned why the Chief Minister had stayed inside a polling booth for more than two hours and accused her of violating the model code of conduct. The Trinamool delegation, which was led by party leader Yashwant Sinha, said that the delegation told the Election Commission that the role of Central forces has been partial in many booths in the first two phases. “There have been incidents of violence and attacks on our party supporters by the BJP,” Mr. Sinha said. Addressing a meeting at Natabari in Cooch Behar, the Chief Minister accused Home Minister Amit Shah of using Central agencies to target Opposition parties. Ms. Banerjee said that leaders from Tamil Nadu, where Assembly elections are to be held, had contacted her over income tax raids on relatives of DMK leader M.K. Stalin, claiming that these were done at the behest of the Home Minister. She accused Mr. Shah of trying to scare his political opponents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-win-from-nandigram-says-mamata/article34227735.ece
03 April 2021||New Delhi,||Rahul questions U.S. silence on events in India||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday questioned the silence of the United States establishment over what is happening in India. Mr. Gandhi made these remarks in an interactive virtual conversation with former U.S. diplomat Nicholas Burns of the Harvard Kennedy School. In the hour-long interaction that had questions from students, the Congress leader spoke on a range of issues such as the economy, foreign policy as well as domestic politics, including farmers’ protests and the ongoing elections. Talking about the role of being an Opposition leader, he said there had been a “wholesale capture of institutions” in India. “I don’t hear anything from the U.S. establishment about what’s happening in India. If you are saying partnership of democracies, I mean what is your view on what is going on here,” Mr. Gandhi said. “I fundamentally believe that America is a profound idea. The idea of freedom the way it is encapsulated in your Constitution is a very powerful idea but you have got to defend that idea,” he added. Mentioning the incident of an electronic voting machine being transported in the car of a BJP candidate in the Assam elections, Mr. Gandhi claimed that nothing about it was being talked about in the national media. “There is a wholesale capture of the institutional framework of this country,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-questions-us-silence-on-events-in-india/article34228296.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||‘As a writer, I had to stand up to the BJP’s divisive politics’||Manoranjan Byapari learnt to read in prison when he was 24 years old. A refugee from East Bengal, he had never been to school. When he was released from prison, he returned to his cycle rickshaw, but the dagger he kept hidden under the seat was now replaced by a book. In his autobiography , Itibritte Chandal Jibon (‘Interrogating my Chandal Life’), he says: “I have lived my life as the ill-fated Dalit son of an ill-fated Dalit father, condemned to a life of bitterness.” Mr. Byapari has written 20-odd books, giving voice to the desperate, because “there are certain things I have to tell the people, and it is only I who can tell them of these things”. The urgent need to tell people “certain things” prompted him to enter the election fray on a Trinamool Congress ticket. Mr. Byapari is contesting from Balagarh in Hooghly district, which goes to the polls on April 10. Excerpts from an interview:  You have written about the poor and Dalits and the discrimination they face. But did caste play a big role in earlier elections? Why has it become a talking point this time? The BJP has set foot in West Bengal and is dividing the people further on religious and caste lines. We have lived in harmony for many years despite the harsh life we have had to endure. It is criminal to polarise people who are struggling with so many other issues, from high prices of essential food items, the impact of the coronavirus, job fears and so forth. We have to protest against this naked show of power and divisiveness. We have to tell the people that if the BJP is allowed to come to power, they will not permit Dalits to enter temples, they will discriminate against us, the poor will become poorer, and no one will be able to read books any more. Is this one of the reasons why you decided to contest? Did Mamata Banerjee convince you to join the fray? Yes. I am a Dalit writer. I understand the poor people’s world and I want to tell them to beware of BJP propaganda. The party doesn’t stand for true emancipation of the poor and people must be made to understand that. The BJP is standing on our turf and espousing bravado. This must stop. I write about poor people and I can speak to them in their language. I understand their pain and difficulties because I live that life. As a writer, it is my moral duty to stand up to these divisive forces. When Mamata Banerjee asked me to contest, I decided to go ahead. [Mr. Byapari was transferred to a library at Amtala in South 24 Parganas by the State government in August 2020. He had appealed to the government to relieve him of his duties as a cook in a school, where he had worked for 23 years, because he had found it difficult to lift heavy pans after a knee operation.] How has the Trinamool reacted to the threat? The Trinamool has fielded 79 Scheduled Caste candidates though there are 68 seats reserved for the SCs in the State. Caste was not a factor in Bengal but the BJP has introduced identity politics in the State. Truly, if people were caste conscious, then the BJP would not have risen in Bengal. What is it that upsets you most about the BJP’s campaign? They are promoting a society based on Manu’s laws and this leads to divisions, working against equality and freedom. Also, the BJP is a party of outsiders ( bahiragato ) in Bengal and cannot dictate our lives. It doesn’t have any idea about the State, and is particularly unaware about what the poor want. Banglar manush unnayan aar shanti chaye (the people of Bengal want development and peace), they want freedom to practise their religion. But the BJP wants to capture everything from language to our culture and that is frightening. What will you do if elected? I plan to set up a ‘ nagarik (citizen’s) committee’, where I will ask rickshaw pullers, vegetable vendors, fish sellers and people from all levels of society to join. Everyone from all castes and religions will be welcome. We will listen to their problems and needs, help them get benefits of the various schemes that are already in place. We must ensure that even one rupee owed to the poor does not go elsewhere.  Caste was not a factor in Bengal but the BJP has introduced identity politics in the State||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/as-a-writer-i-had-to-stand-up-to-the-bjps-divisive-politics/article34227684.ece
03 April 2021||Pune,||Pune goes into week-long shutdown||Eateries, bars and restaurants in Pune district of Maharashtra will remain shut for seven days starting April 3 in view of the spike in coronavirus cases of late, a senior official said on Friday. A curfew will be in place across the district from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m., and malls, cinema halls and places of religious worship will also be shut during this seven day period, he said. The administration introduced these “stricter restrictions” in the district, which has reported more than 8,000 COVID-19 cases in the past two consecutive days. The decision to impose the curbs was taken during a review meeting chaired by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar here on Friday. “Eateries, bars and restaurants will remain closed, but home delivery of the food will continue,” Pune Divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao said. “Malls, cinema halls will remain shut for seven days from Saturday. All religious places will also be closed for a week,” he said. Except weddings and rituals pertaining to last rites, all other public gatherings have been banned in the district. Only 50 people will be allowed to attend a wedding and only 20 people can remain present for last rites, he added. Essential services He said that essential services had been exempted from the curfew. Buses of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), the city’s public transport system, will remain off the roads for seven days, Mr. Rao said, adding that schools and colleges will remain closed till April 30. “Only the students of Classes X and XII, and the candidates preparing for MPSC exam will be allowed to carry out their regular academic activities,” he added. “All these decisions were taken in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases in the last few days. The situation is becoming critical. In the last one week, the positivity rate of the district has crossed 32%,” Mr. Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pune-goes-into-week-long-shutdown/article34227755.ece
03 April 2021||Mumbai,||More restrictions soon, says Uddhav||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said that strict restrictions would be implemented in the State in coming days, saying he did not want to impose a lockdown on the people but would be left with no option if COVID-19 cases continued to rise in the present manner. “I have been getting calls enquiring whether a lockdown would be imposed in the State. I am only warning today; I am not announcing anything. I will be watching for the next two to three days and discussing with various stakeholders. I will announce strict restrictions in the coming few days. We have to stop this wave and ensure there is no third wave. It is not a one-way process; both sides have to work hard. I expect cooperation like last year,” said Mr. Thackeray, in his address to the State. Mr. Thackeray’s speech indicated that the State is set to come under a lockdown from the coming week as he presented the examples of foreign countries, including France, Brazil and the United Kingdom, where strict measures like lockdown were taken to control the spread of novel coronavirus. “I don’t want a lockdown. But can all those who are advising me to not call for a lockdown suggest me a way to control the number of patients? Lockdown will hamper the economy, employment. But saving lives is the utmost priority for me. Employment is not going anywhere,” he said. He said that the State would increase the number of people getting vaccinations. “A total of 65 lakh people have been vaccinated and on Thursday, three lakh citizens received the jab. We look forward to increase this number to 6-7 lakh and I am sure the Centre will grant our request,” he said. Mr. Thackeray slammed the political parties who are opposing the lockdown and threatening to hit the streets. “Of course, I welcome them to hit the streets. But they should come out to save lives, to help health professionals with testing, and to create social awareness,” he said. Taking a dig at Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thackeray, without naming him, for his refusal to wear a mask, the CM asked what sort of bravery was this and what was being achieved through it? Mr. Thackeray said people were getting infected irrespective of being vaccinated. “Vaccine is merely an umbrella in a storm. We have to follow each and every health norm even after getting COVID-19 jab. There is no effective mode to stop the spread of the virus,” he said. About the additions to the State’s health infrastructure, the CM said from a few thousand beds, the number had reached 3.75 lakh beds in one month. “But if this trend continues, we may face shortage of beds in 15-20 days,” he said. The State is conducting 1.82 lakh tests, of which 70% are RT-PCR, every day, and plans to increase the number to 2.50 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/strict-restrictions-in-coming-days-uddhav/article34228042.ece
03 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘India stands for revival of democracy in Myanmar’||India on Friday said it stood for revival of democracy in Myanmar, and added that violence would not solve the prevailing situation in the country. “We condemn any use of violence. We believe that the rule of law should prevail. We stand for the restoration of democracy in Myanmar. We have urged the release of political prisoners and supported any attempts at resolving the current situation, including through the efforts of ASEAN,” said Arindam Bagchi, External Affairs Ministry spokesperson said. India was among the first countries to express concern after the February 1 military takeover which deposed the democratically elected leadership of Myanmar. However, India’s subsequent behaviour indicated that it preferred to maintain communication links with the military junta. On March 27, an Indian official attended the Myanmar Armed Forces Day parade at capital Naypyitaw even as the day turned out to be the bloodiest with the military killing around 100 protesters. Subsequently, on April 1, Myanmar participated in a foreign ministerial meeting of BIMSTEC, Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation, which was chaired by Sri Lanka and attended by India along with other members like Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, and Thailand. Concern for displaced Mr. Bagchi, however, argued that India maintains routine diplomatic activities through its mission in Myanmar. “Our Ambassador, Defence Attache, and other diplomatic officers continue to discharge their regular diplomatic responsibilities,” said Mr. Bagchi. Mr. Bagchi further said India was treating the flow of displaced people from Myanmar as per Indian laws and “humanitarian considerations.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-stands-for-revival-of-democracy-in-myanmar/article34227729.ece
03 April 2021||Kanniyakumari/Madurai,||We don’t treat people based on their religion: Modi||BJP leader and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday insisted that his government does not differentiate between people on the basis of their faith and religion. “We are for Indians and not for any particular caste or religion. We rescued nurses abducted in Iraq. We rescued Rev. Fr. Alexis Premkumar from his abductors in Afghanistan and Rev. Fr. Tom from his abductors in Yemen. When I personally called Fr. Alexis’s sister to inform her that he was safe even after being a hostage for 18 months, she could not believe it. We don’t treat people based on their faith or religion,” he said at an election meeting in Kanniyakumar, a district with considerable Christian population. Being Good Friday, he recalled the sacrifices and services of Jesus Christ for the poor. UPA’s dynasty rule Targeting the Opposition, he claimed that while the NDA is keen on holistic infrastructure and industrial development of the nation, the nepotism ridden UPA is for dynasty rule for the benefit of their children and their grandchildren. The prime objective of the NDA government was to create a prosperous farming sector, a bubbling industrial sector, a well-developed coastal sector and fishing industry by designing appropriate policies. “We will ensure better connectivity between the fishing harbours and the hinterland to enable fishermen to reach their markets for getting better price,” he said.  Assailing the DMK, he said senior leaders of the party, who had worked shoulder-to-shoulder with late M. Karunanidhi, had to work with the ‘crown prince’ [Udhayanidhi Stalin] as the party was keen on dynasty rule. The Congress, he said, was undemocratic as it had dismissed elected governments in the past, and the party did not understand local sentiments. Earlier, in Madurai, where he invoked references to the Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple, Mr. Modi accused the DMK and the Congress of spreading lies. He insisted that construction of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Madurai would be completed as per proper procedure. A state-of-the-art infectious diseases block would be established at the AIIMS. “The AIIMS will provide quality healthcare and treatment for the people of this region,” he added. [Recently, DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin had campaigned holding a brick to stress that there was no progress in the construction of the AIIMS, beyond the initial brick laying ceremony.] Mr. Modi said that the DMK and the Congress must control their lies because the people are not foolish. “The DMK and the Congress project themselves as the only protectors of Tamil culture. However, the facts prove the opposite,” he said. In 2011, the UPA hovernment supported a ban on jallikattu. The AIADMK government, an ally of the BJP, promulgated an ordinance to permit the conduct of jallikattu, he noted. Charging that the DMK did not take any steps for the welfare of the Devendra Kulavelalar community, Mr. Modi insisted that the AIADMK and the BJP had worked to ensure the dignity of the community. He claimed that the law and order situation in the State would be disturbed if the DMK-led alliance comes to power. “The DMK is trying to make peace-loving Madurai a ‘mafia den’ because of an internal complication in its first family,” he alleged. The NDA focuses on three main areas for the development of South Tamil Nadu: infrastructure, irrigation and investments, said the PM. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said an alliance with the BJP government would help bring good projects to Tamil Nadu. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and senior leaders of alliance parties participated.  The DMK is trying to make peace-loving Madurai a ‘mafia den’ because of an internal complication in its first family||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-dont-treat-people-based-on-their-religion-modi/article34227893.ece
03 April 2021||Kozhikode,||Change or continuity? Kerala plays it close||Even as several pre-poll surveys indicate a continuity of the CPI(M)-led LDF rule in Kerala, a silent undercurrent of anti-incumbency appears to be prevailing among the voters. Rarely has the electorate rewarded incumbent State governments, especially in Kerala, with consecutive terms in recent times. Either they vote for the Congress-led UDF or the Left alliance. This see-saw voting pattern has been seen in the State since the 1982 election. The predicted continuity of the LDF government headed by veteran CPI(M) leader V.S. Achuthanandan in the 2011 election also failed to materialise. No clear wave This time, the absence of a clear wave for or against either of the fronts has given the impression that the Left is set to retain power. One of the factors for this assumption is the LDF’s victory in the local body polls in December 2020. The victory came despite the government facing serious allegations of nepotism and backdoor appointments and investigations by the Central agencies into multiple scams, including smuggling of gold through the diplomatic channel. But it remains to be seen whether the same narrative will work in the Assembly poll. “Yes, there is silent anti-incumbency. But the Left’s aggressive publicity blitzkrieg focusing on social security schemes and pensions overshadowed it. The electoral picture is still hazy,” said Hameed Chennamangaloor, political analyst and social critic. Mr. Chennamangaloor said that the Opposition has been unable to mount a serious challenge in the run-up to the poll. “It has been ineffective in projecting a strong leader to steer the campaign even though Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, Ramesh Chennithala, levelled serious charges of corruption against the government. The CPI(M), with its well-equipped machinery, showcased Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan as a superhero who can handle any situation,” he said. So far, the ruling party has controlled the optics of the poll campaign. Many also believe that a continuation of the Left government will help the dispensation concentrate more on infrastructure projects with longer gestation periods. The Congress, which delayed finalisation of the list of candidates, has been hamstrung by organisational weakness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/change-or-continuity-kerala-plays-it-close/article34227680.ece
03 April 2021||New Delhi,||Centre says labourers in Punjab drugged||The Union Home Ministry has said in a communication to the Punjab government that labourers from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar who work in agricultural fields in the State are drugged, exploited and meted out inhuman treatment. The Ministry asked the State government to take appropriate measures to address the serious problem. The Ministry said that 58 mentally challenged people from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh were found working as bonded labourers in the border districts of the State by the Border Security Force (BSF) in 2019 and 2020. In a communication to the Chief Secretary of Punjab, the Ministry said the BSF found that the workers were brought to Punjab on the promise of a good salary but they were exploited, given drugs and forced to work in inhuman conditions. The BSF has said that these labourers were rescued from the border areas of Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Ferozepur and Abohar in Punjab. “During the course of questioning, it emerged that most of them were either mentally challenged or were in a feeble state of mind and have been working as bonded labourers with farmers in border villages of Punjab. The persons apprehended belong to poor family background and hail from remote areas of the states of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh,” the letter dated March 17 said. ‘Human trafficking’ The Ministry said it has been further informed that “human-trafficking syndicates hire such labourers from their native place to work in Punjab on the promise of a good salary, but after reaching there, they are exploited, paid poorly and meted out inhuman treatment. To make them work in the fields for long hours, these labourers are often given drugs, which adversely affect their physical and mental condition. The BSF has been handing over the rescued persons to the State police for necessary action,” the letter said. “Keeping in view the multi-dimensional and overwhelming enormity of the problem, which involves human-trafficking, bonded labour and human rights violation, you are requested to look into the matter and take appropriate measures to address this serious problem,” the Ministry communicated to the Punjab government. The Punjab government has also been asked to inform it on priority about the action taken in the matter.   During the course of questioning, it emerged that most of them were mentally challenged home ministry letter||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-says-labourers-in-punjab-drugged/article34227749.ece
03 April 2021||Kolkata,||Will develop north Bengal, says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday accused West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of doing injustice to the people of north Bengal. Mr. Shah, who promised Rs. 2,000 crore for the region’s development, said an All India Institute of Medical Sciences would be set up in the area. “Mamata didi has done nothing for the development of the region. After coming to power, the BJP will constitute a North Bengal Development Board and spend Rs. 2,000 crore annually on the region’s development,” Mr. Shah said at a rally at Sitalluchi in Cooch Behar district. He held two public meetings in north Bengal and participated in two road shows in south Bengal. In north Bengal, the Home Minister claimed that infiltration was the biggest problem in the region and promised to stop it. Targeting the Trinamool s government, Mr. Shah said the Mamata Banerjee governance model was based on 3Ts of ‘ Tolabaji ’ (extortion), ‘ Tanashahi ’ (dictatorship) and ‘ Tushtikaran ’ (appeasement). He promised the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act at the first Cabinet meeting if the BJP came to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-develop-north-bengal-says-shah/article34227733.ece
03 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Disquiet over policy for rare diseases||Caregivers to patients with ‘rare diseases’ and affiliated organisations are dissatisfied with the National Policy for Rare Diseases, 2021 announced on Wednesday. Though the document specifies increasing the government support for treating patients with a ‘rare disease’— from Rs. 15 lakh to Rs. 20 lakh — caregivers say this doesn’t reflect actual costs of treatment. “The new policy offers no support to patients awaiting treatment since the earlier National Policy for Treatment of Rare Diseases 2017 was kept in abeyance. In the absence of any funding support, close to 130 patients are left with no option but to wait for the inevitable. Several patientshave already lost their lives in the interim period. Unlike conditions under Group 1 and Group 2, patients with Group 3 disorders require sustainable treatment support,” said Manjit Singh, National President, Lysosomal Storage Disorders Support Society. “Looking at the number of rare disease patients diagnosed and considered eligible for treatment by the respective State technical committees, the immediate requirement of funds to support the immediate treatment needs of the diagnosed patients shouldn’t have exceeded Rs. 80 crore to Rs. 100 crore annually. The Centre’s contribution would work out to Rs. 40 to Rs. 50 crore — if it is able to convince the State(s) for a load-sharing model, as a few States like Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka have already indicated,” said health economist Prof. Viswanath Pingali. “It is alarming that the Union government has left patients with Group 3 rare diseases to fend for themselves. The new policy has absolutely no consideration for Group 3 patients, who require lifelong treatment support,” said Prasanna Shirol, co-founder and executive director, Organisation for Rare Diseases India, an umbrella organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/disquiet-over-policy-for-rare-diseases/article34227739.ece
03 April 2021||New Delhi,||Highest vaccine coverage in a day||More than 36.7 lakh COVID-19 vaccine doses were administered in 24 hours, the highest single-day coverage till now, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. Of the 36,71,242 vaccine doses, 33,65,597 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 51,215 sessions for the first dose and 3,05,645 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine, the Health Ministry said in a statement. The Ministry said this is the highest single day vaccine coverage till now. Cumulatively, more than 6.87 crore (6,87,89,138) vaccine doses have been administered through 11,37,456 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 a.m. on Friday. These include 83,06,269 healthcare workers (HCW; first dose) and 52,84,564 HCWs (second dose); 93,53,021 frontline workers (FLW; first dose) and 40,97,634 FLWs (second dose); 97,83,615 (first dose) and 39,401 (second dose) beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities; and 3,17,05,893 (first dose) and 2,18,741 (second dose) beneficiaries aged more than 60 years, it said. Eight States account for 59.58% of the cumulative doses given so far. These eight States are Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala. Steep rise The Ministry further said that Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh reported a steep rise in daily new cases. Five States, namely, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Punjab, cumulatively account for 77.91% of the total active cases in the country. “Maharashtra alone accounts for nearly 60% per cent (59.84%) of the total active caseload of the country,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/highest-vaccine-coverage-in-a-day/article34227756.ece
03 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC warns against mechanically granting bail in heinous offences||The Supreme Court has cautioned courts against mechanically granting bail in heinous offences, saying the seriousness of the charge is a basic consideration before releasing an accused on bail. A recent judgment by a Bench led by Justice Indira Banerjee set aside a Kerala High Court order bailing out a man accused of stabbing to death a 30-year-old dentist in front of her father in September 2020. The accused had gone absconding for several days before his arrest. Though the trial court denied him bail, the High Court set him at liberty. “The nature of the offence is one of the basic considerations for the grant of bail — more heinous is the crime, the greater is the chance of rejection of the bail, though, however, dependent on the factual matrix of the matter,” Justice Banerjee, who authored the judgment, observed. The court agreed that grant of bail was a judge’s discretion. “However, calls for exercise of such a discretion in a judicious manner and not as a matter of course. Order for bail bereft of any cogent reason cannot be sustained,” the judgment said. The apex court said the accused had reached the clinic of the victim with a knife. “He had attacked the deceased and inflicted very serious stab injury and caused damages to her internal vital organs... the High Court overlooked the materials on record, which prima facie indicate that the respondent (accused) had committed cold-blooded murder of a young lady doctor, as a fall-out of a soured relationship... After committing the crime, the petitioner had absconded and he could be apprehended only on October 6, 2020 on receiving secret information by the investigation agency...” the court noted Justice Banerjee observed, that “while granting bail the court has to keep in mind not only the nature of the accusations, but the severity of the punishment”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-warns-against-mechanically-granting-bail-in-heinous-offences/article34227701.ece
03 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP complains against Mamata, Udhayanidhi||Senior leaders of the BJP on Friday complained to the Election Commission (EC) against West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for what they termed poll violations. They also complained against Udayanidhi Stalin, son of DMK leader M.K. Stalin, for “indecent remarks” against late BJP leaders Arun Jaitley and Sushma Swaraj. The delegation of party leaders included Union Ministers Prakash Javadekar, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, BJP general secretary Bhupender Yadav and the party’s national spokesperson Anil Baluni. “For the first time in the country’s history, a Chief Minister sat on dharna in a polling booth when polling was on. Before she [Mamata Banejee] sat on dharna, 74% of the votes were polled in Nandigram and the polling was by and large peaceful,” Mr. Javadekar said after meeting EC officials. “We have given all proofs including photographs of her misconduct. A Chief Minister, who herself is in a constitutional post and sat on dharna while the polling was on, is against democracy and against the Election Commission’s norms for polling. And therefore we have demanded urgent action against her from the poll panel,” he added. The BJP has also demanded action against Udhayanidhi Stalin. They accused him of raking up controversy by saying that Mr. Jaitley and Ms. Swaraj passed away due to political pressure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-complains-against-mamata-udayanidhi/article34227731.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Four poll personnel suspended in Assam||“We have suspended presiding officer Sahab Uddin Talukdar and three others and asked them to explain why they violated the transport protocol. The team said they were unaware of who the vehicle belonged to until it was mobbed at Kanaishil, short of the district headquarters,” Karimganj’s Deputy Commissioner and District Election Officer (DEO) Anbamuthan M.P. told The Hindu . According to a statement, the mob had damaged the vehicle by the time Mr. Anbamuthan and the district Superintendent of Police reached the spot. The police had to resort to “blank firing” to disperse the stone-pelting mob after the SP sustained minor injuries. The EC has sought a ground report on the incident that happened about 10 p.m. on Thursday, four hours after the second phase of polling across 39 of Assam’s 126 Assembly seats had concluded. District officials said the polling team had left booth No. 149 for Karimganj, about 70 km away, in a convoy of armed security personnel led by police sector officer Luhit Gohain. Their vehicle broke down at 9 p.m., but it had by then got separated from the convoy due to traffic congestion and rainfall. “The party alighted from the vehicle and called sector officer Ajoy Sutradhar on his mobile phone and informed him. While the sector officer was arranging an alternative vehicle, the polling party decided to arrange a vehicle of its own so as to reach the Material Receipt Centre faster” as they were carrying the EVMs. Around 9.20 p.m., the EC report said, the polling party waved down a passing vehicle and boarded it along with their EVMs and other things without checking the vehicle’s ownership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-poll-personnel-suspended-in-assam/article34227719.ece
03 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Maternal deaths rose during pandemic: study||The failure of the health system to cope with COVID-19 pandemic resulted in an increase in maternal deaths and stillbirths, according to a study published in The Lancet Global Health j ournal. Overall, there was a 28% increase in the odds of stillbirth, and the risk of mothers dying during pregnancy or childbirth increased by about one-third. There was also a rise in maternal depression. COVID-19 impact on pregnancy outcomes was disproportionately high on poorer countries, according to the study published on March 31. The report is an analysis of 40 studies across 17 countries including Brazil, Mexico, the U.S., Canada, the U.K., Denmark, Netherlands, Italy, India, China and Nepal. “The disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic has led to avoidable deaths of both mothers and babies. Policy makers and healthcare leaders must urgently investigate robust strategies for preserving safe and respectful maternity care, even during the ongoing global emergency. Immediate action is required to avoid rolling back decades of investment in reducing mother and infant mortality in low-resource settings,” the authors urge. The study attributes the worsening trend to the failure of the “inefficiency of the healthcare system and their inability to cope with the pandemic” instead of strict lockdown measures. This resulted in reduced access to care. Indian context In the Indian context, an analysis of HMIS data by Population Foundation of India shows that during the months of national lockdown last year between April and June, compared to the same period in 2019, there was a 27% drop in pregnant women receiving four or more ante-natal check-ups, a 28% decline in institutional deliveries and 22% decline in prenatal services. The authors recommend that personnel for maternity services not be redeployed for other critical and medical care during the pandemic and in response to future health system shocks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maternal-deaths-rose-during-pandemic-study/article34227741.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||I-T searches on premises of Stalin’s kin||Sources in the Income Tax Department said the searches were based on inputs received. The officers of IT Department also conducted a search in a premises belonging to G Square, which has aggregated land for some big corporates and for setting up IT parks in the last few years. Until 8 p.m., tax sleuths remained tight-lipped when asked about seizures. According to sources, the searches began at all the places simultaneously around 6.30 a.m. including at the two-storey palatial house located near the coast in Casurina Drive, Kapaleeshwarar Nagar, Neelangarai. Around 12 officers from the IT Department, accompanied by armed guards from the central paramilitary forces, entered the bungalow when Mr. Sabareesan and his wife Senthamarai were present. Party workers gather As soon as word spread about the searches, DMK workers gathered in front of the house and expressed solidarity with their leader’s family. They also blamed the BJP-led central government for the action. At Anna Nagar, DMK cadres protested in front of Mr. Karthik’s house. The cadres assembled before the house to accompany his father, Mr. Mohan, for door-to-door canvassing in the early hours. Suddenly, the officers of IT department entered the house, accompanied by armed central paramilitary force personnel. While the officers were conducting the search, the cadres blocked the road and staged a dharna, besides shouting slogans against the Central and State governments for launching searches at DMK leaders’ houses. Other places The IT officials also searched the residences of former Transport Minister and DMK MLA Senthil Balaji and his brother Ashok Kumar in Karur and at a couple of other places. Mr. Balaji is the DMK candidate for the Karur Assembly constituency. The operation continued till late in the evening. In Thanjavur, the officials searched three places belonging to the Thanjavur North DMK union secretary, Murasoli. The searches were conducted at the house of Mr. Murasoli at Arulananda Nagar in Malligaipuram, Thanjavur, and at his native place in Thennankudi village. Notice issued  After searching the three premises for about six hours, the IT sleuths issued a notice to Mr. Murasoli directing him to appear for further inquiry at the IT Office, Thanjavur, sources said.  (With inputs from R. Rajaram in Tiruchi and V. Venkatasubramanian in Thanjavur)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-t-searches-on-premises-of-stalins-kin/article34227702.ece
03 April 2021||Mangaluru,||Bajrang Dal activists target couple on bus||A group of Bajrang Dal activists allegedly assaulted a 23-year-old man and stabbed him after finding him travelling with a woman from another community in a Bengaluru-bound bus here on Thursday night. The police have taken eight people into custody in connection with the case. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters that the incident occurred at Pumpwell Junction around 10 p.m. The 23-year-old woman, who was on her way to Bengaluru to attend a job interview, had reportedly asked her classmate to accompany her as she was new to the city. Bus halted Stopping the bus at the junction, a group of men got the couple to get off the bus and allegedly assaulted the man before stabbing him. They also reportedly assaulted the woman. Quoting doctors, Mr. Kumar said it was a lacerated injury caused by a sharp weapon. The victim was stable and out of danger, undergoing treatment at a private hospital. The Kankanady Town Police have registered a case of attempt to murder (Section 307 IPC) on the complaint from the woman while four teams led by DCP (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar and ACP (South) Ranjit Kumar Bandaru were tracing the accused. So far, eight were secured, Mr. Kumar said. Four incidents While in four incidents of vigilante groups accosting couple from different communities reported in last two months ended up in the groups issuing warnings, the present one culminated in the assault, the Commissioner said. The department was taking stern action against vigilante groups including initiating security proceedings obtaining undertaking for good behaviour from suspected activists. Steps, including enhanced patrolling at bus stands, railway stations, bus stops etc., particularly during late evenings, were also being taken. The all-women ‘Abbakka Pade’ police team was being used for the purpose, Mr. Kumar added. Assault denied Denying assault charges, Bajrang Dal Pranth Pracharak K.R. Sunil told reporters on Saturday that the activists had ‘just questioned the couple’. Some people who were with the activists assaulted the duo while police have secured Bajrang Dal activists for questioning, he claimed. ‘Love Jihad’ Describing the Pumpwell incident as ‘Love Jihad’, Mr. Sunil said organised rackets were working on Love Jihad and Bajrang Dal activists were attempting to thwart them. Recent warnings to couples at Surathkal and Puttur were also part of Dal’s effort to ‘dissuade Love Jihad’, he said.  The activists had just questioned the couple. K.R. SunilBajrang Dal Pranth Pracharak   The story so far The 23-year-old woman, on her way to Bengaluru to attend a job interview, had reportedly asked her classmate to accompany her as she was new to the city.  A group of men stopped the bus at Pumpwell Junction, got the couple to get off, and allegedly assaulted the man and stabbed him. They also reportedly assaulted the woman.   The Kankanady Town Police have registered a case of attempt to murder (Section 307 IPC) on a complaint made by the woman while four teams led by DCP (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar and ACP (South) Ranjit Kumar Bandaru are tracing the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bajrang-dal-activists-target-couple-on-bus/article34227709.ece
03 April 2021||Hyderabad,||Ritual at Godavari claims six of family||A Chudakarana (tonsuring) ceremony of a two-year-old boy turned fatal for six of his family members, including three teenagers, who drowned in river Godavari, the downstream of Sriram Sagar project at Pochampad, in Nizamabad district on Friday. The project is about 220 km from the State capital. The victims have been identified as 40-year-old Bobbili Srinivas from Yellamgutta, his two sons — 16-year-old Bobbili Siddhartha and 14-year-old Srikar, 40-year-old Suresh and his 16-year-old son Yogesh from Bikampally and 24-year-old Dodla Raju of Guthpa village in Nizamabad district. Another member of the family 14-year-old Ravikanth was rescued by locals Raju and Ravi. Speaking to The Hindu ,  Nizamabad Deputy Commissioner of Police K.C.S. Raghuveer said that the victims along with other relatives entered the water for a holy bath. They were bathing at the VIP Pushkarghat, a platform constructed on river banks for devotees. The incident took place around 10.30 a.m. when Srikar went deep inside the water and started struggling. Upon hearing his alarm, other victims went into the deep portion of the river in an attempt to rescue him and got drowned. Police rushed to the spot, retrieved the bodies, and sent them to a government hospital for autopsy. Mr. Raghuveer said that he had directed the village committee to set up public address systems to warn the devotees from entering into deep waters and install warning boards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ritual-at-godavari-claims-six-of-family/article34227710.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Two attackers of BJP leader killed in Pulwama||“It was Lone and Nengroo, who used an Alto-800 vehicle to commute from Nowgam to Pulwama. The car belonged to the owner of the house, where the encounter took place,” Mr. Kumar added. The police said an SLR rifle, which was snatched from a policeman in Srinagar on Thursday, had been recovered. The police said the owner of the house will be booked under the Unlawful Activities and Prevention Act (ULPA). “We managed to crack the Srinagar attack within 24 hours. Two out of the four militants involved in the attack have been killed,” IGP Kumar said. The police said the last rites of the slain militants will be carried out in Baramulla and the nearest family members shall be allowed to participate. Around 10 civilians were injured in clashes that broke out near the encounter site. Locals alleged the police used pellet shotguns and firearms to disperse the youth. “During the withdrawal of the security forces from the encounter site, some miscreants resorted to stone pelting and were dispersed by using non-lethal weapons, in which a few miscreants received minor injuries,” the police said. Meanwhile, the J&K Police said it's working on new measures to improve the security cover of the protected persons in Kashmir, especially of the leaders associated with the BJP. “Policemen guarding politicians will get fresh training sessions. New standard operating procedures and advisories are being worked out to foil the bids of the militants to target protected persons,” IGP Kumar said. He added that BJP workers and leaders “are more vulnerable”. “We can't give security to one and all, but those who face threats will be provided with enough security cover.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-attackers-of-bjp-leader-killed-in-pulwama/article34227711.ece
03 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cong. questions Kerala’s power pact with Adani||The Congress on Friday came up with a fresh corruption charge against the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government over its purchase of power from the Adani group. However, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan rejected the allegation. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala alleged that the lucrative purchase contract was awarded to the Gujurat-based Adani group to avert prosecution by Central agencies investigating the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case. The Adani group shared a ‘special relationship’ with BJP's national leadership, Mr. Chennithala alleged. The allegation comes with just three days remaining for the Assembly elections in the State. ‘Exaggerated’ rate The agreements signed by the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) with Centre's Solar Energy Corporation Limited (SECL) in June and September 2019 had paved the way for Adani's business deal. The group has to supply power at an ‘exaggerated’ rate of Rs. 2.82 a unit for the next 25 years. He alleged that the agreement was to buy 300 MW of power. The corporate major could make a profit of over Rs. 1,000 crore. At present, solar power is available at Rs. 2 a unit. Then why a pact was signed to buy power at Rs. 2.82 a unit. “The common man has to pay Rs. 1 extra for each unit for 25 years. This will help Adani reap a profit of Rs. 1,000 crore,” he told reporters in Alappuzha. The State government had abandoned cheaper solar power for Adani's costlier energy to favour the private group proximate to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The administration had slashed its quota of solar power to facilitate the Rs. 8,758-crore deal. The Adani group’s share price went up after signing the contract. Rejecting the charges, Mr. Vijayan told reporters in Kannur that Mr. Chennithala was ‘jealous’ of the five years under the LDF government when there had been no load-shedding. “That's why he is now trying to tarnish the deals of KSEB,” the Chief Minister said. Mr. Vijayan said all agreements made by the KSEB were published on the official website. Mr. Chennithala imagined corruption where it did not exist, he added.  The common man has to pay Rs. 1 extra for each unit for 25 years. This will help Adani reap a profit of Rs. 1,000 cr.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-questions-keralas-power-pact-with-adani/article34227712.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||India records 89,019 fresh cases, highest in 6 months||According to the ICMR, 24,59,12,587 samples have been tested up to April 1, and 11,13,966 samples were tested on Thursday. The health ministry stressed that more than 70% of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-records-88665-new-cases-highest-in-6-months/article34227716.ece
03 April 2021||Hyderabad,||2 Telangana boys caught in fire, die||A playful act by one of three children ended up getting two boys burnt alive as they were caught in a fire in a heap of dry grass at an agricultural field at Ippatoor village in Nawabpet Mandal of Mahabubnagar district on Thursday evening. The victims — eight year-old student of Class III Vaishnav and nine-year-old student of Class IV Prashanth, along with their eight-year-old friend Shiva went to an agricultural field in the village. While playing Shiva found a matchbox, lit the sticks, and accidentally threw it on the haystack. The other two who were playing inside a tractor cage wheel close to the hay were caught in the flames. The incident occurred around 6 p.m on Thursday. “They were in a state of panic and didn’t know how to escape, as they were sitting inside the cage wheel,” Nawabpet Sub-Inspector Ch.Srikanth said. The boys suffered 70% burns before they were rescued by the villagers and rushed to Government Hospital in the district headquarters, he said. According to Mr. Srikanth, Vaishnav succumbed to his burns around 9 p.m., while Prashanth was declared dead by 11 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-telangana-boys-caught-in-fire-die/article34227703.ece
03 April 2021||Staff Reporter Hyderabad,||Two boys killed in fire mishap||A playful act by one of three children ended up getting two boys burnt alive as they were caught in a fire in a heap of dry grass at an agricultural field at Ippatoor village in Nawabpet Mandal of Mahabubnagar district on Thursday evening. The victims — eight year-old student of Class III Vaishnav and nine-year-old student of Class IV Prashanth, along with their eight-year-old friend Shiva went to an agricultural field in the village. While playing Shiva found a matchbox, lit the sticks, and accidentally threw it on the haystack. The other two who were playing inside a tractor cage wheel close to the hay were caught in the flames. The incident occurred around 6 p.m on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-boys-killed-in-fire-mishap/article34228646.ece
03 April 2021||Guwahati,||BJP behind new outfits, says Himanta||Assam’s Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has said the BJP had encouraged the creation of two regional parties — the Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) and jailed activist Akhil Gogoi’s Raijor Dal (RD) — ahead of the State polls in order to split the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act votes between them and the Congress and its allies.  In response to the BJP leader’s remark, AJP general secretary Jagadish Bhuyan said: “The Minister is intelligent enough to remember that he had a few months ago said we were sired by the Congress and the AIUDF.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-behind-new-outfits-says-himanta/article34227725.ece
03 April 2021||Mumbai,||HC to decide on Param Bir’s plea on April 5||On April 5, the Bombay High Court will pronounce its order on the public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by former Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into his allegations against Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. On March 20, Mr. Singh wrote a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging that Mr. Deshmukh had directed suspended police officer Sachin Vaze to collect Rs. 100 crore from bars and restaurants a month. The senior IPS officer then moved the Supreme Court seeking a CBI probe into the matter. However, the top court directed him to move the Bombay High Court. On March 31, a Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni heard the matter for over six hours and then reserved its order on whether the PIL petition is maintainable. The Bench had then questioned senior advocate Vikram Nankani representing the current Director General of Maharashtra Home Guard on why no FIR was filed against the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/high-court-to-decide-on-param-birs-plea-soon/article34227726.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Himanta can’t campaign for 48 hours||The Election Commission of India (EC) on Friday barred BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma from holding public meetings, processions, rallies, road shows and interactions with the media in connection with the ongoing elections for 48 hours. The EC issued the order with respect to a complaint lodged by the Congress on March 30, alleging that Mr. Sarma threatened Hagrama Mohilary, chairman of the Bodoland People’s Front and the Congress alliance partner, of sending him to jail by misusing the National Investigation Agency. “The Commission hereby strongly condemns the impugned statements made by Himanta Biswa Sarma, BJP leader and star campaigner,” said the EC. Taking cognisance of the complaint, it had earlier examined the full transcript of Mr. Sarma’s impugned statement and held that it was prima facie in violation of the Model Code of Conduct. The EC also issued a notice to the BJP leader seeking his response. Mr. Sarma submitted his reply denying the allegations. However, the Commission did not find the explanation satisfactory. ‘BJP behind new outfits’ Earlier, Mr. Sarma said the BJP had encouraged the creation of two regional parties — the Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) and jailed activist Akhil Gogoi’s Raijor Dal (RD) — ahead of the State polls in order to split the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act votes between them and the Congress and its allies. The Congress and the All India United Democratic Front are key constituents of the 10-party Mahajot that hopes to prevent the BJP and its allies from retaining power. He told a local TV channel on Thursday, “We had encouraged the formation of AJP and let our party workers attend their meetings so that they feel they have takers. Whether it is AJP or RD or any other party, they have been floated according to the BJP’s strategy.”  A section of the voters is believed to have been driven by the anti-CAA sentiment in eastern Assam and parts of central Assam. The AJP and RD on Friday reminded Mr. Sarma of a different “theory” he had aired about their birth in September-October 2020. AJP general secretary Jagadish Bhuyan said: “The Minister is intelligent enough to remember that he had a few months ago said we were sired by the Congress and the AIUDF.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/himanta-cant-campaign-for-48-hours/article34227727.ece
03 April 2021||New Delhi,||No ban on vaccine export: MEA||Asserting that India has not imposed any export ban on COVID-19 vaccines, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Friday said the country has taken the lead in sending vaccines abroad with over 640 lakh doses supplied to more than 80 countries till now. MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi also said the Ministry’s ‘Vaccine Maitree’ initiative to supply vaccines abroad has been “very successful and very well liked” by our partners across the world. “As on date, under the ‘Vaccine Maitree’ initiative, we have supplied a total of about 644 lakh doses to the global community and of these, 104 lakh doses have been supplied as a grant, 357 lakh doses on a commercial basis and 182 lakh doses through the COVAX initiative,” Mr. Bagchi said at an online media briefing. Asked about reports that Nepal has approached India to procure 5 million more vaccine doses but has not got any response, he said India has taken the lead on sending vaccines abroad. “No country has shared with the world the number of vaccines that India has while vaccinating its own population. Till now, we have supplied vaccines to more than 80 countries across in the world and we have already stated that our external supplies would be done keeping in mind our domestic requirements,” the MEA spokesperson said. “At this time, I hope our partners understand that vaccines are primarily purposed for domestic consumption. I want to emphasise that we have not imposed any export ban on vaccines,” Mr. Bagchi asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-ban-imposed-on-vaccine-export-mea/article34227753.ece
03 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Plea seeks action against black magic||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court to issue a direction to the Centre and States to control black magic, superstition and religious conversion by intimidating, threatening, deceivingly luring through gifts and monetary benefits. “Religious conversion by ‘carrot-and-stick’ or ‘by-hook-or-crook’ not only offends Articles 14 [right to equality], 21[right to life] and 25 [right to religious freedom], but also against the principles of secularism, which is an integral part of basic structure of Constitution,” the petition filed by advocate A.K. Upadhyay said. The court is likely to hear the case on April 9. Mr. Upadhyay registered his “dismay” that the Centre and the States failed to control the menace of black magic, superstition and deceitful religious conversion, though it was their duty under Article 51A of the Constitution. “There is not even one district in the country which is free of black magic, superstition and religious conversion ... Incidents are reported every week throughout the country where conversion is done by intimidating, threatening, luring through gifts and monetary benefits,” the petition alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-seeks-action-against-black-magic/article34227748.ece
03 April 2021||New Delhi,||Clinical trial for third dose of Covaxin||The expert panel of India’s drug regulator, Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), has permitted Bharat Biotech to give a third dose of Covaxin to a few volunteers in its clinical trials of the COVID-19 vaccine, sources said. Bharat Biotech presented amendments to the subject expert committee of the DCGI in the approved phase 2 clinical trial protocol for administration of booster dose six months after second dose. “The firm presented amendments in the approved Phase 2 clinical trial protocol for administration of booster dose after six months after second dose. The committee recommended that the firm should conduct the booster dose study only in 6 mcg cohort and also should follow up the subjects at least for six months after the third dose,” the SEC said. The firm was asked to present the details of assessments to be carried out in the subjects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/clinical-trial-for-third-dose-of-covaxin/article34227750.ece
03 April 2021||Durg,||Lockdown in Durg district in Chattisgarh||The administration in Durg district of Chattisgarh on Friday announced a complete lockdown from April 6 to 14 in the light of spike in COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lockdown-in-durg-district-in-chattisgarh/article34227751.ece
03 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||HC stays punishment to Collector||The Telangana High Court has stayed the punishment awarded to three top Revenue officials of Rajanna Sircilla district by a single-judge in a contempt case pertaining to acquisition of lands for construction of Anantagiri reservoir under Kaleshwaram project package no. 10. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy stayed the single-judge order two days ago after hearing three separate contempt appeal petitions filed by the officials. The appeals were filed by Rajanna Sircilla district Collector D. Krishna Bhaskar, district former joint collector and Rehabilitation and Resettlement Authority and Revenue Divisional Officer cum Land Acquisition Officer. Earlier, a single-judge held these three officers guilty of wilful disobedience of HC orders in an interim application of a writ petition filed by some farmers of Anantagiri and Repaka villages of the district. They claimed that their lands and houses were lost in the construction of Anantagiri reservoir. They charged that they were not adequately compensated as per the provisions of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act-2013. The single-judge issued a stay order. The petitioners filed a contempt of court case alleging that the three officials went ahead with acquisition of their lands in violation of the stay order. The single-judge punished the three officials with three months of simple imprisonment and imposed Rs. 2,000 fine on each of them. The officers were also directed to pay Rs. 10,000 towards costs to each of the petitioners. The three officials appealed against the single-judge order. On hearing contentions of Advocate General B.S. Prasad, appearing for the officials, the bench headed by the CJ stayed the single-judge order. However, the bench instructed the officials to deposit the fine amount and the costs to be paid to the petitioners in the contempt case in the court within two weeks. The contempt appeals were posted to September for next hearing. The bench posted the writ petition filed by the farmers in July for adjudication. The farmers contended that the authorities did not pay complete compensation to them under Section 23 of the Land Acquisition Act-2013. According to them, compensation was paid only under Section 30 of the Act. They maintained that they were deprived of the compensation. The authorities contended that there dual benefits of rehabilitation and resettlement cannot be awarded to the farmers under the Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-stays-punishment-to-collector/article34227947.ece
03 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Chennithala denigrating voters: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday slammed Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala for stating that nearly 4.34 lakh voters in the State had obtained multiple voter identity cards through deception. In Kannur, Mr. Vijayan said systemic anomalies, and not criminal deceit, had resulted in the mix-up. For instance, a bride who shifted residence to her groom's home had ended up having two voter identity cards for no guilt of hers. "Could anybody categorise her as a fraudulent voter?" Mr. Vijayan pointed out that Mr. Chennithala's close relatives had inadvertently figured on different electoral lists. It did not mean they were bogus voters. He pointed out that the Election Commission of India (ECI) had sufficient checks and balances to prevent double voting. Moreover, political agents and election officials closely monitored the poll process at the booth level. The possibility of double voting was remote in the State. The Chief Minister said Mr. Chennithala had sought to defame voters innocent of the jumble by publishing their photographs, names, addresses and family details online. He had done so without their consent. Moreover, the Opposition leader had attempted to destroy their reputation. Several persons have questioned the legality of Mr. Chennithala's “wanton” action. Inconsistencies Mr. Chennithala has to explain whether he had obtained the electoral information legally. His list of "fake voters" was full of inconsistencies. For one, Mr. Chennithala had portrayed a set of identical twins from Palakkad as "bogus voters" on his "blacklist" of "double voters". (The brothers have since moved the police against Mr. Chennithala.) Mr. Vijayan said extreme right-wing groups had seized on Mr. Chennithala's list to depict Kerala as a State of fake voters. A particular right-wing Twitter handle leaned on the list to claim that 20,000 Bangladeshi Muslim voters had gained a place on the electoral roll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chennithala-denigrating-voters-cm/article34227713.ece
03 April 2021||New Delhi,||11 States, Union Territories show surge||The current COVID-19 case growth rate of 6.8% in March 2021 has surpassed the previous record of 5.5% (June 2020), noted a release issued by the Central government following a meeting chaired by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on Friday. The government has identified 11 States and Union Territories as areas of grave concern — Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Chandigarh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Haryana. They have been reporting a surge in daily cases and daily mortality in the past two weeks. The meeting was to review and discuss the COVID-19 management and response strategy. “Another worrisome aspect pointed out at the meeting was that Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities along with peri-urban areas have recorded a surge in COVID-19 cases. The spread of infection to the rural areas with weak health infrastructure would overwhelm the local administration,” it noted. The Chief Secretaries, Directors-General of Police and Health Secretaries of all States and Union Territories and other senior officials participated in the meeting. The Central government said that while the country was reporting 97,000 daily new COVID-19 cases at the peak of the pandemic in September 2020, the country had now reached the critical figure of 81,000 daily new cases. Containment measures “The Cabinet Secretary has reiterated the need for stringent enforcement of containment and surveillance measures, in conjunction with ramping up vaccination and strict enforcement of COVID-appropriate behaviour,” noted the release. The States and the Union Territories have been asked to increase testing continuously to ensure that positivity comes down to 5% or less than 5%, focus on ensuring RT-PCR tests (comprising 70% of total tests), and reduce waiting time of test results while using the rapid antigen test (RAT) as a screening test in densely populated areas and where fresh clusters were emerging. The Centre has added that all symptomatic RAT negatives have to be mandatorily subjected to RT-PCR tests while ensuring effective and prompt isolation of those infected in institutional facilities (COVID-19 care centres). The release noted that the States and the Union Territories had been told to ensure that patients isolated at home are monitored daily and that 25 to 30 close contacts be traced for each infected person. “Tracing of close contacts and their isolation has to be done in 72 hours. Subsequent testing and follow-up of all close contacts have to be carried out,” the release said. The States have been asked to examine the case fatality rate hospital-wise, devise appropriate strategy, and mitigate concerns regarding late admission in hospitals and non-adherence to National Clinical Management Protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/11-states-union-territories-show-surge/article34227745.ece
03 April 2021||New Delhi,||Priyanka Gandhi cancels her election campaign in Assam, Kerala and T.N.||Sandeep Phukan   Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday announced that she was cancelling her campaign schedule in Assam, Tamil Nadu and Kerala for the next three days as her husband Robert Vadra had tested positive for COVID-19. Posting a video on her Twitter handle, Ms. Vadra said her test report came negative on Thursday but doctors had advised her self-isolation for the next few days. Mr. Vadra wrote on Facebook that he was asymptomatic. Ms. Vadra was scheduled to campaign in Assam on Friday, Tamil Nadu on Saturday and Kerala on Sunday, the last day of campaign before polling in these States on April 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyanka-gandhi-cancels-her-election-campaign-in-assam-kerala-and-tn/article34227690.ece
03 April 2021||Jaipur,||BR Ambedkar's statue found damaged in Rajasthan's Jaisalmer district||A statue of Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar was found damaged in Rajasthan’s Jaisalmer district, leading to a protest by local organisations on Friday, police said. A case has been registered against unidentified miscreants and CCTV footage is being examined to trace them, SHO Balwantram Gothwal said. Various organisation held a protest demanding action against the miscreants and that the statue near Gadsar crossing be repaired, he said. Protests were called off after the organisations were assured that their demands would be met, the SHO said The case has been registered under various IPC sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/br-ambedkars-statue-found-damaged-in-rajasthans-jaisalmer-district/article34228010.ece
03 April 2021||Jaipur,||Rakesh Tikait’s convoy attacked in Rajasthan||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait’s convoy was allegedly attacked in Alwar district of Rajasthan on Friday when he was going to address a farmers’ rally in Bansur town. A group of people threw stones at the cavalcade, damaging the rear windscreen of his car. Mr. Tikait was safe and did not get any injury. The farmer leader, who has been leading the agitation against the Centre’s agriculture sector laws for over four months, held the “goons of Bharatiya Janta Party” responsible for the attack. He posted a video clip of the car with the smashed window on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rakesh-tikaits-convoy-attacked-in-rajasthan/article34227738.ece
03 April 2021||Lucknow,||U.P. Police lodge FIR against woman BJP leader||Police in Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki district registered an FIR against a BJP leader on Friday on charges of cheating and forgery after it surfaced that an ambulance with a number plate from the district was used to ferry jailed MLA Mukhtar Ansari from Ropar jail to a court in Mohali by the Punjab Police. A case was lodged against Alka Rai, who is the owner of the Shyam Sanjeevni Hospital in Mau district, from where Mr. Ansari is an MLA. The ambulance was allegedly registered to an address linked to her hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-police-lodge-fir-against-woman-bjp-leader/article34227742.ece
03 April 2021||Lucknow,||Two arrested in Jhansi in harassment of nuns case||Two persons were arrested in Jhansi of Uttar Pradesh in connection with the harassment of two nuns and their two postulants, who were forced to de-board from a train after ABVP members accused them of illegal conversion. However, the police and the administration did not make it clear if the arrests were directly linked to the incident on March 19 as the action appeared to be a preventive measure against future protests planned by the arrested persons. Jhansi DM Andra Vamsi on Friday said the arrested persons belonged to a fringe group called Rashtrabhakt Sangh formed by one of the accused. Mr. Vamsi said they had no present connection with any mainstream outfit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-arrested-in-jhansi-in-harassment-of-nuns-case/article34227743.ece
03 April 2021||New Delhi,||No refund if CGHS members get jab at private hospitals||The Health Ministry on Friday said beneficiaries of the Central Government Health Scheme, who get their COVID-19 vaccination at private empanelled hospitals, will not be reimbursed. The clarification has been issued after various representations and grievances regarding administration of vaccine to the CGHS beneficiaries was put forward and the matter was examined, the Ministry added. As per government policy, vaccination against COVID-19 is being provided free of cost to beneficiaries at designated government facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-refund-if-cghs-members-get-jab-at-private-hospitals/article34227747.ece
03 April 2021||Andipatti,TAMIL NADU||IT raid at AIADMK man’s residence||A search operation, which went on over five hours in the residence of an AIADMK functionary here on Wednesday late night, ended in the early hours of Thursday. According to officials at the Collectorate, following specific information, teams from Madurai and other cities arrived here and conducted search at the residence of Amaresan, Andipatti East Union Deputy Secretary. Officials said that he was part of the campaign team of the Andipatti Assembly constituency AIADMK candidate. Based on the confession, the officials seized Rs. 2.17 crore in cash, plenty of plain covers and voter lists from the residence. Whether it was intended for distribution to the voters was not known as the officials said that they were examining the suspects. Meanwhile, the flying squads conducted search operations in three other different locations in Andipatti on Friday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-raid-at-aiadmk-mans-residence/article34227902.ece
03 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 333 cases booked for poll code violation||So far, over 333 cases have been booked against political parties and candidates across the city for the violation of the model code of conduct since February 26, the police said. There were 452 instances of seizure of unaccounted cash and valuables by flying squads and static surveillance teams across the city. Money seizures were reported from 69 places on Thursday alone. So far, 1,799 licensees have surrendered their weapons. Ahead of the polls, 43 history-sheeters were arrested and lodged in prisons while 1,973 were bound over under the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code to keep the peace. On Thursday, special teams conducted vehicle checks at several places and seized Rs. 17.26 lakh in unaccounted cash and 1,000 sarees, which were being carried without any documents. The cash seizure was reported from the Nolambur, Nazarathpet and Thirumangalam police station limits. The sarees were seized in Thousand Lights, the police said. Meanwhile, DMK partymen caught a few AIADMK men, who were allegedly distributing money to voters in Kannagi Nagar on Friday. They were handed over to the election authorities for further action, said police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-333-cases-booked-for-poll-code-violation/article34228328.ece
03 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Reverting education to the State list is a priority||The demand for reverting education to the State list from the Concurrent list has echoed strongly in the manifestos of many parties this Assembly election. This comes against the backdrop of Tamil Nadu’s vociferous demand to exempt the State from NEET for medical admissions and its opposition to the BJP-led Central government’s National Education Policy (NEP 2020). Parties have argued that the NEP will further deprive the State of its rights on education. “The NEP has brought to the fore the demand for bringing education to the State list. It was the Tamil Nadu government that established Anna University, created infrastructure, provided salary for teachers and staff and continuously funded its development. But Tamil Nadu will not have any say in the appointment of the Vice-Chancellor [as per the NEP]. It is not acceptable,” argued A. Ramasamy, ex-vice chairman of the Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education, explaining the need to bring education to the State list. CPI(M) MP Su. Venkatesan, who has been speaking against the NEP, said in a vast country like India, every State had a different view and tradition on education, taking into consideration the socio-economic situation. Hence, it could not afford to have a national policy. “Education was in the State list and was shifted to the Concurrent list during the Emergency. Now the BJP government is seeking to bring it under its control. This is totally unacceptable. It will collapse the education system in the country,” he said. Professor Ramasamy, who was a member of the DMK’s manifesto drafting committee, said when the DMK was in power, it introduced the Tamil medium in engineering education, but this would be impossible now. “It says that the State government has nothing to do with education. There is a specific article in the policy that says the State can only fund universities,” he said. He also said the Centre had introduced NEET because education was in the Concurrent list. “Reverting education to the State list will give Tamil Nadu full control over medical education,” he said. The DMK has been fighting to bring back education to the State list, even before the NEP was introduced. “When I was the School Education Minister, I made a demand [on reversion] in the CABE committee meetings. We have been consistent in our demand. That is why we have said in our manifesto that we will create a State education policy,” said DMK leader Thangam Thennarasu. The DMK is also promising that it will get exemption from NEET for medical admissions in the State. Asked whether it is possible to exempt a State, Mr. Thennarasu says when the State is able to get permission for jallikattu, that can be done in the case of NEET. “We will adopt a resolution and send it for Presidential assent,” he said. Mr. Venkatesan said if a government had political will, it could certainly persuade the Centre to get exemption from NEET. “You should keep in mind that the first amendment in the Constitution for reservation was made because of the pressure exerted by the Tamil Nadu government,” he said. The AIADMK, too, has been batting for bringing education back to the State list. Minister MaFoi K. Pandiarajan, who has in the past held the School Education portfolio, said since the time the Congress “unilaterally changed” the subject to the Concurrent list, “there really has been no issue raised till the time the draft education policy was discussed in the CABE meeting, when I was the Education Minister.” He said, “We suggested 19 changes and it was the first time we articulated that we would revert education from the Concurrent to the State list.” Nonetheless, he said the BJP government would have tried to centralise everything, with a good intent to create “one nation one system”.  Reverting education to the State list will give Tamil Nadu full control over medical education A. Ramasamy Ex-vice chairman, Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reverting-education-to-the-state-list-is-a-priority/article34227874.ece
03 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N.’s daily COVID-19 case count crosses 3,000-mark||After five months, fresh COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu exceeded 3,000 on Friday. A total of 3,290 persons tested positive for COVID-19, taking the State’s overall tally to 8,92,780. The last time the State had recorded 3,000-plus cases (3,057 cases) was on October 23, 2020. The new high since then pushed the active caseload to 18,606, of which Chennai alone accounted for 7,161 cases. 1,000-plus cases Chennai, for the second consecutive day, reported 1,000-plus cases. A total of 1,188 persons tested positive and seven died in the city. While there were 280 COVID-19 cases in Chengalpattu, Coimbatore reported 277 cases. There were 183 cases in Tiruvallur, 120 in Thanjavur and 119 in Kancheepuram. Madurai and Tiruchi’s daily count crossed 100 after a number of months. While 122 persons tested positive for the infection in Tiruchi, 105 persons tested positive in Madurai. There were 78 cases in Tirunelveli, 75 in Tiruppur and 69 in Tiruvarur. Eight returnees were among those who tested positive for COVID-19 in the State — four from Andhra Pradesh and one each from Qatar, Assam, Jharkhand and Telangana.  Death toll The State recorded 12 more fatalities — eight in private hospitals and four in government hospitals. This took the toll to 12,750. All 12 of them had co-morbidities. This included a 77-year-old man from Tenkasi who had diabetes and was admitted to the Government Periyar Hospital in Mayiladuthurai on April 1 with complaints of fever for seven days. However, he died on the same day due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. Another 1,715 persons recovered across the State. This took the total number of recoveries till date to 8,61,424. A total of 86,066 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. Till date, 1,97,67,310 samples have been tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-covid-19-case-count-crosses-3000-mark/article34227856.ece
03 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Team formed to enforce COVID-19 protocols at airport||Officials have stepped up measures to ensure passengers at the airport wear masks compulsorily inside the terminal. A special team was formed recently to go around the terminal and insist that passengers keep their masks on at all times. A few days ago, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation issued a circular stating that airports must enhance surveillance and that they have been considering even levying fines on passengers to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The circular stated: “During the surveillance of some airports, it has come to our notice that compliance with COVID-19 safety protocols is not satisfactory. All airport operators, therefore, are requested to ensure that the instructions from the standpoint of wearing masks properly, covering the nose and mouth, as well as maintaining social distancing norms on the airport premises are followed scrupulously.” Recently, DGCA authorities also conducted an inspection to see if passengers were wearing masks. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said when passengers entered the terminal, the CISF personnel allowed them inside only if they were wearing masks. “But during check-in or when they get seated in the security hold area, many of them remove the masks but now with the new team in place the compliance is better. We are constantly pushing passengers to wear masks,” an official said. Sources said physical distancing was still not followed in the airport and there was crowding in some places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/team-to-enforce-covid-19-protocol-in-airport/article34227916.ece
03 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CEC discusses law and order situation in State with officials||Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan, Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo and senior officials participated in a video conference meeting with Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora on Friday to review the law and order situation in the State. Besides senior State government officials, police officers and Special Observer Alok Vardhan were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cec-discusses-law-and-order-situation-in-state-with-officials/article34228340.ece
03 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Another 60,726 given COVID-19 vaccines||As 60,726 more people were vaccinated against COVID-19 on Friday, the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine instructed all Deputy Directors of Health Services (DDHS), particularly in districts with high positivity rates and high doubling time, to ensure maximum vaccination to the eligible beneficiaries at the earliest. A total of 27,252 people aged between 45 and 59 years with co-morbidities, 21,695 senior citizens, 7,069 frontline workers and 4,710 healthcare workers received the COVID-19 vaccines. The total coverage stood at 31,75,349. The Directorate said as on date, a total of 4,316 COVID-19 Vaccination Centres (CVC), including 3,511 government centres and 805 private centres, were active in the State among the 8,500 enlisted. Problems in districts It was ascertained that a few districts had issues in the distribution of vaccines to the required vaccination centres, the circular said. In this light, all DDHS were instructed to ensure the availability of Covishield doses in all government COVID-19 vaccination centres and private vaccination centres according to their daily vaccination performance/three-day average. They should ensure the availability of Covaxin doses in government medical college hospitals, government hospitals, upgraded primary health centres and urban community health centres performing more than 50 Covaxin vaccinations a day, and in private hospitals and private medical college hospitals performing more than 100 Covaxin vaccinations a day, T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health, said in a circular. This was to ensure optimal utilisation of both Covishield and Covaxin vaccines in the State. There would be continuous replenishment of the vaccines based on the updates made in the portal regularly, the Directorate said. The DDHS were instructed to reduce vaccine wastage to less than 1% without compromising the vaccination drive in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/another-60726-given-covid-19-vaccines/article34228347.ece
03 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A contract to appease hunger||The Old Pallavaram Road, leading to the GST Road, has many small restaurants and hotels offering various mouth-watering fare, but what attracts people to the newly opened B.M. Restaurant is its tariff. For jusy Rs. 25, a customer can eat, to his fill, both vegetarian and non-vegetarian food. Owner S. Paulraj, 48, has a simple mantra: what one receives from society has to be given back in whatever way possible, and his way is providing quality food at an economical cost. Though the restaurant may not match the pricing of Amma Unavagam run by the State government, an individual offering unlimited food — that too non-vegetarian fare — at Rs. 25 has gone down well in the locality. A construction contractor, Mr. Paulraj has started the hotel on Duraikannu Road at Old Pallavaram with the sole aim of serving locals, whose livelihood has been blighted by the COVID-19 pandemic. The restaurant was inaugurated by social activist V. Santhanam recently. Customers have been visiting the restaurant in large numbers since it opened on February 24. Locals who know Mr. Paulraj point to his philanthropic activities even before he started the hotel. M. Krishnamoorthy, a resident of Old Pallavaram, says the contractor has been giving ‘annadhanam’ at his home to more than 20 persons daily for the past three years. He has also helped to fund the education of a few children. Mr. Paulraj says, “I am happy with the money I have earned. So I wanted to give something back to the people, and the best way is to give quality food at an affordable rate because these days people do not prefer anything free. The price covers the cost of running the restaurant.” The hotel functions from a rented place with two cooks. ‘Unlimited’ lunch is served for Rs. 25, he says, and based on the feedback, breakfast and dinner will be served soon.  I am happy with the money I have earned. So I wanted to give something back to the people, and the best way is to give quality food at an affordable rate S. Paulraj Owner, B.M. Restaurant||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-contract-to-appease-hunger/article34227868.ece
03 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||RGGGH doctors perform life-saving blood transfusion on foetus||Doctors of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) have performed an ultrasound-guided intrauterine cord blood transfusion to save a 36-week-old foetus with anaemia. It was a case of Rh (rhesus) incompatibility as the 26-year-old woman, who was in her second pregnancy, was Rh-negative and the foetus was Rh-positive. The woman delivered a baby weighing 2.37 kg on Thursday evening. According to E. Theranirajan, dean of RGGGH, the hospital was the first in the government sector to have performed the fetal therapy successfully. The woman was brought to the RGGGH’s Barnard Institute of Radiology from one of its affiliated institutions — Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology and Hospital for Women and Children, Egmore. A team headed by R. Ravi, Director of Barnard Institute of Radiology, performed the procedure on March 30. Clinical scenario “When a Rh-negative mother carries an Rh-positive foetus, the father being Rh positive, during the birth of the child, the Rh-antibodies will develop in the mother’s blood. During her subsequent pregnancy, if the foetus is Rh-positive, there is a possibility of Rh incompatibility, a clinical scenario where the mother’s Rh antibodies will destroy the blood cells of the foetus,” Dr. Theranirajan, who is a paediatrician and a neonatologist, said. Usually normal Usually, in patients with Rh-negative, the firstborn, even with an incompatible blood group, would invariably be normal, he said, adding: “The mother should be given anti-D immunoglobulin within 24 to 48 hours of delivery to prevent antibodies formation. If missed or delayed, the second baby with Rh positive is likely to be affected.” “If this foetal anaemia was not corrected, it could lead to fetal hydrops, fluid accumulation in the body resulting in cardiac failure. It was to prevent this that we performed intrauterine cord blood transfusion as fetal therapy,” Dr. Ravi said. In an ultrasound-guided procedure, doctors did an intrauterine blood transfusion into the umbilical cord of the Rh-positive anaemic foetus. The blood bank doctors arranged for O-negative fresh blood, checked for compatibility, irradiated it for leukocyte removal and transfused it in record time. Under the guidance of a visiting consultant, they transfused 80 ml of blood to the foetus and raised the haemoglobin level, doctors also said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-in-rgggh-perform-life-saving-blood-transfusion-on-foetus/article34228338.ece
03 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fire safety workshops held in COVID-19 Care Centres and hospitals across the city||Following fire accidents in temporary care centres and hospitals treating COVID-19 patients in different parts of the country, the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS) conducted a workshop for hospitals in the city on Thursday. “Most of the accidents in temporary care centres in places, including Mumbai, Vijawada and Rajkot, happened early in the morning or late at night when there was no one to notice the fire. This led to many deaths. Hence, we wanted to educate the hospitals in Chennai about preventing such accidents,” a senior TNFRS officer said. Security officers from 80 hospitals took part in the workshop. TNFRS DGP C. Sylendra Babu, Additional Director (Operations), TNFRS, S. Vijayasekhar and Joint Director, TNFRS, northern region, Priya Ravichandran took part in the event. Mr. Sylendra Babu spoke on the importance of maintaining fire safety systems in hospitals. He also laid stress on the importance of carrying out fire audits and training security personnel in handling the situation in case of fire accidents. “Since the COVID-19 patients may already suffer from lung problems, smoke from accidents can lead to asphyxiation. So it is important to have fire detection systems in place. As such mishaps have occurred during night or early morning hours, trained people should be available round the clock to help shift patients to safety and inform the TNFRS,” Mr. Babu said. A senior TNFRS officer said they had conducted fire safety audits in hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-safety-workshops-held-in-covid-19-care-centres-and-hospitals-across-the-city/article34228334.ece
03 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Take measures in view of rise in COVID-19 cases’||Noting the exponential rise in COVID-19 cases on a week to week basis, the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine has instructed all Deputy Directors of Health Services (DDHS) and the City Health Officer of the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) to ensure that public and private health facilities are equipped, guidelines are strictly enforced and that the contact tracing exercise is done within 72 hours of diagnosis. In a circular issued to the officials on April 2, Director of Public Health (DPH) T.S. Selvavinayagam said as per the daily reports collected from districts by the State emergency operations control rooms, cases were rising exponentially on a week to week basis. From 9,066 cases last week, cases had risen to 15,233 this week Though cases were continuously rising throughout the country, the rate of growth of positive cases was higher than the earlier surge, he said. Preventive measures Cases were increasing not only in urban areas but also in tier-2 cities and rural areas, Mr. Selvavinayagam said. Unlike the initial stage of the pandemic, the control and preventive measures were known to everyone and vaccines were also available. But reluctance in following the same and laxity may lead to a worse scenario than the earlier stage, he added. Reiterating the guidelines, he said the waiting time for test results should be reduced to less than 24 hours and all possible contacts of positive patients should be traced at the rate of 25 to 30 per positive case. As far as the isolation of patients were concerned, he said home isolation should be permitted and should be regularly monitored by designated officials. Patients in home isolation or COVID-19 Care Centres should be immediately transferred to COVID-19 hospitals if the symptoms aggravate, Mr. Selvavinayagam said. Adequate number of functional ambulance services should also be ensured, he added. Number of beds Mr. Selvavinayagam said the number of beds, oxygen beds and ventilator/intensive care unit beds should be increased by forecasting the requirement. The increase in cases would proportionally increase the number of deaths in the coming days, he added. Irrespective of variants, the effective way to prevent the infection was to follow COVID-19-appropriate behaviour, including wearing masks, maintaining a physical distance of 6 feet and maintaining hand hygiene. Special focus should be given to high risk areas such as market places, religious places, cultural congregations and election campaigns, he said.  Though COVID-19 cases were rising throughout the country, the rate of growth of positive cases was higher than the earlier surge  T.S. Selvavinayagam Director of Public Health||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-measures-in-view-of-rise-in-covid-19-cases/article34228349.ece
03 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK presents list of achievements of State government||The AIADMK on Thursday cautioned the people of the State that if the DMK gets elected to power, the State would witness “kangaroo panchayat, land grab, lack of safety for women, deterioration of law and order, all-pervasive corruption and irregularities in administration”. ‘DMK desperate’ In a statement, O. Panneerselvam, Deputy Chief Minister and coordinator of the party, and Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Chief Minister and co-coordinator, recalled how the DMK legislators “indulged in violence” on the day a trust vote was adopted in February 2017. “The DMK members, who do not respect the conventions of the Assembly, are desperate to capture power,” they said. 41-point list The two leaders presented a 41-point list of achievements of the current government in the last four years and urged the people of the State to vote for their party to ensure that such achievements were sustained, and the State remained peaceful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-presents-list-of-achievements-of-state-government/article34228357.ece
03 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Heatwave grips several interior areas of State||A heatwave gripped several north and interior areas of the State and soaring mercury levels broke records in places like Chennai. However, there may be a slight respite from the searing heat, particularly in the north coastal region from April 4, according to the Meteorological Department. On Wednesday, many weather stations in and around Chennai and interior districts, such as Dharmapuri and Karur, breached the 40-degree mark even before noon. Nungambakkam recorded its highest temperature for the year as the mercury level climbed several notches above normal. Only two days into April, the city sizzled under blistering heat as it experienced a maximum temperature of 41.2 degree Celsius, which is 7.4 degree Celsius above the average temperature. The mercury level peaked in suburban areas in Meenambakkam and West Tambaram (41.8 degree Celsius), Madhavaram (41.1 degree Celsius) and Tiruvallur (41 degree Celsius). Officials of the Meteorological Department said Vellore recorded the highest temperature in the State with 43.4 degree Celsius. Severe heatwave conditions swept through interior places as Salem, Tiruchi, Madurai and Tiruttani registered a maximum temperature above 42 degree Celsius. The Meteorological Department predicted that the heatwave conditions would prevail over pockets of 27 districts across the State and Puducherry till Sunday. The number of districts that will experience blistering heat may reduce from April 4. Moreover, light rain with thunderstorms is possible in isolated pockets of interior districts following convective activity till April 6. On Wednesday, a few places like Kamakshipuram in Dindigul district received 3 cm of rain. Rare occurrence S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said such prolonged heat waves had not occurred in the recent past, wherein the day temperature escalated by seven degree Celsius in some places. Multiple factors, including dry, hot land winds, clear skies, moisture-less conditions and direct sunshine, led to intense heat over the State as early as April. “Weather models are indicating a decreasing trend in heat after Sunday as change in wind direction to cool easterlies is likely. A gradual decrease is expected in day temperature, particularly in the north coastal areas,” he said. The weather system near the Andaman Islands had disturbed the wind pattern and prevented easterly winds to the region. This was also one of the reasons for the searing heat, officials noted. As it was expected to become a deep depression and move towards the Myanmar coast, the wind direction over the State could change and bring some respite from soaring temperatures. The Meteorological Department said the maximum temperature would hover around 40 degree Celsius till Sunday in Chennai. It warned people, particularly farmers, electoral candidates and voters, to avoid being outdoors between noon and 4 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heatwave-grips-north-and-interior-areas-of-state/article34227846.ece
03 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ballot centres for polling personnel announced||The Chennai District Election Office has announced the list of facilitation centres for postal ballots of polling personnel in the 16 Assembly constituencies of the district. According to a press release, arrangements have been made for voting at the facilitation centres from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday. The following are the centres for each constituency: Dr. Radhakrishnan Nagar — Government Polytechnic College, No. 198/96, Kamaraj Colony Salai, Tondiarpet; Perambur — Dr. Ambedkar Government Arts College, No. 45, Erukkencheri High Road; Kolathur — Chennai Higher Secondary School, Bander Garden Street, Perambur; Villivakkam — ICF Higher Secondary School, ICF Colony; Thiru Vi Ka Nagar — Chennai Girls Higher Secondary School, No. 2A, School Road, Madhavaram High Road, Perambur; Egmore — Chennai Girls Higher Secondary School, No. 3, Rotler Street; Royapuram — St. Peter Higher Secondary School, No. 18, West Madha Church Road, Royapuram; Harbour — Government Women’s Bharathi Arts College, No. 1, Prakasam Salai, Broadway; Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni — N.K. Thirumalai Aachariyar National Girls Higher Secondary School, No. 21, Dr. Besant Road, Triplicane; Thousand Lights — Chennai Girls Higher Secondary School, No. 21, Rajaji North Street, Nungambakkam; Anna Nagar — D.G. Vaishnav College, P.H. Road, Arumbakkam; Virugambakkam — Meenakshi Engineering College, No. 12, Vembuli Amman Koil Street, K.K. Nagar West; Saidapet — Nandanam Government Arts College, No.329, Anna Salai, Nandanam; T. Nagar — Chennai Higher Secondary School, No. 240, Arcot Road, Trustpuram, Kodambakkam; Mylapore — Rani Meyyammai Girls Higher Secondary School, R.K. Mutt Road, Mandaveli; Velachery — Chennai Primary School and Chennai Higher Secondary School, Bharathidasan Street, Thiruvanmiyur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ballot-centres-for-polling-personnel-announced/article34228337.ece
03 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EPFO gives pension orders||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) gave away pension payment orders to retiring employees of Indian Oil Corporation Ltd., Bharat Heavy Electricals and Ashok Leyland as part of PRAYAAS scheme on Thursday. The orders were given to the retiring employees by Sudhir Kumar Jaiswal, Regional PF Commissioner-II (pension), regional office, Chennai north, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/epfo-gives-pension-orders/article34228341.ece
03 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prefer farmer to proprietors: Anbumani||PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss on Friday urged voters to choose Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami who, according to him, is a “farmer” and not “proprietors” sitting inside air-conditioned rooms. Canvassing votes for AIADMK Minister and Arni candidate Sevoor S. Ramachandran, he said DMK leader M.K. Stalin had no connection with farming and farmers, unlike Mr. Palaniswami who can drive a tractor himself and is an approachable person. “It is my political goal to develop all backward communities,” the PMK leader said. The statement was made against the backdrop of the 10.5% internal reservation granted for Vanniyars within the MBC quota. Criticising Mr. Stalin’s performance as Opposition leader, he claimed the former did not know why he was staging walkouts from the Assembly. He claimed that the Tamil women had decided to reject the DMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prefer-farmer-to-proprietors-anbumani/article34228353.ece
03 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||World Autism Day observed at Stanley||On World Autism Awareness Day, 40 children with the autism spectrum disorder took part in fancy dress, painting, singing and other competitions organised by the Institute of Social Paediatrics, Government Stanley Medical College Hospital. According to a press release, World Autism Awareness Day, observed on April 2 every year, was dedicated to children on the autism spectrum. The 40 children have been undergoing treatment at the hospital since September 2020. The competitions were held for the children to exhibit skills they had learned. Prizes were distributed to all participants. Speech therapy, specialised sensory integration therapy and occupational therapy were all provided at the District Early Intervention Centre of the institute. The centre functions from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on all days. Parents of the children narrated their experiences on how early intervention and therapy helped the children. J. Ganesh, Director (in-charge), Institute of Social Paediatrics, said autism should be detected early and identified within two years of age to achieve remarkable improvement. Hospital Dean P. Balaji was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/world-autism-day-observed-at-stanley/article34228331.ece
03 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,500 police personnel cast their postal votes||As many as 1,557 police personnel attached to the Coimbatore City and Rural police divisions cast their postal votes on Friday. A release from the district administration said of the 2,953 personnel who were eligible to cast postal ballots, 847 voted at the C.S.I. Higher Secondary School, 247 at the P.R.S. ground, 252 at Aishwarya Wedding Hall in Mettupalayam, and 209 at the Nagarathar Mandapam in Pollachi. The administration said that to enable the personnel exercise their franchise it had established four places – C.S.I. Hr. Sec. School for City police personnel with votes in Mettupalayam, Sulur, Kavundampalayam, Coimbatore North, Thondamuthur, Coimbatore South, Singanallur, Kinathukadavu, Pollachi and Valparai constituencies, P.R.S. ground for personnel attached to the Rural Police division with votes in Sulur, Coimbatore North, Thondamuthur, Coimbatore South, Singanallur and Kindathukadavu, Aishwarya Wedding Hall for Rural personnel with vote in Mettupalayam and Kavundampalayam and the Nagarathar Mandapam for the Rural personnel with vote in Pollachi and Valparai. The administration had also said that they would be allowed to vote from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. The vote recorded on Friday worked out to 52.72%, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-1500-police-personnel-cast-their-postal-votes/article34228366.ece
03 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Yarn price expected to stabilise||Prices of cotton yarn, which were on an upward trend since December, are expected to remain stable in the coming weeks. Chairman of Southern India Mills’ Association Ashwin Chandran told The Hindu on Thursday that following a recent virtual meeting of the textile mill associations from across the country, the associations have urged their members to keep the prices stable this month due to concerns among industries in the value addition segment. Prices of cotton was about Rs. 34,500 a candy in August last year and Rs. 46,000 now. Prices of hosiery yarn was Rs. 215 a kg in August last year and Rs. 291 now. The hosiery yarn requirement of Tiruppur garment units are mostly (75 % to 80 %) met by the textile mills in Tamil Nadu. The mills are operating at 85 % to 90 % capacity as against the normal of 93 % to 95 %. This is because of labour shortage and to some extent working capital crunch. Mr. Chandran said that with gradual decline in export orders and domestic demand, textile mills in the country were facing several challenges since 2015. Many mills had closed down, too. The problems aggravated during lockdown last year. However, demand starting reviving in August for select products and picked up for all products. With an unexpected surge in requirement for yarn, the mills were unable to increase production suddenly. Hence, there were problems in supply to the customers. Prices also went up because of higher cotton prices. “There was a pent up demand and inventory filling happened at every level. There were logistics-related challenges too. Hence, there was a demand-supply mismatch for a couple of months,” explained Mr. Chandran. “Things should normalise now,” he said. However, Indian yarn prices continue to be lower than international prices. Hence, the end product manufacturers should talk to their customers for higher price realisations, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/yarn-price-expected-to-stabilise/article34227912.ece
03 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Wind energy generation likely to have early start||Wind energy generation, which usually picks up in the State in the month of May, is likely to have an early start this year. Peak season According to chairman of Indian Wind Power Association, K. Kasthurirangaian, winds for the peak windy season pick up in May every year. This year, the winds were good on March 31 and April 1, indicating that south-west high winds are starting early. Tamil Nadu has installed wind energy capacity of 9,300 MW. Last year, the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) evacuated 10,812 million units, which is 2 % o 3 % more than the previous year, he said. So, this year too, the wind energy producers are hopeful of good wind energy generation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wind-energy-generation-likely-to-have-early-start/article34227911.ece
03 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Karnataka politicians campaign in Coimbatore||Two Karnataka politicians belonging to opposite camps were here on Friday to campaign for their respective party candidates in Coimbatore South Assembly constituency. Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha and Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge campaigned for his party candidate Mayura S. Jayakumar, and BJP youth wing president and Bengaluru South MP L.S. Tejasvi Surya campaigned for part candidate Vanathi Srinivasan. Mr. Kharge told journalists that voters in Tamil Nadu should reject the AIADMK-BJP coalition and not allow the BJP to enter the State. The party was bad not just for Tamil Nadu, but also for entire South India. Presenting a long list of achievements of the UPA government under Manmohan Singh, he said it was unfair of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ask what the Congress had done for the country’s development in the last 70 years. BJP leader Mr. Surya said Mr. Kharge, who could not win the Kalaburagi (Gulbarga) seat, had no right to comment on the BJP in Tamil Nadu. Congress as an idea, a party and leadership had lost relevance. In Tamil Nadu, the BJP would win a good number of seats, enter the Assembly and work towards freeing temples from government control, as mentioned in the party manifesto, he said. But the fight in Tamil Nadu was not just political, but also ideological as it wanted to put an end to ‘Periyar-ism’. Mr. Surya said it was only natural that a dynast like Udhayanidhi Stalin would talk ill of former BJP leaders Sushma Swaraj, Arun Jaitley and cricketer Saurav Ganguly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karnataka-politicians-campaign-in-coimbatore/article34227913.ece
03 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK candidate booked||The Coimbatore District Crime Branch police on Thursday registered a case against AIADMK candidate for Kavundampalayam Assembly constituency P.R.G. Arunkumar on charges of making false statements against the DMK candidate Paiya Gounder aka R. Krishnan. The AIADMK candidate was booked under Section 171 G (False statement in connection with an election) of the Indian Penal Code, based on a complaint lodged by V. Arulkumar, district organiser of DMK’s legal department, said police sources. The complainant alleged that Mr. Arunkumar and other AIADMK functionaries spread unsubstantiated and false allegations against Mr. Krishnan on social media platforms. Transferred Coimbatore City Police on Friday transferred seven Intelligence Section (IS) personnel, attached to seven police stations, to the City Armed Reserve as a disciplinary action. Police sources said that the Commissioner of Police, S. Davidson Devasirvatham, ordered the transfers of the seven IS personnel attached to Bazaar Street, R.S. Puram, Saravanampatti, Podanur, Kuniamuthur, Race Course and Singanallur police stations following adverse inputs regarding their conduct. While confirming that some of the transferred personnel received bribes in connection with the upcoming election, the police sources refused to elaborate on the specific reasons behind the transfer. Teenagers drown Two teenagers drowned while bathing in a water body near Vadavalli on Friday. Police said that Santhosh (17) and Vishnu (15) went for a bath in the water body along with their friends on Friday and drowned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-candidate-booked/article34227919.ece
03 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Over Rs. 50 lakh seized||Static surveillance teams and flying squads in six of the 10 Assembly constituencies in the district on Friday seized Rs. 57.89 lakh and liquor worth Rs. 69,088. A release from the district administration said teams seized Rs. 2.26 lakh in Mettupalayam Assembly constituency, Rs. 52 lakh in Thondamuthur, Rs. 1 lakh in Coimbatore South, Rs. 65,500 in Kinathukadavu , Rs. 80,000 in Pollachi and Rs. 1.18 lakh in Valparai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-rs-50-lakh-seized/article34227920.ece
03 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Congress leader bats for candidate using son-of-the-soil card||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagri said the party’s candidate for the Coimbatore South constituency Mayura S. Jayakumar was more qualified than the Bharatiya Janata Party and Makkal Needhi Maiam candidates, because he was a son of the soil. “The other two are not from this city. Where were they when the COVID-19 pandemic struck? It was Mr. Jayakumar who helped people,” he said while addressing a public meeting here on Friday. ‘Sign of frustration’ Mr. Alagiri said the opposition to the Congress in the constituency was tired of having to stand up to fight the party. That was the reason they had resorted to throwing stones. This was a sign of frustration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-leader-bats-for-candidate-using-son-of-the-soil-card/article34228363.ece
03 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Message||V.S. Palaniappan   Mobile phone users will have to endure yet another intrusion for the next six days. Election candidates have collected data of mobile users in their constituency and have started sending WhatsApp messages and SMS appeals, seeking votes. It is said that candidates from the three prominent fronts are sending pre-recorded messages seeking votes, once in 36 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/message/article34227879.ece
03 April 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Three-cornered stiff contest in Panruti||The Panruti Assembly constituency, a known stronghold of the Dravidian parties, where both seem to be on an equal footing with the electorate, is all set for a stiff three-cornered battle, with resentment over the selection of a candidate by the AIADMK kicking up a lot of dust. In 2016, Satya Panneerselvam of the AIADMK won the seat by defeating her nearest rival, Ponkumar of the DMK, by a margin of 3,128 votes. T. Velmurugan, president of the Tamizhaga Vazhvurimai Katchi (TVK), who won the seat on a Paattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) ticket in the 2001 and 2006 election, is now contesting on the DMK symbol. The AIADMK has fielded Sorathur Rajendran, who lost the seat in the 2006 election by a slender margin of 148 votes. The Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) has fielded former MLA P. Sivakolunthu, who won the seat in the 2011 election. The DMK-led front is pulling out all the stops to recapture Panruti, especially after its humiliating defeat in the 2016 election. Mr. Velmurugan won his first electoral battle in 2001, defeating V. Ramasamy of the DMK by a margin of 5,048 votes. Though Mr. Velmurugan retained the seat in 2006, the margin reduced to 148 votes. His rival, Mr. Rajendran, is also a familiar figure and belongs to the same community. He is banking on the PMK’s sizeable vote bank. The AIADMK high command’s decision to deny a ticket to the sitting MLA fuelled concerns about vengeful cross-voting in the segment. Mr. Sivakolundhu of the DMDK, an erstwhile ally of the AIADMK front, could have a bearing on the fate of the AIADMK by taking away a portion of the traditional votes. Panruti is the State’s cashew hub. For long, farmers have been demanding a cluster for cashews and cold storage. Mr. Velmurugan said he would pursue the idea of setting up units for producing feni (beverage extracted from cashew nuts) and jackfruit pulp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-cornered-stiff-contest-in-panruti/article34228566.ece
03 April 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Residents welcome halt of Tejas Express in Dindigul||Welcoming the stoppage of Tejas Express, plying between Chennai Egmore and Madurai, in Dindigul for two minutes, with effect from Friday, the rail users and traders expressed happiness and thanked the Railways. The superfast express, which leaves Madurai at 3 p.m., stopps at Kodaikanal Road railway station, and reaches Chennai Egmore at about 9.30 p.m. In the return direction, the train leaves Egmore at 6 a.m. and reaches Madurai around 12.30 p.m. From the day the train was inaugurated, commuters in Dindigul had appealed to the railway administration to consider stopping the train at Dindigul instead of Kodaikanal Road junction. Following an appeal from different stakeholders including the merchant community and the elected representatives, the railway administration had approved the change recently. As the train chugged into the station on Friday, the traders association welcomed it with traditional nagaswaram and offered sweets to the loco pilot and the passengers, who alighted here from Chennai. The train arrived here at 11.30 a.m. and left at 11.32 a.m. In the return direction, the Tejas reached here from Madurai at 3.45 p.m and left by 3.47 p.m. to Chennai Egmore, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-welcome-halt-of-tejas-express-in-dindigul/article34227910.ece
03 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||People hail welfare schemes of AIADMK government, says Vasan||Tamil Manila Congress (TMC) president G.K. Vasan said here on Friday that people welcomed the welfare schemes of the AIADMK government and believed in the party’s election manifesto, whereas they were not ready to believe in the DMK’s manifesto. The TMC leader told mediapersons that people benefited from the schemes implemented by the State government in the last 10 years, which did not happen during the DMK regime. The State government had implemented various schemes for the welfare of the farmers, which others had not done in the past. “Mr. Palaniswami is the Chief Minister of the agrarian sector and hence farmers are supporting him”, he said. Taking a dig at the DMK, Mr. Vasan said that the party gave false promises during the Parliamentary elections in 2019. “People have not forgotten it”, he said, adding that the DMK’s manifesto was like entering a river on a clay-horse. Though the price of fuel and cooking gas was a concern for the people, he said price rise was only temporary and that the price of fuel had dropped in the past three days. Later, Mr. Vasan campaigned for party candidate M. Yuvaraja, who is contesting in Erode (East) Assembly constituency, and for the AIADMK’s K.V. Ramalingam in Erode (West) Assembly constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-hail-welfare-schemes-of-aiadmk-government-says-vasan/article34227891.ece
03 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers seek water release into Kalingarayan Canal||With turmeric harvesting in its final leg, farmers in Modakkurichi block wanted water to be released into the Kalingarayan Canal for a week. Water from the canal helps in irrigating 15,743 acres in the blocks of Erode, Modakkurichi and Kodumudi. Paddy, turmeric and plantation is cultivated in ayacut areas under the canal that runs for 90.5 km. Discharge of water from the Bhavanisagar Dam to the canal for the current season was stopped on March 23. However, farmers in many villages in the block said that they are in the final leg of harvesting turmeric which needs adequate water. They said that due to intense heat, water requirement for the turmeric crop has gone up and only watering the crop, harvesting could be completed. They urged the district administration to release water for another one week so that they could complete the harvest. They said that adequate water is available in the Bhavanisagar Dam. They said that they had made a representation to the Collector seeking water release and expect a positive response at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-seek-water-release-into-kalingarayan-canal/article34227932.ece
03 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Kannada||S.P. Saravanan   Reaching out to 40,000-plus Kannada-speaking voters in the hilly areas of Talavadi and Hasanur and the remote hamlets in the Bhavanisagar Assembly constituency is always a challenge for contestants. The Talavadi block borders Karnataka and most people in the villages speak Kannada. Hence, candidates leave no stone unturned by distributing pamphlets printed in both Tamil and Kannada, and deploying local people for campaigning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kannada/article34227876.ece
03 April 2021||Jayamkondam/CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||DMK will not be cowed down by IT raids: Stalin||The DMK will not be cowed down by the Income Tax Department’s searches (at the residences of his family members and party leaders) and the more such raids are conducted, the more will be the party’s resurgence, president M.K. Stalin said at Jayamkondam on Friday. People would give a fitting reply to such actions in the April 6 election, he said, pointing out that the raids came days ahead of polling and in the wake of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Madurai. The BJP, which is protecting the AIADMK government, is trying to intimidate the DMK for fear of losing the election, he said, campaigning for his party candidates for Ariyalur and Perambalur. “I just heard on my way that 30 I-T officials, with the protection of over 100 police personnel, are conducting a raid at my daughter Senthamarai’s house [in Chennai]. I wish to convey to Mr. Modi that this is the DMK. I have faced even the MISA and Emergency. I will not be cowed before such threats,” he said. Mr. Stalin said the DMK had always been at the forefront of upholding social justice, providing reservation to the Backward and Most Backward Classes, the minorities and the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. The AIADMK-BJP combine, on the other hand, was against social justice, he said. The DMK president said he was reminded of Anitha, “who sacrificed her life for her educational right,” whenever he visited the Ariyalur region. He had established an Anitha Achievers Academy in his Kolathur constituency to help unemployed women find jobs. Such academies would be opened in all districts, once the DMK was voted to power, he said. Campaigning at Vadalur for the DMK candidates in Cuddalore, Bhuvanagiri and Kurunjipadi, he touched upon the raids again and said the BJP-AIADMK combine was unable to digest the findings of the opinion polls that had predicted a landslide for the DMK. “The BJP is hoping for at least five seats. But this [Tamil Nadu] is the land of Periyar, Anna and Karunanidhi, and the BJP will not be able to win even one seat,” he said. He called upon the voters to ensure that not a single AIADMK candidate won. “Even if one of them wins, he will act like a BJP MLA.” He also questioned Mr. Modi for not speaking out against the Pollachi sexual assault case. “On returning to power, the DMK will bring all those involved in the case to book,” he said. By accepting the three farm laws and protecting the accused in the Pollachi case, the AIADMK government had betrayed the people, he said. If voted in, the DMK would pass a resolution in the Assembly, seeking the withdrawal of the new farm laws.  I just heard on my way that 30 I-T officials, with the protection of over 100 police personnel, are conducting a raid at my daughter Senthamarai’s house [in Chennai]||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-will-not-be-cowed-down-by-it-raids-stalin/article34227889.ece
03 April 2021||Kanniyakumari,TAMIL NADU||NDA is keen on industrial, infrastructure development: Modi||While the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is keen on holistic infrastructure and industrial development of the nation, the nepotism-ridden United Progressive Alliance (UPA) is for dynasty rule for the benefit of their children and their grandchildren, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in Kanniyakumari on Friday. Addressing an election campaign meeting, Mr. Modi said the NDA government which had planned to create Kanniyakumari – Mumbai Industrial Corridor, had allocated over Rs. 1 lakh crore for infrastructure development in Tamil Nadu. The prime objective of the NDA government was a prosperous farming sector, a bubbling industrial sector, animated small and marginal businesses, well-developed coastal sector and fishing industry by designing appropriate policies. Locally made products would be given opportunities for selling the products in global markets with GI tag. He said the NDA Government, besides resurrecting lost assets like Rameswaram to Dhanushkodi railway track, that was destroyed in the 1964 cyclone, was creating, new infrastructure through out of the box solutions for better rail connectivity with the island by building a new bridge at Pamban. Since Kanniyakumari has a sizeable fishermen living in more than 45 coastal hamlets from Arockiyapuram to Neerodi, whose votes played crucial role in trouncing the BJP candidate during the 2019 general elections, Mr. Modi said his government would create new fishing harbours, fish landing centres, give due financial allocation for buying new mechanised boats with better navigation and communication gadgets. “Moreover, we will ensure better connectivity between fishing harbours and the hinter land so as to enable the fishermen to reach their markets for getting a better price,” he said. The Prime Minister said new ports would be developed besides modernising existing seaports with most-modern facilities for better cargo handling. However, he did not elaborate if he was referring to the Kanyakumari International Container Transhipment Terminal, which was being strongly opposed by locals. The terminal remains a poll issue. Coming down heavily on the UPA and its allies, especially the DMK, Mr. Modi said the senior leaders of the Dravidian party, who had worked shoulder-to-shoulder with late M. Karunanidhi, had to work with the ‘Crown Prince’ of the party as the party was keen on dynasty rule. He chided the Congress, heading the UPA, of having dismissed both the AIADMK and the DMK governments in the past using Article 356 of the Constitution. “It’s quite undemocratic without understanding the local sentiments,” he said. As Kanniyakumari has a sizeable Christian population and it being a Good Friday, Mr. Modi recalled the sacrifices and services of Jesus Christ for the poor even as the crowd received it with wild cheers. “We are for Indians and not for any particular caste or religion. We rescued the nurses abducted in Iraq. We rescued Rev. Fr. Alexis Premkumar from his abductors in Afghanistan and Rev. Fr. Tom from his abductors in Yemen. When I personally called Fr. Alexis’s sister to inform her that he was safe even after being a hostage for 18 months, she could not believe it. We don’t treat people based on their faith or religion,” Mr Modi contended. “After the NDA came to power, no fisherman is in the custody of Sri Lanka. We ensured the release of 40 fishermen with their four boats as we treat everyone as Indians,” said Mr. Modi. The same spirit enabled his government to ensure the safe repatriation of several lakh Indians under the ‘Vande Bharat’ programme floated for evacuating the stranded Indians from various countries in the wake of COVID-19 crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nda-is-for-indias-industrial-development/article34227899.ece
03 April 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||New Collector takes charge||The new Collector for Karur district, Prashant M Wadnere, assumed office on Friday. Former Collector S. Malarvizhi has been posted as Joint Director of Tangedco, a non-election post, under the instructions of Election Commission of India. Mr. Prashant had earlier served as Collector of Tiruvannamalai, Cuddalore and Kanniyakumari districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-collector-takes-charge/article34227857.ece
03 April 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||DMK looks to retain Krishnagiri||For a constituency housing the district headquarters, lack of rail connectivity or a railway station is a gnawing issue. Krishnagiri also happens to be the only district headquarters in the State that does not have a railway station or direct rail connectivity. The location of the NHAI Krishnagiri toll plaza is another festering issue here given its location barely a couple of hundred meters to the Collectorate, thereby extracting toll charges from vehicles visiting the Collectorate. Badethalavu irrigation project proposing to interlink lakes to harvest run off from River Thenpennai has been long standing demand of farmers, but the project has been a non-starter. The constituency is known for its mango cultivation and is dependent on the pulp industries. However, farmers have been demanding competitive pricing from the pulp industry through tripartite talks. Krishnagiri constituency has alternated between the AIADMK and the DMK each term since 1989. The AIADMK had retained the constituency under its grip for three successive terms in 1977, 1980 and 1984. Since then, the two parties have wrested the seat from each other each election. The DMK has fielded incumbent T.Senguttuvan, who had held the Assembly seat once before in 2006, and is well versed with the constituency. The constituency includes a significant vote bank of Vanniyars, Dalits, Chettiars, Kongu Vellalars and Muslims. The town with a significant Muslim population has consistently voted for the DMK, and is expected to do so this time too, especially with the AIADMK aligning with the BJP. The AIMIM under the AMMK alliance has fielded its own candidate banking on the Muslim vote bank. However, the votes split by the Muslim party is anticipated to be negligible to impact the vote share of the DMK from the Muslim community. As the AIADMK candidate and former Krishnagiri MP K. Ashok Kumar is absent from the campaign turf due to ill health and hospitalisation, the DMK is cashing in on this absence. Even as there are talks of the AIADMK attempting to woo the Kongu Vellalar voters in the constituency, the caste factor is likely to impact since the DMK’s Senguttuvan is a Kongu Vellalar himself. This aside, the Congress too has a strong following in Krishnagiri that the DMK will dip into.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-looks-to-retain-krishnagiri/article34227928.ece
03 April 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Campaign heats up in Krishnagiri||With barely 48 hours left for campaigning to come to an end, political parties are pulling all stops to make the most of the final two days left to convince the voters on who to vote. The DMK’s Krishnagiri candidate T. Senguttuvan and party cadres visited a mosque and canvassed the votes of Muslims. On the other hand, the Social Democratic Party of India that has aligned with the AMMK, campaigned for the All India Majlis Ittehadul Muslimeen candidate fielded under the AMMK alliance in the constituency. The SDPI cadres were also seen visiting the mosques after the Friday prayers. With the Assembly election seen as a make or break for the leading alliances after a 10-year term of the incumbent government, the cadres of two main political alliances are see campaigning with an unseen vigour in the face of the soaring mercury levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campaign-heats-up-in-krishnagiri/article34227930.ece
03 April 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Snap||P.V. Srividya   In contrast to the histrionics of candidates on the campaign trail, former Minister K.P. Munusamy lost his temper with a man who posed questions to him about the role of the Forest Depart-ment in handling elephants entering human settlements in Vepanapalli. He snapped, saying: “Vote if you want to!” It triggered questions from a section of the audience, forcing the Minister to backtrack, saying he was a man “with impeccable record for integrity in public life.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/snap/article34227885.ece
03 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC grants anticipatory bail to AMMK functionary||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has granted anticipatory bail to an AMMK functionary who is said to have instigated his party members to burst crackers near the vehicle of the Information Minister Kadambur C. Raju of the AIADMK, during an election campaign in Kovilpatti. Justice M. Nirmal Kumar granted anticipatory bail with conditions to S.V.S.P. Manickaraja, AMMK’s election wing secretary and also the south zone coordinator who apprehended arrest by the Thoothukudi police. The petitioner denied the allegations that he had instigated his party members to burst crackers. It was an accident, he claimed. It was said that the petitioner had also passed certain remarks against the Minister after the incident. The petitioner submitted an undertaking to the court that he would not use abusive language against political opponents or any other members in any manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-ammk-functionary/article34227908.ece
03 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Shorn of spotlight, Rohini campaigns for CPI(M)||In the Dravidian heartland, where politics and cinema are intertwined, it is common to find filmstars campaigning for the Dravidian parties or even the BJP and the Congress. However, rarely does one come across a well-known actor, director and dubbing artiste of south Indian cinema work on the ground like a foot soldier of the Communist Party of India (Marxist). Rohini Molleti, a familiar star, does not carry any vanity ubiquitous in the film world; she presents herself as a home-maker next door and easily mingles with the crowd. ‘Wrong policies’ In her mellifluous voice, she terms the AIADMK government “anti-people and anti-poor” and lists its failures. “The AIADMK government has been silently allowing the BJP’s wrong policies like NEET, the New Education Policy and the farm laws. That’s why it is an anti-people government,” she told The Hindu on Friday. Associated with the Tamil Nadu Progressive Writers and Artists Association for a decade, she had first campaigned for its president Su. Venkatesan of the CPI(M) during the 2019 Lok Sabha election. The BJP, which does not have its own vote base in many southern States, is trying to build one in Tamil Nadu by bringing people from north India. “It is blatantly announcing that it will build houses for them in our State. Is it not with an ulterior motive?” she asked. The Tamil Nadu people were yet to understand this conspiracy, Ms. Rohini said, adding that she wanted to use the spotlight on her to create awareness among the masses of the imminent threat. “When leaders from our parties are not interfering in elections in other States, why are so many BJP leaders and Chief Ministers coming here?” she asked. She took exception to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s comment that women would not be safe under a government of the Secular Progressive Alliance. “Why is he not talking about the Hathras incident?” she said. Ms. Rohini, who is able to connect easily with the rural masses, especially women, said she was able to gauge public anger at the increase in the prices of essential commodities. ‘Evil designs’ “Though the rural people are not able to see the evil designs of the government at the Centre, they are indeed deeply hurt by the increase in the prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas, and increasing unemployment. Every house has got one or two youngsters without a job. This is definitely going to force them to vote against the parties in power in the State and at the Centre,” she said. Turning a blind eye to the pressing issues in the past, the AIADMK was trying to woo voters with free cooking gas cylinders. “Why did not the government try to help the people when they were jobless under the threat of the pandemic? It allowed the Centre to increase fuel prices,” she said. She said she has seen people of all religions co-existing peacefully and happily in the rural areas, and the Hindutva groups had a slight influence on the urban middle class. “They are misguided and made to believe that the secular parties are obstructing them from going to temples. It is not true. We need to create awareness among the people.” Ms. Rohini told the voters that she had come not just to seek their votes, but would visit their areas to see the development after a change of guard in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shorn-of-spotlight-rohini-campaigns-for-cpim/article34227883.ece
03 April 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘An MLA’s job is to shape policies in such a way that they shape society’||On his last door-to-door campaign at the junction of West Masi Street and North Masi Street on Wednesday night, when P.T.R.P. Thiagarajan, MLA from Madurai Central Assembly constituency, visited narrow streets to seek votes, some youths waited for him. ‘I live in Ratchanyapuram... my vote is in Madurai north,’ said M. Saravana, employed in an electrical goods store in Sellur. He came with three friends, all engineering graduates. C. Kamakshi came from Munichalai with her husband and cousins, all in their 20s. There were more. ‘I have come to take a selfie with him,’ said Saravana. ‘My parents talk about his lineage and I have read about his successful career as a banker abroad and a powerful party worker; I came to hear him speak,’ said his friend S. Raja. ‘He is educated and was rated among the top five MLAs of his party. I will be thrilled to get a photo or a handshake with him,’ said A Harini. Thiagarajan, 55, isn’t a celebrity but in the last five years, he has steadily carved himself out as a data-driven person, who is serious about his intention to restructure his old party. Between 2016 and now, he has tried to shed the cast of his formidable legacy to come into his own as the head of DMK’s IT wing and is part of Stalin’s quartet to lead on to path of victory. As the son of PTR Palanivel Rajan, DMK’s respected leader who was a minister and Speaker of the Legislative Assembly and grandson of P. T. Rajan, who served as Chief Minister of Madras presidency, Thiagarajan says he is privileged that his lineage makes him famous. ‘While power is important, ideas are more important and I have many,’ he says after his campaigning around the Meenakshi Temple. Schooled in sound management practices, he believes in participatory democracy at street level and devised the Integrated Voice Response system aggregated with computerised data that ensures 24x7 responsibility in every constituency. ‘We can quantify success at the micro level, execute strategy and implement policies cleanly, work towards effective communication and judge our own performances,’ he says. On his campaign trails, Thiagarajan educates his voters when they complain about civic issues: ‘It is the councillor’s job to fix street lights, broken pipes, damaged roads and water shortage. An MLA’s job is to shape policies in a such way that they shape the society by bringing in schemes and funding projects.’ He requests people to evaluate him on the basis of his performance that includes completion of over 150 welfare projects. ‘In 2016 I rode on my legacy, in 2021 my work speaks. The results will be a reflection of our team work,’ he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-mlas-job-is-to-shape-policies-in-such-a-way-that-they-shape-society/article34228465.ece
03 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Take a call on aided schools, HC tells State||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has asked the State government to take a call as to whether aided schools managed by Revenue Department/district administration can be given the benefit of the Tamil Nadu Act 34 of 2020, in view of the 7.5 % reservation for NEET qualified government school students. The court was hearing the appeal preferred by the State against the order of a Single Bench that held that an aided school in Thanjavur district came within the meaning of a government school in view of the fact that it was managed by Revenue Department/district administration while allowing a petition filed by a medical aspirant D. Arun of Thanjavur district. The Single Bench held that the school came within the ambit of the definition of government schools under The Tamil Nadu Admission to Undergraduate Courses in Medicine, Dentistry, Indian Medicine and Homeopathy on Preferential basis to Students of Government Schools Act, 2020 as it was managed by a government department. The State submitted that the school in Thanjavur cannot be termed as a government school and there are other similarly placed schools in the State. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi took note of the State government’s submission and observed that the State should take a call on the issue so that there is a clarity from the next academic year. Mr. Arun secured a seat at the Government Sivagangai Medical College pursuant to the order of the Single Bench. The court said that it did not want to overturn the relief granted by the Single Bench. The candidate had already joined the medical course and therefore it would not be feasible at this stage to allow the appeal, the court said and disposed of the appeal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-a-call-on-aided-schools/article34227870.ece
03 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘AIIMS will be constructed in Madurai’||Accusing the DMK and the Congress of spreading lies, BJP leader and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that construction of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Madurai will be completed as per procedure. Addressing an assembly election campaign meeting in Madurai on Friday, he said the AIADMK and BJP governments had worked towards setting up the AIIMS. A state-of-the-art infectious diseases block will be established at the AIIMS. “The AIIMS will provide quality healthcare and treatment for the people of this region,” he added. [Recently, DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin had campaigned holding a brick to stress that there was no progress in the construction of AIIMS beyond the initial brick laying ceremony.] Mr Modi said that the DMK and the Congress must control their lies because the people are not foolish. “The DMK and the Congress project themselves as the only protector of Tamil culture. However, the facts prove the opposite,” he said. However, in 2011 the UPA Government supported a ban on jallikattu. “A Congress leader called jallikattu a ‘barbaric practice’. Is that a word a leader uses for jallikattu, which is part of Tamil culture for centuries?” questioned Mr. Modi. The AIADMK government, an ally of BJP, had promulgated an ordinance to permit the conduct of jallikattu, he noted. Charging that the DMK did not take any steps for the welfare of Devendra Kulavelalar community, Mr. Modi insisted that the AIADMK and the BJP had worked to ensure the dignity of the community. He claimed that the law-and-order situation in the State will be disturbed if DMK-led alliance comes to power. “The DMK is trying to make peace-loving Madurai a ‘mafia den’ because of an internal family complication in DMK’s first family,” he alleged. The NDA focuses on three main areas for the development of South Tamil Nadu — infrastructure, irrigation and investments, said the PM. In this year’s Union budget, a series of economic corridors have been announced, and one of them is Madurai-Kollam corridor. Funds allocated for railway infrastructure projects in Tamil Nadu have increased as compared to 2009.He said that a vote for NDA means a vote for better investments in this region. The NDA is creating the right atmosphere to bring in more industries in this region. Food processing and agro industries which help in value addition of agricultural produce will be given importance. The BJP government is supporting start ups and regulatory frameworks are being liberalised. It has a major focus on providing additional credit and modern machinery for the textile sector, he added. More than 60 lakh tap water connections have been established in Tamil Nadu under the Jal Jeevan Mission. The government is focussing on giving a major boost to health infrastructure. “We are focussing on establishing one medical college for every three districts and increasing the number of undergraduate and postgraduate medical seats,” he said. AIADMK leader and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said that an alliance with the BJP government will help to bring good projects for Tamil Nadu. He alleged that the DMK was a ‘dynasty party’ that functions like a corporate company. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and senior leaders of BJP, AIADMK, PMK and other alliance parties, participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiims-will-be-constructed-as-per-procedure-narendra-modi/article34227898.ece
03 April 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Resume Air India Express flight services to Singapore’||The Air India Express Madurai – Singapore flight services have been stopped from March 30 due to deployment of insufficient number of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel, said Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry president N. Jegatheesan here on Thursday. In a press release, he said that after persistent efforts, the flight service was launched in September 2017. Shortage of CISF personnel for the third shift had forced the suspension of the flight service. Since Madurai airport had been catering to people from all southern districts, it was high time it was kept open round-the-clock to tap the huge potential on domestic and international routes. The ATC watch hours were extended with overtime salary of the staff and additional security personnel were posted to facilitate operation of direct flight to Singapore in the late night hours. However, the CISF personnel were not working the extra hour as they were deprived of overtime salary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resume-air-india-express-flight-services/article34228466.ece
03 April 2021||POLLACHI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK will have to sweat it out to retain its winning streak||The ruling AIADMK will have to sweat it out if it wants to retain its winning streak in the Pollachi Assembly constituency. The Pollachi sexual assault case continues to haunt the prospects of the AIADMK in the battle of ballots. To continue its winning streak, the party will have to work very hard as the DMK campaign focuses on the anti-incumbency factor and the slow pace of development. In addition to this, the AIADMK is struggling to defend its image, tarnished by the involvement of its functionaries in the sexual abuse case. In fact, Pollachi V. Jayaraman, the incumbent MLA and Deputy Speaker in the Assembly, keeps re-iterating that it was he who ensured that action was initiated in the case. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, the AIADMK suffered a major setback as a result of the Pollachi sexual assault case that just unfolded in February 2019. While the DMK and its allies are harping on the case in their campaign, the AIADMK is losing substantial time and energy, offering explanations that due action had been initiated against perpetrators of the crime. Since 1952, the Pollachi constituency has returned Congress nominees thrice (1952, 1957 and 1962), DMK nominees thrice (1967, 1971 and 1996) and right from 1977, its voters have continuously returned the AIADMK nominees nine times, except in 1996. Mr. Jayaraman has been returned to the Assembly thrice in 2001, 2006 and 2016. In 2011, he won from the neighbouring Udumalpet constituency. There are eight contestants in the fray this time, including those from the MNM and the NTK. The ruling AIADMK has re-nominated Mr. Jayaraman of the Chettiar community, while the DMK has nominated an orthopaedic doctor, K. Varadarajan, from the Kongu Velala Gounder community. People call the DMK candidate’s clinic as “Varadarajan aspathiri ” as for over two decades, he has established a rapport with the people through affordable medical care. Treatment is free for those who cannot afford it, point out DMK cadre. In 2001, he tried his luck in the polls on an MDMK ticket and polled more than 23,000 votes to finish third. Sandwiched between Coimbatore on one side and Kerala on the other, the economy of the constituency is largely reliant on coconut and coir-based industries. The constituency has a substantial population of Kongu Velala Gounders, Chettiars and people from the backward classes and listed communities. The slow pace of underground drainage works for four years and the resultant damage to roads are likely to impact the AIADMK in the urban areas. The other issues, demands or promises of the DMK-led alliance that are likely to damage the prospects of the AIADMK are failure to set up a nursing college and to bring water from the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project for the Godavadi tank. The constituency accounts for a substantial percentage of the country’s coconut cultivation and setting up of an office of the Coconut Development Board continues to remain an electoral promise. The AIADMK defends its case, citing the completion of buildings for the panchayat union, the Pollachi Municipal office and a combined court complex, among other things. The other major demand that is over two decades old is the creation of a new district, with Pollachi as its headquarters, to elevate its status of being a revenue division for 164 years. With claims of sustained development being placed by the AIADMK, it is trying to retain its victory streak, whereas the DMK equally counters the ruling party by listing out unfulfilled promises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-will-have-to-sweat-it-out-to-retain-its-winning-streak/article34227881.ece
03 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Kamaraj Nagar residents want permanent solution to flooding||Former Minister M.O.H.F. Shahjahan is taking on sitting legislator A. John Kumar, who switched from the Congress to the BJP in Kamaraj Nagar, in one of the keenly watched battles of the April 6 election. The relatively new constituency of Kamaraj Nagar, largely comprising middle-class voters, is beset by civic issues, specifically flooding during rain, that has not been addressed by successive governments. When people, especially those residing in places such as Chellan Nagar, Krishna Nagar, Venketa Nagar, Rainbow Nagar, Ezhil Nagar and Raja Rajeswari Nagar, go to the polling booths on April 6, one of the foremost things in their mind would be flooding. Rainbow Nagar, First Cross resident R. Balamurugan said till around 15 years ago, the area did not face flooding as it was witnessing during rain now. “I was born and brought up in this constituency. Now, every year the gravity of the situation is worsening mainly due to non-maintenance of stormwater drains. A proper study should be conducted to address the issue,” he said. Much of the problem could be solved if main canals and drains passing through the area are regularly de-silted and maintained properly. “We would like our next MLA to address the issue. Whoever is winning should make it a point to raise the issue in the Assembly, so that a permanent solution can be found. The quality of water has also deteriorated, and we would like the next government to construct a water treatment plant in our constituency,” said A. Jeevan, a resident of Chellan Nagar. Mr. Balamurugan also highlighted the bad condition of interior roads in the area. In certain places in the constituency, open defecation is still an issue to be solved completely, added Mr. Jeevan. The decision of sitting legislator A. John Kumar to shift from Congress to BJP just before the election would be tested before the electorate. Mr. Kumar, a businessman-turned-politician, won the byelection necessitated by V. Vaithilingam quitting his MLA’s post to contest the 2019 Lok Sabha poll. Mr. Kumar defeated AINRC’s Bouvanesvarane in the 2019 poll by 7,170 votes. In fact, his margin of victory was higher when compared to the victory of Mr. Vaithilingam in the 2016 Assembly poll, who won the seat contesting against P. Ganesan of the AIADMK by a margin of 5,106 votes. As far as Mr. Shahjahan is concerned, he had to shift from his traditional constituency of Kalapet after the seat went into the kitty of the DMK during the seat-sharing talks. The Congress has taken the battle as a matter of prestige as they consider Mr. Kumar one of the architects of the downfall of its government in February. The campaign managers of Mr. Shahjahan are constantly raising the issue during street corner meetings and house-to-house visits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamaraj-nagar-residents-want-permanent-solution-to-flooding/article34228569.ece
03 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G launches vaccination centre for women, takes first shot||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan volunteered for vaccination at the Rajiv Gandhi Women and Children’s Hospital on Friday to launch an exclusive vaccination centre for women at the hospital and provide a fillip to the vaccination programme among women beneficiaries. The exclusive vaccination centre for women would function from Mondays to Saturdays between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. Expressing satisfaction at taking the indigenously-developed vaccine, the Lt. Governor said she would “therefore rather say that she has injected into herself the pride of India, rather than taken vaccination”. She is due for the second and final dose of Covishield after 28 days. Ms. Soundararajan urged women, who are aged 45 years and above, to come forward and get themselves vaccinated at the centre. The status of COVID-19 spread and the progress of vaccination was being reviewed every week by a high-power committee under her chairmanship. The aim was to ensure that the Union Territory was fully equipped with all infrastructure, such as vaccines, oxygen beds, and ventilators. The Lt. Governor also urged the public to follow safety measures by compulsorily wearing masks and following COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. Advisers to the Lt. Governor, C. Chandramouli and A.P. Maheshwari; T. Arun, Health Secretary; S. Mohan Kumar, Director of Health; and Sujatha, Medical Superintendent of the Institute; and others were present. Meanwhile, the Union Territory recorded one death and 213 new cases in the last 24 hours. With the death of a 60-year-old woman at the GH in Karaikal, the toll in the enclave rose to 76. The toll in Puducherry stands at 552, Yanam 45 and Mahe 11. Puducherry accounted for 143 of the new cases, followed by Karaikal (53), Yanam (11) and Mahe (four). The test positivity rate was 8.2%, case fatality rate 1.63% and recovery rate 94.98%. With 82 patients discharged in the last 24 hours, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 1,420. Of these, 334 were in hospitals and 1,086 in home isolation. In Puducherry, the number of in-patients at IGMCRI was 182 and 82 in JIPMER. Of an estimated 6.76 lakh tests carried out so far, over 6.24 lakh were negative. Meanwhile, 225 healthcare workers, 324 frontline staff and 1,616 members of the public took their first shot of COVID vaccine across the Union Territory. The total number of persons immunised aggregated to 74,320 — 27,461 healthcare workers, 13,676 frontline staff and 33,183 members of the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamilisai-launches-covid-19-vaccine-centre-for-women/article34228345.ece
03 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||DEO issues clarification on prohibitory orders||District election officials have clarified that the prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.PC), issued for a 48-hour silent period before the polling day on April 6, were specific to certain unlawful acts under the model code of conduct (MCC) and did not amount to a public curfew of any sort. The imposition of prohibitory orders take effect in Puducherry from 7 p.m. on April 4 and would be in force till 7 a.m. on April 7 (the day after polling on April 6).  Certain acts Purva Garg, District Collector and District Election Officer (DEO), told presspersons on Friday that the prohibitory orders issued on March 22 as mandated by the Election Commission of India (ECI) were specifically targeted at certain acts, including unlawful assembly; possession of weapons, sticks and banners; sloganeering; use of loudspeakers; and any other acts that were in any manner detrimental to peace and tranquillity. Bike rallies were also prohibited from 7 p.m. on April 3 to 7 a.m. on April 7. The prohibitory orders did not apply to religious functions, marriages, funerals or other polling-related activities. On the preparedness, Ms. Garg said there were 1,324 polling stations, which included 1,217 in Puducherry, 47 in Mahe and 60 in Yanam. All stations had been equipped with optimal facilities. The DEO said COVID-19 norms would be in place and all personnel who volunteered for immunisation were vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deo-issues-clarification-on-prohibitory-orders/article34228562.ece
03 April 2021||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Locals, poets pitch in to raise voter awareness||Poets, thinkers and residents are lending their voices to complement the administration’s campaign to spur electoral participation and promote ethical voting practices. At one of the city’s largest residential agglomerations falling in the Thattanchavady Assembly constituency, a residents’ welfare association has been propagating the message of ethical voting since 1985. Volunteers have been going door-to-door to raise awareness against taking money for votes and distributing pamphlets with the message. “We have been carrying out this campaign since the association was founded in 1985,” said P.B. Seshadri, long-time president of the Avvai Nagar Residents Welfare Association, an outfit overseeing the well-being of 650 houses and over 2,000 voters.  The Puducherry Thinkers Forum has also been organising awareness campaign across formats to espouse free and fair elections. The outreach ranged from street corner poetry symposia, involving around 50 poets, to a cultural event by folk artists and a group discussion, said forum leaders V. Govindasamy and Nedunchezhian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/locals-poets-pitch-in-to-raise-voter-awareness/article34228564.ece
03 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Cong. accuses Yanam police of bias||Member of Parliament V. Vaithilingam has accused the police in Yanam of working in favour of the All India N.R. Congress. In a virtual press conference on Friday, the senior Congress leader said independent candidate Ashok, contesting against AINRC chief N. Rangasamy in Yanam, had complained against former Minister Malladi Krishna Rao of using money power to win votes for Mr. Rangasamy. Supporters of Mr. Ashok, who tried to expose the use of money power, were beaten up on Thursday. Around five of his family members sustained injuries but the police failed to take action against those who attacked them, he alleged. Mr. Vaithilingam accused the police of acting at the behest of Mr. Rao. Mr. Ranagasamy is contesting in two seats, the other being Thattanchavady. The Congress party has extended its support to Mr. Ashok.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cong-accuses-yanam-police-of-bias/article34228570.ece
03 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Cash, goods worth Rs. 42 cr. seized in Puducherry||The District Election officials have so far seized unaccounted cash and goods valued at an estimated Rs. 42.12 crore during the enforcement of the model code of conduct in Puducherry. S. Sivakumar, nodal office (MCC) at the District Election Office told a press conference that this included Rs. 2.63 crore unaccounted cash, jewellery valued at about Rs. 35 crore and materials such as STBs estimated at about Rs. 3 crore. The Excise teams in Puducherry had seized illicit liquor worth about Rs. 47 lakh to date. So far, 43 cases of Model Code of Conduct violations and eight other cases had been registered, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-and-goods-worth-rs-42-crore-seized-in-puducherry-so-far/article34228351.ece
03 April 2021||R. KrishnamoorthyTIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||DIETs face manpower crunch||District Institutes of Education and Training (DIET) are facing manpower shortage in the wake of the State government issuing an order to shift senior faculty members to Government Colleges of Education. The G.O., on the basis of which 31 lecturers of DIETs were transferred to seven government colleges of education, was necessitated for filling 600 B.Ed. seats after the National Council for Teacher Education directed the government colleges of education to stop admissions citing faculty shortage. The extent of shortage in government colleges of education was such that 18 faculty members with M.Ed. and Ph.D. qualifications in Government Arts and Science Colleges were also transferred to Government B.Ed. Colleges. The DIETs that were already facing faculty shortage are now struggling to manage with the truncated manpower. On an average, each faculty member is entrusted with a block for conduct of in-service training. After the transfer was effected, the work burden has increased for the DIET faculty. “After the G.O. was issued, the work is extended to more number of blocks,” a senior DIET faculty member said. Alongside in-service training, the DIET faculty members are also required to handle classes for students enrolled for Diploma in Teacher Education programme. Due to the lockdown caused by the pandemic, the conduct of the programme was scaled down to one centre for a cluster of districts. “Erosion of patronage for the D.T.Ed. programme is not a cause for surprise since the government started appointing graduate teachers for primary classes. Unlike two decades back when all those who completed D.T.Ed. were assured of a government job, the scenario has undergone a drastic change. Getting through an eligibility test has become necessary. The course is no longer a sure-shot approach for a secure teaching job,” R. Karpaga Kumaravel, Vice-Chancellor-Officiating and Dean, School of Education, Central University of Tamil Nadu, Tiruvarur, said. No doubt, the D.T.Ed. programmes have died a slow death. The DIETs that were started as per the 1986 education policy will remain relevant in the current scheme of things in education as long as they continue with in-service training, Prof. Karpagakumaravel said. As per the New Education Policy 2020, D.T.Ed. as well as B.Ed. programmes will go through an upheaval, as there is going to be a single regulatory body in higher education. The four-year integrated teacher training programme advocated in a multi-disciplinary environment would imply closure of standalone B.Ed. colleges, Prof. Karpagakumaravel said.  On an average, each faculty member is entrusted with a block for conduct of in-service training||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/diets-face-manpower-crunch/article34227858.ece
03 April 2021||R. RajaramTIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||It’s battle royale between a veteran and a debutant||Encompassing a mix of electorate residing in municipal limits and rural areas, the Pudukottai Assembly constituency is to set to witness a keen tussle between the AIADMK and the DMK yet again. AIADMK candidate and former MLA Karthik Thondaiman, a descendant of the Thondaiman dynasty which ruled the erstwhile princely State of Pudukottai, is pitted against newcomer V. Muthuraja of the DMK. A medical professional, Dr. Muthuraja banks on the party’s strength and the support of allies. Mr. Karthik Thondaiman, an erstwhile chairman of Pudukottai municipality, was hand-picked by the AIADMK high command for the by-election in 2012 following the death of CPI MLA P. Muthukumaran who won the election in 2011. Mr. Thondaiman, who won the 2012 by election, was given the ticket again in the 2016 Assembly polls when he lost by a slender margin after putting up a spirited fight against the DMK. Backed by the party’s strong base and counting on the AIADMK government’s achievements besides his own image, Mr. Karthik Thondaiman is leaving no stone unturned, actively canvassing on the field to wrest the Pudukottai seat from the DMK. The constituency has seen visible developments, especially in the health sector, courtesy Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar who hails from Pudukottai district, say residents citing the establishment of Government Medical College Hospital and announcement of a dental college, next only to Chennai. Nevertheless, there are issues, especially in Pudukottai, that need attention. “Although Pudukottai has a proper bus stand with good mofussil services, the absence of town buses is felt as the town is expanding. So people are forced to take autorickshaws by paying a high fare,” says R. Sampath Kumar, the president of Nagar Nala Iyakkam. Either town buses should be operated or share autorickshaws should be allowed, he says. Supply of Cauvery water takes place once in three days or more depending on the area, complains Mr. Sampath Kumar. Water distribution must be stremlined. Encroachments along roads must be removed to facilitate smooth flow of traffic. The demand for the construction of road overbridges at the two railway gates - one at Tiruvappur and another near the SIPCOT - is felt for long. The closure of the railway gates, especially the one at Tiruvappur, leads to traffic hold-up for nearly 30 minutes causing hardship to people, say residents. Big industries must be established near the town to generate job opportunities for the youth, it is felt. Neutral observers say Karthik Thondaiman's familiarity with the electorate, coupled with the works done in Pudukottai by the ruling regime in the last five years, would give him the strength to take on his newcomer rival. However, the DMK camp is equally determined to retain the seat. Mr. Muthuraja, who was a government doctor, resigned his post to take a plunge into politics and had been working on the ground since then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/its-battle-royale-between-a-veteran-and-a-debutant/article34227863.ece
03 April 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK formulated nation’s first IT policy’||Joining issue with Chief Minister, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, on development of Information Technology sector in Tamil Nadu, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam MP, M.K. Kanimozhi, said that it was M. Karunanidhi-led DMK Government that first formulated the policy on IT sector way back in 2000. “The first policy on IT sector in the whole of India was formulated by DMK Government in 2000,” she said. Stating that now many students are pursuing computer science course in the State only as the DMK Government was first to think about bringing a policy and developing the IT sector, she said. She was campaigning for DMK candidate for Rajapalayam Assembly constituency, S. Thangapandian, here on Friday. She refuted the recent claim made by the Chief Minister, who said that former Chief Minister, Jayalalithaa brought many IT parks in the State that gave employment to the IT professionals. “Karunanidhi built the Tidel Park at a cost of Rs. 340 crore in Chennai. He also created an IT Park on 1,000 acres in Siruseri. Many of the IT Parks in several cities like Madurai, Coimbatore, Tiruchi, Tirunelveli and Dharmapuri were created by Karunanidhi. The present Chief Minister does not even know all these facts,” she said. The AIADMK Government has failed to provide employment to the people in the last 10 years, though every house has educated youth in the State. “The Government is not bothered about the common man, but shows interest only in filling their coffers,” she said. The present Government was marching fast only in corruption, Ms. Kanimozhi added. Taking on the AIADMK candidate and Minister for Dairy Development, K. T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, the MP said that he had to shift the constituency after he failed to do anything constructive in Sivakasi Assembly constituency. She charged that a disproportionate assets case was pending against him, besides there were several corruption charges in Aavin. “A journalist was brutally attacked after he wrote against him,” she recalled. Stating that the AIADMK failed to keep up its promise of giving cellphones and free set-top boxes, she said on the other hand DMK had fulfilled its promise of giving television sets, she said. Mr. Thangapandian, who had brought many development projects to the constituency as an MLA from the opposition party, will bring more welfare when he became MLA of the ruling party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-formulated-nations-first-it-policy/article34227904.ece
03 April 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK afraid of AIADMK’s strength in Salem’||AIADMK leader and Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday said the high voltage campaign by multiple leaders of DMK in his native Salem district, indicated that the ruling party had gained in strength in the region. Mr Palaniswami, campaigning for the Assembly election in Salem, said DMK leaders M K Stalin, Kanimozhi, Dayanidhi Maran and Udhayanidhi Stalin were continually canvassing votes in Salem. Even a grand public meeting with leaders of the DMK-led Secular Progressive Alliance was organised in the district. “This shows the AIADMK is gaining strength in Salem. Four years ago, Mr Stalin asked ‘who is Palaniswami’? Now he is uttering my name every day,” the AIADMK leader Recalling that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and PMK founder S Ramadoss have appreciated his governance, he said Salem was now being referred as ‘CM district’. Mr.Palaniswami said that no other Chief Minister would have faced challenges like him from winning the vote of confidence in the Assembly amid pandemonium to facing subsequent developments. According to him, nothing would happen if DMK was voted to power. Over a dozen former DMK ministers were facing corruption charges, whereas the DMK has submitted a petition to the Governor levelling corruption charges against him. One of them related to a cancelled tender. The DMK, he said, was promoting dynastic rule and reiterated his challenge to Mr Stalin to conduct a public debate with him. The DMK gave representation to only its family members in Union and State Cabinets as if they have a ‘patta’ for holding positions. This election should put an end to dynasty politics, he said. Mr Palaniswami said that government staff would not be able to work peacefully under DMK regime and it was AIADMK government which implemented recommendations of the last pay commission. Also, the State was peaceful. The Chief Minister listed out his various achievements in rolling out welfare measures. According to him, a defence spare parts manufacturing park would be set up in Salem and seven textile parks would be set up in Tamil Nadu including one in Salem, thanks to the alliance with the BJP, which ruled the Centre. Mr.Palaniswami highlighting the various poll promises, added that measures would be taken to provide relief for film industry workers and theatre owners who have suffered due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-afraid-of-aiadmks-strength-in-salem/article34227918.ece
03 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||DMK afraid of AIADMK’s strength in Salem: Palaniswami||AIADMK leader and Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday said the high voltage campaign by multiple leaders of DMK in his native Salem district, indicated that the ruling party had gained in strength in the region. Mr. Palaniswami, campaigning for the Assembly election in Salem, said DMK leaders M.K. Stalin, Kanimozhi, Dayanidhi Maran and Udhayanidhi Stalin were continually canvassing votes in Salem. Even a grand public meeting with leaders of the DMK-led Secular Progressive Alliance was organised in the district. “This shows the AIADMK is gaining strength in Salem. Four years ago, Mr Stalin asked ‘who is Palaniswami’? Now he is uttering my name every day,” the AIADMK leader Recalling that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and PMK founder S. Ramadoss have appreciated his governance, he said Salem was now being referred as ‘CM district’. Mr. Palaniswami said that no other Chief Minister would have faced challenges like him from winning the vote of confidence in the Assembly amid pandemonium to facing subsequent developments. According to him, nothing would happen if DMK was voted to power. Over a dozen former DMK ministers were facing corruption charges, whereas the DMK has submitted a petition to the Governor levelling corruption charges against him. One of them related to a cancelled tender. The DMK, he said, was promoting dynasty rule and reiterated his challenge to Mr Stalin to conduct a public debate with him. The DMK gave representation to only its family members in Union and State Cabinets as if they have a ‘patta’ for holding positions. This election should put an end to dynasty politics, he said. Mr. Palaniswami said that government staff would not be able to work peacefully under DMK regime and it was AIADMK government which implemented recommendations of the last pay commission. Also, the state was peaceful. The Chief Minister listed out his various achievements in rolling out welfare measures. According to him, a defence spare parts manufacturing park would be set up in Salem and seven textile parks would be set up in Tamil Nadu including one in Salem, thanks to the alliance with the BJP, which ruled the Centre. Mr. Palaniswami, highlighting the various poll promises, added that measures would be taken to provide relief for film industry workers and theatre owners who have suffered due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-afraid-of-aiadmks-strength-in-salem-palaniswami/article34227926.ece
03 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK’s high-voltage campaign shows our strength in Salem’||The DMK’s high-voltage campaign in Salem indicated that the ruling AIADMK is gaining in strength in the district, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Friday. Mr. Palaniswami said while campaigning in Salem that DMK leaders M.K. Stalin, Kanimozhi, Dayanidhi Maran and Udhayanidhi Stalin were continually campaigning in Salem. Even a grand public meeting of the DMK-led Secular Progressive Alliance was organised in the district. “This shows the AIADMK is gaining in strength in Salem. Four years ago, Mr. Stalin asked, ‘Who is Palaniswami?’ Now, he is uttering my name every day,” said Mr. Palaniswami, who is the co-coordinator of the AIADMK. Recalling that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and PMK founder S. Ramadoss had appreciated the performance of his government, he said Salem was now being called the “Chief Minister’s district”. Mr. Palaniswami said no other Chief Minister would have faced challenges like him, from winning a vote of confidence in the Assembly amid pandemonium to facing subsequent developments. He said nothing would happen if the DMK was voted back to power. When more than a dozen former DMK Ministers were facing corruption charges, the DMK submitted a petition to the Governor, accusing him of corruption. One of the charges in the petition related to a cancelled tender. The DMK was promoting dynastic rule, he said, reiterating his challenge to Mr. Stalin to a public debate. The DMK gave representation only to members of the families of its leaders in the Union and State Cabinets as if they held a ‘patta’ for posts. This election should put an end to dynasty politics, he said. Mr. Palaniswami said government workers would not be able to work peacefully under a DMK government, and it was the AIADMK government which had implemented the recommendations of the last Pay Commission. Furthermore, the State was peaceful. He said a defence spare parts manufacturing park would be established in Salem and seven textile parks would come up in Tamil Nadu, including one in Salem, thanks to the AIADMK’s alliance with the BJP. Mr. Palaniswami highlighted the AIADMK’s poll promises and said measures would be taken to provide relief to film industry workers and theatre-owners who had been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.  Four years ago, Mr. Stalin asked, ‘Who is Palaniswami?’ Now, he is uttering my name every day||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmks-high-voltage-campaign-shows-our-strength-in-salem/article34228355.ece
03 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem for more swab sample collection||The Health Department is planning to increase swab sample collection in the district as part of COVID-19 containment measures. The district has been seeing an increase in COVID-19 cases for the past few days and on an average, 50 cases are being reported here. As part of COVID-19 containment measures, the district health department is planning to gradually increase the sample collection and test up to 3,500 persons a day. According to health officials, there are sufficient number of beds in the district to handle a spike in cases. S. Subramani, Deputy Director of Health Services, said that there are about 5,000 beds in the district, including those at COVID-19 Care Centres. Dr. Subramani said that at present about 2,000 to 2,500 swab samples are collected for tests and they would be gradually increased to contain the spread of the disease. According to officials, vaccination has also been stepped up in the district. Besides private facilities, vaccination is also being done at about 200 government facilities here and on an average, 6,000 persons are vaccinated in the district a day. Officials said that there is good response among 45-plus population for the vaccination drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-department-to-increase-swab-sample-collection-in-salem/article34227936.ece
03 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem police receive threat letter against CM, Collector||The City Police recently received a letter threatening to assassinate the Chief Minister and the District Collector. According to the police officials, the Salem City Police received a letter recently threatening to assassinate Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and the District Collector. Suspects questioned Though police personnel held inquiries with a few of the suspects, they were found to be not involved in the incident. According to the police, unidentified miscreants would have posted the letter to settle personal scores. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-police-receive-threat-letter-against-cm-collector/article34227934.ece
03 April 2021||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||12,000 tokens seized in Namakkal||Election surveillance officials seized tokens from a car near Erumapatti in Senthamangalam constituency in Namakkal district during the late hours of Thursday. According to the fficials, a flying squad, during vehicle checks at Kaikatti seized 12,000 tokens from a car. According to officials, the car belonged to a loyalist of incumbent legislator C. Chandrashekaran, who is contesting as an independent candidate this time. Further investigation is on into the incident. In Salem, election officials till date have seized textile goods like sarees and dhotis worth Rs. 23.6 lakh. Following appeals and produce of necessary documents, goods Rs. 18,000 have been returned. According to officials, the various election surveillance team in the district till Friday have seized Rs. 4.77 crore cash, silver articles worth Rs. 1.43 crore, gold jewellery worth Rs. 36.68 crore and textile goods worth Rs. 23.6. A release said, following produce of necessary documents to the Appeals Committee, till Thursday, Rs. 2.01 crores cash, silver goods weighing 3.24 kg and 90 sarees have been returned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12000-tokens-seized-in-namakkal/article34227937.ece
03 April 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Flying squad seizes cash||Cash totalling Rs. 25,500, a notebook, and a mobile phone were seized by a flying squad at Baloppa Garden area in Thanjavur on Friday. Following complaint that money was distributed to voters near Keezhavasal, the area was searched for any illegal activities when the cash was seized from two persons, Karthik and Sakthiammal, who owed allegiance to the AIADMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flying-squad-seizes-cash/article34227859.ece
03 April 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||2,897 personnel on poll duty cast postal votes||In a special camp, 2,897 personnel deployed on poll duty in the district exercised their postal votes here on Friday. The district administration had organised in two phases, for the poll duty personnel to exercise their votes on March 26. However, due to some reasons, a majority among them were unable to cast their votes on the date. Hence, personnel from the police, fire and rescue services, Home Guards, Ex-Servicemen, Ex-policemen and NSS cadets from the six Assembly constituencies in the district exercised their vote through postal ballot. District Election Officer and Collector K. Senthil Raj, who had been leading the campaign for 100% vote as per the Election Commission of India's guidelines, supervised the arrangements made at the Kamaraj College for the personnel to cast their votes. District Revenue Officer Kannabiran, Tahsildar (Election) Ragu and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2897-personnel-on-poll-duty-cast-postal-votes/article34228640.ece
03 April 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Christians take part in Good Friday service||Good Friday was observed in Thoothukudi churches of the Roman Catholic Diocese as Way of the Cross services. With Ash Wednesday, the Lent season began this year on February 17. The highlight of the Lenten season, the crucifixion, was remembered as Good Friday. At the Lady of the Snows Church, Jesus carrying the Cross to Calvary was enacted as a procession around the church, following which Parish Bishop Kumar Raja led the holy mass. At Sacred Heart Church, Archbishop Stephen Antony led the Good Friday proceedings. Last year, the Lenten services were not conducted in the wake of COVID-19 and lockdown. This year, all the services were conducted by following the safety protocol of wearing face masks and physical distancing. For Easter Sunday, there will be special midnight mass in all the Roman Catholic churches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/christians-take-part-in-good-friday-service/article34228463.ece
03 April 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees a marked rise||The central region reported a marked rise in COVID-19 cases with 409 patients testing positive on Friday. Tiruchi recorded a spike with 122 patients reporting positive. Thanjavur, too, continued the increasing trend with 120 cases. One death was reported in the region - in Tiruchi, according to a bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Of the 122 patients who reported positive in Tiruchi, small clusters have been identified, health officials here said. “Employees from an IT company near Central Bus Stand, and some localities where a few cases were reported from the same localities have been identified. We are defining clusters as more than three cases in a specified location to keep a check on the spread,” he said. At Thanjavur too, 120 patients reported positive. A total of 69 patients tested positive in Tiruvarur and in Nagapattinam, 56. In Pudukottai, 18 fresh cases were reported and in Karur, 12. Ariyalur district which had been reporting a low number of cases recorded 11 fresh cases on Friday, while Perambalur recorded one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-sees-a-marked-rise/article34227852.ece
03 April 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Good Friday observed with fervour||Good Friday was observed in Tiruchi with religious fervour to mark and commemorate the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. Special services were held in churches of different Christian denominations across the district. Last year, devotees observed Good Friday and Easter from home due to the nation-wide lockdown imposed to curtail the spread of COVID-19. Rector and Parish Priest Fr. S. Arokiaraj of Holy Redeemer’s Basilica said that the day marked the suffering that Jesus Christ withstood for the love of the people. “The people remember the sacrifices he made, thank him for it and offer penance. There is no celebration on this day,” he said. At the Holy Redeemer's Basilica, like most other churches across the world, the ceremonial kissing of the cross as a sign of gratitude was done away with due to COVID-19 protocol. “We have instructed the people to bow to the cross. Touching it in any way is not allowed. They have also been instructed to wear face masks and maintain distance,” he added. Arrangements were made at the church for those attending the service to sit outdoors, for ventilation and to maintain distance. On Good Friday, many devotees observe fast and offer prayers, including tracing the 14 events leading to Christ's crucifixion - called Way of The Cross.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/good-friday-observed-with-fervour/article34227861.ece
03 April 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Septic tank leak leads to a health hazard at GH||An overflowing septic tank near a toilet complex near the ‘108’ ambulance office and COVID-19 vaccination centre at Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital has become a health hazard and eye sore as well. Patients and visitors complain of unbearable stench too. The hospital had, a few weeks ago, installed a session site for COVID-19 vaccination at the newly inaugurated District Early Intervention Centre (DEIC) block in the hospital. The block has to be accessed via a small gate, through which only pedestrians are allowed to enter. The leak is across the front of the entrance, which puts off the visitors. Elderly people who visit the block to receive COVID-19 vaccine cover their nose and enter. “I had visited to enquire about the availability of vaccines and the timings and was taken aback by the sight,” Mr. Devarajan, a resident of Thillai Nagar, said. Mr. Devarajan said the condition was due to apathy of staff responsible for maintaining the rest rooms and cleaning the septic tanks. “We must not blame the authorities of the hospital. There are sanitary supervisors and other workers whose job is to maintain cleanliness, it is their apathy which puts patients at risk,” he said. Meanwhile, a sanitary worker said they had sprinkled disinfectant on the leak to ensure that it would not cause any harm to the patients and work to rectify it would be undertaken soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/septic-tank-leak-leads-to-a-health-hazard-at-gh/article34227854.ece
03 April 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Identity of T.N. as a linguistic State is at stake’||Cautioning that the very identity of Tamil Nadu as a linguistic State was at stake, about 35 representatives of a collective of Tamil nationalist outfits, environmental organisations, farmer welfare groups and followers of Periyarist, Marxist and Ambedkarite ideologies have made a joint appeal to the electorate on Friday to reject BJP - AIADMK - PMK combine in the Assembly polls. Without directly expressing their support for the DMK-led alliance, the collective urged the voters not to support the ‘B’ teams of the BJP - the Makkal Needhi Maiyam, Naam Tamizhar Katchi and Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam. “People must make sure that their votes do not get scattered to the advantage of the AIADMK-led alliance,” the founder president of Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam, Kolathur Mani, said speaking at a press conference organised by the Tamizhaga Makkal Munnani. The fight was between Sanatana Dharma and social justice, he said. The AIADMK government was under subjucation of the BJP, he said, citing the preventive arrest of activists espousing social justice prior to the visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as an instance. The Centre’s interference in the State’s rights must not be permitted, Mr. Mani said, citing the impact of the Union government’s laws in the areas of agriculture and education. The BJP must necessarily be shown the door, Mr. Mani said.  The fight is between Sanatana Dharma and social justice   Kolathur Mani Founder-president, Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/identity-of-tamil-nadu-as-a-linguistic-state-is-at-stake/article34227848.ece
03 April 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Case booked against Annamalai||The police in Karur district have registered a case against K. Annamalai, Bharatiya Janata Party candidate for the Aravakurichi constituency, for his alleged remarks intimidating DMK Karur candidate Senthil Balaji, during a poll campaign recently. Police sources said Mr. Annamalai was canvassing votes in Bhoomadevam in the Aravakurichi constituency on March 31 when he made certain intimidating remarks against Mr. Balaji. The video clip of the former IPS officer’s speech went viral on social media. Acting on a complaint from Mr. Balaji, police attached to the Aravakurichi station registered a case against Mr. Annamalai under IPC Sections 153 (Wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot) and 506 (i) (criminal intimidation).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-booked-against-annamalai/article34227872.ece
03 April 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Pacemaker implanted in child successfully||Doctors at Kauvery Heartcity, part of Kauvery Hospitals, successfully implanted a pacemaker for a three-year-old-child who had a complete heart block after she underwent a Tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) surgery. The child had been implanted with an epicardial pacemaker but it failed to work and changing to an adult-type pacemaker was risky, doctors had told the family. However, a team of doctors led by T. Joseph, Interventional Cardiologist and Electrophysiologist, took up the challenge and implanted the pacemaker on February 3, and the child, who was underweight at 13 kg, is recovering well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pacemaker-implanted-in-child-successfully/article34227851.ece
03 April 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 99.30 feet on Friday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 376 cusecs and the discharge 1,500 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article34227871.ece
03 April 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||TTV slams DMK, AIADMK||Accusing both the DMK and the AIADMK in equal terms, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) leader TTV Dhinakaran said on Friday that these parties were responsible for all the problems being faced by the people in Tamil Nadu and hence people should think before they cast their votes. Speaking in support of his party candidate Paramasiva Ayyappan, who is contesting from Nanguneri Assembly constituency in the district, Mr. Dhinakaran said that the DMK was in power five times and during that period there were many issues like Katchatheevu, Cauvery water disputes, hydrocarbon drilling in delta region, NEET examination and among others. The DMK should be held responsible for all these issues and now they have promised to withdraw NEET. As long as Jayalalithaa was in power and alive, she never allowed any projects that were anti-people. After her demise, the present leaders in the AIADMK had compromised on the policies and path of the late leader. The Chief Minister and Deputy CM were all praise for the BJP and its leaders. Only when the relations with Centre was cordial, the State would get its due share without any hassle, they claimed. There was no problem in having good relations, but the issue was that the rights of the people were being given up, he said. The AMMK leader said that the Finance Minister and AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam had informed the Assembly during the recent budget session that the Centre owed Rs. 15,000 crore to TN government on the GST. However, at a public meeting in Madurai on Friday in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi participated, he said that the TN government had received funds from the Centre. “Why these double standards,” he questioned and asked the people to think before they voted as both the Dravidian parties had ruined their lives. Promising to deliver a clean governance, if elected, Mr. Dhinakaran said that he would strive hard to improve the lives of the downtrodden and also give hope to the youth in the State by opening up more manufacturing industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ttv-slams-dmk-aiadmk/article34227895.ece
03 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Farmers stage demonstration||Hundreds of farmers belonging to the Lower Bhavani Farmers Welfare Association staged a demonstration near Kangeyam in Tiruppur district on Friday to condemn the concrete lining works for the Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal. Association president C. Nallasamy said that the demonstration was held at Nathakadiyur village panchayat, and alleged that the preliminary works for the concrete lining of the canal began despite stiff opposition from the farmers. Following the demonstration, the Tiruppur district police and officials from the Public Works Department spoke to the farmers. “They assured us that no works would be carried out when the Model Code of Conduct was in force,” Mr. Nallasamy said. The demonstration was then withdrawn. Several shops in the village were also closed on Friday, Mr. Nallasam said. Farmers in Erode and Tiruppur districts have been opposing the State government’s proposal for concrete lining of the 201-km-long LBP canal alleging that this would affect agricultural activities and recharge of ground water. Concrete canals previously established for the Parambikulam – Aliyar Project and Mullaperiyar project had failed, Mr. Nallasamy alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-stage-demonstration/article34227915.ece
03 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||I-T officials seize cash from house in Tiruppur||Officials from the Income-Tax Department seized Rs. 5.5 lakh unaccounted cash from a house at Pitchampalayam in Tiruppur North Assembly constituency on Friday. Sources in the Revenue Department and Tiruppur City Police said election officials received a complaint over phone that cash was allegedly hoarded in the house of Selvaraj for distribution ahead of the election. When a team of I-T officials and a Static Surveillance Team went to the house, Selvaraj admitted that he possessed Rs. 5.5 lakh and handed it over to the officials, the sources said. Selvaraj is said to be a member of Naam Tamilar Katchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-t-officials-seize-cash-from-house-in-tiruppur/article34228358.ece
03 April 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||MCC||Rohan Premkumar   During Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s visit to the Nilgiris, media passes had the BJP’s symbol and the Prime Minister’s photo. The passes were signed by the Ooty Town DSP. On the day of Mr. Singh’s visit, the district administration and the police seemed to have caught on that party symbols and photos may be a violation of the model code of conduct, and they confiscated most passes from mediapersons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mcc/article34227878.ece
03 April 2021||Uthangarai,TAMIL NADU||Anti-incumbency, alliance may upset AIADMK||As a reserved constituency on the inter-district border between Krishnagiri and Tiruvannamalai, Uthangarai signals a largely indeterminate contest, albeit with signs of an advantage to the DMK. The constituency has a high proportion of Adi Dravidars, Arunthanthiyars, Kuravars, and its Scheduled Caste population is over 21%, followed by Vanniyars and Vellalars, Muslims and other intermediate castes. The Congress is contesting under the DMK combine, fielding J.S. Arumugam. There was initial discontent in the local DMK for conceding the constituency to the Congress. The AIADMK has fielded T.M. Tamilselvan. The constituency had returned the AIADMK for the last two consecutive terms, especially with a whopping majority in the last elections. However, this time, anti-incumbency and the AIADMK’s alliance with the PMK and the BJP is set to turn off the Scheduled Caste and the minority voters. Uthangarai has a strong presence of the VCK and the Communists, and the caste composition is likely to help the DMK combine. But the rural-suburban disconnect may tell on the vote share of the two parties. Uthangarai town has a high proportion of Muslim population and educated Scheduled Caste population, who are expected to swing in favour of the DMK. But in rural areas, with a disparate voter base, the contesting symbol is expected to guide the voter choice. With the Congress contesting on its own symbol, the familiarity of the symbol of a Dravidian party may influence voter behaviour. Lack of irrigation schemes and shortage of potable water are some of the gnawing issues. Protests for potable water are a recurrent feature. Farmers have long demanded a water harvesting scheme from Paambaru dam with a watershed of 4,000 acres. An irrigation project tapping into the run-off from KRP dam to fill up 34 lakes in Bargur has been a persistent demand to beat the drought. The Tindivanam to Krishnagiri road has remained unmotorable causing accidents. The constituency with a strong presence of educational institutions also has a high concentration of farm labourers. Lack of industry has pushed educated youth outward for employment. The SIPCOT in Pochampalli has been set up only in name with no real industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anti-incumbency-alliance-may-upset-aiadmk/article34227939.ece
03 April 2021||V. VenkatasubramanianTHANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Arch rivals to fight for the 8th time||Arch rivals, DMK and AIADMK, are taking on each other directly for an eighth time in the elections to the Thanjavur Assembly segment, which remained with the DMK for most of the time. Right from 1977, when the AIADMK established itself as a strong force to reckon with, the Thanjavur constituency has witnessed a direct contest between the two Dravidian majors in 1977, 1991, 1996, 2006, 2011 and 2016 (when the elections for this seat was countermanded and held later) elections and in 2019 by-elections. In these bouts for the Assembly seat between the two, the senior party DMK won it four times and the AIADMK thrice. This time, the DMK has re-nominated sitting MLA T.K.G. Neelamegam and the AIADMK its Karanthai unit secretary V. Arivudainambi. Surprisingly the AMMK, which had fielded the former MLA M.Rengasamy as its candidate in the 2019 by-elections, has allocated the Thanjavur seat to its alliance partner Desiya Murpokku Dravidar Kazhagam which has fielded S. Ramanathan as its candidate in the ‘murasu’ (drum) symbol. R. Subadevi of NTK, G. Sundaramohan of MNM, S. Karikala Cholan of Nationalist Congress Party, A. Xavier of People’s Party of India (Secular) and five Independents are also in the fray. Interestingly, this heritage town which had seen some infrastructure developments such as the new bus stand and creation of an underground sewage network in the extended areas along the Medical College Road, the Pudukottai Road and Nanjikottai Road still grapples with problems such as traffic congestion near the World Heritage Monument - the Big Temple, and in the old town area even on normal days. Not of much use Further, a rail over-bridge constructed at Santhapillai Gate area seems to have not served the purpose fully as the majority of the public transport traffic from Punnainallur Mariamman Temple side heads for the old town and they take the old Nagapattinam Road passing underneath the new ROB. In the meantime, some of the projects taken up under the Smart Cities Mission initiative in the town has invited the wrath of a section of people living alongside the dilapidated moats in the town and a section of traders claimed to be affected by the remodelling of the civic body owned standalone commercial complexes and the old bus stand complex. A move to set up multi-purpose centres with garbage segregation facility at 14 zones in the Corporation had also invited the wrath of traders and residential associations in the respective zones which had ultimately aggravated the garbage handling capacity of the civic body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arch-rivals-to-fight-for-the-8th-time/article34227850.ece
03 April 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Officials seize Rs. 18 lakh from AIADMK men in Katpadi||The Election Expenditure Observer in Katpadi seized more than Rs. 18 lakh from a group of people from the ruling AIADMK in Katpadi early on Friday. Eight persons have been detained by the police in connection with the case. According to sources, Amit Kadam, the election expenditure observer, was on night rounds on Thursday. He spotted a group of men standing on the road and questioned them. Upon checking their belongings, the officials found Rs. 15,000 in one man’s bag. The man told the officials that it was his salary. However, when Mr. Kadam was questioning him, the others fled the spot and hid in a lodge. Mr. Kadam immediately alerted the Returning Officer G. Puniyakoti, and he, in turn, alerted the Vellore Collector A. Shanmugasundaram and Income Tax officials. The officials locked the lodge and conducted a detail check inside the premises. Upon checking the rooms, they found incriminating documents, papers, electoral rolls, cash distribution details and pamphlets. A detailed inquiry is on. Meanwhile the police have detained eight persons in connection with the case. “People can pass on information about money circulation, irrespective of the political party, to our officials or on control room numbers: +91 94987 47537 or +91 416 225 6618. Their identity will not be revealed,” said the Collector. Earlier in 2019, the Vellore (within which Katpadi falls) Lok Sabha election was cancelled due to attempts to bribe voters. Following this the Election Commission of India had called for strict monitoring of the district for the upcoming elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/election-officials-seize-rs-18-lakh-in-katpadi/article34228342.ece
03 April 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||VIT team electrifies 65 houses in rural Karnataka||The School of Electrical Engineering in Vellore Institute of Technology, Vellore has electrified, using solar energy, 65 houses in Alambadi village in rural Karnataka which did not have any power supply for the past 75 years. The professors and students of the Solar Energy Research Cell (SERC), School of Electrical Engineering, VIT, did this under a project — Intelligent Off-Grid System for energy sustainable village — sanctioned by the Department of Science and Technology (DST), under the banner, Mission Innovation Challenge - Off grid energy access. The team carried this out in association with consortium partners, University of Strathclyde, Glasgow, United Kingdom, Roma Tre University, Italy and Indian institutes like Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Rural Energy and Development (MGIRED), Trust for Rejuvenation of Environment and Nature Development(TREND), and Sri Venkateswara College of Engineering (SVCE), Karnataka. “Under this project, the Indian institutes will collaborate with foreign universities and bring up innovation related to rural electrification so that it can be presented as a business model to African countries. The systems, which we came up with, will be tested in diverse locations across the country. Only nine institutes have been given this grant and ours is the only private one,” said Prof. N.Rajasekar, SERC, VIT. VIT has been allotted a grant of Rs. 2.408 crore for installation, commissioning and assessment of the system. “We developed a 48 volt solar powered DC microgrid system for an entire community. We identified two sites for implementation. One unit has been installed in Alambadi, in a wildlife reserve in Karnataka, to power 65 legally approved houses. The other three sites are at Saichammal, Goliyali and Gowliwada, in Belgaum district, Karnataka. In total, we will provide electrification to around 120 houses,” said Srinivasan Shankar Kumar, junior research fellow, SERC, VIT. The system uses solar energy integrated with battery back up. "We have also introduced a charge controller that works at different voltage levels. It has an inbuilt processor which will help track the power consumption data of the houses remotely. We have also developed an intelligent energy meter that records, transmits and monitors power consumption data. It also uses a long range communication system for data transfer to the cloud," explained Mr. Rajasekar. The access to electricity improved Panchayat amenities like schools, healthcare and sanitation facilities in the village. "The residents thanked us profusely. This will improve the lifestyle of villagers and help children to study better," he said. The department will also be installing an animal prevention system in the villages. "Most of the families in the villages we work in, are below the poverty line. Agriculture is the main source of income. Wild boars and deers damage the cultivated land. So we are coming up with the UV sensor-based technology that captures animal intervention and triggers a dynamic light and sound pattern which will scare the animals," added Mr. Rajasekar.  Under this project, the Indian institutes will collaborate with foreign universities, bring up innovation related to rural electrification so that it can be presented as a business model to African countries||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vit-team-electrifies-65-houses-in-karnataka-using-solar-energy/article34228344.ece
03 April 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 38 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 21,569 with 38 new cases reported on Friday. While a total of 20,996 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 219. The district's death toll is 354. In Ranipet district, 26 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 16,517. In Tirupattur district, 24 new cases were reported on Friday and the total number of positive cases stood at 7,846. In Tiruvannamalai district, 13 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 19,726. Out of this, 19,357 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 83.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-38-new-cases/article34228645.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Udhayanidhi challenges I-T Dept. to search his residence||Responding to the searches by the Income Tax Department at the residence of V. Sabareesan, son-in-law of DMK president M.K. Stalin, the DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin on Friday challenged the sleuths to search his residence at Chennai. He was campaigning at Madathukulam in Tiruppur district for the DMK front’s candidates for Madathukulam and Udumalpet Assembly constituencies namely R. Jayaramakrishnan (DMK) and K. Thennarasu (Congress) respectively. “Here is my address: No. 25/9, Cenotaph Road, Chittaranjan Salai, Chennai. If you (I-T Department) have the courage, visit my house. Whatever is there, I will show you,” he said. “Not just me, even the DMK’s area secretary will not fear these I-T raids,” Mr. Udhayanidhi asserted. Responding to the charges of dynasty politics made by Union Home Minister Amit Shah during his election campaign in the State on Thursday, he claimed that the total income of Jay Shah, the son of Mr. Shah, has allegedly increased by ‘15,000%’ since the BJP came to power at the Centre. While campaigning for Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi candidate Premier Selvam in Coimbatore on Thursday, Mr. Udhayanidhi accused the BJP of destabilising several State governments run by Opposition parties, in order to capture power through the back door. Mr.Udhayanidhi refuted charges by Mr. Modi that he had entered politics through the back door, and asserted that he had risen with the people. The DMK youth wing leader said he was neither Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami nor Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam to bow before Mr. Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. He also challenged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to face the media to answer questions on the progress made in the construction of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Madurai. In the 2019 by-election, Sulur voters had voted for the AIADMK candidate. This time the voters should teach the AIADMK-BJP coalition a befitting lesson as it was the AIADMK government that had introduced NEET in the State. It had cost the lives of 14 students, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/udhayanidhi-challenges-i-t-dept-to-search-his-residence/article34227894.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 277 new cases||Coimbatore district reported 277 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the overall tally to 59,529. The Health Department did not report any new deaths. As many as 56,972 have recovered and 1,863 were active cases. A total of 136 patients were discharged from various treatment centres in Coimbatore district on Friday upon recovering from COVID-19. Tiruppur district saw a rise in its daily caseload as 75 new COVID-19 cases were reported on Friday, which took the overall tally to 19,465. No deaths were reported. As many as 18,801 patients have recovered and 438 were active cases in the district. On Friday, 39 patients from Tiruppur district were discharged from various treatment centres. In the Nilgiris, 22 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 8,708. A total of 144 persons were under treatment as on Friday. Salem district reported 49 new cases on Friday. As per the bulletin issued here, all cases were indigenous. Erode district reported 46 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 15,425. While 26 persons were discharged, 213 continue to be under treatment. Of the 20 new cases reported in Namakkal, six persons had returned from Bengaluru, Rajasthan, Salem, Erode and Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-277-new-cases/article34228362.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||49 cases in Salem||As many as 49 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem on Friday. As per the bulletin issued here, all cases were indigenous. Erode district reported 46 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 15,425. While 26 persons were discharged, 213 continue to be under treatment. In Namakkal, 20 cases were reported. Six patients have returned from Bengaluru, Rajasthan, Salem, Erode and Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/49-cases-in-salem/article34227933.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||In the headline of the report on DMK MP M. K. Kanimozhi promising that cardholders will get Rs. 4,000 if the DMK wins, on Page 3 of edition dated April 2, Assembly has been misspelt as Assemebly. The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/correction/article34227901.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Hindus should unite’||Akila Bharatha Thuraviyar Peravai (a forum of renunciates) has appealed to Hindu voters “to teach a lesson to those political parties and politicians that were against Hindus”. At a press meet held here on Friday, the Peravai representatives led by Thavathiru Perur Aadheenam Sri Maruthachala Adigalar, Thavathiru Siravai Aadheenam Sri Kumaragurubara Swamigal and Sri Kamakshipuri Aadheenam Sri Sivalingeswara Swamigal said “Hindus should unite to teach a lesson to such forces and vote for a party that is not anti-Hindu and worked towards freeing temples from government control.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hindus-should-unite/article34228359.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||SP takes charge||S. Selvanagarathinam, a 2014 Tamil Nadu batch IPS officer, took charge as the Superintendent of Police, Coimbatore district, on Friday. He was posted by the Election Commission of India, after it ordered the transfer of former SP Ara. Arularasu on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sp-takes-charge/article34228360.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||cinema arts events||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA AAA, ABAI, TVK CULTURAL Today 6.30 p.m. @ Raja Anna-malai Mandram A/c, AMARAR KALKI'S ''PONNIYIN SELVAN'' Historical Drama. Tickets @ hall, Ph: 9444414845/ bookmyshow.com The Mylapore Fine Arts Club Phone: 24997755 / 42607755 Today 6.45 p.m. Jayakeerthana Creations Presents UNMAI URANGATHU by T.V. Radhakrishnan. All are Welcome. Covid 19 SOPs Apply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cinema-arts-events/article34228333.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||THANJAVUR  Sri Venkatachalapathi Temple: Panguni festival, Velli thirupallakku, 8 a.m.; velli yanai vaganam, 7 p.m.; maalai mattru purappadu, Oppilliappankoil, 8.30 p.m. TIRUVARUR  Thangukudi Maha Mariamman Temple: Maha Mariamman mahotsavam, abishekam, 7 a.m.; Ambal purappadu, 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article34227864.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||tiruchi today||RELIGION  Sri Pundarikaksha Perumal Temple: Brahmothsavam, Simha vaganam, 8 a.m.; Yanai vaganam, Thiruvellarai, 7 p.m.  Sri Ukkirakaliamman Temple: Car festival, Swamy kudipuguthal, Thennur, 8.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-today/article34228636.ece
03 April 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||KSE to launch Jal Shakti Abhiyan in Hubballi||K.S. Eshwarappa, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister, will launch Jal Shakti Abhiyan, the Union government’s ambitious drinking water supply scheme, in Hubballi on April 9. Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the national programme at New Delhi on World Water Day on March 22. The Dharwad district administration is making preparations for the RDPR Minister’s event. Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil and Dharwad Zilla Panchayat CEO B. Susheela said the State-level awards to gram panchayats for their excellent implementation of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme (MGNREGP) will also be presented on the occasion. District in-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar will flag off the MGNREGP chariot, while Union Minister Pralhad Joshi will inaugurate an exhibition on water conservation. As part of this campaign, water conservation initiatives including recharge of wells, kalyanis, borewells, and construction of check dams will be taken up across the State. The 100-day programme will be implemented under NREGA. The government will use Dishaank mobile app to identify water bodies and sources for lakes and rejuvenate them. The programme will also include work to remove silt from lakes, tank bund development, and development of canals from lakes that flow into agricultural fields. “New lakes will also be developed on government lands and in forest areas,” said Ms. Susheela. The government will take up rejuvenation of temple kalyanis and nalas. Importance will be given to recharging borewells in gram panchayats for ensuring drinking water. The next leg of the programme, dubbed ‘Catch the rain where it falls, when it falls’, will be rolled out across the country’s 734 districts covering over 6,00,000 villages, officers said. It will begin by monsoon. During the campaign, geo-tagging of all waterbodies throughout the nation will be carried out, which shall form the basis for assessment of the rejuvenation efforts for waterbodies across the country.  Key points   K.S. Eshwarappa, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister, will launch it on April 9 State-level awards to gram panchayats for their implementation of MGNREGP will also be presented on the occasion||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kse-to-launch-jal-shakti-abhiyan-in-hubballi/article34227961.ece
03 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Annual magazine of Rashtriya Military School released||Brigadier Rohit Choudhary, Maratha Light Infantry Regiment Centre Commandant and chairman of the Rashtriya Military School committee, released the school magazine recently. In a special school assembly, the annual school magazine was released. The chairman felicitated cadets of standard X and standard XII with the Pushpa and the Uday Lavasa wards for March 2021, for their contribution in sustaining the school environment and for exhibiting high standards of ethical behaviour and moral values. Brig. Choudhary also praised the efforts of the school in bringing out the magazine in this period. He said the school assembly was a wonderful opportunity for cadets to hone their public speaking skills and imbibe confidence and a sense of self-worth which will stand them in good stead in selection to the defence forces and face challenges in life. He urged cadets to use their youthful energy “to be the engine of change in society”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/annual-magazine-of-rashtriya-military-school-released/article34227951.ece
03 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Big explosion’ if CM is not changed: Yatnal||Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, Vijayapura MLA, has said that there will be a “big explosion” in the State if Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is not removed before May 2. Reacting to RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa writing to the Governor complaining against the alleged “interference” by the Chief Minister, Mr. Yatnal said it was bound to happen. “Mr. Eshwarappa suffered silently all these days and now he has been forced to go to the Governor,” Mr. Yatnal said. “Many leaders are angry with the Chief Minister and Mr. Eshwarappa has expressed it. If the party high command lets him continue him as Chief Minister, a bigger explosion will follow,” he said, adding he would advise Arun Singh, party general secretary, to stop praising Mr. Yediyurappa during his visits to Karnataka.  ‘Illegal deals’ He alleged that the Chief Minister’s family was conducting illegal deals of various departments sitting in Kaveri, the CM’s home office. “It seems the Chief Minister and his son are keen to take over the complete government.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/big-explosion-if-cm-is-not-changed-yatnal/article34228316.ece
03 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Shivakumar should resign’||Congress leader and a younger brother of the former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi Lakhan Jarkiholi has demanded that Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar should resign from his party post on moral grounds. He told journalists in Gokak on Thursday that the Congress high command should demand Mr. Shivakumar’s resignation from the party post and settle the controversy over the CD allegedly featuring Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi. “I think there is truth in what the woman’s parents have said. They have openly named Mr. Shivakumar in their police complaint. The police should investigate that angle,” Mr. Lakhan Jarkiholi said. He also said that it would help Congress candidates in all the bypoll seats, if Mr. Shivakumar were to resign now. Otherwise, it will be difficult to trust anyone or to carry out campaigning on behalf of the party, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivakumar-should-resign/article34227949.ece
03 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||20th annual convocation of VTU to be held today||V. K. Aatre, former scientific adviser to the Defence Minister, will deliver the convocation address of VTU in Belagavi on Saturday. The 20th convocation will be held at the Dr. A. P. J. Abdul Kalam auditorium at Jnana Sangama, VTU campus on Jamboti Road. Governor Vajubhai Wala, Chancellor of the university, has cancelled his visit to Belagavi, owing to the developments in Bengaluru, university officers said. The university will present the honorary degree of Doctor of Science (Honoris Causa) to Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, Department of Science and Technology. Degrees The university will confer BE degrees to 63,160, students, B.Arch to 892, MBA to 4,817, MCA to 1,248, M.Tech to 1,704, M.Arch to 77, and PG diplomas to 278. It is awarding 635 PhDs, five MSc. (Engg) by research and three integrated dual degrees to research scholars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/20th-annual-convocation-of-vtu-to-be-held-today/article34227956.ece
03 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||About 750 children in Bengaluru contracted COVID-19 in March||Children below the age of 10 appear to be prone to COVID-19 in the second wave and Bengaluru, which is seeing the highest spike, recorded infections in nearly 750 children in this age bracket in March alone. According to data from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) war room, 77 children below the age of 10 were infected on Thursday alone. Overall, over 1,000 children have been infected in the State and this has raised concerns. This was one of the compelling reasons for the State government to again close schools. V. Ravi, a member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, said although the virus has been mutating there is no strong evidence to show that it attacks children the most. Greater exposure The reasons, he believes, lie elsewhere. “During the first wave, children were more protected as there was a lockdown and schools were closed. However, now they have been attending schools, outdoor classes such as tuitions, social gatherings, and other functions along with their parents,” he said. Chikkanarasappa Reddy, associate professor of Paediatrics at Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute, said he had seen more children with COVID-19 in the past one week. “The hospital has two 45-day-old babies and two children in the 10-19 age group admitted in the COVID-19 ward. The reports of four babies just born to positive mothers are awaited,” he said, adding that more children were getting infected at homes through their parents. Smitha Segu, nodal officer for COVID-19 at Bengaluru Medical College and Research Institute, said the COVID-19 ward in Victoria Hospital had seen more child admissions in the last one month when compared to the numbers in previous months. From parents However, some paediatricians said the number of children infected in schools was negligible. “Parents are the main source of infection as children accompany them to social gatherings, weddings, and parties. Even if they do not accompany them, parents are carriers and pass on the virus to their children,” said Asha Benekappa, former director of the State-run Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health. “After the number of cases declined in the State after December, people let their guard down. In fact, children are more disciplined at school as they are made to wear masks and are under watch. The virus is everywhere now, inside and outside homes,” said Dr. Benakappa, who is now the head of the Department of Paediatrics at the Dr. Chandramma Dayananda Sagar Institute of Medical Education and Research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/about-750-children-in-bengaluru-contracted-covid-19-in-march/article34227967.ece
03 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘A great celebrity, who remembers his roots... and his friends’||When Rajinikanth worked in Bengaluru, issuing bus tickets as a conductor with the BTS (now BMTC), his friends and colleagues knew him as Shivaji Rao Gaekwad. Those who were aware of his struggles as a youth and continue to be friends with the ‘Thalaivar’, recall the man Shivaji Rao behind the larger-than-life Rajinikanth. “My real name is Venugopal. So till date, I am Venu to him and he is my Shivaji,” said actor-producer Ashok. “We were not just classmates, but also roommates in the South Indian Film Chamber of Commerce’s film institute. Shivaji and I were in the Kannada batch and Chiranjeevi was our junior.” They have been friends ever since. “We were notorious on the campus, and books have been written about our escapades,” added Mr. Ashok, who expressed his happiness when he heard that his friend had been honoured with the Dadasaheb Phalke Award. “He should have got it a long time ago.” Rocky road The actor-producer is one of the few people who has seen Rajinikanth transform from a bus conductor to a superstar. His path to super-stardom was not easy and he was often met with prejudice. Cinematographer B.S. Basavaraj recalls an incident in 1975, when he was still an up-and-coming actor. “It was during a shoot of a Kannada film at Prasad Studio, Chennai, when Shivaji visited us. The director wanted to cast him, but the producer was not willing as he found Shivaji’s complexion too dark. And today, he is is the winner of the Dadasaheb Phalke Award,” said Mr. Basavaraj. Street cricket Assistant director Huli Chandrashekar is thrilled for his childhood friend. “We were neighbours in Hanumanthanagar where I still live. We are 70 years old now. Our homes were just one street apart,” he said. As young boys, they were part of the street cricket team. “We were a group of five to six boys who would take off to the Harohara mountain to play cricket. We do meet often and every time he comes to Bengaluru, he makes it a point to meet all of us,” said Mr. Chandrashekar Watching movies “As a youngster, Shivaji was energetic and over enthusiastic. We would sit in movie tents and watch screenings of films of Dr. Rajkumar, Sivaji Ganesan, and MGR and then head to a local bar to discuss cinema. Some days we would be so broke that we would sit outside the tent and listen to the dialogues,” he recalled. In a fight According to Mr. Chandrashekar, Shivaji was a man to have in a fight. “One night we were at our regular Naidu bar. Some man provoked Shivaji and he took on a group of tough men on his own. I was impressed by his strength and agility.” His friend Vijay Kumar recalled an incident outside Vijay Vani studios in Chennai. “We saw a huge cut-out of MGR and Shivaji asked us, if we too would have cut-outs like that. And we all laughed. Today, he is a great celebrity, but one who remembers his roots. And treats his friends with the same love that he had when he was young.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-great-celebrity-who-remembers-his-roots-and-his-friends/article34227985.ece
03 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Forest fire at university’s Jnana Bharathi campus||A forest fire erupted at Bangalore University’s Jnana Bharathi campus, and spread close to the administrative block on Friday morning. Fire and Emergency Services personnel said a total of five fire tenders arrived at the spot and put the fire out. However, it re-started again on Friday night and another fire tender was rushed to the spot. It was still on the campus at the time of going to press. K.R. Venugopal, Vice Chancellor of the university, said that such fires were common during the summer as the campus housed dense forests. “There was no damage to any property or people,” he said. According to officials of the university, the fire was noticed late as it was a government holiday. Firemen said they had communicated to the university authorities multiple times to clear the forested area of dry grass, which is a fire risk every summer. “Usually students hang around in these areas and even a cigarette bud can trigger a fire, which is what may have happened on Friday,” said a senior fire official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/forest-fire-at-universitys-jnana-bharathi-campus/article34227983.ece
03 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP holds meeting with RWAs to map out action plan||Worried about the number of COVID-19 cases being reported in the city every day, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta accompanied by Special Commissioner (Health) P. Rajendra Cholan and senior health officials, interacted with representatives of various residents’ welfare associations (RWAs). With the government allowing vaccinations in health sub-centres, the BBMP will soon get in touch with industries, multinational companies, and apartment complexes. Apartment complexes should tie up with the nearest private medical facility, said Mr. Cholan, and set up a “mini-hospital environment”. Mr. Gupta added that the civic body would once again interact with the heads of the various private medical establishments in this regard. “We will also suggest setting aside a day and time for the vaccination of residents from a particular apartment complex or locality,” he said. He urged the citizensto report those with symptoms and influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory infection, so that they may be tested for COVID-19. Those in contact with someone who has tested positive should also get tested, apart from isolating themselves early. Currently, BBMP officials are able to trace, on an average, 10 contacts for every positive case. The civic chief said officials concerned had been directed to target 30 contacts — both primary and secondary — for each positive case. “For this, we need the active support of all the RWAs and citizens,” he said. BBMP Chief Health Officer (Public Health) Vijayendra suggested that domestic help working in multiple homes in apartment complexes be encouraged to get tested for COVID-19 at least once a month. He said in case the domestic help are either primary or secondary contacts, the associations may inform the nearest primary health centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-holds-meeting-with-rwas-to-map-out-action-plan/article34228307.ece
03 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC suggests separate forensic science lab for drug cases||The High Court of Karnataka has suggested to the State and Central governments to have a separate Forensic Sciences Laboratory (FSL) in Karnataka to analyse narcotic drugs and contraband articles seized in offences registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. The court also suggested that the State government provide field test kits to all police stations, if not already provided for spot testing of seized substances, and asked the State Public Prosecutor to make an endeavour to persuade the authorities. Justice K. Natarajan passed the order while rejecting the bail plea of 27-year-old Arjav Deepak Mehtha, who was arrested in November 2020 by Jeevan Bhima Nagar police in Bengaluru city when he was receiving a parcel from the postman. He was accused of placing order for banned substance Lysergic acid diethylamide (commonly known as LSD) through dark web from Netherlands by making payment through cryptocurrency. About 3.95 gm of LSD was recovered from the parcel. It was contended on behalf of the accused that the investigating officer did not conduct field test and the result of the chemical analysis of the seized substance was not received within 15 days as per the guidelines of the Narcotic Crimes Bureau. On the other hand, the police pointed out to the court that State had only one FSL for analysis of all types of materials seized in criminal cases and hence, the report of the analysis could not be expected in 15 days due to huge pendency in FSL. However, the court said guidelines of NCB to have FSL report is not mandatory but is directory in nature and it is not possible to get report on seized substances within 15 days unless there is a separate FSL for NCB and offences registered under NDPS Act. The court said guidelines issued by NCB on field testing of substances and securing report from FSL in 15 days apply to Drug Law Enforcement Officers but in the present case, the offence is registered by the ordinary police and not by special police or sleuths of NCB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-suggests-separate-forensic-science-lab-for-drug-cases/article34228319.ece
03 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Restaurants, pubs prepare for yet another lean period||The government’s restrictions on seating arrangements in bars, restaurants, pubs, and clubs in Bengaluru Urban and Rural, as well as in other districts such as Mysuru, Udupi, and Bidar, have not come as a surprise to restaurateurs. Many restaurants in Bengaluru have already adopted such measures while others admitted that patronage has dropped over the last fortnight. Less than a week ago, clusters were reported in two popular pubs in Bengaluru, with many employees testing positive for COVID-19. Though the staff members were all asymptomatic, the incident prompted owners ofseveral hotels and restaurants to impose restrictions such as reducing the number of tables and not accepting bookings for parties even before the government announced the new guidelines on Friday. Vidyarthi Bhavan, a popular South Indian food joint, for example, has already brought down the number of tables for its dine-in facility by 30. Restaurateur Arun Adiga told The Hindu that patrons have been urged to call ahead for reservations, as walk-ins are being discouraged. This is one way to reduce crowding outside the eatery, he said. They can also place orders online and collect them at the designated time. “We had to take this hard decision in light of the spike in cases in the city,” Mr. Adiga said. The Bruhat Bangalore Hotels’ Association (BBHA) is also in the process of drawing up an action plan for its members to ensure that the chain of spread is curtailed. The BBHA and the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) have sent petitions to both the Union and State governments to consider staff in the hotel industry as frontline workers and cover them in the vaccination drive. Restaurants are already experiencing the effects of the second wave. BBHA president P.C. Rao pointed out that over the past week, business had dropped, and as had the room rentals. “The hospitality sector has incurred a loss of approximately Rs. 500 crore and several people who were employed in the industry lost their jobs over the past year. Several hotels are imposing restrictions themselves,” he said. ‘Vaccinate employees’ Manu Chandra, restaurateur and head of the NRAI’s Bengaluru chapter, pointed out that the mean age of hotel employees was not more than 28 years. “Employees in the hotel industry are prone to multiple points of contact. It therefore makes sense to cover them in the vaccination drive,” he said. He added that the NRAI had also drawn up a playbook on measures to be taken to check the spread. “The playbook has been widely distributed across the country.” Karunakar Hegde, vice-president of the Federation of Wine Merchants’ Association, Karnataka, said the federation has intimated liquor licence holders on the preventive measures to be taken. “We have also given training to employees of several bars and restaurants in the city. With the fall in business, the number of tables has also been reduced,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/restaurants-pubs-prepare-for-yet-another-lean-period/article34227971.ece
03 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports almost 5,000 cases||Karnataka on Friday further saw a further surge of COVID-19 with 4,991 new cases. With this, the total tally rose to 10,06,229. Of these, 3,509 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone. After reporting more than 20 deaths in the last two days, the number of fatalities reduced to six, taking the toll to 12,591. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,631 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total recoveries to 9,59,400. Of the remaining 34,219 active patients, 269 were being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 4.19%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.12%.       Vaccination As many as 20,65,491 senior citizens have been vaccinated in the State since March 1, when the second phase of vaccination was rolled out. That apart, 7,56,562 persons above the age of 45 with comorbidities have been vaccinated so far. On Friday, 51,373 senior citizens and 68,100 people aged above 45 and having comorbidities took the jab till 8.30 p.m. Besides, 1,219 and 419 persons in both categories, respectively, took the second dose. The State has vaccinated 40,73,206 people so far. This includes 5,65,063 healthcare workers and 2,41,789 frontline workers who have taken the first dose of vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-almost-5000-cases/article34227968.ece
03 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools caught off guard by class suspension||The State government’s decision to suspend physical classes for students from standards VI to IX first in Bengaluru and then extend the rule to the rest of Karnataka on Friday has comeas a surprise to private school managements who are worried about the academic schedule. While some schools, especially those affiliated with the Central board, have completed the examination and declared holidays, they remain in the minority. Many schools were midway through the examination process, which they have now decided to cancel or conduct online. Teachers, however, are not enthusiastic about assessing students online, having learned from the mid-term examination process where a large number of students reportedly indulged in malpractice, some, even with the help of their parents. Mansoor Ali Khan, member, board of management, Delhi Public Group of Schools, said they had started examination on campusa few days ago for high school students. “But now we have decided to revert to online evaluation as schools will have to be closed,” he said. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said assessments had been severely affected as they had not conducted examination for students even in the previous academic year. “If we had been given another week, we would have been able to complete classes and hold examinations that were scheduled to be conducted offline,” he said. The evaluation process for government school students in classes VI to IX is yet to be finalised. Lokesh Talikatte, State unit president, Recognised Unaided Private Schools’ Association, Karnataka, said while many private school students have attended classes online, students of government schools have suffered immensely. “There is a need for a bridge course so that such students are not left back academically,” he said. Parents, however, have welcomed the government’s decision as children appear to be more susceptible to COVID-19 during this current second wave. Deepthi S., mother of a class IX student in a CBSE-affiliated school said, “The school has said they will conduct the assessment by evaluating papers that students have already given. In subjects where the examinations have not been held, the school will take the average of the previous assessments.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-caught-off-guard-by-class-suspension/article34227973.ece
03 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Weekend vehicle ban on Church Street till May 31||The initiative to limit Church Street to only pedestrians on weekends, which has been a huge success, will be extended till May 31. The Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT), which is spearheading the initiative, is exploring options with the city’s civic body to make it a more permanent feature. “Post-pandemic, globally, too, cities are re-imagining themselves. They are moving towards sustainability with a focus on pedestrian facilities, non-motorable transport and public transport. Pedestrianisation of Church Street during weekends is a move towards the same. We want the civic body to take it forward even as we move towards creating similar spaces elsewhere in the city,” said V. Manjula, Commissioner, DULT. The initiative on Church Street was started in November 2020 and was scheduled to end by February 2021, but it has been extended twice since then. A group of residents from the area have taken objection to this, arguing that this rule was causing them inconvenience. However, Ms. Manjula said all residents of the road had been issued passes for their vehicles, including visitor passes and steps will be taken to address any inconvenience caused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/weekend-vehicle-ban-on-church-street-till-may-31/article34228310.ece
03 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. to set up forensic science lab in every dist.’||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who chaired the Karnataka Police Flag Day on Friday, announced that the government will set up a Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) in every district of Karnataka to aid investigations. “Presently, FSL facility is available only in Bengaluru, which is over-stressed. There is a long queue for forensic examinations, often frustrating probes. An FSL in every district will be a shot in the arm for investigations in the State,” he said. He said the department is also considering providing college-going female students self-defence training. “Our girls need to be trained to defend themselves. We are planning to rope in experienced officers and start a programme to train them,” he said. Indirectly referring to criticism over the probe into the alleged “sex for favours” scandal involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkhioli, the Home Minister said the police force had done an excellent job in combating the pandemic and controlling the narcotics menace in the State. “Such criticism is common in professional life, we need to take it in our stride and not be bogged down by it,” he said. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who was the chief guest at the event, said the State government was committed to not only modernisation of the force but also welfare of the force’s personnel. “The government has released Rs. 100 crore of the allotted Rs. 200 crore for health insurance scheme of police personnel,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-set-up-forensic-science-lab-in-each-dist/article34228323.ece
03 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Businessman found dead in Bengaluru||A businessman was found hanging at his residence near Doddaballapur here on Thursday night. Rajanna, 55, had a case of harassment and criminal intimidation registered against him three days ago, his family said. His son Gautam allegedly had a relationship with a woman, who subsequently became pregnant. After Gautam and his family refused marriage, the woman lodged police complaint citing sexual abuse and harassment.  (Those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/businessman-found-dead-in-bengaluru/article34227966.ece
03 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Plea in HC says no action taken based on Lokayukta reports in over 1,200 cases||The High Court of Karnataka has ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL petition seeking action against competent authorities for not acting for years on recommendations made by the Lokayukta or the Upalokyukta in their reports against the public servants in over 1,200 cases. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj passed the order on the petition filed by Sai Datta, a city-based social activist. The petitioner has pointed out that the replies given by authorities for his queries under the RTI Act has revealed that action is pending in over 342 cases in which the Lokayukta sent reports of enquiry as per provisions of the Karnataka Lokayukta Act, 1984, and in 932 cases in which reports were sent as per the provisions of Karnataka Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957. Pointing out that the competent authorities have take a decision as per the law within three months from the date of report received from the Lokayukta or Upalokayukta, the petitioner alleged that competent authorities abdicated their statutory duties by sitting over the reports for years defeating the very purpose of the statute. Action sought The petitioner sought action against all the competent authorities/heads of the departments for not taking action within the period stipulated in law despite recommendations by the Lokayukta or Upalokayukta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plea-in-hc-says-no-action-taken-based-on-lokayukta-reports-in-over-1200-cases/article34227979.ece
03 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State managed fiscal situation well during pandemic: Report||During the COVID-19 pandemic, Karnataka managed the fiscal situation reasonably well and was able to contain deficits and debt at sustainable levels, according to a report of Brickwork Ratings. M. Govinda Rao, chief economic advisor of Bengaluru-based Brickwork Ratings, in the Karnataka Budget 2021-22 report, said the debt-GSDP ratio at 26% estimated for 2021-22 exceeded the 20% mark for the first time, and the interest payment to revenue ratio at 18.9% is the highest for the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-managed-fiscal-situation-well-during-pandemic-report/article34228320.ece
03 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Appointed||R. Balasubramaniam, founder of GRAAM, has been appointed Member (HR), Capacity Building Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/appointed/article34228317.ece
03 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Selected for Best Public Prosecutor Award||Shivananda Perla, public prosecutor, CBI Anti-corruption Branch, Bengaluru, has been selected for the Best Public Prosecutor Award for 2020 on the occasion of the agency’s Foundation’s Day. Mr. Perla, while working in the Special Crime Branch, CBI, Chennai, had handled many corruption cases and got conviction for several public servants. He also dealt with sensitive and high-profile murder cases, including that of software professional Payal Surekha in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/selected-for-best-public-prosecutor-award/article34228311.ece
03 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Follow guidelines: DC||Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar has appealed to people in the district to follow COVID-19 guidelines strictly as the number of positive cases has been on the rise in the last week. At a press conference in Shivamogga on Friday, he said people have to wear face masks, and maintain physical distance in public places. The officers would impose a penalty on those violate the guidelines in markets, commercial complexes, and marriage halls. The shopkeepers should insist on customers wearing face masks, he said. “In the last one week, the officers collected Rs. 1.63 lakh against 1,016 cases of violation,” he said. More tests The district administration has increased the number of tests per day in the last week. Every day around 2,200 samples are collected. “The positivity rate is around 1.1% in the district. The pandemic is under control. However, the number of cases has been increasing in neighbouring districts. We can control the spread of the infection only if people follow the guidelines strictly,” he said. The administration is prepared to face the situation. McGann Hospital has got a well-equipped intensive care unit, supported by an oxygen unit. Random testing had been done at the railway station, bus stand and other places, he said. Coverage So far 85% of the health workers had got the first dose of vaccine and 53% have got the second dose. Besides them, 63% of the frontline workers had been vaccinated. As many as 58,814 people aged above 60 years had been vaccinated and 1,470 people aged above 45 years have got the first dose of vaccination, he said. Earlier, the DC held a meeting with senior officers of various departments about the measures necessary to avoid the spread of the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/follow-guidelines-dc/article34228113.ece
03 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Reserve forest land taken back||The Forest Department has taken back 51 acres of Gobbali reserve forest land near Goruru in Arkalgud taluk despite resistance from families of released bonded labourers, who had been cultivating the land for a couple of decades. The Forest officials, who reached the place with earthmovers on Thursday,faced protests by local people. Men and women, who gathered in big numbers, stopped the vehicles and raised slogans demanding that they be allowed to cultivate the land. The officers of the Forest and Revenue Departments tried to convince the families that they would get alternative land as compensation, meant for released bonded labours. However, the villagers argued that they would give up the protest only if they were shown alternative land. Range Forest Officer Arun Kumar, DySP Lakshme Gowda, and tahsildar Y.M..Renu Kumar held talks with them. Amidst the protest, the Forest officials succeeded in their task. The operation was completed on Friday evening. Deputy Conservator of Forests K.N. Basavaraj told The Hindu , “The local people, who were earlier freed as bonded labourers, had been cultivating a portion of the reserved forest land. Such land cannot be granted to anybody. There was resistance by local people on Thursday. However, there was no resistance on the second day. We have taken back our 51 acres of land.” The Revenue Department officials have assured the villagers that the Deputy Commissioner of Hassan would take up their case and find them suitable land for a grant. As many as 91 Dalit families of Gangur, who were working as bonded labourers, were released in the 1990s. Among them, 24 families got land for cultivation in Sakleshpur in 2013. The remaining families are yet to get the land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reserve-forest-land-taken-back/article34228104.ece
03 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Nursing college student claims his answer script was tampered with||A nursing student has filed a police complaint against the principal of the Government Nursing College in Hassan, accusing her of tampering with an answer script so that he would fail in the annual exam. C.G. Hiremath, a native of Muddebihal in Vijayapura district, stood second topper in the college in the first two years of his four-year B.Sc. course in Nursing. In the third-year exam, held in February this year, he failed in the Surgical Nursing paper, securing only 23 out of 75 marks. A student should get a minimum of 30 in theory to pass the exam. “I was disappointed when the results were announced. I applied for a photocopy of the answer script from Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences. When I got the photocopy of the answer script, I was shocked as many of my answers were struck off,” he told The Hindu . “As per the exam procedure, soon after the exam is over the answer scripts are scanned at the exam centre and sent to the university. Before my answer paper was scanned, many important answers which could have fetched me a good score were struck off,” Mr. Hiremath said. The student has alleged that principal Shobha Devamane played a role in the incident. He claimed the principal had a grudge against him as he had raised a few issues affecting the student community in the college earlier. “When I wanted a reply from the institute on this, the principal did not respond and asked me to ignore the matter. I have a filed complaint with the police seeking action against those who struck off my answers,” he said. Letter to varsity The Hassan Extension Police registered his complaint on March 31 under Section 506 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code. The student has also written to the university seeking justice. Mr. Hiremath, who hails from an agricultural family, has been studying by utilising an education loan.   I applied for a photocopy of the answer script from Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences. When I got the photocopy, I was shocked as many of my answers were struck off C.G. Hiremath, student of Govt. Nursing College, Hassan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nursing-college-student-claims-his-answer-script-was-tampered-with/article34227969.ece
03 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||New SP takes charge||B.M. Laxmi Prasad, a 2014 batch IPS officer, took charge as Superintendent of Police of Shivamogga on Friday. K.M. Shantharaju, who has been transferred as Deputy Commissioner of Police, Traffic East Division in Bengaluru, handed over the charge. Mr. Laxmi Prasad was earlier working as Superintendent of Police of Dakshina Kannada district. Speaking to media on the occasion, he said he would interact with senior officers of the department to understand the issues concerned with law and order in the district and work accordingly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-sp-takes-charge/article34228114.ece
03 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Additional charge||The Ministry of Railways has issued an order giving additional charge of South Western Railway to General Manager of South Central Railway Gajanana Mallya, a release from CPRO has said. The appointment comes in the wake of General Manager of South Western Railway Ajay Kumar Singh attaining superannuation on March 31. As per the order, Mr. Mallya will hold additional charge for three months or till the posting of a regular incumbent, whichever is earlier.    Independent candidate Siddalingappa Somalingappa, who had filed his nomination papers for the bypoll in Maski Assembly Constituency, withdrew them on Thursday, according to Maski bypoll election officer and Assistant Commissioner of Lingsugur Rajshekhar Dambal. The last date for filing nomination papers was March 30. The last date for withdrawing nomination papers is April 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/additional-charge/article34227955.ece
03 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Car festival is a low-key affair||The 199th annual car festival of Sharanabasaveshwar Temple, commemorating the death anniversary of the seer, in Kalaburagi on Friday was a low-key affair this year owing to COVID-19. The Sharanabasaveshwar Samsthan decided to organise the rituals in a simple and traditional manner. At 2 p.m., Sharnbaswappa Appa, eighth peetadhipati of the samsthan, signalled the beginning of the festival by displaying the holy silver bowl (prasada battalu) and the Linga Sajjike (cover used for keeping the Linga) made up of sandalwood and used by Sharanabasaveshwara. The devotees pulled the decorated temple car around the temple complex, and flung bananas tied with dry dates at the car. Only a few devotees turned up for the rathothsava. The annual car festival is celerbated to commemorate the 199th death anniversary of 18th century social reformer Sharanabasaveshwar and the ascension of the holy order of Dr. Appa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/car-festival-is-a-low-key-affair/article34227958.ece
03 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Dramatic end to meet on Jagjivam Ram Jayanti||A preliminary meeting in connection with celebrations of Babu Jagjivan Ram Jayanti and B.R .Ambedkar Jayanti convened at the Deputy Commissioner’s Office ended on a dramatic note here on Thursday with Dalit leaders raising slogans against Deputy Commissioner V.V. Jyothsna after the officer walked out from the meeting before it formally concluded. Ms. Jyothsna and Deputy Commissioner of Police Dekka Kishore Babu urged the Dalit leaders and members of social organisations to celebrate Babu Jagjivan Ram Jayanti (April 5) and Ambedkar Jayanti (April 14) at home and avoid public celebrations, as COVID-19 cases have been rapidly increasing in Kalaburagi district. Pointing out that the district administration was making all efforts to contain the pandemic, Mr. Kishore Babu said that the floral garlanding for Babu Jagjivan Ram and Ambedkar’s statues will be done by the district administration. He requested Dalit leaders and citizens to avoid mass gathering near the statues of both the leaders. Dalit leaders, including Suresh Hadimani, Prakash Moolbharati, Parameshwar Khanapur and Hanumanth Bhoodnakar, expressed their disappointment against the decision to not celebrate Babu Jagjivan Ram Jayanti and Dr. Ambedkar Jayanti this year. The district authorities did not agree for public celebrations even after repeated requests. The leaders argued that they would follow all safety measures during celebrations. The meeting ended in a sensational manner as Dalit leaders had an argument with the district administration officials, including Ms. Jyothsna and Kishore Babu. Dalit leaders and members from various organisations raised slogans against Ms Jyothsna and demanded that the officer resume the meeting. However, they waited for half-an-hour and dispersed from the meeting after the officials left the meeting hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dramatic-end-to-meet-on-jagjivam-ram-jayanti/article34227953.ece
03 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Samiti seeks statehood for Kalyana Karnataka||Expressing their anguish over the fate of projects sanctioned for Kalyana Karnataka region, the Kalyana Karnataka Janapara Sangharsh Samiti on Friday demanded statehood for the region. Laxman Dasti, samiti president addressing presspersons in Kalaburagi, said that the successive governments have neglected Kalyana Karnataka and the formation of a separate State is the only solution to ensure the development of the region. Listing out various prestigious projects denied to the region, including the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), the Centre for Skill Excellence, textile park, NIMZ (National Investment and Manufacturing Zone), and the railway division headquarters, Mr. Dasti said, “We have lost all the projects one after the other and they were shifted to Hubballi-Dharwad region. It reflects the public representative’s apathy towards Kalyana Karnataka”. He said that the samiti will intensify its agitation in all seven districts of the Kalyana Karnataka region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/samiti-seeks-statehood-for-kalyana-karnataka/article34227959.ece
03 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru-Mangaluru night train to run on all days via Kunigal||South Western Railway (SWR) has decided to operate the Bengaluru-Mangaluru-Bengaluru night express special via Kunigal, the shortest route, on all days of the week, instead of the earlier four days a week via Kunigal and three days a week via Mysuru. Consequent to the change in route, SWR has also revised the timings of the trains. Train No. 06515 KSR Bengaluru-Mangaluru Central special express leaves Bengaluru at 9.30 p.m. instead of 10.30 p.m. to reach Mangaluru Central at 7.55 a.m. instead of 8.30 a.m. with effect from journey commencing on April 11. In the return direction, Train No. 06516 Mangaluru Central-KSR Bengaluru special express leaves Mangaluru at 8.10 p.m. (no change in timing) to reach Bengaluru at 6.50 a.m. instead of 7 a.m. with effect from journey commencing on April 12. Consequent to running of the Bengaluru-Mangaluru service via Kunigal on all seven days of the week, SWR has cancelled Train No. 06517/18 Bengaluru-Mangaluru-Bengaluru via Mysuru with effect from April 11 from Bengaluru and April 12 from Mangaluru. However, the zone would introduce a new tri-weekly train between Bengaluru and Mangaluru via Mysuru. Train No. 06531 KSR Bengaluru-Mangaluru Central special express via Mysuru leaves Bengaluru at 8.30 p.m. on Saturdays, Mondays and Wednesdays to reach Mangaluru Central at 9.10 a.m. from April 10. Train No. 06532 Mangaluru Central-KSR Bengaluru tri weekly special express via Mysuru leaves Mangaluru at 6.35 p.m. on Sundays, Tuesdays and Thursdays to reach Bengaluru at 6.20 a.m. with effect from April 11, said a release from SWR. The train will have a composition of 15 coaches comprising of one AC 2-tier, one AC 3-tier, seven second-class sleeper, four general second-class, and two luggage-cum-brake vans. SWR has also revised the timings of Train Nos. 06585/86 KSR Bengaluru-Karwar-KSR Bengaluru daily express special with effect from April 11. However, there will be no change in arrival and departure timings of the services at Bengaluru and Karwar and minor changes were effected at en-route stations.  Departure timings of Bengaluru-Mangaluru-Bengaluru trains Train No 06515 Station Train No. 06516 9.30 pm KSR Bengaluru 6.50 am (arrival) 9.42 pm Yeshwantpur 6.22 am 10.36 pm Kunigal 4.45 am 11.01pm B G Nagar 4.22 am 11.40 pm Channarayapatna 3.43 am 12.40 am Hassan 3.05 am 1.55 am Sakleshpur 2.05 am 5.05 am Subrahmanya Road 10.15 pm 5.52 am Kabaka-Puttur 9.20 pm 6.22 am Bantwal 8.52 pm 7.20 am Mangaluru Junction 8.25 pm 7.55 am (arrival) Mangaluru Central 8.10 pm||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengaluru-mangaluru-night-train-to-run-on-all-days-via-kunigal/article34228479.ece
03 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||SWR to resume day services between Mangaluru and Bengaluru from April 11||South Western Railway will resume day train services between Bengaluru and Mangaluru as special trains on normal fare from April 11. Instead of the six-days-a-week service during the pre-COVID-19 times, there will be service on all days of the week between the capital city and the coastal city. A newly introduced weekly service, Train No. 06539 Yeshwantpur-Mangaluru Junction and 06540 Mangaluru Junction-Yeshwantpur Express Special, will run on Sundays and Mondays from April 11 and 12, respectively. Earlier, there was no service on these days. Gomateshwara Express will run as Train Nos. 06575/06576 Yeshwantpur-Mangaluru Junction-Yeshwantpur tri-weekly special. While 06575 will run on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays from April 13, 06576 will run on Wednesdays, Fridays, and Sundays with effect from April 14. Both trains will leave Yeshwantpur at 7 a.m. to reach Mangaluru Junction at 5 p.m., and leave Mangaluru Junction at 11.30 a.m. to reach Yeshwantpur at 8.20 p.m. The Yeshwantpur-Karwar-Yeshwantpur Express will run as Train Nos. 06211/06212. While 06211 will run on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays from April 12, 06212 will run on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays from April 13. The Karwar service will leave Mangaluru Junction at 5.20 p.m. to reach Karwar at 10.55 p.m., and in the return direction it will leave Karwar at 5.30 a.m. to reach Mangaluru Junction at 11.10 a.m. and leave Mangaluru Junction at 11.30 a.m. The trains will have one AC chair car, two second sitting, eight second general, and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches, all LHB. They have commercial halts at Chikkabanavara, Nelamangala, Kunigal, Yediyur, Balagangadharanagar, Shravanabelagola, Channarayapatna, Hassan, Sakleshpur, Subrahmanya Road, Kabaka-Puttur, and Bantwal. The Karwar service, in addition, halts at Surathkal, Udupi, Kundapura, Byndoor, Bhatkal, Honnavar, and Kumta.  Departure timing of all three trains between Yeshwantpur-Mangaluru Junction-Yeshwantpur at important stations YPR-MAJN Station MAJN-YPR 7 am Yeshwantpur 8.20 pm (arrival) 8.04 am Kunigal 6.41 pm 8.58 am Shravanabelagola 5.47 pm 10.10 am Hassan 4.55 pm 2.30 pm Subrahmanya Road 1.20 pm 5 pm (arrival) Mangaluru Junction 11.30 am||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swr-to-resume-day-services-between-mangaluru-and-bengaluru-from-april-11/article34228474.ece
03 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||KRCL staff create awareness about inflammable material||Employees of Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd., (KRCL) performed a street play at the Surathkal station near here to create awareness among travellers about the dangers of carrying inflammable material on Saturday. Led by Regional Traffic Manager T. Manjunath and Public Relations Manager K. Sudha Krishnamurthy, the team performed the play as a part of Railway’s awareness drive. The Railway Board has directed all zonal railways to undertake awareness campaign in the last week of April. The play conveyed to passengers not to smoke in trains and on Railway premises; not to carry inflammable goods in trains lest they might cause fire accidents on board trains; help Railways to ensure safety of passengers, and protection of Railway property etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krcl-staff-create-awareness-about-inflammable-material/article34228476.ece
03 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Protocol violation: Officials authorised to collect fine||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra has authorised policemen of head constable rank and above, health inspectors, and bill collectors to collect fines of Rs. 250 from those who do not wear masks and those who violate social distancing norms at public places in urban areas. In an order issued on Thursday, Dr. Rajendra said the same set of officials can collect a fine of Rs. 100 in the rural areas. The owners of party halls and department stores should ensure that those entering their premises wear mask and follow social distancing. A fine of Rs. 5,000 will be collected for violation of norms at non-air-conditioned premises, while Rs. 10,000 will be collected if the violation is air-conditioned premises. At weddings in open areas, 500 people can participate, while only 200 can participate in weddings held in a closed area. A maximum of 100 people can take part in birthday and other celebrations held in open areas, while 50 persons can take part if it is held in a closed area. For the last rites held in an open area, 100 people can participate, while 50 persons can take part if the same is held in a closed area. A maximum of 500 persons can take part in religious programmes and political programmes held in open areas. COVID-19 protocol violation at star hotels, convention halls, community halls, and conference halls will lead to the imposition of a fine of Rs. 10,000. The Mangaluru City Corporation Commissioner, tahsildars, and pachayat development officers should regularly check compliance with COVID-19 protocols at marriages, birthdays, and other programmes and direct the officials concerned to collect fines, Dr. Rajendra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protocol-violation-officials-authorised-to-collect-fine/article34228481.ece
03 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Kateel’s family ‘Nemotsava’ to follow COVID-19 protocol||The two-day Dharma Neemotsava at Kunjady Taravadu of MP and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel in Paltady of Kadaba taluk will be held following the COVID-19 protocol, said Mr. Kateel here on Friday. Talking to reporters here on Friday, Mr. Kateel said the Dharma Neemotsava was being held at his ancestral house after a gap of six decades. “It was difficult to postpone the event as the same was decided by his family members in consultation with priests. We are ensuring strict compliance of wearing marks, maintaining of social distance, and other COVID-19 appropriate behaviour,” Mr. Kateel said. In order to avoid assembly of more people, the religious event has been restricted to April 8 and 9 and all the cultural programmes have been cancelled. The programme will be held on the 150-acre land and arrangements have been made to avoid crowding. “Only few invitations have been given by me in person to senior politicians. I do not know how many will turn up,” he said. On April 6 there will be Yakshagana ‘Madanakshi Taravali-Veeramanikalaga-Kushalava’ by Kateel Shri Durgaparameshwari Prasadita Dashavatara Yakshagana Mandali, which is an annual event, Mr. Kateel added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kateels-family-nemotsava-to-follow-covid-19-protocol/article34228483.ece
03 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||New train proposed between Vijayapura and Mangaluru||South Western Railway (SWR) has proposed a daily special train between Vijayapura and Mangaluru on the shorter route via Hubballi, Londa, and Madgaon, and has sought concurrence from Konkan Railway Corporation (KRCL) and Southern Railway (SR). Before the COVID-19 lockdown, the zone was operating a special train between the two cities via Hassan and Davangere. Besides catering to the entire coastal Karnataka from Karwar to Mangaluru, the new train will traverse less distance (740 km and 17.45 hours) when compared to the earlier train (785 km and 19 hours). SWR told KRCL and SR that the proposal was being made pursuant to representations from Union Minister Pralhad Joshi and Rajya Sabha MP Eranna Kadadi from Belagavi. The proposed train will leave Vijayapura at 11.45 a.m. to reach Mangaluru Central at 5.30 a.m. via Gadag (4 p.m.), Hubballi (5.10 p.m.), Londa (7.02 p.m.), and Madgaon (11 p.m.). It will leave Mangaluru Central at 5 p.m. to reach Vijayapura at 10.30 a.m. via Madgaon (11.55 p.m.), Londa (3.32 a.m.), Hubballi (5.40 a.m.), and Gadag (7 a.m.). The earlier train used to leave Vijayapura at 6 p.m. to reach Mangaluru Junction at 12.40 p.m. the next day, and in the return trip it used to leave Mangaluru Junction at 4.30 p.m. and reach Vijayapura at 11.45 a.m the next day. A senior SWR official said the earlier train could not be operated via Hubballi-Madgaon when it was introduced in November 2019 though it was the shorter route because of track constraints. At present, major portions of the track between Vijayapura and Londa have been doubled, offering room for operation of the train, the officer said. The proposed train covers the entire Karnataka coast unlike the earlier one. Thousands of people from coastal Karnataka have settled down in north Karnataka establishing various enterprises, predominantly in the hospitality sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-train-proposed-between-vijayapura-and-mangaluru/article34227965.ece
03 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Issue will be resolved amicably, says Kateel||The issue raised by senior party leader and RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa with Governor Vajubhai R. Vala will be resolved amicably in the next few days, said BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel here on Friday. Talking to reporters, Mr. Kateel said he had spoken to Mr. Eshwarappa and the MLAs involved. “The issue will have an happy ending,” he said. Mr. Kateel said what Mr. Eshwarappa had done cannot be compared to statements made by BJP functionary Basanagouda Patil Yatnal about the Chief Minister. “Notice has been issued to Mr. Patil,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/issue-will-be-resolved-amicably-says-kateel/article34228321.ece
03 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||200 COVID-19 cases in DK and Udupi||As many as 95 persons, including 22 from Manipal Institute of Technology, tested positive for COVID-19 in Udupi distict. With 162 patients discharged, the active cases in Udupi district stood at 443. In Dakshina Kannada, 105 new cases were detected and 65 patients were discharged. The active COVID-19 caaes in the district was at 604. A fine of Rs. 43.27 lakh has so far been collected from 41,533 cases of not wearing masks and violation of social distancing .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/200-covid-19-cases-in-dk-and-udupi/article34228484.ece
03 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||briefly||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary will lay the foundation stone for a pre- and post-matric girls’ hostel, Kodialbail, on Sunday at 10 a.m. at the Netravathi Auditorium on the zilla panchayat premises. Fisheries Minister S. Angara, Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP, D. Vedavyasa Kamath, MLA, and others are to attend the programme.    The Regional PF Commissioner I will conduct the monthly pension adalat online on April 12 from Bhavishya Nidhi Bhavan, Silva Road, Highlands, Mangaluru-575002. The adalat will be held at 11 a.m. Members may submit their grievances to ro.mangalore @epfindia.gov.in or through the offline mode (addressed to the office) on or before April 8.    Provident Fund Near You (Nidhi Aapke Nikat) programme will be conducted virtually on the Cisco Webex application by the Regional Provident Fund Office, Mangaluru, for redressing grievances to the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation on April 12 at 3.30 p.m. People may submit their suggestions to the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner, Bhavishya Nidhi Bhavan, Silva Road, Highlands, Mangaluru-575002, on or before April 8. To join the meeting, use meeting number 1703869848.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article34228477.ece
03 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Letter to Governor: KSE claims to have support of party leaders||Sticking to his stand on the issue of alleged violation of rules in grant of funds by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and his “interference” in the Ministry, senior BJP leader and Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) K.S. Eshwarappa claimed to enjoy the support of senior party leaders on the “just stand” he has taken. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru on Friday, Mr. Eshwarappa, however, brushed aside the charge that his action of complaining to Governor Vajubhai R. Vala against the Chief Minister amounted to a “rebellion”. “I am not a rebel. I have always been a loyal partyman,” he said. ‘Gross violation’ Mr. Eshwarappa had recently written to the Governor against allocation of funds to various MLAs and Bengaluru Urban Zilla Panchayat for taking up works falling under the RDPR Department without bringing the matter to his notice. This, he said, was in gross violation of The Karnataka Government (Transaction of Business) Rules, 1977.  He asked whether Ministers were mere “postmen” to distribute funds allocated by the Chief Minister. The Finance Department allocates funds to respective departments based on the approvals given in the Budget and the departments have to prepare an action plan to use the funds as per their discretion, he contended. He alleged that a total of Rs. 1,299 crore, including Rs. 65 crore exclusively to Bengaluru Urban Zilla Panchayat, had been allocated directly by the Chief Minister in violation of the rules. “I had brought the matter to the notice of the party leaders and based on their advice, the release of funds have been stopped by the department,” he said. Mr. Eshwarappa claimed that he had brought the matter to the notice of senior party leaders, including national general secretary Arun Singh, State unit chief Nalin Kumar Kateel, and national general secretary C.T. Ravi, and all of them had endorsed the stand he had taken on the issue of alleged violation of rules by Mr. Yediyurappa and advised him to stop the release of funds. When his attention was drawn to Mr. Singh’s reported observation that it was wrong to approach the Governor, Mr. Eshwarappa said Mr. Singh had stood by his stand on the grant of funds when the latter spoke to him. “If he thinks it was wrong to approach the Governor, I will speak to him and convince him,” he said. He also said he will not be cowed by the public statements made by a few Ministers and BJP MLAs seeking action against him. He said it was up to the party to decide whether he was right or Mr. Yeddiyurappa. In fact, Mr. Eshwarappa claimed that a couple of Ministers and MLAs, who had held a press conference to hit out against him, had subsequently telephoned him and expressed support. “They claimed that they had to make such public statements due to certain pressures.” Contending that the issue he had raised was not a “personal” one between him and Mr. Yediyurappa, Mr. Eshwarappa said if such transgression of rules is permitted to happen, it may become a convention for others to follow. Harking back to KJP Fielding reporters’ queries, Mr. Eshwarappa also recalled Mr. Yediyurappa’s decision to quit the BJP and float a new political outfit – KJP. He had been misled by a few people close to him and had floated the KJP. “He may have similarly been misled while making allocations under his department without bringing the issue to the notice of the Minister,” Mr. Eshwarappa said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/letter-to-governor-kse-claims-to-have-support-of-party-leaders/article34228315.ece
03 April 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Swab tests in Mysuru cross 10-lakh mark||As the second wave heightened COVID-19 precautions, including ramping up of testing since last month, the designated labs in Mysuru – both the government as well as private labs - completed 10 lakh swab tests on Friday. These labs had been carrying out tests since the outbreak last year. On a day when 174 persons tested positive, the number of swab tests, mostly done on RT-PCR method, crossed the 10-lakh mark due to tireless efforts of the lab staff who have been working in three shifts to give faster results. As on Friday, 10,0,6736 swab tests, including 9,25,558 tests in government labs and 81,178 tests in private labs, had been done. The Viral Research and Diagnostic Lab (VRDL), which functions under the Department of Microbiology, Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute, has done the highest number swab tests till date – nearly five lakh. After the pandemic situation started to heighten, the health authorities were asked to scale up testing and accordingly more than 4,000 RT-PCR tests were being done with the highest number of tests being done on the student community. The number of patients testing positive on Friday was 174, the highest since the second wave began, here. Mysuru has been reporting 100-plus cases since over a week putting the officials from the district on their toes for controlling the surge. On Friday, the active cases touched 873, and the number of cases was more than the number of discharges. A total of 108 patients were on Friday discharged. Sources in the Health Department said more number of persons in the age group of 11 to 40 are getting infected since last month. The contacts of this age group were too testing positive, even as the number of severe cases, including SARI and ILI, have seen a drop. Out of 174 positive cases on Friday, 136 are the contacts of the infected persons while 20 are ILI cases and 9 SARI cases. Meanwhile, cinemas shall now have 50 per cent seating capacity with alternate seating arrangement in Mysuru, which is among the districts identified by the government for having reported the surge. The cinemas are supposed to implement strict COVID-19 appropriate behaviour enforcing all precautions, according to the new COVID-19 guidelines. It has to be seen how many cinemas will run with 50 per cent capacity since many did not operate earlier and started running the shows after the curbs were eased allowing 100 per cent seating capacity. Also, the number of people shall not exceed 50 per cent in hotels and restaurants in Mysuru as per the new restrictions issued by the government.  In a span of one month, over one lakh senior citizens have taken the first dose of vaccine. As against the target of 2,79,185 among the elderly citizens, 1,03,156 had been vaccinated as on April 1. As many as 471 people above 60 years of age have got the second dose of the jab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/swab-tests-in-mysuru-cross-10-lakh-mark/article34228112.ece
03 April 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Showcasing exquisite handicrafts||Ahead of Ugadi this month, a special handloom and handicrafts expo has been brought here exclusively by JSS Urban Haat. The exhibition concludes on April 11. With the support of Department of Textile Development, Ministry of Textiles, Karnataka State Cooperative Handloom Weavers’ Association and others, the ongoing expo is showcasing a variety of handloom products marketed directly by skilled artisans from various States. Weavers and their cooperatives from faraway places have brought their specialised and impressive creations to Mysuru. More than 60 stalls at the expo showcases crafts from across India, especially from the North East. One of the stalls sells products made from reed grass and they include baskets, mats, brooms, and slippers. Decorative items made from marble have been drawing visitors’ attention over their intricate work. For those wishing to decorate their house, there are many options in bamboo. With summer on, a variety of earthen pots are on display and the demand for mud pots for storing drinking water has gone up. in the city Cooking utensils, vases, baskets and decorative items made in clay in traditional designs are on display. The special handloom fair has attracted artisans from Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha, Haryana, Bihar, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/showcasing-exquisite-handicrafts/article34228111.ece
03 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Curbs on jatra at Gopalswamy Betta||The participation in the Himavad Gopalswamy Betta Jatra mahotsava slated to be held from April 3 to 9 will be restricted to 30 devotees drawn from the local community. This was announced by the district administration of Chamarajanagar and the Forest Department who said that the restrictions are to prevent large congregation amidst the second wave of the pandemic that has set in. The Himavad Gopalswamy Betta Jatra tends to draw a huge crowd every year, particularly for the Kalyanothsava slated for April 5 and Rathothsava on April 6. Gopalswamy Betta is in the core area of Bandipur Tiger Reserve and the temple atop the hills is a popular spot among the tourists and the devout. But in view of the escalation in the cases of COVID-19 and the second wave that is already unfolding the authorities have decided to restrict the participation to 30 persons per day and drawn from the local community. Besides the COVID-19 scare, this is also the peak fire season and the Forest Department was already stretched to its capacity having deployed a majority of its staff on fire watching duty. Hence the authorities said they cannot provide adequate protection to the gathering and it was decided to ban the entry of outsiders for the event. Two years ago, the entire swathe of forest in the Gopalswamy Betta was reduced to cinders due to a massive fire. It was put out with the help of IAF choppers who used bambi buckets to air drop large quantity of water to douse the flames.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/curbs-on-jatra-at-gopalswamy-betta/article34228107.ece
03 April 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MNREGA wages now revised to Rs. 289 per day||The daily wages under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) have been revised to Rs. 289 in Karnataka. Disclosing this to reporters after a review meeting, Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) K.S. Eshwarappa said the daily wages for MGNREGA workers, which had been revised from Rs. 245 to Rs. 275 in Karnataka, will be Rs. 289 with effect from April 1, 2021. The workers will be paid an additional Rs. 10 per day for equipment, he said. Target exceeded The State had exceeded its MGNREGA target of 13 crore man-days by reaching almost 15 crore man-days (14.84 crore man-days) during 2020-21, Mr. Eshwarappa said, while attributing the rise to efforts made by the department to provide employment to people, who had returned to their villages due to COVID-19. A total of Rs. 3,997.43 crore had been credited directly into the accounts of the workers during the year, he said. In view of the revision of the number of man-days, the State is expecting an additional Rs. 800 crore, he said. During 2020-21, a total of 56.83 lakh people of 30.19 lakh families had provided employment under the scheme, which is the highest in the last five years. Out of them as many as 2.4 lakh families had received work for 100 days in the year. ‘Catch the Rain’ Mr. Eshwarappa said the government expected more people to given employment under the scheme this year with the launch of the Centre’s ‘Catch the Rain’ scheme in Karnataka, which is scheduled for a State-wide launch on April 9. ‘Jala Shakti’ A variety of water conservation projects including lake restoration and conservation works will be taken up under the scheme ‘Jala Shakti’, which is scheduled to end in November this year. Removal of silt, identifying the canals that recharge the water bodies and restoring them will be part of the works to be taken under MGNREGA for the scheme, he said. “The scheme will not only provide employment, but also recharge groundwater,” he said. The government is also committed to providing ‘fluoride-free’ drinking water to the people, he said. Solar power Also, Mr. Eshwarappa said the department will equip all gram panchayat offices, situated in their own building, with solar power generation system. Once installed, the Minister said the officials will not be able to send away visitors to the office on the pretext of absence of power. After generation of power, the excess will be sold to the grid. “The GPs will not only save on power bills, but also earn money,” he said. Other facilities Besides, Mr. Eshwarappa said the department will spend upto Rs. 5 lakh under MGNREGA scheme on construction of buildings for schools and anganwadis. This, he said, was in addition to the Rs. 5 lakh that is spent by the Department of Women and Child Welfare. Toilets, drinking water, construction of playground and compounds will also be taken up under the scheme, he said.  The Jala Shakti scheme will not only provide employment, but also recharge groundwater. K.S. Eshwarappa Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mnrega-wages-now-revised-to-rs-289-per-day/article34227981.ece
03 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Activists to go online to rally support||The government ban on protests to prevent large congregations in a bid to combat the pandemic, has forced environmental activists in the city to conceive alternative forms to reach out to the public. The issue pertains to the growing concern over the proposed heli-tourism project which entails clearing a large number of trees to pave way for a new helipad opposite the Lalitha Mahal Palace. Officials in the Forest Department have confirmed that they have received application from the Tourism Department seeking permission for clearing the area of vegetation and trees. Peeved by the development environmentalists and social activists wanted to hold a protest to register their strong opposition to the new helipad as it entailed felling of scores of trees. But with the State government having banned all forms of protest as a measure to combat COVID-19, the activists have decided to launch an online campaign. Saving the hills The campaign to save trees will also entail a campaign to save Chamundi Hills from “development works’’. For, Minister for Tourism C.P. Yogeshwar, who is also the Minister for Ecology and Environment, has announced infrastructure to promote helitourism in front of the Lalitha Mahal Palace at the Chamundi foothills while he has also expressed his intent to revive the ropeway project to promote tourism. Both the projects have drawn the ire of environmentalists but they cannot take to the streets in view of the ban on protests. The campaign will go online in due course and the imperative of saving the trees and the necessity to shore up the green cover for Mysuru will be highlighted. Survey begins Meanwhile, the survey to assess the number of trees that needs to be cleared has begun and the authorities say that there are mainly shrubs and eucalyptus trees on the land identified for the new helipad. Notwithstanding the nature of the vegetation, a public hearing has to be held to seek objections, if any, said the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/activists-to-go-online-to-rally-support/article34228102.ece
03 April 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘BJP fights elections on development plank’||B.Y. Vijayendra, BJP State vice-president, has said that the party will fight election on the development plank unlike the Congress which is allgedly using money and liquor power. He was talking to reporters in Sante Kellur village in Raichur district before starting a bike rally as part of election campaign for the bypoll in Maski. “It is known how the Congress used to win elections in the past. It used money and liquor power. But, we go for elections based on the development works that our government implemented,” he said. Mr. Vijayendra said that the challenges in Maski are different compared to other regions and added that they will face them and win despite the odds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-fights-elections-on-development-plank/article34227963.ece
03 April 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||More grants sought for nomadic corporation||Chairman of Karnataka Nomadic and Semi Nomadic Development Corporation K. Ravindra Shetty has said that he would meet Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and request him to release Rs. 250 crore for the development of nomadic communities as the corporation was getting Rs. 10 crore annually. “The corporation requires adequate grants to implement development schemes for the nomadic and semi nomadic communities,” he added. He was addressing a press conference in Yadgir recently. Mr. Shetty said that a majority of people from nomadic and semi nomadic communities are living without any basic facilities. They choose open places of any village or town and live there under temporary shelter and they move from one place to another for livelihood. Nomadic community people are called by different names in different areas. They have been divided into 46 communities, including Golla, Helava, Dombidasa, Chennadasa, Bayalu Pattar, Joshi, Budbudke, Picchagunta, Gondali, Bairagi and Garudi. But the fact is that out of 70 lakh population who form these 46 communities, 95% do not have basic facilities and more importantly, children from these communities are deprived of proper education, Mr. Shetty said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-grants-sought-for-nomadic-corporation/article34227954.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Beds filling up fast as COVID-19 infections surge||The COVID-19 surge in Mysuru has vexed the district administration which has cancelled all public holidays in April for the health staff to expedite vaccination and meet testing targets to reign in the pandemic before it turns worse like last year. Armed with nearly 20 lakh doses of vaccine, the April target has been to vaccinate as many as 20,000 persons daily. What has been become the worrying factor is the continued surge with 100-plus cases reported almost daily since over a week even as beds are filling up fast in both government and private hospitals with the increase in active cases. Like the earlier arrangement, private hospitals here are supposed to set aside 50 per cent of beds for COVID-19 cases. Nearly 60 per cent of beds in the 250-bed district hospital on KRS Road had been occupied in less than a week. In view of swelling active cases, 153 beds had been occupied and about 100 beds are vacant as on Thursday. Patients with mild and moderate symptoms are admitted in this hospital and the severe cases are admitted in K.R. Hospital. As many as 294 patients had been admitted in various private hospitals. Home isolation of patients has also gone up and nearly 243 patients – asymptomatic and mild cases – are recuperating in their respective homes. After the reopening of COVID-19 Care Centre at KSOU building near airport, about 16 patients had been shifted to the facility. Based on patients’ conditions, the health authorities were taking decisions on whether the patient had to be admitted in hospitals or moved to the CCC. Sources in the Health Department told The Hindu that more CCCs would be opened if the cases continue to surge despite all the measures to contain the spread. Residential schools, hostels and other buildings where the CCCs can be set up were being identified and accordingly steps would be taken as and when instructed to convert them into care centres. Meanwhile, the city police have stepped up COVID-19 awareness campaign across Mysuru. The policemen of respective stations had been asked to carry out tasks of educating the public on the need to wear masks, maintain social distance and sanitise their hands. Besides slapping fines on those not wearing masks, they are also giving away masks to the public and sensitizing them to wear them whenever they are in public places. The police are focusing on bus-stands, markets to carry out their campaign as it has been found that people are showing scant regard to the precautions. The policemen are also educating the passengers on KSRTC buses.  As many as 294 patients had been admitted in various private hospitals  Home isolation of patients has also gone up and nearly 243 patients – asymptomatic and mild cases – are recuperating in their respective homes More CCCs would be opened if the cases continue to surge despite all the measures to contain the spread||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/beds-filling-up-fast-as-covid-19-infections-surge/article34228109.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bandipur, Nagarahole safari, camera fee revised||The Forest Department has revised the safari and the camera fee at Bandipur and Nagarahole Tiger Reserves. It has come into effect from April 1 and the hike is substantial with respect to use of camera with interchangeable lenses. The hike is with respect to all national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and tiger reserves in the State. But these rates vary from one reserve or national park to another. The rent for accommodation too has been revised depending on the room category and there is a substantial decrease in the charges for dormitories. The entry fee for Nagarahole and applicable for safaris from Antharsanthe, Nanchi Gate and Antharsanthe (Kabini backwaters) has been revised from Rs. 250 to Rs. 300 for Indians, while children below 12 years and students will pay Rs. 150. The rate has been lowered from Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 500 for foreigners. Apart from the entry fee, individuals have to pay Rs. 300 for a 90-minute safari in the departmental bus while it will be Rs. 150 for children below 12 years and students (subject to providing ID cards and permission from the head of the institution) while the safari fee will be Rs. 500 for foreigners. A safari in Jungle Lodges and Resorts vehicles in Nagarahole will cost anywhere between Rs. 2,000 and Rs. 3,500 depending on the category of vehicles. The fee for cameras with interchangeable lenses has been hiked from Rs. 200 to Rs. 250 per unit per trip. For lenses with a zoom ranging from 70 mm to 200 mm, an additional Rs. 750 has to be paid per unit per trip while for use of lens beyond 500 mm the authorities have pegged the rate at Rs. 1,500 per unit per trip. Jeep ride For Bandipur there is an entry fee of Rs. 300 per person and a safari in the departmental vehicle for 90 minutes will cost an additional Rs. 300. But a safari in the departmental jeep will cost Rs. 3,500 per vehicle for Indians, Rs. 5,000 per vehicle for foreigners while the use of a 9-seater vehicle will cost Rs. 5,000 for Indians and Rs. 7,000 for foreigners. The use of an interchangeable lens with a zoom range of 70 mm to 200 mm will cost Rs. 150 per trip and use of lens above 200 mm will cost Rs. 750 per trip. In addition, there is a separate slab under ‘’Professional Photography Charges’’ for use of cameras above 200 mm lens and video or handycam which will cost Rs. 1500 per trip. Mahesh Kumar, Director, Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, said the last revision was undertaken 4 years ago. With regard to the hike in camera fee he said there was an increase in the number of commercial photographers frequenting the tiger reserves and national parks and it was necessary to regulate it with a fee hike. ‘Commoners will be hit’ However, wildlife activists said such an hike will not deter the commercial or wildlife photographers but will definitely affect the commoners for whom a safari will be out of bounds due to the steep cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bandipur-nagarahole-safari-camera-fee-revised/article34228106.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BTC to shift 200 horses||The Bangalore Turf Club (BTC) on Thursday said that it would soon shift 200 of the around 800 horses to a private horse-breeding and stable centre on the outskirts of the city to speed up the work of modernising the stables on the premises. Also, the BTC told the court that work has begun on removing the asbestos sheet, as per recommendations of an expert appointed by the Animal Welfare Board of India on the court’s direction. Submissions in this regard have been made before a division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj during the hearing of a PIL petition filed by Compassion Unlimited Plus Action, an NGO. A counsel for BTC told the bench that negotiation with the private stable centre is in the final stage, and the horses would be shifted there shortly. The BTC’s response was to the court’s query on how the club would implement the recommendations of an expert to construct state-of-the-art stables in the race course while pointing out that 80% of the existing stables are over 50 years old, and temporary measures, like puff panelling, won’t be fruitful in the long run. As the report had said that infrastructure in the race course is not sufficient to accommodate 887 horses, the bench during the earlier hearing had asked the BTC to come out with a plan to decongest the race course while observing that keeping horses sans sufficient infrastructure would amount to cruelty to animals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/btc-to-shift-200-horses/article34227975.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Give protection to Kannadigas in Goa’||Many Kannada-speaking families living on Baina beach in Goa have been evicted by authorities and have become homeless, the Karnataka Gadi Horata Samiti has said, and urged the State government to provide shelter to them. In a letter to the State government, samiti president B.K. Rao Baindur said the Goa government demolished 1,179 houses and left about 9,000 Kannadigas homeless. He criticised the B.S. Yediyurappa-led government for its failure to protect Kannada-speaking people residing in Goa. In another memorandum to Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, the samiti demanded that the State government should put pressure on the Goa government not to demolish houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/give-protection-to-kannadigas-in-goa/article34227980.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Pious occasion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pious-occasion/article34228306.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||In devotion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-devotion/article34228486.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Fruits of the harvest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fruits-of-the-harvest/article34227977.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||State brings back strict regulations||For containing the pandemic, COVID Appropriate Behaviour has to be followed in public places. Wearing of masks, maintaining social distance and use of sanitisers has been made mandatory in bars, pubs, restaurants, and clubs. “Eateries would be closed till the end of the pandemic if they found violation of the rules,” the Chief Secretary said. Public gatherings at festivals, social, religious andcultural programmes have been banned too. The guidelines allow only individual prayers at religious places. The government has already ordered that there would be no public celebrations in the State during festivals such as Ugadi.If people were found violating the orders, action would be taken against defaulting persons under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-brings-back-strict-regulations/article34227974.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||engagements for April 3||Mangaluru  Shakti Education Foundation: Science and Technology faculty dean of Mangalore University, Manjunatha Pattabi, inaugurates Shakti Research Forum, and Indian Red Cross Society Dakshina Kannada chairman Shantaram Shetty inaugurates Shakti Advanced Commercial Learning, MAHE Mangaluru campus, Pro-Vice Chancellor Dilip G. Naik presides, Reshma Memorial Auditorium, Shaktinagar, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements-for-april-3/article34228478.ece
03 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||His words reflect shame of failure: Oppn. leader||Responding to the criticism levelled against him by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on the fake voters issue, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Friday said the former’s words reflected the embarrassment and frustration caused by the failure of a sinister plan to sabotage the democratic process by manipulating the electoral roll. Low ebb Mr. Chennithala said that by falsely claiming that the Opposition leader tried to portray all electorate in Kerala as bogus voters, the Chief Minister has reached a low ebb. Fake voters were added to the voters’ list by the Communist Party of India (Marxist) with the help of government officials inclined to the party. There is a need to find fake identity cards used to enrol bogus voters. On privacy charge On the allegations of invading citizens' privacy by publishing the details of 4.34 lakh multiple/fake voters, Mr. Chennithala said that he did not violate any laws. "Anyone can get a copy of the voters' list from the Election Commission of India (ECI). It is not a confidential or secret document. The issue of privacy does not arise. I stand by my claim of rampant fraud on the voters' list," he told reporters in Haripad, adding that he had opposed the Sprinklr deal because it intruded into people's privacy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayis-words-reflect-shame-of-failure/article34228092.ece
03 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||April Fool’s prank goes wrong||A 17-year-old boy died reportedly after he accidentally hanged himself while shooting a prank video with a mobile phone on the occasion of April Fool’s day at Thalavady. The deceased was identified as Sidharth. The incident happened on Thursday. The relatives said that they suspected the boy attempted a hanging death stunt to fool his friends, which had gone wrong. However, the Edathua police said that they had not yet confirmed whether his death was accidental or suicide. The police officers have taken his mobile phone into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/april-fools-prank-goes-wrong/article34228081.ece
03 April 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Crucial battle for the ruling front and Rahul Gandhi||The summer rain has helped subdue the intensity of heat in many parts of Wayanad, but the heat of the campaign is reaching its extreme with only a few days left for the Assembly polls. The poll is most crucial for the United Democratic Front (UDF) and former All India Congress Committee president Rahul Gandhi who won with a record margin of 4,31,770 votes from the Wayanad Lok Sabha constituency in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Dearth of health-care and infrastructure facilities, escalating man-animal conflict, a crisis in the farm sector owing to low prices of farm produce and declining agricultural production, eco-sensitive zone notification, and problems of landless tribesmen are the poll issues here. Star campaigners All political fronts have ensured the presence of their top leaders in the campaign front. Mr. Gandhi has attended roadshows twice. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala have made brief visits to the district. Left Democratic Front leaders, including Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, acting State secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) A. Vijayaraghavan and All India Democratic Women’s Association president Subhashini Ali, attended campaign rallies. Union Home Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Amit Shah will attend a public meeting at Meenangadi here on April 3 to canvass votes for the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidates. The poll is crucial for the LDF as well which won two of the three Assembly segments in the 2016 Assembly polls. In Sulthan Bathery, a segment reserved for the Scheduled Tribes, Congress candidate I.C. Balakrishnan won by 11,198 votes. M.S. Viswanathan of the CPI(M) is facing Mr. Balakrishnan in the constituency this time. Mr. Viswanathan, a former State secretary of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee, recently resigned from the post in protest against the alleged reluctance of the Congress to give seats to the Mullakuruma tribal people, a major tribe in the Sulthan Batehry segment. Tribal leader C.K. Janu is contesting from the segment for the second time as the NDA candidate. Kalpetta, a traditional bastion of the UDF, turned Left in the previous election. M.V. Shreyamskumar, who was then part of the Janata Dal (United), was defeated by C.K. Saseendaran of the CPI(M) by 13,083 votes. Mr. Shreyamskumar, who is part of the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD), changed fronts and is facing a tight fight from T. Siddique of the Congress this time. T.M. Subheesh of the BJP is the NDA candidate. Repeat show In Mananthavady, another segment reserved for the Scheduled Tribes, former Minister P.K. Jayalakshmi of the Congress won with a margin of 12,734 votes against her rival K.C. Kunhiraman of the CPI(M) in 2011. But in 2016, O.R. Kelu of the CPI(M) captured it by a margin of 1,307 votes. Mr. Kelu is facing Ms. Jayalakshmi again this time. Palliyara Mukundan is the NDA candidate. A total of 18 candidates are in the fray in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crucial-battle-for-the-ruling-front-and-rahul-gandhi/article34228067.ece
03 April 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||‘BJP bid will not succeed’||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Friday that the statement by BJP leaders that they would repeat in Kerala the coup in the Tripura election was a very serious matter. That the BJP brass was making such statements in a State where the party had not been able to gain any ground was a matter concern. He said the people of Kerala would give a fitting reply to ambitions. For the BJP and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, carrying out such a coup in Kerala would remain a dream. The people of the State would not support communalism. The upcoming election would reiterate this fact, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-bid-will-not-succeed-pinarayi/article34227992.ece
03 April 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||No cakewalk for fronts, even in bastions||Though the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) have always shared the five Assembly constituency segments between them in Kasaragod district, in the 2021 elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is hoping to pose a strong challenge. While the voters of Thrikkarippur, Uduma, and Kanhangad have traditionally stood by the LDF, Kasaragod and Manjeswaram have sided with the UDF. Too close for comfort However, in the 2016 elections, the UDF’s sitting seat of Manjeswaram witnessed a fierce battle between BJP’s K. Surendran and Indian Union Muslim League’s (IUML) P.B. Abdul Razak. The BJP lost by just 89 votes, and the constituency grabbed a lot of attention then. The return of Mr. Surendran, now BJP State president, as National Democratic Alliance candidate, has once again placed the constituency in the limelight. The UDF has fielded A.K.M. Ashraf, who was Manjeswaram block panchayat president, and LDF’s candidate is V.V. Rameshan, a former chairman of the Kanhangad municipality. Though the Left won in the constituency from 1977 to 1982 and again in 2006, the IUML has dominated the scene since 1987. The BJP has made its presence felt here. The BJP, which did well in the December 2020 local body elections in eight grama panchayats in the constituency, is confident of bettering the performance in the Assembly election. Impact of two murders In the Uduma constituency, considered an LDF citadel, the murder of two Youth Congress workers in Pullur-Periye panchayat in 2018 will have an impact this time. The murders had an effect in the local body elections, with the LDF losing the panchayat to the UDF. This has boosted the UDF’s confidence here. The LDF has fielded C.H. Kunhambu, who will contest against the UDF’s Balakrishnan Periya and BJP’s A. Velayudhan. In the Kasaragod constituency, traditionally a stronghold of the IUML, the UDF has fielded incumbent MLA N.A. Nellikkunnu. In the 2016 election, Mr. Nellikkunnu defeated BJP’s Ravisha Thantri Kuntar by a margin of 8,000-odd votes. This time, the BJP has fielded its district president K. Sreekanth so as to put up a tough fight here. With the LDF fielding Indian National League State secretary M.A. Latheef, the constituency is likely to witness a tri-cornered contest. LDF hopeful here The LDF is expecting easy victories in Thrikkarippur and Kanhangad. The front has fielded incumbent MLA M. Rajagopalan from Thrikkarippur against UDF’s M.P. Joseph and BJP candidate T.V. Shibin. In Kanhangad, Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan is taking on against UDF candidate P.V. Suresh and BJP’s M. Balraj. Throughout the campaign the LDF candidates have been highlighting the Pinarayi Vijayan government’s welfare programmes, while the the BJP has been laying stress on the various initiatives of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre. The UDF has been reminding voters of lack of development, blaming both the State and Union governments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-cakewalk-for-fronts-even-in-bastions/article34228063.ece
03 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Marina to get a new lease of life||Faced with complaints of many wooden planks on the floating docks of the Kochi International Marina getting damaged, the Kerala Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC) is readying plans to renovate the marina, India’s first, which was commissioned in 2010. Seafarers, mostly from Europe and North America, who remained berthed here in their yachts and visitors to the marina which can berth up to 34 yachts have been expressing concern over the inadequate upkeep of the facility. Having arrived here in seven yachts, they are travelling to other States, while entrusting their yachts with a private agency which has been operating the marina for the past many years, personnel of the KTDC, and other trustworthy people. The KTDC owns the adjacent Marina House which has 24 deluxe rooms and the popular Bolgatty Palace Hotel and Resort. Sources in the KTDC said that most planks made of treated wood would be replaced shortly as per standardised norms. “The entire premises will be renovated and given a fresh coat of paint too. The work suffered delay due to the pandemic,” they said. The floating docks have been built on beams that were erected in around two acres of the backwaters. Temporary repairs were done whereby broken planks were replaced with small metal sheets to ensure the safety of seafarers. In the meantime, a couple of agencies, including the city-based Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC), have evinced interest in managing the marina, it is learnt. KSINC had recently diversified into a host of activities, including construction of pontoons at boat terminals. Apart from providing berthing space to yachts, the marina also offers scope for adventure tourism. But stakeholders must dredge the premises, said sources in the firm which manages the marina.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marina-to-get-a-new-lease-of-life/article34228451.ece
03 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Parody numbers still in the mix||Parody songs penned to the tune of popular chartbusters belted out over loudspeakers have been one of the harbingers of the election season for decades now. That they have survived the changing times and technologies vouch for their popularity and perceived effectiveness though not all composers and lyricists behind the original numbers seem fully impressed. Music composer Gopi Sundar says while it is sometimes off-putting to listen to one’s mutilated work, the purpose it serves needs to be respected as it validates the saying that the end justifies the means. Mark of popularity “Anyway it is not meant to humiliate unlike on social media where people purposefully abuse without any reason. In fact, it can even be seen as a mark of popularity of one’s work. Besides, being overly inquisitive about everything in life won’t do anyone any good, and ignoring is sometimes a better idea,” he says. His compatriot Shan Rahman agrees that the phenomenon of parody songs in an election can be looked at both positively and negatively. “If you want to look at it critically, then you can even find fault if it is being used for a political ideology not to your liking or that the lyrics are out of sync and not up to the meter of the composition. On the positive side, it gives a second life to a long-forgotten song prompting people to go back to the original,” he says. Despite being a lucrative work and a much sought after election parody song writer in the past, poet and lyricist R.K. Damodaran has now stopped plying the trade as he finds it incompatible with his stature and the content increasingly veering from taking political pot-shots to obscenity. Change down the years “Character assassination in the name of campaigning is unacceptable. Teasing used to be the overriding character of election parody songs and they never guaranteed votes but merely served as an attention grabber,” he says. Music director Bijibal observes that even the element of fun and curiosity, USPs of such songs, seem to have deserted parody songs. “Aesthetics and even rhyming have gone out of the window with all and sundry turning lyricists. Personally, I don’t like anything stripped of aestheticism but demanding their discontinuation may be perceived as intolerance,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parody-numbers-still-in-the-mix/article34228073.ece
03 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC regulates use of social media by court employees||The Kerala High Court has directed the staff of the High Court and the district judiciary not to use the social media for criticising the policies and actions of the government and its institutions, Ministers, judges, political leaders and social activists. In an official memorandum regulating the use of the social media and other public platforms by the judicial staff, Kerala High Court Registrar General Sophy Thomas has asked the staff not to use the social media for any activities which affect the integrity, propriety and discipline of his/her official position. It has also asked the staff of the judiciary not to criticise case laws and judgments of the court, judges or the judicial system. They have also been restrained from using carping, intemperate, filthy, derogatory, insinuating, or discriminatory language. The memorandum has also asked the judicial staff to be careful in expressing or propagating any opinions which may offend any cultural, ethnic, social or religious groups. The staff are also asked not to make derogatory or insulting remarks, comments pertaining to any person or group of persons, either official, socio-cultural or political, on the social media. Court proceedings They have been asked not to publish any proceedings, official actions, records or data from the office files in the social media or publish blogs without prior permission from the High Court. The judicial staff have also been directed not to use mobile phones, tablets or other electronic gadgets for corrupting, data hacking or any other illegal activities. Monitoring cell The official order has said that the High Court will have a monitoring cell to observe and secure computer and Internet systems provided in the courts and report about the misuse of the social media. The staff of the High Court and district judiciary have been asked to declare their e-mail address and social media accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-regulates-use-of-social-media-by-court-employees/article34227999.ece
03 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||More needs to be done for differently abled, say voters||While the State has made a start with regard to measures taken to assist differently abled people, there is still a long way to go, say voters. Attempts have been made to improve accessibility on roads, but this really needs to be worked upon, says Tiffany Brar, a 32-year-old visually impaired social activist and founder of Jyothirgamaya, a non-profit organisation that works towards empowering visually challenged persons. “Pension for people with disabilities, a sum of Rs. 1,500, is not realistic for anyone these days. It should be increased to at least a nominal amount of Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 5,000,” says Ms. Brar, a resident of Thiruvananthapuram. Rajeev Palluruthy, secretary of the All Kerala Wheelchair Rights Federation, also raises the issue of pensions. Welfare pension “A common welfare pension for all categories of people will not suffice. A specific pension amount for people with disabilities would help, particularly for people who might be completely bedridden,” he says. Ms. Brar says the government and the bureaucracy tend to make things more difficult than they need to be. “There is this whole rigmarole you need to go through when you are applying for something, whether it’s pensions or something else. Not only people with disabilities, but women in vulnerable circumstances should also be taken into consideration, and government processes should be made easier,” she says.  Demand The new government should consider audio system in buses and trains to announce the arrival of stops, and a specific helpline for women with disabilities, to address the issue of domestic violence, she adds. Voting has increasingly become accessible for differently abled persons. Electronic voting machines have serial numbers embossed in Braille and 50,000 Braille ballot papers are distributed across polling stations in the State. Ms. Brar says that it began with the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Mr. Rajeev also points out that allowing postal votes for differently abled people is a long-standing demand that has finally been met. “Quadriplegic people can now vote from their rooms.” But much is left to be done. “Self-employment and education for differently abled people need to be prioritised, and reservation of seats in the government will help people with disabilities raise their own issues,” says Mr. Rajeev. Focus Implementing the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, entirely should be the focus, he adds. Unni Maxx, a 46-year-old graphic designer from Kottayam, points to beaches and theatres that are not accessible to people with disabilities. “There is a ramp at the Alappuzha beach, supposedly set up to make the beach accessible, but the sea isn’t even visible from there,” says Mr. Maxx, who is the secretary of Thanal Paraplegic Patients Welfare Society.  EVMs have serial numbers embossed in Braille and 50,000 Braille ballot papers are distributed across polling stations in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-needs-to-be-done-for-differently-abled-say-voters/article34228084.ece
03 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Prime waterfront space in ruins||The vast space atop the Ernakulam Boat Jetty building that provides an unmatched view of the Marine Drive waterfront and ships sailing into the harbour is in ruins and has become a haven for miscreants owing to shoddy upkeep and slack coordination among different government departments which have stakes in the premises. The building, which was designed like an air traffic control tower and was constructed two decades ago by the Kerala Tourism, occupies prime space along the Marine Drive waterfront. Apart from multiple boat jetties and offices of the State Water Transport Department (SWTD), it also houses the regional office of Kerala Tourism. Making matters worse, over half-a-dozen abandoned ferries of the SWTD occupy substantial space, making them eyesores on the otherwise pristine waterfront. Title deed issues The abysmal upkeep of the space atop the building and the alleged differences of opinion among Kerala Tourism, Revenue Department, and the Kochi Corporation over the handing over of the title deed to the tourism agency and allocation of building number, have resulted in the Kerala Tourism not able to rent out the vast prime space for eateries and other commercial purposes. On its part, the tourism agency has not bothered to engage staff to ensure cleanliness at the space which gets ample natural breeze and sunlight. A gory welcome Dead pigeons, bird droppings, and cobweb-infested corridors stare at visitors. Over the years, all this has made it a den for illicit activities, prompting the closure of either end of the vast space on the building’s second floor, which was once an extension of the Marine Drive walkway. “The space fell into disuse years ago after the Kochi Corporation objected to it being rented out to a cafeteria.  “We hope to tidy the space and cover it with nets to prevent entry of pigeons and other birds. Much more can be done if the Revenue Department hands over possession of the land that houses the boat jetty complex to us,” said sources in the Kerala Tourism. ‘Allot building number’ The district administration and the Kochi Corporation must come together and allot a building number to the boat jetty complex, if need be, by regularising the structure, said architect S. Gopakumar, who designed the building. “Stakeholders must take a cue from foreign countries which go the extra mile in tapping the potential of waterfront stretches. Eateries that sell seafood and other dishes will bring in revenue while also ensuring cleanliness of the premises. “Care had been taken in the design to allot space for a memorial for writer Vaikom Muhammad Basheer, who once owned a book shop nearby. This too is a non-starter due to procedural issues,” said Mr. Gopakumar, who is also president of Better Kochi Response Group, an NGO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prime-waterfront-space-in-ruins/article34228449.ece
03 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Youth unimpressed by the tenor of poll campaign||Neither political fronts nor their campaigners have covered themselves in glory on the campaign trail this poll season even as watchful youngsters seem far from impressed. As it is, the standard of the campaign seems to have done precious little to change their clichéd perception about politics. “The insensitivity of it all starts right from noisy campaign with little regard for people’s discomfort, which also often leaves them stranded on roads while on important assignments. Also, there is a general negativity in turning even positive messaging of rivals into needless controversies,” said Varsha Venugopal, vice chairperson, St. Teresa’s College. Alex Varghese, a final year B.Com student of Sacred Heart College, Thevara, found the campaign on women’s entry to Sabarimala nothing less than “religious extremism”. Nor was he impressed by the campaign that shows scant regard for the COVID-19 protocol. Sreelakshmi P.S., a first year LLB student, though was impressed by the ruling front’s performance in the face of challenges, is disappointed with the general standard of the campaign, especially the misogynist streak of it. “The campaign should be based on a people’s agenda. The religion-based political campaign of the right-wing is equally deplorable,” she said. Adithya Prasad, a 23-year-old doing house surgency, abhorred the whataboutery dominating the political campaign and scanty representation of women in the election. “There is this resigned feeling of no choice is a good choice when it comes to picking a side to vote,” he said. Sreepriya Suraj, a second year B.Sc student of Maharaja’s College, found the campaign a whole lot of empty noise. “Without any reassurance about time-bound execution of promises during the campaign dominated by parody songs, it all seems a farce,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-unimpressed-by-the-tenor-of-poll-campaign/article34228457.ece
03 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||4.36 lakh vaccines administered in Ernakulam||While around 4,36,997 doses of the vaccine for COVID-19 were administered so far in the district till Thursday, the drive has slowed down owing to the Good Friday and Easter holidays. Of the 180 vaccination centres in the district, both private and government, only 40 conducted sessions on Friday, said Dr. M. G. Sivadas, the nodal officer for vaccination. The pace of the expanded vaccination drive, for all people over 45 years of age, would pick up only from Monday, he said. A total of 5 lakh doses of the Covishield vaccine arrived in the district on Thursday. Going by figures available from Thursday, 78,744 health workers in the district have taken the first shot so far, and 55,635 people among them have taken the second dose. Among frontline workers, 14,445 people have taken the first dose and 9,837 people have taken the second. A total of 30,796 polling officials have taken the vaccine, while 2,47,393 people over the age of 60 and over the age of 45 with co-morbidities have taken the jab so far. The vaccination drive slowed down at private hospitals as well on Friday. “Since it was a holiday and we were anticipating shortage of staff, we had not planned sessions for Friday,” said a spokesperson for the hospital, adding that they were low on stock of the vaccine. 278 new cases The district recorded 278 new COVID-19 cases and 393 recoveries on Friday while the active caseload stood at 2,278. One health worker tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/436-lakh-vaccines-administered-in-ernakulam/article34228458.ece
03 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Most parties apathetic to eco issues’||Activists are peeved at political parties sidetracking multifarious problems posed by environmental degradation and pollution in the run-up to the Assembly polls, despite the havoc caused by the 2018 floods and unprecedented threats to waterbodies and the Western Ghats. It is shocking that environmental concerns are not making it even to political discussions, says Prof (retd). C.M. Joy, president of Kerala Nature Protection Council. “Leave alone politicians, most people are nowadays apathetic to threats posed to the environment due to unchecked consumerism and corporate greed. Newly formed parties, which speak of value-based politics, too mostly avoid the topic for fear of being labelled as a ‘green party’ or ‘anti-development’. Over the years, the premise has gained ground that parties which take up the cause of the environment do not know how to govern,” he adds. Precarious situation According to Prof. Joy, the situation is precarious in Ernakulam, where people rely on drinking water from Periyar and Muvattupuzha rivers, which are severely polluted. On its part, the government relaxed quarrying norms, while a prominent church group wants the extent of the buffer zone around protected areas to be reduced from one kilometre. Such moves have resulted in much of the forest land that was taken back from encroachers and real estate players falling back into their hands. Hotels and other vertical constructions in ecologically-fragile lands and covert moves to permit trawlers to net fish en masse are proof of the trend, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/most-parties-apathetic-to-eco-issues/article34227998.ece
03 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Summer hits dairy production in Ernakulam region||The onset of a severe summer and the subsequent shortage of green fodder have hit milk procurement by the regional union of cooperative milk producers even as there is a rise in the number of dairy enterprises in the region with several expatriate Malayalis returning in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. John Theruvath, Chairman of Ernakulam Regional Cooperative Milk Producers Union (ERCMPU), said that milk procurement had dipped to 3.35 lakh litres a day while the sale was around 3.60 lakh litres. The milk supply situation was balanced immediately after the winter season when procurement had exceeded daily sales. The shortage in milk procurement by the Milma union was partly being met with supplies from the Malabar region while a part of the shortage was being filled in by procurement from the neighbouring State of Karnataka, he added. The ERCMPU comprises primary dairy societies in Ernakulam, Thrissur, Kottayam and Idukki districts. The region was able to achieve self-sufficiency with an increase in procurement immediately after the COVID-19 lockdown. The procurement level had risen to 3.60 lakh litres per day while sales stood around 3.30 lakh litres. The excess milk procured by the union – 30,000 litres – was being processed for value-added products. The Ernakulam region comprises 933 Anand Pattern primary societies, to which 46,000 dairy farmers are affiliated. In February this year, the regional milk union decided to pay Rs. 3 per litre extra to farmers in addition to the prevailing procurement price. The decision was meant to encourage farmers, who had fallen on difficult days because of the slowdown in the economy due to the lockdown. Mr. Theruvath said the lockdown period had witnessed more people taking up dairy farming as a means of livelihood. The cooperative was trying to support the farms raised mostly by expatriate Malayalis, he added.  Procurement has dipped to 3.35 lakh litres a day, while the sale is around 3.60 lakh litres John Theruvath ERCMPU Chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/summer-hits-dairy-production-in-region/article34228083.ece
03 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Girl’s death: police issue lookout notice against father||The investigation team probing the mysterious drowning of an 11-year-old girl has issued a lookout notice against her father, Sanu Mohan, who has gone missing since her death. The girl along with her 40-year-old father had originally gone missing from their apartment at Kangarappady near Thrikkakara last month, and her body was found floating in the Muttar river a day after the disappearance. The mystery further thickened when a surveillance camera reportedly caught Mohan’s car crossing the border into Tamil Nadu. Since then, a police team has been sent there where it is yet to track him down. “Tamil Nadu appeared his current probable location, as he had some contacts there. He had been running a business in Pune till five years before he left it following some cheating cases. We are trying to gather specific details of the cases in coordination with our counterparts there. He had gone to Pune as an 18-year-old, since all his relatives were there,” said a senior official associated with the probe. The Thrikkakara police probing the case have so far registered cases for unnatural death of the girl, since the post-mortem report attributed the death to drowning, and a case for man missing over the disappearance of her father. Though blood drops were found in the apartment, that has not led the police to any concrete conclusions, as the forensic report is awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/girls-death-police-issue-lookout-notice-against-father/article34228001.ece
03 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Four held on rape charge||The Ernakulam Rural police arrested four migrant workers on the charge of raping a 19-year-old girl at Vengola near Perumbavoor. The arrested are Salim Mandal, 30, Mukalin Ansari, 28, Moni aka Muneerul, 20, and Shakeebul Mandal, 23, all natives of West Bengal. The victim, who is also from West Bengal, was allegedly asked to go to their lodging in the name of cooking. The accused were her neighbours, and as soon as her husband left for the day’s work at a plywood company, they requested her to go to their room and cook biriyani. Their attempt to flee the State was thwarted by the police, who acted on the direction of District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik. A special team led by Perumbavoor DySP Jayaraj and Inspector Rahul Raveendran made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-held-on-rape-charge/article34228445.ece
03 April 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||A land of many poll surprises||Kottarakara sprang a surprise in the 2006 Assembly polls when P. Aisha Potty unseated R. Balakrishna Pillai, breaking a tradition of nearly three decades. The Kerala Congress (B) titan had been representing the constituency since 1977 and was elected from there seven times. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) retained Kottarakara in the next two elections. In 2011, Ms. Potty’s majority hit a whopping 42,632. In 2021, CPI(M) heavyweight K.N. Balagopal, a popular leader of the Left in the region, has replaced her in the segment. While wresting the seat is a prestige issue for the United Democratic Front, the National Democratic Alliance considers Kottarakara one of the segments with a strong support base. The constituency includes Kottarakara municipality and the nearby Ezhukone, Kareepra, Kulakkada, Mylom, Neduvathur, Ummannoor and Veliyam grama panchayats. CPI(M) State secretariat member, former Raja Sabha MP, and Kerala Karshaka Sangham State secretary, Mr. Balagopal needs no introduction in the segment. He talks about the comprehensive development projects launched by the Left Democratic Front government in his campaign while focussing on the political relevance to re-elect the Left. Development initiatives “Even UDF or NDA supporters are aware of the changes Kerala has seen, how the LDF government took care of the people through a bevy of development and welfare projects. The UDF which failed to disburse social welfare pension of Rs. 300 for 18 months is now promising Rs. 3,000,” he says. Kollam district panchayat member and UDF candidate R. Resmi seems quite confident about pulling off the giant slayer act and says the feedback she has received from the voters has been terrific. “I was elected to the district panchayat with a majority of over 7,000 votes and I am very confident that I can repeat that in the Assembly polls as well. Most of the people in Kottarakra know me personally and I am sure that they will stand with me irrespective of their political affiliations and loyalties,” she says. Ms. Resmi believes that development, the major poll plank of the LDF, is rather irrelevant in Kottarakara. “You can’t point out any specific projects compared to other Assembly segments,” she adds. BJP mandalam president Vayakkal Soman unleashes an attack on the Left in his campaign speeches. He lists all the recent allegations against the State government and elaborates on the controversies. “Principled leaders have become extinct in the Communist party that is now nothing but a synonym of corruption.” He adds that the previous government has failed to keep all promises when it comes solving the drinking water shortage and traffic snarls in the segment. “This should change and I believe that the voters will choose wisely,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-land-of-many-poll-surprises/article34228071.ece
03 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fronts go all out to win hearts as election frenzy peaks||With just two days left to wind up the frenzied campaign, candidates in the rural constituencies of Kozhikode are now focussing on presenting their dream projects before voters. Innovative election manifestos now top the campaign trail, opening room for debates. Campaign managers are also ready with their social media teams to battle it out further in the cyberspace and test voters’ response. In Koduvally Assembly constituency, the United Democratic Front (UDF) promises an overall development covering five sectors — education, sports, health, agriculture, and tourism. Opening a fashion institute is one of the dream projects mentioned in the UDF’s election manifesto, which was released in the constituency on Friday. Meanwhile, youth empowerment is the thread of the final phase campaign of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Koduvally. In Balussery, the UDF is focussing on the scope of tourism development, which according to the front, was the worst-hit area during the LDF regime. The entry of a film personality into the fray has bolstered its confidence. At the same time, the LDF highlights its candidate as one of the emerging young leaders who is passionate about taking forward the LDF government’s pro-poor initiatives in the constituency. Wooing voters For the LDF campaigners in Thiruvambady, attracting voters through face-to-face campaigns tops the priority. They have already covered all tribal settlements, colonies, and backward areas promising residents that the front stands by them in crisis. For the UDF, the strategy is highlighting their candidate’s image as a respected teacher. In many locations, it has worked well by drawing large number of students to electioneering. In Kuttiyadi, highlighting the achievements of the sitting MLA tops the UDF’s campaign strategy. Campaign materials are seen aplenty in every nook and corner of the constituency reflecting the feel of the fever-pitch campaign. Meanwhile, the Left focusses on highlighting the achievements of its candidate who was formerly the president of the Kozhikode district panchayat. They say that the competition is between an experienced people’s representative and a businessman-turned politician, and that the voters can easily take a decision. Top priority For the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), the priority is to reduce the vote percentage of the two fronts. Promotion of the Centre’s welfare schemes is part of their agenda in the constituencies, where the front has been improving its vote share consistently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fronts-go-all-out-to-win-hearts-as-election-frenzy-peaks/article34227993.ece
03 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Campaign pitch rises in Elathur||Virtual assistants — Alexa, Siri or Google Assistant — may not have a clue about the winner in Elathur Assembly constituency in Kozhikode district. But voters in the segment are certain about the victory of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran who is running for the third time in a row. And, perhaps that gives the confidence to Mr. Saseendran for a hat-trick win in Elathur, the 13th segment in the district that was carved out after delimitation a decade ago. A reason cited is that the constituency is a bastion of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), the major partner in the Left Democratic Front. Besides, Mr. Saseendran says that the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) has fielded a weak and insignificant candidate against him. However, he is highlighting the development projects in Elathur during his campaigns. “The segment is a peripheral area of Kozhikode city. It has now started seeing developments in the last few years. More projects will be implemented,” he says. He adds that the Kozhikode-Balussery road will be materialised with the support of the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). “Now, the UDF says it will totally disband KIIFB if it comes to power. And, that will hit development activities in Elathur,” he tells voters. Back on track His rival, Sulfikar Mayuri, after facing stiff resistance from local Congress leaders over his candidature initially is finally back on the electioneering track. The Congress offered the seat to his party, the Nationalist Congress Kerala (NCK), under the seat-sharing pact. “In seven days, we have turned the tables on the LDF camp. Now, leaders of the Congress, Indian Union Muslim League, and a section of the Janata Dal (S) are aggressively campaigning in Elathur,” Mr. Mayuri said. At election meetings, he reminds voters that Elathur is so underdeveloped even though the Assembly segment was represented by a Minister. “Do you have a good hospital? The roads are in a dilapidated condition. Drinking water problem remains unsolved. Even the KSRTC Pavangad bus depot has turned into a graveyard for buses,” he said. An opportunity The absence of mainstream political parties in the constituency, meanwhile, has given the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) an opportunity to make a huge impact in Elathur. The party has fielded its north zone president T.P. Jayachandran, also an influential local leader and retired school teacher, to aggressively take on both his opponents. In the previous polls, the party had received over 29,000 votes in the segment. It would not be surprising if he finishes even second at the hustings. “The situation is conducive for the BJP. This time we hope to secure the votes of disgruntled CPI(M) and Congress supporters,” Shobeendran Chelannur, a poll manager, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/campaign-pitch-rises-in-elathur/article34227996.ece
03 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fronts equally poised in Kunnamangalam||With just a few days remaining for the Assembly polls, P.T.A. Rahim, the two-time MLA of Kunnamangalam constituency, is busy visiting the houses of the elderly and others who have already cast their postal votes. “As important as seeking votes is thanking them for their votes,” says the Left Democratic Front (LDF) Independent candidate, coming out of the house of a middle-aged man who was incapacitated in an accident a few years ago. “Come back after your win. We have a lot to discuss,” says the voter, and the candidate’s face brightens. Other than such visits, Mr. Rahim says he is done with house visits and campaigning at a personal level. “This is a big constituency. It is literally impossible to reach every part of it,” he says, adding that the next two days will be dedicated to roadshows and a quick retracing of the trail. That the United Democratic Front (UDF) too has fielded an Independent candidate in the constituency has boosted Mr. Rahim’s confidence. “They do not have the confidence to field a party candidate,” he says, and goes on to add that the people have a lot to remember him by in the form of infrastructure development. Meanwhile, UDF-backed Independent Dinesh Perumanna is going all out to win hearts with his warmth and broad smile. Despite the fatigue of campaigning, he was seen interacting with women and children at MSS Housing Colony in Olavanna panchayat in the morning. “It is the last leg of campaigning. From here on, it’s just roadshows, public gatherings and such,” he says, on his way to attend a funeral. Mr. Perumanna is banking on his familiarity with the constituency as a local and as an active social worker. On the occasion of Good Friday, V.K. Sajeevan, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidate, began his campaign by seeking the blessings of the nuns and the priest at Auxilium Nava Jyothi Convent and St. Joseph’s Church respectively, at Kunnamangalam. Fr. Joseph Kalathil discussed with him the Bharatiya Janata Party’s chances in Kunnamangalam and the State in general. The increasing vote share of the party in the constituency is a major confidence booster for Mr. Sajeevan. Though not a seat of controversies, winning Kunnamangalam is a matter of prestige for both the UDF and the LDF, and chances are almost equal for both the fronts. However, the role of the BJP and its vote share may be crucial in determining the verdict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fronts-equally-poised-in-kunnamangalam/article34227991.ece
03 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Case registered against student||A girl student from the Indian Institute of Management-Kozhikode (IIM-K) has approached the Kunnamangalam police seeking an investigation into the alleged sexual assault against her by her classmate. In her petition, the 22-year-old girl from Uttar Pradesh alleged that she was sexually assaulted by the youth while they were on the terrace of the hostel on Wednesday morning. Complaint Based on the girl’s complaint, the police registered a case under section 376 (punishment for rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The youth, who is also a native of Uttar Pradesh, went into hiding after the incident. Though the police carried out a search in the hostel, they could not trace him. An official from the Kunnamangalam police station said the incident was firstly taken up by the IIM-K’s Internal Complaints Committee. “The complainant came to the police station by an IIM-K vehicle. She received all the required support from the complaints committee to proceed with the police investigation.” said the official who visited the campus on Thursday as part of the investigation into the complaint. Some students He said a few students were also aware of the incident. The Kunnamangalam police said it was the first such incident reported from the IIM-K campus after its opening in 1996. “The search is on for the accused and the authorities are cooperating very well with the ongoing investigation,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-against-student-for-alleged-sexual-assault/article34227997.ece
03 April 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Strict vigil at booths sought||Congress leader M.K. Raghvan, MP, has accused the CPI(M) of deliberating including double entries in the voters’ list for the Assembly polls. Addressing a news conference on Friday, he said that the CPI(M) had not uttered a word on the duplication of names in the list. The UDF had requested the Election Commission to install web cameras and deployment of Central forces to maintain strict vigil at the polling booths, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/strict-vigil-at-booths-sought/article34227989.ece
03 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF, UDF twins in non-governance: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) were ‘twins’ and called upon the electorate to ‘bless’ the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) to create “a Kerala being dreamt by them.” “The UDF lacks ability and willingness to defeat the LDF. We see a surge in support for the NDA in Kerala now,” Mr. Modi said at the Greenfield Stadium Kariyavattom here. In Kerala, the people were convinced that the UDF and the LDF were twins in non-governance, corruption, political violence, communism, casteism, and nepotism. “The political picture in West Bengal is getting clear to all. The Congress and the CPI(M) are getting closer after every election. They should merge and name the party as CCP (Comrade Congress Party),” he said. Huge support Pointing out that there was a huge wave of support for the NDA in Kerala and other States, the Prime Minister said people were of the view that the BJP and the alliance could take care of the development needs and solve their issues. “We believe in the federal structure and voters should bless the NDA in the elections.” The NDA’s support base was on the rise with youngsters, women, professionals, and new voters joining . “You have a Minister who was to protect the temples. But, he was the mastermind to shower lathis,” he said adding that UDF and LDF legislators had amassed wealth, treated women badly, and destroyed public property. Describing the Congress as a “shameless party”, Mr. Modi said the fight between ‘I’ and ‘A’ factions years ago in Kerala had led to the end of the professional career of ‘patriotic’ scientist Nambi Narayanan. “See the place given to Metroman E. Sreedharan by the BJP who has done yeomen service to the country. He is an inspiration for professionals,” he said. ‘Hartal on governance’ Lashing out at the LDF government, the Prime Minister said a ‘total hartal’ was on in governance. It neither had vision nor initiatives for ushering development. Even the resources given to various sectors had not been used, Mr. Modi said pointing to the PM Awas Yojana. To address the rising urban population, Mr. Modi said Kerala needed the NDA’s “delivery centric” approach instead of LDF/UDF’s “delay centric approach”. Besides top leaders of the BJP, the 14 candidates of the NDA contesting in the district were present.  The UDF lacks ability and willingness to defeat the LDF. We see a surge in support for the NDA in Kerala now||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-udf-twins-in-non-governance-modi/article34228088.ece
03 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||City and coast, key determiners in Thiruvananthapuram||Capital city development and the allied issue of coastal development have held pride of place in the tight contest for the Thiruvananthapuram Assembly segment, and with just days left for the election, the three fronts are oozing confidence. Doorstep campaigns and whirlwind tours of churches were high on the schedules of the candidates on Good Friday. “We will win by a much bigger margin than last time,” declares V.S. Sivakumar, the sitting UDF MLA who is looking for a hat-trick here. Incumbent’s view The former Minister spent the morning visiting churches along the coastal stretch between Poonthura and Kochu Veli. At noon, he made a quick detour to the city to meet voters leaving the mosques at Vazhuthacaud and Attakulangara after the Friday prayers. Mr. Sivakumar is relying on his contributions to city development, his solid connections in the segment, and the traditional pull the UDF enjoys among the coastal electorate. “If the State capital has witnessed development, the credit goes entirely to the Congress. The deep-sea trawling deal inked by the LDF government has created fear in the coast,” Mr. Sivakumar told The Hindu . Undeterred LDF candidate Antony Raju spent the better part of the day calling on voters at their homes. “No need to remind you, right? Antony Raju. LDF candidate. Symbol ‘auto’,” the Janadipatya Kerala Congress leader tells voters as he finds his way through narrow lanes in Kannetumukku. In 2016, Mr. Raju had lost to Mr. Sivakumar by 10,905 votes, but he feels that things are different now. “The UDF MLA has focused not on developing the constituency, but on his own development,” says Mr. Raju. Besides, the LDF has an upper hand in the constituency, going by the pattern of the December 2020 local body elections, he says. “Of the 26 Corporation wards here, the LDF won 16, the UDF three, and the BJP, seven. Nothing has happened in the last four months to change the voting pattern,” Mr. Raju adds. Not an also-ran The BJP candidate, actor Krishnakumar G., has managed to dispel the notion that the battle for Thiruvananthapuram is simply Duel No: 2 between Mr. Sivakumar and Mr. Raju. The BJP also draws confidence from the fact that cricketer S. Sreesanth, its candidate in 2016, had secured 34,764 votes in the segment although he finished third. A familiar face on cinema and TV screens, Mr. Krishnakumar did a quick tour of Thycaud. “Son, I watch all your serials,” an elderly woman says, gripping Mr. Krishnakumar’s hand as he makes his way along Kuthiralayam Road. “I don’t blindly believe that all this will translate into votes. But a long career as an actor and a clean public image will help,” he feels. The LDF and UDF have neglected city development and treats the coastal communities as gullible vote banks, he alleges. “As the capital city, Thiruvananthapuram has a special place. But it has become a centre of neglect, rather,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/city-and-coast-key-determiners-in-thiruvananthapuram/article34228079.ece
03 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘LDF responsible for BJP’s growth’||Former Deputy Chief Minister of Rajasthan and Congress leader Sachin Pilot says the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has expanded its foothold in Kerala under the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government. Speaking to The Hindu while on a campaign tour in the State, Mr. Pilot says the Communist Party of India (Marxist) is in covert alliance with the BJP to diminish the United Democratic Front’s chances in Kerala. Both parties are united in their opposition to the policies and ideals of the Congress. They have attempted to bring the nexus into play in the impending Assembly polls. But, voters will defeat the CPI(M)-BJP cabal. Cong. victory inevitable A Congress victory in Kerala, Assam and Puducherry is inevitable. The DMK-Congress alliance is poised to march to victory in Tamil Nadu. The tide of the battle is turning against the BJP nationally, he says. Mr. Pilot denies that former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala are duelling power centres in the Congress. “The Congress approaches elections as a team. It chooses the leader of the parliamentary party later.” On CM candidate When pressed that the LDF has a clear Chief Minister candidate in Pinarayi Vijayan, Mr. Sachin says, “Mr. Vijayan has the advantage of being the incumbent Chief Minister. The Congress has also fielded sitting Chief Ministers as the face of its campaign in several States.” The LDF has resorted to political hyperbole by accusing the Congress of kowtowing to Islamist and Hindutva forces. Congress’s secular credentials are unimpeachable. The CPI(M) has unabashedly supported the Sangh Parivar in a bid to undermine the Congress. It has no right to sermonise on secularism. Scams, scandals, cover-ups and corruption have characterised five years of LDF rule in Kerala. The administration has attempted to sell the sea to foreign trawlers, jeopardising the livelihood of lakhs of traditional fishers. The LDF government has thrived merely on propaganda and public relations. It has not made a tangible difference in the lives of the people. Will reinvent Kerala By mindlessly borrowing from the open financial market, the LDF has mortgaged Kerala’s future. The Congress promises to reinvent Kerala. It will revitalise its flailing tourism, agriculture, education, health, cashew, coir and other sectors. He says Rahul Gandhi’s campaigning and the minimum income guarantee scheme promised in the UDF manifesto will tip the electoral balance in Kerala in favour of the UDF.  A Congress victory in Kerala, Assam and Puducherry is inevitable. The DMK-Congress alliance is poised to march to victory in Tamil Nadu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-responsible-for-bjps-growth/article34228065.ece
03 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Stadium sports a carnival ambience to welcome Modi||A carnival-like atmosphere prevailed at the Karyavattom Sports Hub-Greenfield International Stadium, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed an election rally on Friday. Some of the young and old who stepped in to listen to Mr. Modi were seen wearing T-shirts emblazoned with the BJP flag or its poll symbol, lotus. Some others held party flags, placards with photos of the Prime Minister and various candidates, and colourful posters. A few others were wearing eye-catching masks and sunshades. Young supporters running around with flags, cheering the speakers and candidates added to the festive mood. A few candidates addressed the gathering till the arrival of the Prime Minister, using the opportunity to make a last-minute appeal to the voters. Candidates cheered Sobha Surendran, contesting from the Kazhakuttam constituency, was wildly cheered, when she was described by the organisers as ‘Malikappuram’ and ‘Jhansi Rani’. Party candidates actor Krishnakumar G., Kummanam Rajasekharan, V.V. Rajesh, P.K. Krishnadas, Chenkal S. Rajasekharan Nair, and Karamana Jayan were also warmly welcomed. Huge flex boards of Mr. Modi and the BJP president J. P. Nadda were erected in the stadium and the flower-bedecked podium in front of the North Pavilion had an arch with the tagline ‘Kerala with Modi’ in English and Malayalam. The green turf of the stadium, the only ground in Kerala to host international cricket matches, was reserved for VVIPs and mediapersons. The cricket pitch in the middle was barricaded to prevent any damage and the organisers continuously made announcements, asking cadres to confine to the gallery. Some anxious moments were witnessed when a group of youngsters took out a rally to the turf sporting face masks and carrying banners “We support Metroman’. By the time Mr. Modi landed at the venue at 7.22 p.m., the galleries were full. The Prime Minister got a standing ovation as he greeted the supporters. He wound up his speech at 8.10 p.m. and soon the galleries were empty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stadium-sports-a-carnival-ambience-to-welcome-modi/article34228618.ece
03 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Second wave leaves doctors baffled||The intensity of the second wave of COVID-19 sweeping the country is beginning to be felt in Kerala, where the case graph has begun to rise. Public health experts and infectious diseases specialists warn that though the State has started an aggressive vaccination drive for the 45-plus age group, it should be ready with its mitigation plan to counter the second wave, which appears to be more severe, intense and fast-paced. “We still do not have adequate knowledge about the virus and should be very careful about extrapolating its behaviour during the last wave. Unlike in the first wave, we find that the virus is creating more immune mischief now so that our margins for treatment are much narrower and the time to respond, much less,” says Subramanian Swaminathan, an infectious diseases specialist at Global Hospital, Chennai, and a governing council member of the Clinical Infectious Diseases Society. Relaxation of norms Premature declarations about India conquering the pandemic seems to have lulled people into relaxing wearing of masks and physical distancing norms, he feels. “What is worrying is that the burden of infection this time has shifted to the younger age group, who currently do not qualify for COVID-19 vaccination. More than a third of my patients are less than 50 years and I have many younger patients in ICUs, with significant COVID and lung injury,” Dr. Swaminathan says. “My patients are younger, mostly unvaccinated and their disease progression unpredictable, with many worsening in a matter of hours, requiring oxygen. The response to steroids has been unpredictable too and even though the drug Tocilizumab is effective, the therapeutic window of opportunity seems to be quite small. I am also seeing more symptomatic cases and more women patients than before,” he says. Dr. Swaminathan suggests that the government network with various treatment centres, collate clinical data and put together a harmonised treatment protocol so that more lives can be saved. It is still not clear if it is the emergence of new variants that has fuelled the current surge in cases. Little information “Part of the spread of COVID-19 could of course be due to the emergence of mutant variants. We have little information on the clinical relevance of many variants of interest, even though the E484Q and L452R mutations in Maharashtra or the N440K in Kerala are said to confer immune escape and increased infectivity to the virus,” says R. Aravind, Head of Infectious Diseases, Thiruvananthapuram Medical College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/second-wave-leaves-doctors-baffled/article34228095.ece
03 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||24% increase in GST revenue in March||A 24% increase in State’s Goods and Service Tax (GST) revenue collection has been registered in March 2021 as compared to the same period last year. The GST revenue collection of Kerala was Rs. 1,475.25 crore in March 2020, when the country went on a lockdown following the pandemic. In March 2021, the last month of the 2020-2021 fiscal, it was Rs. 1,827.94 crore, registering a growth of 24%. Tamil Nadu with 23% growth is behind the State in GST revenue collection, followed by Gujarat (20%), Maharashtra (14%), Karnataka (11%) and Andhra Pradesh (5%). GST revenue in Tamil Nadu was Rs. 6,177.82 crore in March 2020 and Rs. 7,579.18 crore in March 2021. In the whole country, the highest growth of GST revenue in March 2021 has been registered in Manipur (40%). The GST revenue of Manipur was Rs. 35.89 crore in March 2020 and in March this year, it was Rs. 50.36 crore. States like Rajasthan has registered only 19%, Uttar Pradesh 18% and Delhi 40% growth in GST revenue collection for March 2021 as compared to the same period last year. GST revenue collection for March 2021 has set a new record with Rs. 1,23,902 crore gross GST revenue being collected last month according to the figures released by the Union Finance Ministry. Of this, CGST is Rs. 22,973 crore, SGST is Rs. 29,329 crore, IGST is Rs. 62,842 crore, including Rs. 31,097 crore collected on import of goods and cess is Rs. 8,757 crore, including Rs. 935 crore collected on import of goods. Six months’ rise The GST revenues during March 2021 are the highest since introduction of GST in the country. GST revenues crossed above Rs. 1 lakh crore mark at a stretch for the last six months. The steep increasing trend is indicator of rapid economic recovery post pandemic. Steps against fake-billing, data analytics using data from multiple sources including GST, Income-tax and Customs IT systems, and effective tax administration have led to increase in tax revenue over the months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/24-increase-in-gst-revenue-in-march/article34228000.ece
03 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Councillor dead||Girija Vijayan, 59, the councillor representing the Pathinaramkallu ward in the Nedumangad municipality, passed away on Friday. She had collapsed in the morning, and was rushed to the District Hospital, Nedumangad. But her life could not be saved. She was a local committee member of the Janadhipatya Mahila Association, and member, CPI(M) Pathinaramkallu branch committee. She leaves behind her husband Vijayan and children Vidya Vijayan and Vidhun G. Vijayan. LDF leaders condoled the death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/councillor-dead/article34228619.ece
03 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Charges on deal baseless: KSEB||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has refuted the charges that it had caused financial loss to the exchequer by entering into a power purchase deal with Adani Green Energy. The KSEB, in a statement on Friday, denied that it had inked any such pact with Adani Green Energy. Agreements were in fact inked in June 2019 and September 2019 with the Central public sector undertaking Solar Energy Corporation of India for purchasing wind-generated power to the tune of 200 MW and 100 MW respectively. The agreements were published on the KSEB website, it said. The KSEB came out with its clarification on Friday after Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala accused the government of awarding the power purchase contract to the Adani group. Tariff-based tender According to the KSEB, the SECI supplies power via companies selected through a tariff-based tendering process. The SECI had selected three companies — Adani Green Energy (75 MW), Senatris Wind Energy (125 MW) and Spring Wind Energy (100 MW). Adani Green Energy had started supplying 25 MW from March this year onwards. The SECI follows prescribed tender procedures to purchase power from companies at the lowest rates. Other than accepting the allotment for Kerala, the KSEB has not entered into agreements with private companies in this regard, it said. KSEB rebutted the charge that it decided to buy power at a higher cost from Adani when solar power was available at Rs. 1.99 per unit in December 2020. Solar power is not available in the market at Rs. 1.99 per unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/charges-on-deal-baseless-kseb/article34228091.ece
03 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||2,508 new cases in State||Kerala reported 2,508 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday when 51,783 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s cumulative case burden ever since the pandemic began rose to 11,29,890 cases. The test positivity rate (TPR) registered 4.84% on the day. The active case pool went up slightly and had 26,407 cases on Friday. With 2,287 recoveries being reported on the day, the cumulative recoveries reported by the State ever since the pandemic began have risen to 10,98,526. The addition of 14 new deaths that took place in the past few days to the official list of COVID fatalities in the State on Friday took the State’s cumulative toll till date to 4,646 deaths. Of the 2,508 new cases reported on Friday, 2,196 cases are believed to be locally acquired infections, through contact with other infected persons. These include infections reported in 10 health-care workers. In 132 cases, the Health Department has reported a history of travel to other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2508-new-cases-in-state/article34228093.ece
03 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||ECI bans ‘kottikalasham’||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has put a dampener on the customary crowded and noisy culmination to poll campaigns. The CPI(M), the Congress and the BJP had readied for the curtains-down events to be organised at district centres on April 6. However, the ECI has announced a ban on ‘kottikalashams’, boisterous and colourful climaxes that mark the end of the open campaigning season. The ECI had communicated the ban to State Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Teeka Ram Meena on Friday. The CEO said the ECI had imposed the ban to minimise the threat of COVID-19 flare-ups. The grand finale that marks the end of the poll campaign turns venues for party workers to impress voters. It is also an opportunity for macho posturing and to challenge opponents. Often, kottikalashams have ended in minor scuffles and fisticuffs. Safety protocol The 2021 Assembly elections are being held under the lengthening shadow of the pandemic. The COVID-19 infection rate has been climbing slowly. The government and public health experts have urged citizens to wear masks and maintain social distancing. They have also encouraged vulnerable citizens and those over 50 to get inoculated without delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eci-bans-kottikalasham-due-to-covid/article34228089.ece
03 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||BJP, CPI(M) should merge: Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said here on Friday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had wept crocodile tears for Ayyappa devotees. He had desisted from passing a Central law to circumvent the Supreme Court verdict regarding women’s entry to Sabarimala. Mr. Modi remembered Ayyappa devotees only when elections arrived. Ideally, the BJP should merge with the CPI(M) or vice versa. The Congress was not part of their unholy nexus. RSS leader R. Balashankar had spotlighted the implicit pact between the BJP and the CPI(M) in Kerala recently. Mr. Modi had repeatedly denied Kerala its due. He had no moral right to sermonise about the State’s development needs, Mr. Chennithala said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-cpim-should-merge-chennithala/article34228090.ece
03 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SOP to check ‘duplicate’ voting||Election officials on Friday came out with a standard operating procedure (SOP) for preventing ‘duplicate/multiple voting’ during the April 6 Assembly elections in the State. The thumb impression and the photograph of voters on the list of Absent, Shifted, Dead/Duplicate (ASD) entries on the electoral rolls will be taken when they visit the polling station to cast their vote. The thumb impression will be taken irrespective of the voter’s signature. The photograph will be captured and preserved for future reference. Polling officials have also been directed to obtain a declaration from voters in this category. Indelible ink mark Presiding officers have been instructed to follow the SOP, prescribed by the Election Commission of India, before permitting the voter to exercise his/her franchise. Electors will be permitted to vote only after the indelible ink mark on the finger has fully dried. Election officials had conducted a “thorough field verification” and came up with a list of ASD entries. This will be provided to all presiding officers. Individuals attempting to vote at multiple places or impersonate another voter will be prosecuted as per Sections 171D, 171 F of the Indian Penal Code. The punishment can extend up to one year of imprisonment or with fine or both. Disposing of a writ petition filed by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, a High Court Division Bench had directed the Chief Electoral Officer, Kerala, to take measures to prevent duplicate/multiple voting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sop-to-check-duplicate-voting/article34228460.ece
03 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Flash mobs by students today||Flash mobs will be organised on Saturday as part of the Systematic Voters Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) programme in association with Government College for Women, Vazhuthacaud, to increase people’s participation in the Assembly polls. The flash mobs will be held at the Aryanad junction at 11 a.m., Vellanad junction at 12.30 p.m., and Kattakada junction at 2 p.m. Nearly 50 students will present the flash mob. SVEEP team leader T. Shaji will supervise the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flash-mobs-by-students-today/article34228614.ece
03 April 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur archdiocese flays LDF, BJP||The Thrissur archdiocese of the Syro-Malabar Church, in an article in its mouth piece Catholica Sabha,has severely criticised the LDF government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). It alleges that those who came to power with a promise to make everything right have not done anything. The article, which mentions issues including illegal appointments, says everything is all right only in the families of their leaders and their dependants. It says said some communal forces are trying to make India a religious country. Kerala has not surrendered to them so far. It should not happen this time too. Calling upon the believers to cast their vote wisely, it asks them to keep away from those who want to make India a religious country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-archdiocese-flays-ldf-bjp/article34228085.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Immense potential left unexplored||A certain easy-going, calm atmosphere pervades Aarkkariyam even in supposedly the more tense moments in the narrative. So much so that close to the interval, when a key character makes a rather shocking claim, even that is delivered in a cool, collected manner, as if he is speaking about one of the dinner dishes. This somehow gives a chilling quality to that scene, yet this light treatment limits the film at other key points. Cinematographer Sanu John Varughese’s directorial debut is firmly set in the post-pandemic world, with the after-effects of the virus being a part of the narrative. Shirley (Parvathy Thiruvothu) and her husband Roy (Sharafudheen), who are settled in Mumbai, are returning home to Kerala to be with her father Ittyavira (Biju Menon), ahead of the COVID-induced lockdown. Beset with financial crises, Roy is also looking to raise urgent funds to repay his friend, who helped him in need, while Shirley is devising various ways to bring back her daughter who is stuck in a convent in another State. One of the impressive things about Aarkkariyam is in how much of it holds back, revealing just enough information at every point, keeping the rest for later. This subtle approach to even the most serious of issues is kept consistently. The mood of the film is accentuated by the light acoustic guitar strains in the background all through, even in moments when it did not really fit in. But, the easy-going atmosphere mentioned earlier and the patchy nature of the script, holds back the film from soaring even higher. This is especially so since the interval revelation held such immense potential as something to be built up on leading to a much more satisfying climax than what they managed to achieve here. Some dark secrets It has still to be said that the film uses the usual elements of a family story to construct a world, which makes one comfortable, even as a viewer from the outside. This comfort lulls the unsuspecting viewer into trusting everyone on the screen, until the rug is pulled from under their feet, revealing the dark secrets lying beneath. In the latter half, the film focusses on justifying this dark event from the past with an ‘everything is for the better’ message, letting go of the opportunity of building a taut thriller. Biju Menon aces the role of a 73-year-old, making us feel the weight of the age in his demeanour and voice, while Sharafudheen and Parvathy too make their mark. In his debut, Sanu John Varughese gets quite a few things right, but Aarkkariyam winds up to a rather tame finish despite having the material for more. S.R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/immense-potential-left-unexplored/article34228616.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Eye on votes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eye-on-votes/article34228560.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Via Crucis||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/via-crucis/article34228003.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Early chance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/early-chance/article34228097.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the warpath||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-the-warpath/article34228447.ece
03 April 2021||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||City very likely to get a PIB unit||The Press Information Bureau (PIB) unit, which has been eluding the city for long, may soon become a reality with Visakhapatnam poised to become the Executive Capital of Andhra Pradesh. Though promises were made by the I & B Ministers in this regard in the past, it has not materialised, so far. It may be recalled that Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu had promised a PIB unit in the city, when he was Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting between 2016 and 17. Former I & B Ministers K.P. Singh Deo and P.A. Sangma were also said to have favoured the setting up of a PIB unit in Visakhapatnam in view of its strategic importance on the east coast of India, as headquarters of the Eastern Naval Command (ENC). The city is also Headquarters of Coast Guard (Eastern Seaboard), home to defence establishments like the Naval Science and Technological Laboratory (NSTL), defence production units like Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL), a Major Port, HPCL Oil Refinery besides being chosen as Headquarters of South Coast Railway (S Co R) Zone, which is yet to be operationalised. Prior to the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh, the then President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam came for the Presidential Fleet Review and stayed in the city. Post-bifurcation, Visakhapatnam hosted the International Fleet Review (IFR) for which Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the chief guest. Defence Ministers, foreign delegates and other VIPs also frequent the city, as it plays host to national and international conventions. The PIB officials will be the interface with visiting foreign dignitaries besides coordinating with the local media during such events. “A regional unit of the PIB was set up in Vijayawada, after bifurcation. The demand for setting up of a PIB unit in Visakhapatnam is justified in view of the importance of the city. However, it is for the government to take a call on it. With the State government being keen on making Visakhapatnam as Executive Capital of the State, the chances of PIB being set up in the city are bright,” says a reliable source. Further, there is a demand to set up one more PIB unit in Tirupati as high dignitaries like President, Prime Minister, Union Ministers and other VIPs regularly visit Tirumala for darshan of Lord Venkateswara. The demand is justified and needs to be considered, say those watching the developments.  There is a demand to set up one more PIB unit in Tirupati as high dignitaries regularly visit Tirumala||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-very-likely-to-get-a-pib-unit/article34228657.ece
03 April 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Will take YSRCP violations to notice of apex court’||Congress candidate for the Tirupati Lok Sabha byelection Chinta Mohan has accused the YSRCP leaders of trying to influence the voters with money and liquor. Addressing the media during his campaign at Satyavedu, Mr. Mohan said the violations, along with evidence, would be brought to the notice of the Supreme Court. The people were vexed with the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre for not fulfilling the promise of according Special Category Status (SCS) for the State. The electorate also lost confidence in the YSRCP, the TDP, and the JSP, as all the three regional parties were not capable of questioning the NDA government on the injustice done to Andhra Pradesh, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-take-ysrcp-violations-to-notice-of-apex-court/article34228526.ece
03 April 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM enquires about Roja’s health||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday spoke to Nagari MLA R.K. Roja, who was convalescing after undergoing twin surgeries at a private hospital in Chennai, and enquired about her health. Her family members said that Ms. Roja got emotional while expressing her inability to join the campaign for the Tirupati Lok Sabha byelection. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was said to have advised her to take rest, and told her that the campaign would be taken care of by the party leaders. The Chief Minister also praised Ms. Roja for her bold initiatives in strengthening the party in her Assembly constituency and for ensuring the party’s victory both in the Puttur and Nagari municipalities recently. Meanwhile, the party cadre and Ms. Roja’s fans performed special puja at various temples in Nindra, Nagari, Puttur, Vadamalapeta and Vijayapuram mandals, and prayed for her speedy recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-enquires-about-rojas-health/article34228527.ece
03 April 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP is a sinking ship: Ambati||YSRCP MLA Ambati Rambabu on Friday came down heavily on TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu for boycotting the ZPTC and MPTC elections, and advised the TDP cadre to look for an alternative as their party was a sinking ship. Addressing the media here, Mr. Rambabu said the TDP has taken the stand as Mr. Naidu feared a drubbing again. The 2019 Assembly elections and the recent panchayat and municipal elections had made it clear that people had lost faith in TDP. “The TDP will soon disappear due to the father-son duo,” he said. He questioned the TDP chief if he had belief in the parliamentary system, and dared him to contest the ZPTC and MPTC elections. “Mr. Naidu and his son Lokesh will bring a situation, where there will not be any candidates in the TDP to contest the general elections,” he said. Mr. Rambabu also slammed the opposition parties for boycotting the all-party meeting held by the State Election Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-is-a-sinking-ship-ambati/article34228528.ece
03 April 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jyothula Nehru resigns as TDP State vice-president||Former Jaggampeta MLA Jyothula Nehru on Friday resigned as TDP State vice-president in protest against the leadership’s decision to boycott the MPTC / ZPTC elections scheduled to be held on April 8. “I made it clear that the TDP should contest the MPTC / ZPTC elections during a recent meeting convened to decide the action plan. Boycotting the elections will weaken the party at the ground level. I have resigned as the TDP vice-president,” Mr. Nehru told The Hindu over phone. ‘Will not quit party’ Many senior leaders, including Yanamala Ramakrishnudu, had opposed the idea of boycotting the MPTC / ZPTC elections, he said. “I will continue to be the in-charge of the Jaggampeta Assembly constituency. I will not quit the party,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jyothula-nehru-resigns-as-tdp-state-vice-president/article34228529.ece
03 April 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police gear up for MPTC, ZPTC polls in Agency||East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi on Friday directed the police officials to deploy the required number of personnel in hyper-sensitive areas and the areas sharing borders with Chattisgarh and Odisha for the conduct of MPTC/ZPTC election on April 8. Action plan Mr. Asmi chalked out an action plan to conduct the election peacefully in the naxal-affected areas during a meeting attended by senior police officials from the Agency. Chintoor DSP Sk.Khadar Basha, ASP (Armed Reserve) V. S. Prabhakara Rao and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-gear-up-for-mptc-zptc-polls-in-agency/article34228574.ece
03 April 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. alone can end BJP’s ‘misrule’ at Centre: Chinta||The Congress party alone could put an end to the “misrule” of the BJP-led government at the Centre, Chinta Mohan, Congress Working Committee member and party candidate for the Tirupati Lok Sabha byelection, claimed on Friday. Addressing the media at Venkatagiri, Dr. Mohan questioned as to why the YSRCP, which had won a maximum of 22 MP seats with the promise to “extract Special Category Status (SCS) to Andhra Pradesh,” had forgotten its promise to people after the 2019 elections. “Embroiled in court cases, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is busy shuttling between Amaravati and Delhi,” he alleged. Adding insult to injury, the YSRCP MPs fully backed the BJP’s “communal agenda” as also “suicidal” economic policies in in Parliament, he said The TDP, which was on the path to political oblivion in the State, also backed the BJP’s “anti-people” policies in Parliament, he alleged. Both the regional parties were hand-in-glove with the BJP, he charged. Dr. Mohan wanted the people to teach a lesson to the BJP and the YSRCP, which were competing with each other in imposing hefty burden on the people in the form of taxes. Price rise The increase in the prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas had resulted in unprecedented increase in prices of all essential commodities, which made the lives of the common people miserable, he said during the whistle-stopcampaign in Venkatagiri, Naidupeta and Tada mandals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cong-alone-can-end-bjps-misrule-at-centre-chinta/article34228531.ece
03 April 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Why SCS to Puducherry, but not for A.P.?’||Former Union Minister Panabaka Lakshmi on Friday accused the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party of adopting “double standards” by promising Special Union Territory Status to Puducherry, but not giving the promised Special Category Status(SCS) to Andhra Pradesh. Ms.Lakshmi, the Telugu Desam Party’s nominee for the Tirupati Lok Sabha byelection and who has been campaigning in the constituency comprising four assembly segments in SPSR Nellore district, said that the BJP came to power in 2014 by promising the SCS in this constituency. “Why this step-motherly treatment,” she asked while making a reference to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman releasing the BJP’s manifesto promising the coveted status to Puducherry. It was unfortunate that the YSR Congress Party remained silent now in the Parliament when ‘gross injustice’ was done to the State, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/why-scs-to-puducherry-but-not-for-ap/article34228517.ece
03 April 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccination drive gets boost as Prakasam Collector takes jab||The vaccination drive got a much-needed impetus with Prakasam District Collector Pola Bhaskar taking the jab in Ongole on Friday. The District Collector and his wife P. Amaravati took the vaccine at the Government General Hospital. As many as 3,000 people took the vaccine till late in the evening, said Prakasam District Medical and Health Officer P.R atnavalli overseeing the vaccination drive across 30 session sites. About 1.96 lakh persons have been vaccinated so far in the district. Drive to be ramped up in urban areas “We have taken all steps to ratchet up the vaccination drive from Saturday in all the urban and rural public health centres by focussing on village and ward secretariats,” she said, adding that they were making sure that there was no wastage by vaccinating 10 persons at a time. Meanwhile, one person succumed to the infection on Friday taking the toll to 583 in the district, where 62 persons tested positive for the disease in a span of 24 hours, according to a medical bulletin released by the State government. In neighbouring SPSR Nellore district, 118 persons got infected. With this, the number of active cases shot up to 830 in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh including 453 in SPSR Nellore district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccination-drive-gets-boost-as-prakasam-collector-takes-jab/article34228519.ece
03 April 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prayers mark Good Friday||Special prayers were organised at the centuries-old Jewett Memorial Baptist church as also in over 150-odd denomination of churches in Ongole on the occasion of Good Friday, with a limited number of people attending the congregation in view of the surging COVID cases. Wearing face masks and maintaining social distance, people read psalms to mark the day commemorating the crucifixion of Jesus. The Stations of the Cross’ procession bearing the holy cross was led by Fr. Illuri Hrudayaraj at the Roman Catholic Church. Braving the scorching heat, students of the St.Theresa High School re-enacted the crucifixion events on the occasion. At the sprawling American Baptist Mission(ABM) college grounds, pastor D.J. Augustine recalled the seven sayings of Jesus on the cross. Live streaming of the special prayers was also organised for the benefit of those who preferred to remain at their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-prayers-mark-good-friday/article34228516.ece
03 April 2021||P. Sujatha VarmaVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Insurance employee turns Good Samaritan to help the needy||“In December 2004, when giant tsunami waves swallowed thousands of people in Tamil Nadu’s coastal areas of Nagapattinam, Chennai, Cuddalore, Velankinia and Poompuhar, my heart stood still. I could feel the emotional distress of the population affected by the deluge, but felt powerless to do anything to mitigate their woes,” recalls Raasamsetti Nanda Kishore, an employee of the insurance sector, who finds happiness in helping the poor and needy. Soon he started, in a small way, reaching out to distressed souls around him and helped them in all possible ways. Impressed by his humane gesture, a few like-minded friends and colleagues joined him and gradually the team grew in size. As the circle of the beneficiaries of his services expanded, Mr. Kishore realised that the needs of people were many and diverse in nature. Trust To streamline the services, he founded Open Hearth Charitable Trust in August 2010, with his “supportive” wife Thanuja Rani as its president. Through this platform, Mr. Kishore, along with his wife and two sons, Bala Ambicanadh and Chaitanya Naga Bhadrinadh, and his 300-odd team of volunteers, carry out service activities like poor-feeding, distribution of food, clothes and books and sponsoring fee for meritorious students from economically backward sections besides taking up environment-related causes like sapling-plantation drives. The trust in the past ran a home for the aged in a rented building at Krishna Lanka near the Padmavathi Ghat for four years with 30 inmates. But it had to be discontinued when the local municipal authorities asked them to vacate the building, as it was being razed for road-widening. “It was a very saddening experience. Dropping the elderly inmates back in their homes was a difficult task as in most cases, their children refused to take them back. We had to seek police help, but their plight in such unwelcoming atmosphere was anybody's guess,” he recounts.  Allocation Every month, Mr. Kishore sets aside a part of his salary for service activities. “I have seen tough times and have come up the hard way. I can very well relate to their plight,” he says, explaining that every second and fourth Saturdays and Sundays (holidays) he hits the roads and streets, carrying bag-full of food, clothes and other distribution material with the Trust members. On International Women’s Day, the trust served sumptuous food to 15,000 women from slum habitations, at different points in the city. Last week, it distributed household articles to women. Open Heart Charitable Trust so far has sponsored education of 735 students, conducted 54 medical camps, fed 6,1729 poor, facilitated vocational training to 285 youth and single women besides conducting awareness programmes in schools and colleges and the community at large. “Some day when I have enough funds, I would start a home for the aged and a women empowerment training centre,” he says, adding: “I want to continue what I am doing because nobody has ever become poor by giving.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/insurance-employee-turns-good-samaritan-to-help-the-needy/article34227794.ece
03 April 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rajamahendravaram man scales Mount Kilimanjaro||A 33-year-old mountaineer from Rajamahendravaram, Achanta Umesh, has scaled the Uhuru peak — the highest point of Mt. Kilimanjaro in the African continent, at 7 a.m. Indian Standard Time (IST) on March 26. Mr. Umesh shared his experience of scaling Mt. Kilimanjaro at a press conference here on Friday, “The summit was a challenge achieved at a temperature of -29 degrees Celsius recorded on the Uhuru peak on March 26. I had the opportunity to unfurl the national flag, measuring 22 m width and 33 m in height,” he said. At a height of 5,895 metres above sea level, Mt. Kilimanjaro is the highest single free-standing mountain in the world. It is a dormant volcano located in Tanzania and is the fourth most-topographically prominent peak on the planet. Mr. Umesh said that he was preparing to scale Mount Elbrus in Russia in June, and thanked public representatives from Rajamahendravaram city for helping him achieve the mountaineering feat. Mr. Umesh is also an avid table tennis player.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rajamahendravaram-man-scales-mount-kilimanjaro/article34228545.ece
03 April 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘COVID second wave has lower recovery rate’||The outbreak of a second wave of COVID-19 has grave repercussions for the country’s healthcare system, as the new variants have been found to have a lower recovery rate, according to medical experts. “The second wave of COVID-19 is spreading very quickly in India, and might have an impact on Andhra Pradesh. The new variants lead to thickening and clotting of blood in no time,” said Kutikuppala Surya Rao, a National Professor at Indian Medical Association College of General Practitioners-Chennai who was awarded the Padma Shri for his study of HIV-AIDS. “With the infection of COVID-19, a thrombus may form in a vessel and remain there. It will prevent normal flow of blood and oxygen, leading to severe health complications at a rapid speed. Saving patients then becomes a herculean task for medical experts,” said Dr. Surya Rao, who is doing research on infectious diseases including COVID-19. Dr. Suryarao feared that the death rate would be higher this time compared to the first wave. “According to the World Health Organisation’s reports, the recovery rate has come down among patients affected by the second wave of COVID. Earlier, the recovery rate was 99.34%, but it has now come down to 94.1%. It means that as many as six persons out of 100 have become victims of the second wave,” asserted Dr. Surya Rao, who hails from Srikakulam district. He urged the Andhra Pradesh government to create awareness on safety precautions at all levels as new cases were being reported in increasing numbers every day in the State. “To overcome the problem, people of all groups should take preventive measures such as physical distancing, frequent sanitisation, and wearing masks. Vaccination should also be given top priority,” added the expert, who is a member of the Infectious Diseases Society of America.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/recovery-rate-for-covid-second-wave-lower-expert/article34228543.ece
03 April 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||District officials gearing up for MPTC and ZPTC polls||A day after State Election Commissioner Nilam Sawhney had declared the election schedule for MPTC and ZPTC posts, the district administration has set in the motion for smooth conduct of the polls. The polls were last held in 2013-14. In the district, there are 651 MPTC seats and out of which 37 have already been unanimously elected and in two places, the candidates have died and fresh dates are awaited. “In total, we will have election for 612 seats,” said Zilla Parishad CEO V. Nagarjuna Sagar. Coming to ZPTC, there are 39 seats, one has already been unanimously elected and in one place the candidate has died. That leaves 37 seats up for the grabs, in this election. The poll date has has been set for April 8, with repoll wherever necessary on April 9, and the results will be declared on April 10. In the district, there are about 2,100 polling stations and about 12,000 staff will be put on poll duty, which included 20% reserve. The district administration has already identified 179 zonal officers, 310 route officers, 41 field surveillance teams and 68 static teams, to oversee the election process. Out of the 2,100 polling stations, about 718 have been identified as sensitive and 736 as hyper-sensitive. Some of these sensitive and hyper-sensitive stations have previous history of some violence and some are located in sensitive Maoist areas, said Mr. Nagarjuna. Apart from adequate security, each polling station will have five polling staff with one observer. All sensitive and hyper-sensitive stations will have micro-observers and videographers, he said.  More women voters In the district there are about 17.84 lakh voters with 8.76 lakh men and 9.08 women. This is one among the few districts in the State that has more women voters than men, said the ZP CEO. Coming to ballot boxes, he said that the requirement is around 5,934 boxes and the district has close to 7,500 boxes. The boxes are kept in the strongrooms at all mandal headquarters and will be despatched after they are labelled. The counting, which is scheduled for April 10, will be done at the respective mandal headquarters. According to the ZP officials, in the last election the polling percentage was around 80% and each polling station has around 800 to 1,000 votes. In some hyper-sensitive Maoist-affected areas, the polling booths have been moved to safer spots and the staff for such stations, will leave a day earlier. The district administration will also conduct a one-day training session for all the staff members, in phases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-officials-gearing-up-for-mptc-and-zptc-polls/article34228655.ece
03 April 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Those defaming TTD will face action, says EO||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Friday said that action would be taken against those attempting to malign the image of the institution. “Cases have already been filed against a few individuals for levelling unfounded allegations against the administration and undermining the sentiments of the devotees,” he said. The TTD has also registered a defamation case against a former public representative for allegedly making derogatory remarks against the institution in the hair seizure case in Assam despite the issuance of a detailed clarification over the issue. He appealed to the pilgrims to inform the call centre in the event of any malicious content against the TTD on social media platforms. Anchoring the pilgrim interactive session, he said that efforts are on to minimise donation-related advertisements on Sri Venkateswara Bhakti Channel (SVBC) and reduce the jostling in the queue lines. A toll-free number shall be provided to the pilgrims to redress their grievances while at Tirumala, he added.. Plea to pilgrims Urging the pilgrims to get vaccinated ahead of visiting the sacred shrine, Mr. Jawahar Reddy said importance will be given to the feedback provided by them in order to further improve the quality of food served under Nitya Annadanam. Elaborate arrangements are being made for the grand conduct of Plavanama Samvatsara Ugadi – the Telugu New Year day on April 13 along with asthanam and panchanga sravnam at the temple of Lord Venkateswara, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stern-action-against-those-defaming-ttd/article34228443.ece
03 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP sparing no effort to ensure win of Gurumoorthy||With the mercury hovering over 42° Celsius on Friday and with the heat wave sweeping, it was a hard day for one to step out. But, it was business as usual for the YSRCP’s campaign, which had been on a feverish pitch right from day one. Perni Nani campaign Accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy, Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy, Chittoor district party in-charge Y.V. Subba Reddy and MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy, the party candidate, M. Gurumoorthy, had been touring the seven Assembly segments forming part of the Tirupati (SC) Lok Sabha constituency for over a week now. The day’s special attraction was the presence of Minister for Information Perni Venkatramaiah (Nani), who personally distributed pamphlets and party graffiti to every household. As the State leadership had appointed the Minister as in-charge of canvassing in the Tirupati Assembly constituency, the latter left no stone unturned to ensure a cake walk for the party. Mr. Karunakar Reddy launched the day’s campaign at the Guruva Reddy Samadhulu area and ushered Dr. Gurumoorthy into the lanes of the city to seek votes for the ‘Fan’ symbol. The party chose Friday to canvass at the Pedda Masjid, as it was attended by a number of Muslims for the special prayers. Shafi Ahmed Qadari, who was appointed Government Qazi for Tirupati, accompanied and introduced the candidate to the members of the community. Later, a friendly meeting was held with the Dalit leaders, where the speakers recalled the support extended by former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy for the community, and sought support for Dr. Gurumoorthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-sparing-no-effort-to-ensure-win-of-gurumoorthy/article34228534.ece
03 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP-JSP combine seeks support of Kapus||The BJP-JSP combine has appealed to the Kapu, Balija, Telaga and Ontari communities – collectively brought under the Kapu umbrella – to extend their support to their candidate K. Ratna Prabha in the ensuing byelection to the Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency. Addressing a meeting of the ‘Kapu Sankshema Sena’ here on Friday, BJP State co-in-charge Sunil Deodhar, State president Somu Veerraju and JSP State leader P. Hariprasad recalled the spate of attacks on the community members in the recent past, and highlighted the need to jointly face the onslaught from the attackers, who, they alleged, owed their allegiance to the ruling party. Mr. Somu Veerraju went to the extent of appealing to the community to take it up as a challenge to ensure the victory of the BJP-JSP combine. When the community leader sought the stand of the BJP-JSP combine on BC status to Kapus, which the YSRCP government had passed on to the Centre, the BJP offered support to the cause if the community backed JSP president Pawan Kalyan as the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-jsp-combine-seeks-support-of-kapus/article34228532.ece
03 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Whiteflies plaguing horticulture crops||The invasive Rugose Spiralling Whitefly (RSW) seems to be showing its presence in the State with its incidence being reported in different districts. According to information, a high incidence (more than 30 spirals for leaflet) is reported in East and West Godavari and Nellore districts. The Rugose Spiralling Whitefly has invaded crops such as coconut, oil palm, cocoa, banana, curry leaf, jackfruit, papaya, yam, and mango. It has also invaded ornamental plants such as bird of paradise, fishtail palm, spider lily, areca palm, cabbage tree, rose apple, and heliconia. The whitefly has devoured the palm oil and coconut plantations in East and West Godavari, Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, and Visakhapatnam districts. The extent of damage is yet to be assessed. Officials of the Horticulture Department are taking steps to check the pest by adopting bio-control methods. “The problem has been brought to the notice of the State government,” says M.V.S. Nagi Reddy, Andhra Pradesh Agriculture Mission Vice-Chairman. Field experiments “Various management strategies such as use of Isaria fumosorosea (NBAIR Pfu-5) have been adopted. The results are encouraging. Field experiments have been conducted in association with the National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources (NBAIR- ICAR), Bengaluru, at Madavaraidupalem in East Godavari and Kalavalapalli in West Godavari districts. The results have revealed that I. fumosorosea has reduced egg hatching of RSW. However, during high temperatures ( > 350 C), there is a comparatively lower suppression of eggs,” says N.B.V. Chalapathi Rao, Head of the Horticultural Research Station (HRS) at Amabajipeta and Principal Scientist (Horticulture). “Good results with I. fumosorosea can be obtained if spraying is carried out at 10 to 15 days interval with high jet sprayers when there are no high temperatures. Spraying operations should be initiated early in the season as and when RSW population is observed, as it can have more impact and can reduce and arrest the RSW population build-up,” he says. The RSW was first reported at Kadiyam in East Godavari district in the nursery gardens during late December 2016. As many as 319 villages in East and West Godavari, Krishna, Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts were affected during 2019 and 2020. About 10,226 hectares of coconut plantations and 11,744 hectares oil palm plantations were affected during these years. With the RSW incidence being reported again, the farmers fear that the yield is likely to come down by about 20%. As part of the measures to control its spread, the government has been supplying Isaria fumosorosea, a bio-pesticide, to the farmers through the Horticulture Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/whiteflies-plaguing-horticulture-crops/article34228553.ece
03 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Many ‘blade’ gangs active in city, Guntur||“Blade batch” gangs are creating flutter in many areas in Vijayawada and Guntur districts. More than 25 gangs are active in the two cities. “Blade batch” offenders, who are allegedly addicted to drugs, reportedly carry pieces of blades with them. They attack on people in isolated places with blades and relieve them of cash and valuables. Police identified vulnerable places where “blade batch” gangsters resorted to attacks on the public. In some areas, the gang members allegedly resort to burglaries by breaking into houses on the outskirts. “First the accused will inflict injuries with blades and small knives (pencil sharpening knives) causing bleeding injuries to terrorise the public. Later, they snatch the purse and valuables from the victims. The gang members will be under the influence of alcohol and ganja,” a police officer said. On March 28, a robber, suspected to be a “blade batch” member, allegedly attacked a woman guard, G. Grace, in the brake van of a goods train with a blade. He flashed the blade, gagged her, tiled her hands with a dupatta and robbed Rs. 3,000 cash and gold jewellery from her. “The accused boarded the train near Tadepalli railway station. Many unscrupulous elements and blade batch members are moving on the tracks and on the Krishna River bund. We suspect that the accused was a blade batch offender,” said a Government Railway Police officer, who is investigating the case. In another incident, a four-member “blade batch” member gang attack a woman on the tracks, when she was on the way to Machilipatnam after selling fish. The gang members snatched cash from the woman after allegedly attacking her with knives. “Blade batch” gangs attacked passengers near railway station when they were returning home, even during daytime, and snatched gold chains and purses. “Blade batch gangs are active in One Town, Gandhi Nagar, Satyanarayanapuram, Machavaram, Gunadala, Tadepalli, Seetanagaram and other places in Vijayawada and Guntur. We are doing regular counselling to the accused,” a police officer said.  Police identified vulnerable places where the gangsters resorted to attacks on the public||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/blade-batch-gangs-active-in-vijayawada-guntur/article34227802.ece
03 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spike in cases continues unabated||The State witnessed five more deaths due to COVID-19 and 1,288 infections in the 24 hours ending Friday morning. It was the highest single-day tally in past four and a half months. The cumulative tally increased to 9,04,548 and the death toll reached 7,225 with a death rate of 0.80%. The number of active cases increased to 8,815, even as 673 patients recovered in the past day. The overall recoveries and recovery rate stands at 8,88,508 and 98.23%. The daily positivity rate of 31,116 samples tested was 4.14%, the highest in past five months. The overall positivity rate of 1.514 crore samples decreased to 5.97%. One death each occurred in Anantapur, Chittoor, Guntur, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam districts during the 24 hours. Highest single-day tally Guntur reported 311 new infections, the highest among the districts in the past day. It was followed by Chittoor (225), Visakhapatnam (191), Krishna (164), Nellore (118), Prakasam (62), Srikakulam (54), Kurnool (52), Vizianagaram (31), Anantapur (26), East Godavari (26), Kadapa (21) and West Godavari (7). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,25,389), West Godavari (94,555), Chittoor (90,311), Guntur (78,412), Anantapur (68,509), Nellore (63,279), Prakasam (62,680), Visakhapatnam (62,076), Kurnool (61,691), Kadapa (55,902), Krishna (50,659), Srikakulam (46,796) and Vizianagaram (41,394).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spike-in-cases-continues-unabated/article34228525.ece
03 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||100 stray monkeys from Tanuku released into forest||Officials of the Forest Department released about 100 monkeys detained in cages in Tanuku town of West Godavari district into the forests. The released monkeys were in good health condition, the officers said. Following complaints from the public that monkeys were attacking them and causing nuisance in the town and the surrounding areas, the local municipal authorities reportedly caught the animals and detained them in cages. However, members of the animal care and animal rescue team took the matter to the notice of West Godavari District Collector and the Forest Department authorities, who swung into action on Thursday. The animal rescue team members argued that monkeys would die due to lack of food and water, if detained in cages, and urged the officials to release them immediately. The Forest and Municipal officials along with the veterinary doctor visited the monkeys at Kommai Cheruvu Gattu area, where they were kept. A veterinary doctor said all the animals were in good health, said Divisional Forest Officer (DFO-Wildlife Management) C. Selvam. “The monkeys were shifted to Dubacherla in vehicles, and were released into nearby forests,” Mr. Selvam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/100-stray-monkeys-from-tanuku-released-into-forest/article34227799.ece
03 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. working on creating digital infrastructure up to the panchayat level: Goutham Reddy||The government has set itself a target of creating 19,000 IT workstations by 2024, according to IT and Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy. “The government is working on creation of digital infrastructure up to the panchayat level such as high-speed Internet at villages and digital libraries with video conferencing facility in the village / ward secretariats,” Mr. Goutham Reddy said while addressing the CXO roundtable here on Friday. Village secretariats The idea was to develop all the 19,000 village secretariats into digital laboratories. “Additionally, five to six workstations will be provided in every gram panchayat for use as co-working spaces by professionals or entrepreneurs,” he said. The Minister also turned to Twitter to share the initiatives to develop IT and industrial sectors in the State. “There are many ways our government can support, or ignite #startup ecosystems: making better regulations, showing avenues for capital, providing access to knowledge and creating hubs for incubation,” he said. Skill development At the conclave, Mr. Goutham Reddy said the government was setting up 30 Skill Development Centres (SDC) across the State in order to impart training in various skills relevant for today’s industry. IT varsity The government was also setting up a high-end IT skills university in Visakhapatnam to cater to the skilling and innovation needs across latest technologies such as Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, he said. The government was proposing to establish an integrated technology park in order to create the best working environment in the post COVID-19 world. It would consist of a high-end IT skills university, incubation centres, Centres of Excellence, labs, co-working spaces, State Data Centre (SDC), and offices of the IT, E&C Department in Visakhapatnam, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-working-on-creating-digital-infrastructure-up-to-the-panchayat-level-goutham-reddy/article34228537.ece
03 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||One dead in brawl over Rs. 100||In a broad daylight attack, a youth was killed and three others suffered injuries when construction workers allegedly attacked one another over a dispute for Rs. 100. The incident occurred on the main road, near a bar, under Ajit Singh Nagar police station limits, on Friday. The deceased has been identified as Boddupalli Nagaraju alias Pandu (31). The injured Shaik Hussain, Dodda Kishore and Shaik Rafi, were admitted to hospital with multiple injuries. They were natives of Vambay Colony and Rajiv Nagar. According to sources, Nagaraju and his three friends allegedly earned Rs. 2,000 after attending work. When Nagaraju got only Rs. 400 instead of Rs. 500 as his share, a brawl ensued at the bar on Thursday night. Nagaraju returned with his friends Rafi, Hussain and Kishore to discuss the matter, and in a fit of rage, the three allegedly attacked Kishore with cutters (small knives) and other sharp weapons. Nagaraju, who suffered deep injury on his throat fell down. He died while being shifted to hospital. The accused who also suffered injuries were admitted in hospital, the Ajit Singh Nagar police said. The polie took Hussain, Kishore and Rafi into custody and recovered cutters used for committing the murder. They would be produced in the court, a police official said.  Four injured In a separate incident, four youth suffered injuries when two groups, mostly students, allegedly clashed and attacked with blades, over free fire game at Dawajigudem on the city outskirts on Friday. The incident occurred near a school and the groups attacked each other with sticks and sharp weapons in the streets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-killed-three-injured-in-attack-with-knives/article34227804.ece
03 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kalinga Ratna award given to Governor Harichandan||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu presented the Kalinga Ratna Award for the year 2021, to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan. The award was presented during the 600th birth anniversary celebrations of Adikabi Sarala Das and the 40th annual celebrations of Sarala Sahitya Sandad, organised in Cuttack on Friday. The award carried a silver statue of Goddess Saraswati and a copper plaque. Odisha Governor Prof. Ganeshi Lal, Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas and Steel Dharmendra Pradhan, and Sarala Sahitya Sansad president Dr. Prabhakar Swain attended the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kalinga-ratna-award-given-to-governor-by-vice-president/article34227948.ece
03 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Follow COVID norms strictly during MPTC, ZPTC polls, says SEC||State Election Commissioner Nilam Sawhney has asked officials to follow the COVID-19 health guidelines and protocols without fail while conducting elections to MPTCs and ZPTCs in the State. Ms. Sawhney said on Friday that police personnel and employees deployed on election related duties should be given top priority for COVID-19 vaccination. Social distancing should be maintained as per COVID-19 guidelines of the State Government and Ministry of Home Affairs, she instructed officials. All officers and staff deployed on every election-related activity should wear face mask and should be be cautioned against gathering in large numbers, especially at the time of collection of polling material at distribution centres and at the time of depositing polled material at the reception centres, she said. The same precautions should be observed during the counting process, she said. Sanitisers, soap and water should made available on the premises used for election purposes and thermal scanning of persons should be done as far as possible. Mandatory sanitisation of polling station should be be done preferably a day before the date of poll. Sitting arrangement in the polling station for the polling personnel and polling agents should be made as per the norms of social distancing, she said. At any given time, only one voter would be allowed to stand in front of each polling official duly observing social distancing. COVID-19 patients who are quarantined would be allowed to cast their vote at the last hour of the poll day at their respective polling stations under the supervision of health authorities strictly following COVID-19 preventive measures, she said. A group of five persons, including candidates, excluding security personnel, if any, would be allowed for door-to-door campaigning. Public gatherings / rallies should be conducted subject to strict adherence to the COVID-19 guidelines. Political parties and candidates concerned should ensure that all COVID-19 related requirements such as wearing face masks, sanitizers, thermal scanning, etc., were fulfilled during the campaigning, Ms. Sawhney added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/follow-covid-norms-during-mptc-zptc-polls-says-sec/article34228541.ece
03 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC issued notification in haste, says TDP leader||TDP leader K.S. Jawahar has objected to the notification and election schedule issued by the State Election Commission (SEC) for the ZPTC and MPTC elections. In a statement on Friday, Mr. Jawahar said that State Election Commissioner Nilam Sawhney had issued the notification in haste. “The SEC has not elicited the opinion of all the political parties before issuing the notification. How the SEC come to the conclusion that the election can be conducted in one day?” he asked. The TDP would not accept the manner in which the SEC was dealing with the election process, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sec-issued-notification-in-haste-says-tdp-leader/article34228535.ece
03 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||MPTC polls: APPSC defers exam||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has postponed the qualifying test in proficiency in Office Automation with usage of computers and associated software for the employees appointed on compassionate grounds in HoD/Direct/AP Secretariat, VROs and in-service VRAs, scheduled to be held from April 6 to 9, owing to MPTC/ZPTC elections. In a statement on Friday, Commission Secretary P.S.R. Anjaneyulu said revised dates would be announced shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mptc-polls-appsc-defers-exam/article34227795.ece
03 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea to set up SHRC office in State||Andhra Pradesh Civil Liberties Association (APCLA) State committee member P. Ramu has filed a petition before the Andhra Pradesh State Human Rights Commission (APSHRC) requesting it to provide all facilities to the Commission in Andhra Pradesh. An advocate. A. Yellamandayya of Tadepalli in Guntur district, moved the petition before the APSHRC on Friday. The advocate urged the SHRC to direct the government to provide necessary staff, office and infrastructure to the Commission in Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-to-set-up-shrc-office-in-state/article34227800.ece
03 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure free, fair elections, says CEC||Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora has asked the Chief Secretaries and Chief Electoral Officers (CEOs) to make all necessary arrangements to conduct the elections in a free and peaceful manner. Mr. Arora held a video conference with Chief Secretaries and CEOs of the States where the elections are being held shortly. Mr. Arora stressed on the need to ensure that no untoward incidents occur while conducting the elections. Andhra Pradesh Chief Secretary Adityanath Das spoke about the arrangements being made for the Tirupati byelection. As elections are slated to be conducted in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, which have borders with A.P., checkposts were set up in Chittoor, Nellore, and East Godavari districts. Flying squads were also formed, and 65 inter-State checkposts were set up, he said. CEO K. Vijayanand said 30 candidates were in the fray. Ten companies of CRPF will have to be deployed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-free-fair-elections-says-cec/article34228548.ece
03 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VHR calls for united struggle to save Vizag steel plant||Former MP and senior Congress leader V. Hanumantha Rao has called upon all sections of people to join hands and oppose the “anti-labour and anti-people” policies of the Centre. Mr. Hanumantha Rao, along with another former MP G.V. Harsha Kumar, visited the relay hunger strike camp being organised under the aegis of the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee at Kurmannapalem on Friday and expressed their solidarity with the striking workers. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Hanumantha Rao called upon the working class to oppose the “anti-labour” policies of the Centre. He also called upon all the political parties to set aside their differences and unite to save the public sector unit, which was the backbone for the growth of the nation. Mr. Hanumantha Rao alleged that the Prime Minister was dancing to the corporate sector’s tune, and was keen on handing over the PSUs to them on a platter. PDSU president S. Rammohan and general secretary A. Ravichandra suggested the involvement of students for the success of the agitation. Committee chairmen Mantri Rajasekhar and D. Adinarayana, convener J. Ayodhya Ram, co-convener Gandham Venkata Rao, and CITU leader N. Rama Rao spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vhr-calls-for-united-struggle-to-save-vizag-steel-plant/article34228539.ece
03 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City to host national executive meet of YHAI today||The city will be hosting the one-day national executive meeting of the Youth Hostels Association of India (YHAI) on April 3 for the first time after almost 35 years, at Hotel Yatri Nivas, Appughar. About 30 executive members and office-bearers from various parts of the country will be attending the meet which is scheduled from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Saturday. Addressing a press conference here on Friday, YHAI national chairman S. Venkata Narayanan said that the meet is being conducted for every three to four months, but since the last one year, they were not able to hold the programme due to COVID-19. He said that the main aim of the programme is to create awareness on the YHAI and promote awareness about the programmes and various activities, which it conducts every year. “In the meet, we would also discuss and take important decisions concerning the association and also come up with a plan over the activities to be organised in the coming days for various States,” he said. He said that after COVID-19, the YHAI has been taking various steps to prevent possible spread of the infections while organising various camps and activities. He said that the YHAI has decided to restrict the number of persons for various camps for collective good and the response for the programmes has been good. Mr. Venkata Narayanan also said that the YHAI has been organising a number of activities like trekking, cycling and a few others in Andhra Pradesh. Places like Araku valley, Papikondalu, Maredumilli forest region, Seshachalam forests have plenty to offer for these adventure sports, he added. “We want to project these activities like national programmes. Earlier, only people from Andhra Pradesh used to take part in these events. We want to bring in adventure enthusiasts from various parts of the country to these events in Andhra Pradesh,” he said, adding that this would increase tourism activity in the State, apart from providing livelihood to cab drivers, hoteliers and others dependant on tourism sector. Woman unit According to Mr. Venkata Narayanan, a new YHAI woman unit with about 52 women members will be initiated in the city from April 4. He said that this will be the sixth woman unit of YHAI in the country. “The first unit was started at Puducherry a few years ago with 150 members. Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar also have woman units. Two months ago, the fifth unit was started in Mumbai and the sixth unit will be started in Vizag on Sunday. Our aim is to ensure a woman unit in every State,” he said. National vice-presidents, C.D. Vivekananda, Kiran Natekar, national treasurer Manoj Jhori, Andhra Pradesh State Branch Chairman B. Uma Maheswara Rao, YHAI district unit chairman N. Nageswara Rao, AP State Branch Secretary, Ch. Ravi Paul and a few others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-to-host-national-executive-meet-of-yhai-today/article34228653.ece
03 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Adopt resolution against VSP privatisation in civic meet: CPI(M)||CPI(M) city committee secretary and 78th ward Corporator B. Ganga Rao met Deputy Mayor Jiyyani Sridhar on Friday and appealed to him that a resolution should be adopted, against privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, at the GVMC Council meeting to be held on April 9. Mr. Ganga Rao said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has already agreed to the demand for adoption of a resolution in the forthcoming Assembly sessions to oppose the privatisation of VSP, and send the same to the Centre. He apprised the Deputy Mayor that the support of the Opposition TDP and JSP would also be sought in this regard. The Deputy Mayor agreed to the proposal, according to Mr. Ganga Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adopt-resolution-against-vsp-privatisation-in-civic-meet-cpim/article34228650.ece
03 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No respite from COVID-19 cases||The Visakhapatnam district reported as many as 191 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 62,678, as on Friday morning. This was the single highest reported day tally in the year, so far. Moreover, the district has reported third highest day tally among other districts after Guntur (311) and Chittoor (225) in the last 24 hours. The death toll also rose to 548, after one more person succumbing to the coronavirus. The last eight deaths were reported in the last 11 days in the district. The number of active cases has increased to 1,453. Since the last 10 days, the day tally has crossed the 150-mark for seven times. The average number of cases reported every day since the last 10 days is 153. With the discharge of 79 persons, the number of recoveries in the district has increased to 60,677.  AU students recovering Officials from the Health Department said that affected students in Andhra University are recovering well. District Medical and Health Officer P. Suryanarayana said that there were no major health issues or complaints from the students. “We will be conducting tests to the students most likely on April 6 again,” he added. A total of 111 persons were affected by COVID-19 in the engineering campus of the AU last week. The engineering college area was declared as containment zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-respite-from-covid-19-cases/article34228652.ece
03 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||20-year-old swept away in Sariya waterfalls||A 20-year-old employee of an IT firm reportedly went missing at Sariya waterfalls in Ananthagiri mandal in the agency area of Visakhapatnam district, on Thursday evening. The incident came to light after police received information from the family members on Thursday night. Youth identified The missing youth was identified as S. Pavan Kumar, a resident of Kancharapalem, Visakhapatnam, and a native of Srikakulam district. According to the police, Pavan had completed engineering and had been working in an IT firm, for the last two months. Pavan along with his three other friends went to the waterfalls. While playing in the waters, Pavan Kumar reportedly slipped on the rocks and was swept away by the flowing water. “Search operations have been started from the early hours of Friday,” the police said. Sariya waterfalls is located about 110 km from the Ananthagiri mandal headquarters. The waterfalls had reported a number of drowning deaths for the last two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/20-year-old-swept-away-in-sariya-waterfalls/article34227797.ece
03 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Passenger trains to run with revised numbers||East Coast Railway has decided to revise the passenger trains to run as special express trains with revised numbers and with unreserved mail/ express ticketing in view of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases. Train no. 58506/58505 Visakhapatnam-Gunupur-Visakhapatnam passenger will run as train No.08522/21 special with same timings and stoppages as declared earlier. The train No. 58528/58527 Visakhapatnam-Raipur-Visakhapatnam passenger will run as train no. 08528/08527 special with same timings and stoppages as declared earlier. People are requested to bear with the administration as these measures are inevitable to combat the pandemic. Additional stoppage An additional stoppage will be provided on temporary basis to 08507/08508 Visakhapatnam-Rayagada-Visakhapatnam special express at Parvatipuram from April 1 to 30. Train no. 08507 Visakhapatnam-Rayagada will arrive at Parvatipuram at 8.45 p.m. and depart at 8.50 p.m. In the return direction, 08508 Rayagada-Visakhapatnam special express will arrive at Parvatipuram at 6.35 a.m. and depart at 6.40 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/passenger-trains-to-run-with-revised-numbers/article34228651.ece
03 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘kills’ father||A 65-year-old man was allegedly killed by his son at Vijayaramarajupeta under Butchayyapeta police station limits in the district on Friday. The deceased was identified as M. Somu Naidu (65), a farmer. Police said that the incident occurred when Somu Naidu’s son M. Balla Babu was having a fight with his wife. When Somu Naidu tried to intervene and stop his son, Balla Babu reportedly took a wooden stick and hit his father on the head in a fit of rage. Police said that Somu Naidu sustained severe head injuries and immediately succumbed to his injuries. Police said Balla Babu was suspected to be in an inebriated condition during the incident. A case was registered and the accused is yet to be arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-kills-father-for-intervening-in-domestic-spat/article34228549.ece
03 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rally against privatisation tomorrow||INTUC leader Mantri Rajasekhar has said that privatisation of the public sector Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) will not be tolerated. A rally will be organised at R.K. Beach on Sunday evening to oppose the Union Government’s decision. Addressing the media here on Friday, Mr. Rajasekhar said the Centre would have to meet with stiff resistance from the people if it went ahead with its move to privatise VSP. The BJP government would pay a heavy price if it went ahead with its plan to privatise the PSUs to benefit the corporates, he warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rally-against-privatisation-tomorrow/article34228540.ece
03 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delicate surgery performed||A complex spine surgery was performed on 22-year-old pregnant woman by doctors at Medicover Hospitals, Visakhapatnam, recently. Pravallikka, the victim, had been suffering from severe back pain for the past month and was also gradually losing strength in her legs. She was also into her third month of pregnancy and had been confined to bed for almost a month. She was admitted to Medicover Hospitals after her condition worsened. Dr. Suresh Tatineni, chief consultant neurosurgeon, examined her and found that she had contracted spastic quadriplegia paralysis. An MRI scan revealed that she was suffering from T-1 cock spine.  A cervical procedure involving removal of the T1 part and draining the pus and fixing it from C7 to T2 was done. This was the most complex surgery, especially, in the case of pregnant women. The woman regained strength in both legs a week after the surgery, Dr. Suresh added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/delicate-surgery-performed-on-pregnant-woman/article34227796.ece
03 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||One dies, five injured as lorry falls into gorge||A 32-year-old man died and five others were severely injured, when a lorry in which they were travelling allegedly fell into a gorge, while negotiating a sharp curve on the ghat road near Paderu in Visakhapatnam district on Friday morning.  Deceased identified The deceased were identified as S. Bhavani, a native of Odisha. According to police, the vehicle was transporting some agriculture machinery from Odisha to Gannepalle village in East Godavari district, via Paderu. Two persons suffered minor injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-dies-five-injured-as-lorry-falls-into-gorge/article34227798.ece
03 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VARWA welcomes govt. decision||Members of the Visakhapatnam Apartment Residents Welfare Association (VARWA) have welcomed the decision of the State government enabling the tax payers to pay the existing property tax in the month of April with 5% rebate without reassessing the assessments as per the Capital Value System. The members advise people from the GVMC to make payment of the property tax and avail the concession. General Secretary, B.B. Ganesh said that GOs enhancing the drinking water charges and user charges for UGD services are still applicable from this year onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/varwa-welcomes-govt-decision/article34228656.ece
03 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IT professional drowns in Sariya waterfalls||A 20-year-old employee of an IT firm reportedly drowned at Sariya waterfalls in Ananthagiri mandal in the agency area of Visakhapatnam district, on Thursday evening. The incident came to light after police received information from the family members on Thursday night. The deceased was identified as S. Pavan Kumar, a resident of Kancharapalem, Visakhapatnam, and a native of Srikakulam district. According to the police, Pavan had completed engineering and had been working in an IT firm, for the last two months. Pavan along with his three other friends went to the waterfalls. While playing in the waters, Pavan Kumar reportedly slipped on the rocks and was swept away by the flowing water. “Search operations started from the early hours of Friday,” the police said. The body was traced and handed over to family members after post-mortem, late in the evening. Sariya waterfalls is located about 110 km from the Ananthagiri mandal headquarters. The waterfalls had reported a number of drowning deaths in the last two years. Ananthagiri police have registered a case and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/it-professional-drowns-in-sariya-waterfalls/article34228654.ece
03 April 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rally highlights scholarships available for higher education||The National Campaign on Dalit Human Rights and Dalit Bahujan Shramik Union organised a rally in Vizianagaram on Friday to highlight the schemes of the Union and the State governments for students who wanted to pursue higher education. DBSU State general secretary B. Chitti Babu said that many students were unable to pursue higher education due to lack of information about the government’s support and post-Matric scholarship facility. “The students facing troubles in applying for Jagananna Divena scheme can submit their petitions by April 7. They can also approach the DBSU office to know the information about the schemes,” said Mr. Chitti Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rally-highlights-scholarships-available-for-higher-education/article34228579.ece
03 April 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AITUC burns copies of labour codes||All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) Vizianagaram district secretary Bugata Ashok on Friday alleged that the Union government's new labour codes would only benefit industrialists and corporate sections and not labourers. Along with other leaders, he burnt copies of the labour codes and raised slogans against the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aituc-burns-copies-of-labour-codes/article34228577.ece
03 April 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Many witness celestial event at Ramanarayanam||Hundreds of devotees witnessed the celestial wedding of Sridevi Bhudevi Sahita Vaikutha Narayana Murthy and Sita Kodandarama Swamy at the Ramanarayanam temple which celebrated its seventh anniversary on Friday. Many devotees from Visakhapatnam, Srikakulam and several towns of Vizianagaram district offered prayers at the temple which is built in the form of the ‘Shiva Dhanassu’, a bow of Lord Rama. With the arrival of the pilgrims, the temple wore a festive look. Temple trustee Narayanam Srinivas thanked the devotees for observing physical distancing and wearing of masks to prevent the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/devotees-throng-celestial-event-at-ramanarayanam/article34228547.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nagarjuna packs a punch in this one||A terrorist is proving to be slippery. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) officers need a whole new plan to outsmart him. At that juncture, they are reminded of the possibilities ahead of them — if they fail, they might be executed in a foreign land or be imprisoned with no hope of rescue. If they succeed, they return with pride but won’t be celebrated in public, because they are undercover officers who have to take on new missions. That moment in Wild Dog , co-written and directed by Ahishor Solomon, underlines why this relentless chase between the NIA and the terrorist, is different from other such on-screen fictional battles we’ve seen before.  Wild Dog is inspired by the NIA’s undercover operation to nab Yasin Bhatkal from Nepal. Bhatkal was a key operative of the Indian Mujahideen and involved in several blasts across India, including the 2007 serial blasts in Hyderabad and the 2010 blast in Pune. A dramatised story based on true incidents, Wild Dog is an ode to the NIA officers who staked everything to nab Bhatkal. Expectedly, there are a few unmissable cinematic tropes — like the best officer not being in the thick of the action, after being relegated to a desk job because his methods came across as brash. There’s also a personal loss, for the emotional heft. But, on the bright side, the emphasis remains on the bigger battle of stopping more such blasts that this terrorist could mastermind. Leading the mission from the front is an in-form Nagarjuna Akkineni, slipping easily into the part of the middle-aged NIA officer Vijay Varma whose ‘Wild Dog’ reputation precedes him. His fitness and agility come in handy to play the part of an officer who is no stranger to tough terrains and opponents. Ahishor saves the best for the latter portions of the film, taking his time to build the drama and set the stage for the crucial mission. The introductions to the NIA team members could have been written better; while one of the character’s fascination for Amitabh Bachchan is utilised to push the plot forward, there’s not even a feeble mention of it later. For an hour or so, facts are unearthed and we understand the magnitude of the problem, but little else happens. There’s also the sense of deja vu of having seen broadly similar story arcs in mainstream films, be it how a group of officers attempting to close in on a target, or how the target tries to outsmart them. However, once the action shifts to Nepal, Wild Dog is in top gear and pulls all stops to put forth a nail-biting chase. The casting is spot on; Ali Reza, Mayank Parakh, Prakash Sudarshan and Pradeep Rudra play their parts as NIA officers effectively and the gorgeous Saiyami Kher is impressive as the RAW (Research and Analysis Wing) agent who is no pushover. Dia Mirza makes her presence felt in a cameo. As the final chase gets underway, it’s easy to guess which character/s might switch sides, but there’s enough to keep us hooked. There are scenes where Vijay Varma is shown to finish his opponents rather than leaving room for a trial, playing into populist methods. But then, Ahishor also shows his other side — as an officer who knows where to show restraint, and props to that. The patriotic fervour in Wild Dog also plays out effectively, without going overboard. The film benefits from its able technical crew and special mentions are due to action director David Ismalone, cinematographer Shaneil Deo and Thaman for his background score. With some more attention to the writing in the first hour, Wild Dog could have raised the bar higher. Nevertheless, the slick film is a celebration of the unsung NIA officers who made this story possible and of Nagarjuna, who shows that he can still pack a punch in action thrillers, with a mix of brawn, charm and maturity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nagarjuna-packs-a-punch/article34228414.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Engaging commercial film||Remember the song ‘Verithanam’ from Bigil ? It features Vijay shaking in the middle and a hundred other dancers around him. Or ‘Maari Maaro’ from Boys ? In one frame, there are hundreds of musicians drumming a beat with the five protagonists of the film right in the middle. Now, imagine if all of them stepped next to the hero and brushed shoulders with him for 157 minutes or so. That’s Sulthan for you. This Karthi-starrer revolves around Vikram (Karthi), though you’d be excused if you miss that name. Everyone calls him ‘Sulthan’. His birth itself is an event; it happens when a fight ensues in a household that is home to a hundred goons. Sulthan is born, and he has to choose between a path of violence and peace. He chooses the latter. For once, you don’t have a Tamil cinema hero hitting hundred rowdies at once; he’s laughing and joking around with them. He calls them his ‘brothers’. Sulthan is an actual ‘Rowdy Baby’. Life changes when his dad (Napoleon, in a short role) passes on, and his boys have to travel to a small village near Salem to complete one last ‘assignment’. Will that entail danger, and how does the motley group handle it? There are several whistle-worthy moments in this mass vehicle that uses tropes from Baahubali and KGF to pull off the grandeur of the idea. A unique fight sequence is designed with a few enemies hatching to attack Sulthan when he’s asleep... with his hundred ‘boys’ sleeping around him. What ensues is a ‘silent fight’, one that happens without any sound except Yuvan Shankar Raja’s thunderous score. Karthi scores as a person grappling with too many things running in his head and pulls off the larger-than-life moments to a considerable extent. But the fact that you remember quite a few of the ‘lovable’ goons and their actions is what makes Sulthan go one step ahead. The film does veer into predictable Tamil cinema territory when it introduces a corporate conspiracy element, but thankfully, the mass moments keep hitting the right notes. The romance isn’t the greatest (Rashmika Mandana gets to play a rural belle), but even there, there is some purpose to its existence to the core plotline. If Yuvan’s background score and Sathyan Sooryan’s cinematography are major highlights, so are the songs; Vivek-Mervin’s hummable numbers prove that the musical duo have it in them to take on bigger projects. Director Bakkiyaraj Kannan has managed to weave in an engaging storyline taking two of Tamil cinema’s pet topics: rowdyism and farming. He goes overboard in the second half on a few instances — a couple of sluggish sequences and a song that could have been done away with — but keeps inserting ‘commercial ideas’ to keep the interest afloat.  Sulthan is a theatre film without doubt. One wonders if the slow-motion mass moments will work for someone watching it on an OTT platform in the comforts of their homes, but on the big screen, this Karthi-starrer packs a fantastic punch.  Sulthan is currently running in theatres||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/engaging-commercial-film-with-impressive-elements/article34228522.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A moving portrait of van-dwelling America||Chloé Zhao’s third feature Nomadland is more a visual poem than a film; a piece of art that strikes the balance between documentary and fiction with effusive grace. Zhao is aided, in no small measure, by cinematographer Joshua James Richards’ cathartic shots of the vast American landscape; composer Ludovico Einaudi’s score that bends your heart to its will; and a restrained, moving performance by Frances McDormand that bristles with bravery. The drama, which first premiered at the Venice Film Festival last year, is inspired by Jessica Bruder’s 2017 nonfiction book, Nomadland: Surviving America in the Twenty-First Century , and follows the lives of a new American tribe: the nomads. Typically in their 60s, the nomads are essentially van-dwellers, middle-aged and middle-class people whose lives and families were torn apart by the 2007-08 financial crisis, moving from place to place in search of seasonal jobs and identities. From bars and restaurants to campsites and Amazon warehouses, the film paints a poignant picture of the many locales where they find their calling; grey-haired and weary, yet refusing to give up the fight to survive. Here, McDormand plays Fern, a widow and former substitute teacher from Empire, Nevada, who loses her job after the local gypsum plant in her town shuts down. Unfettered, she moves into her RV (that she christens Vanguard), and joins this sub-culture of sorts, that is led by radical nomadist leader Bob Wells — who appears as himself in the film — along with several other real-life nomads who play versions of themselves. They all converge on a conclave in Quartzite, Arizona where an annual festival/ self-help seminar happens, equipping them with essential skills and tips to adjust to life on the road.          Nomadland is currently running in theatres||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-moving-portrait-of-van-dwelling-america/article34228582.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bearing the brunt||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bearing-the-brunt/article34228649.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Beating the heat||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/beating-the-heat/article34227806.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In reverence||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-reverence/article34228660.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unwelcome sight||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unwelcome-sight/article34228551.ece
03 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Protests over jobless youth’s death rock State||Protests continued on Friday at Tejavath Singh thanda in Gudur mandal of Mahabubabad district, the native village of Sunil Naik, when his body was shifted there after the post-mortem at Gandhi Hospital here. ‘Book case’ The villagers prevented police from shifting the body from the ambulance until an ex gratia of Rs. 1 crore was announced for the victim’s family. Congress MLA of Mulugu Seetakka joined the protesters in booking a case against Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao as Sunil had taken his name in the selfie video while pouring out his anguish over not getting a job. Minister’s assurance Meanwhile, Tribal Welfare Minister Satyavathi Rathod assured a government job for a member of Naik’s family, a double bedroom house and Rs. 1 lakh as immediate relief. Another group of protesters laid siege to the house of Panchayat Raj Minister E. Dayakar Rao in Warangal town. State BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar consoled the victim’s family members at Gandhi Hospital. He also demanded a criminal case against the Chief Minister. ‘Moral responsibility’ Telangana State CPI secretary Chada Venkat Reddy asked the State government to own moral responsibility for the death. He warned of social tensions and suicide by youths just as they took place during the separate Telangana movement if recruitment for government jobs was not taken up immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/protests-over-youths-death-rock-state/article34228422.ece
03 April 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||State’s COVID burden up by 965 cases||The coronavirus continues its onslaught with as many as 965 positive cases being reported in the State on Thursday, the highest in around 120 days. The fresh infections have pushed up the total number of cases to 3,09,741. According to the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Office of the Director of Public Health and Family Welfare, the total number of fatalities has increased by five, which is a first since November 17 last year. This brings the total COVID-related deaths to 1,706. Meanwhile, 312 more patients have recovered, bringing the recoveries, so far, to 3,01,876. There are 6,159 active cases in the State. As many as 59,343 samples were tested on Thursday, taking the testing count in the State to 1,02,70,249. Results of 1,927 persons was awaited. Around 48% of those who were tested were primary contacts, and 13.1% were secondary contacts. A total of 78.1% of cases in the State were asymptomatic. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) region recorded 254 cases, which is a spike of 53 cases in 24 hours, and an increase of 112 cases since March 23 this year. Spike in districts too Cases in the districts increased as well with 110 cases being reported from Medchal-Malkajgiri, followed by 97 in Rangareddy, and 64 in Nizamabad. The number of COVID cases is likely to rise, and authorities have been underscoring the importance of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing to reduce the possibility of infection. Meanwhile, 59,439 persons were administered the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine, and 3,142 took the second jab on Thursday. A total of 10,84,429 first doses and 2,42,178 second doses have been administered so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/states-covid-burden-up-by-965-cases/article34228412.ece
03 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High extent of rabi aside, water table remains healthy||Cultivation of crops on higher extent this yasangi (rabi) season compared to the last rabi season has impacted the groundwater table, which otherwise is in improved position this March in the State compared to the same period last year, in six districts. The depletion of groundwater table during the previous one month, between February and March, has been highest this year during the last six years. According to officials, the depletion this year has been almost one metre (0.99 metres). The depletion during February-March in 2020 was 0.81 metres, 0.87 metres in 2019, 0.93 metres in 2018, 0.78 metres in 2017 and 0.49 metres in 2016. The rabi crops are cultivated on over 16 lakh acres higher extent across the State as the total sown area was a record 68.15 lakh acres against 52.22 lakh acres last year. The extent does not include cultivation of vegetables and plantation crops. In six districts where the groundwater table has gone down they are sown on higher extent by over 1.14 lakh acres. According to the groundwater statistics released for March this year, the average groundwater table in the State is 8.35 metres below ground level against its average availability at 10.51 metres in March last year. Although the average groundwater level is up by 2.16 metres, it availability has gone deeper in the range of 0.09 metres to 1.16 metres in six districts. The districts in which the groundwater table has ducked the Statewide trend include Jayashankar-Bhupalapally (-0.09 metres), Nizamabad (-0.31), Nirmal (-0.57), Mancherial (-0.71), Adilabad (-0.85) and Jagityal (-1.16). Except in Bhupalapally, the actual rainfall in 2020-21 water year (June 1 to May 31) in the remaining five districst has been less than the normal, although it was normal technically as deviation up to 19% is considered normal. However, the groundwater availability has improved phenomenally in seven districts in the range from 4.47 metres to 8.11 metres. The districts where the availability of the resource has become comparably easy include Narayanpet (4.47 m), Mahabubnagar (4.72), Vikarabad (4.94), Jogulamba-Gadwal (5.99), Medak (6.73), Rangareddy (7.93) and Sangareddy (8.11). The average groundwater availability has also improved considerably in Medchal-Malkajgiri (3.67 m), Yadadri-Bhongir (3.58), Siddipet (3.54), Nagarkurnool (3.45) and Nalgonda (3.39). In Hyderabad it has improved by 2.27 metres with the average availability at 7.12 metres below ground level this March compared to the same period last year. Officials of Groundwater Department stated that extraction of groundwater, mainly for agriculture, had increased the deep water level area where the availability of groundwater beyond 20 metres below ground level has increased by 330 sq km in a month’s time – from February to March this year. However, the decadal deep water level, in terms of area, has decreased to 1,651 sq km in March from 7,302 sq km, the average deep water level area during 2011-2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/high-extent-of-rabi-aside-water-table-remains-healthy/article34228440.ece
03 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Expert panel defers green nod for NIMZ||An Expert Appraisal Committee of the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change has deferred decision on environment clearance for the Zaheerabad National Investment and Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ). It did so, citing the need for additional documents and information on various aspects, including land acquisition, protection of trees – around 2,300 trees are envisaged to be cut – as well clear demarcation of industrial units based on their category as per pollution norms. An ambitious project, the NIMZ has been proposed on 12,635 acres in Nyalkal and Jharasangam mandals, near Zaheerabad, in Sangareddy district. Project proponent Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation said the land came under 17 revenue villages and mostly comprise barren and vacant lands with a few pockets of farmlands. Detailed deliberation The EAC meeting on March 17-18 had detailed deliberation on the submissions made by TSIIC before deciding to defer the proposal, minutes of the meeting said. On land acquisition, the committee said many representations on land acquisition and compensation paid had been received by the Union Environment Ministry. In this backdrop, it wanted the Ministry to forward the representations to TSIIC so that a “detailed response in a tabular form [can] be submitted on the issues raised. An elaborate report on land acquired, compensatory details and the period for settlement has to be sorted according to the State government Policy,” the EAC said. The panel, whose recommendation guide the Ministry’s decision, called for a detailed report from TSIIC on the direct and indirect employment opportunities to be generated during the construction and operation phase of NIMZ. TSIIC had estimated 2,66,000 direct and indirect job opportunities to be generated. Referring to the norms, the EAC asked TSIIC to list activities needed for implementing the commitments made during the public hearing, of the project, with cost estimates in the Environment Management Plan and submit it as part of Environment Impact Assessment report to the Ministry. Calling for a greenery and conservation management plan to sustain existing greenery, the EAC said all tall, old and heritage native trees should be enumerated, GPS-tagged and detailed in EIA EMP. The “plotting design should be such that all such trees are protected,” it said. TSIIC had said about 2,300 trees were envisaged to be cut. The total green area planned is 1974.4 acres (15.6%) under layout periphery green belt, traffic rotaries, green buffer areas and open green spaces. Also, 33% of each industrial plot is to be maintained as green belt as per TSPCB guidelines. Around 8.87 lakh trees are proposed to be planted in NIMZ and their survival is to be monitored frequently. The rate of survival during operational phase will not be less than 80%. A capital cost of Rs. 13.5 crore is to be earmarked for this purpose and Rs. 60.75 lakh allocated for recurring expenses towards green belt development and maintenance,” TSIIC said. Recommending a detailed risk assessment and management of the project, the EAC meeting said since “hamlets proposed in the industrial area would lead to a negative impact [their] settlements have to be planned in a safe zone and a modified plan be submitted. It wanted phase-wise industrial planning submitted and since automobile industry – one of the many industries proposed in the NIMZ – should be engaging in painting activity, which comes under Red category, all industries need to be clearly demarcated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/expert-panel-defers-green-nod-for-nimz/article34228432.ece
03 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HYSEA BizSummit next week, focus to be on SMEs||BizSummit 2021, the second edition of a conference series of Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA), to be held here on April 9 will focus on the emerging opportunities for small and mid-sized enterprises. Assuming significance in the backdrop of the impact of the pandemic on such enterprises, the summit has ‘Expanding Growth Horizons in the New Normal’ as its theme. Helping businesses grow The event will feature leaders from the government, industry and the analyst community, providing insights on effective strategies for expanding and helping businesses grow. HYSEA president Bharani K. Aroll said conferences such as BizSummit are part of the initiatives of the association to enable small and mid-sized companies grow to the next level. “We work with all stakeholders, including the government, to identify opportunities and promote our member companies and the overall IT ecosystem in Hyderabad,” he said at a media interaction on Thursday. The summit will feature four round tables on the new delivery models, newer processes, tools and frame works that have merged across key organisational functions like delivery, HR, Talent and Finance, a release said. The deliberations will be on emerging ways of business development. Speakers from angel circuits, venture and PE firms will be participating in the summit. CMD of Cognizant Technology Solutions Rajesh Nambiar will be the chief guest at the event to be held at HICC by following necessary COVID-19 safety protocols. While 100-150 people are expected to attend in person, the number of people likely to participate in virtual mode will be over 400, the organisers said.  We work with all stakeholders, including the government, to identify opportunities and promote our member companies and the overall IT ecosystem in Hyderabad. Bharani K. Aroll, HYSEA president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hysea-bizsummit-next-week-focus-to-be-on-smes/article34228404.ece
03 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR responsible for Naik’s death, says Congress||The Congress blamed Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for the death of Sunil Naik, who passed away at NIMS on Friday after attempting suicide in Warangal stating that he was taking the extreme step disappointed with the lack of job notifications. TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, working president A. Revanth Reddy, and Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy, in separate statements, said that the Chief Minister was directly responsible for the death of the tribal student and termed it a murder by the government. They said lack of job notifications, as promised, forced Naik to take his life which he had revealed in a video before attempting suicide. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy asked youngsters not to commit suicide but fight against the government to achieve their rights. “Congress will back all the unemployed youth in their fight against the government,” he said. Mr. Revanth Reddy said that KCR had provoked youngsters to commit suicide during the Telangana agitation for his political life and he was doing the same now. He said the unemployment allowance promised in 2018 should be implemented from this month itself, he demanded. CM’s effigy burnt Congress leaders and workers burnt KCR’s effigy at Nampally blaming him for the death. Youth Congress leaders and OUJAC leaders, including Chanagani Dayakar, were among those who were arrested. Later, speaking to the media at Gandhi Bhavan, AICC spokesperson Sravan Dasoju said it was a black day in Telangana. Sunil Naik, son of a Lambada mother, who dreamt of becoming a Collector, was going to a burial ground just because of the blatant failure of KCR and K.T. Rama Rao, who have been doing politics on the dead bodies of Telangana fighters, he alleged. Speaking along with Youth Congress leaders, including Nooti Srikanth, Mettu Sai and others, he alleged that KCR was inhuman and had no time to express condolences at Naik’s death but had time to express the same for people who drowned in SRS project. He demanded an ex gratia to the family members. He claimed that two other youngsters, Koppula Raju and Golla Ganesh, committed suicide for the same reason in the last 10 days. “We expected that everyone would get jobs in separate Telangana as one of the three core pillars was jobs along with water and funds. But, the father and son have proved it wrong by sitting idle and not filling up lakhs of vacant government jobs even after seven years of the State’s existence,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-is-directly-responsible/article34228423.ece
03 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mamata Banerjee has done little for Muslims: Owaisi||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi on Thursday charged West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of doing little for Muslims of the State, and accused her of hobnobbing with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and the Bharatiya Janata Party after the riots in Gujarat in 2002. In a series of tweets, Mr Owaisi said, “Apart from saying "BJP aajayega", what exactly have you done for Bengal's Muslims? 15% of Bengal's Muslims are outside formal education (3rd highest after UP & Bihar) 80% live on less than Rs. 5000 38.3% in rural Bengal earn Rs. 2500 More than 3/4 Muslims have no land.” He tweeted that Murshidabad’s residents had been grappling with arsenic-related diseases, and sought to know if they had forfeited ‘the right to clean drinking water because Madam CM @MamataOfficial has more important games to play? You compared proud Indian Muslims to cows to be milked’. “While she was hobnobbing with RSS-BJP in 2003, we were opposing it even then. She became Minister, CM, etc since then but what did we get?” he stated. The Hyderabad parliamentarian also said that the West Bengal CM voted against a motion in Parliament to condemn the Gujarat pogrom. “Did she sell off Gujarat’s victims for a price, for free or ministerial position?” he asked. “Only criminal gangs divide up territories between themselves & attack each other when someone enters. Since I'm not part of this criminal syndicate, it's natural that @MamataOfficial is rattled. You can't buy people who have no Gotra. You can't scare people who know no fear,” he tweeted. Reacting to her allegations on him ‘collaborating’ with the BJP, Mr Owaisi tweeted, “Will we continue voting for old BJP allies in exchange for indignity & humiliation? Not if this Hyderabadi Muslim has anything to say about it. So I'm going to question@MamataOfficialfor doing nothing for Muslims apart from creating fear. We fear & have hope from Allah only.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mamata-has-done-little-for-muslims/article34228437.ece
03 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSIC stares at 10,000 backlogged cases||The Telangana State Information Commission is swamped with appeals and is facing a case of heavy backlog as there are over 10,000 appeals from complainants which await a final order. The erstwhile Andhra Pradesh State Information Commission was bifurcated and the TSIC was constituted on September 13, 2017. According to its website, the six State Information Commissioners are led by Chief Information Commissioner Budhha Murali. But the saga of backlog is not new, and begins with the first year of the TSIC’s constitution. As per the data TSIC furnished to activist S Q Masood, it was in 2017, three months into its formation, that the information panel received as many as 1,829 appeals out of which only 712 were disposed, and 6,804, which includes numbers from previous years, were pending. Backlogs In the subsequent year, 7,065 appeals were filed, and the backlog rose to 8,671. Cut to 2020, fewer appeals – 5,117 as compared to 6,489 in 2019 – were filed but the backlog rose to 10,814 cases. Further, TSIC has not released its annual report which is mandated by Section 25 (1) of the Right to Information Act, 2005. This document is intended to monitor the implementation of the act by various departments. The annual report contains information such as the total number of public information officers under each head of a department, the total number of applications submitted to the department, the total backlog, and the total number of cases which have been disposed of. It also gives crucial insight into how departments handle information requests as the number of cases rejected under subsections (a) to (j) of Section 8 of the RTI Act, 2005 is also provided. In connection with the annual report, the TSIC informed Masood that annual reports which were prepared for the years 2017, 2018 and 2019 were submitted to the State government for ‘further action’ only in 2020. The annual report for 2020 is ‘under preparation’. Speaking to The Hindu Mr Masood, who is also an RTI activist, said that releasing annual reports in paramount as it gives a clear picture of the implementation of the RTI Act, 2005. The Commission has penalised the authorities twice under Section 20 (2) of the Act, which deals with a failure to provide information within the specified period of time, or ‘malafidely denied’ the request, or has provided incorrect or incomplete information. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr Masood, who is an RTI activist, said, “The reports not being made public casts a shadow of doubt on the seriousness of various departments in connection with supplying information to the public, and information is denied on several occasions. The TSIC’s task is to monitor the implementation of the act. Secondly, there have been several occasions in which information was denied on frivolous grounds. Departments should be penalised for this.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsic-stares-at-10000-backlogged-cases/article34228444.ece
03 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bade Ghulam Ali Khan’s birth anniversary a low-key affair||It was a low-key observance of the birth anniversary of legendary singer Bade Ghulam Ali Khan at his grave inside the Mir Momin ka Daira on Friday. The grave enclosure has been recently refurbished by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) by stripping away the iron grill with pre-fab fibre-glass reinforced concrete (FRC) grill with geometrical pattern on three sides. The simple grave is now topped with FRC bulbs with brass finials. Another addition is a band of brass on the upper portion of the tomb. “It is a good thing that the GHMC has thought about preserving this grave which is visited by a number of people who love music and the heritage of Bade Ghulam Ali Khan saab,” said Samina Raza Ali Khan, scion of Paigah family and married to the grandson of Ghulam Ali Khan. “But the family should have been consulted. They added a genealogy table to the grave that was not necessary. They had to hurriedly remove it after we objected,” said Ms. Samina. Bade Ghulam Ali Khan who sang the ‘Prem Jogan Ban Ja’ in Mughal-e-Azam among many other classical gems spent a lot of time in Hyderabad and passed away in the city at the Basheerbagh Palace in 1968. “It is time Hyderabad starts treating heritage in a sensitive way without resorting to heavy-handed measures. We should conserve and preserve heritage, not renovate and remodel it,” said Anuradha Reddy of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bade-ghulam-ali-khans-birth-anniversary-a-low-key-affair/article34228408.ece
03 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Increase in retirement age a big blow to youth, says Jeevan Reddy||Congress MLC and former Minister T. Jeevan Reddy said that the increase in retirement age of government employees was a bane for unemployed youth and the government was trying to escape from huge payments it had to make to the retiring employees. “It is not out of love for employees, the CM took the decision to escape from the immediate financial burden and at the same time, dealt a big blow to the aspirations of youngsters waiting for employment opportunities,” Mr. Reddy said at a press conference here on Friday. Speaking at the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting, Mr. Reddy said that the government was provoking youngsters on the employment issue and this was leading to suicidal tendencies. Sunil Naik’s death is nothing but a reflection of the lack of confidence educated youngsters have on the government. The CM should take moral responsibility of youngsters, he said, adding that the dissatisfaction among youth should be contained. Realising the danger bells at least now, Mr. KCR should take steps to fill up the 1.91 lakh vacancies in the government sector reported by the Biswal Committee. He reminded that not a single Group-I notification was given since the formation of Telangana and so were recruitment in schools. Youngsters sacrificed their time and energy in the Telangana movement expecting huge employment opportunities and the government should realise this important aspect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/increase-in-retirement-age-blow-to-youth-jeevan-reddy/article34228418.ece
03 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nodal agency for RR, Medchal, Malkajgiri||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has decided to constitute a nodal agency headed by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar for the integrated development and finding permanent solutions to the problems faced by Rangareddy, Medchal and Malkajgiri districts, which are developing fast and close to Hyderabad. Integrated markets All the Assembly segments, municipalities and other important towns in these districts will have integrated vegetarian and non-vegetarian markets, town halls, good roads and quality power, drinking water and cleanliness, Mr. Rao told a meeting to discuss the problems of the three districts, on Friday. The meeting was attended by the Chief Secretary, Ministers and MLAs of the districts. Comprehensive plan Mr. Rao sought a comprehensive plan for integrated development of the three districts along with Hyderabad. People living there should get medical and educational facilities on a par with Hyderabad. He asked the local MLAs to come up with plans on issues and needs of their respective constituencies. The plans should be prepared keeping in view the migrant population. The government will provide adequate funds for their execution. Satellite townships Mr. Rao wanted construction of satellite townships on a fast-track to enhance the brand image of Hyderabad. In this context, he named several municipalities that could go for facelift in development works. It was important that funds were made available and a nodal agency formed for the purpose, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nodal-agency-for-rr-medchal-malkajgiri/article34228420.ece
03 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC yet to frame rules on stray feeding spots||The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is yet to formulate guidelines with regard to selection of feeding points for stray dogs as per the directions of the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) issued last month. The AWBI addressed directions to the Chief Secretary and the Commissioner of Police of Delhi, asking them to identify feeding spots for stray dogs in view of harassment faced by citizens attempting to feed them. The Board, in its letter marked with copies to chief secretaries of all states and union territories, mentioned that several complaints were being received from “compassionate citizens/animal welfare activists” being harassed by neighbours, resident welfare associations and others when they tried to feed dogs. Such complaints were not being taken cognizance of by the local police, the letter said. During COVID-19 lockdown, when all commercial establishments were shut down, animal lovers across various metropolis in the country had to face several threats and attacks when they tried to provide food to street dogs. Resident welfare associations objected vociferously to the dogs being fed at random places, including footpaths and public roads, fearing that the canines used to the feeding spot, would make it their home. Very recently, in March this year, three members of a family were besieged inside their car in Gurugram for three hours, when they tried to feed dogs. In an order issued in February this year with regard to a writ petition by an animal activist against the RWA of Vasant Kunj, the Delhi High Court asked the RWA and the dog feeders aided by the AWBI representatives, to identify a spot for feeding dogs which is not frequented by children, senior citizens, and other residents. Once the spot is selected, no hindrance should be caused to the activists by the residents, while feeding the canines at the location. Post the judgment, AWBI has ordered for necessary directions to all the local authorities to take appropriate measures to identify sufficient number of feeding spots for stray dogs in every town, village, RWA, and institutes in each and every district. Law enforcement authorities should ensure that no hindrance is caused to people feeding street dogs at the designated location, the directions said. While the directions came a month ago, so far no guidelines in this regard have been issued by GHMC authorities. Queries to the GHMC Veterinary wing officials about implementation of the orders have remained unanswered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-yet-to-frame-rules-on-stray-feeding-spots/article34228425.ece
03 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||4 of family among eight killed in separate road accidents||Eight persons, including four members of a family, were killed in three separate road accidents in Nalgonda and Suryapet districts on Friday. The first accident took place around 11.30 a.m. in which three Intermediate students travelling on a bike were killed in a head-on collision with a lorry at Chinthalagudem stage in Anumula mandal of Nalgonda district. The victims, Boddupalli Mahesh (17) of Anumula, Naddi Srikanth (20) from Mogangi village in Gurrampode Mandal and K. Shiva (18) of Chinthapally of Peddavoora Mandal, were going to their college in district headquarters to collect their Inter board examination hall ticket, Halia Sub-Inspector Shiva Kumar said. All three were not wearing helmets. “When they reached Chinthalgudem stage, a lorry coming from the opposite direction lost control and hit their bike. They came under its wheels and died on the spot,” the officer said. In another accident, Teppalamadugu Sarpanch Tarri Srinivas (35), his wife Tarri Vijaya (32) and their two children Srividya (8) and Kanaiah (6), who were travelling on a bike, were killed after they came under the lorry coming from the opposite direction near Nidamanoor village on Friday. According to police, the accident took place around 5.50 p.m. when the victims were travelling towards Miryalaguda from Halia. “The lorry driver lost control and hit a Tata Ace coming from another direction. Srinivas’s bike, which was behind the mini-truck, came under the wheels and the four died on the spot,” police said. The driver of the mini-truck, which turned turtle, suffered severe injuries and was rushed to a nearby hospital for medical assistance. In Suryapet, a man suffered severe injuries and died on the spot when a cement truck hit his car at Mukundapuram in Munagala mandal. The victim, Kongati Sathish (27), was going to Vijayawada from Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/4-of-family-among-eight-killed-in-separate-road-accidents/article34228426.ece
03 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TSPSC depleted to one member||Depleted to just one member after the completion of term of several members over a period of time, the lone member Chinta Sailoo has taken over as the in charge Chairman of the Telangana State Public Service Commission (TSPSC). The Commission with 11 members is reduced to just one after most members retiring, including the Chairman, Ghanta Chakrapani, a few months ago and another member Krishna Reddy retiring a couple of days of ago. Prof. Sailoo is the lone serving member now. The opposition parties have criticised the government saying it reflects the seriousness of the recruitment announced recently. The TSPSC is the recruiting agency for majority of services in the government sector. Former Member of Parliament and TPCC vice president Mallu Ravi has alleged that Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao wants to gradually kill the TSPSC and he has no serious plans to take up recruitments in the near future. He said Prof. Chakrapani retired a few months ago and the government had ample time to appoint a new chairman and the members. How can the CM instil confidence among the youngsters about recruitment when the entire TSPSC is vacant except one member. This only proves that the proposed job notifications will be delayed inordinately, Mr. Ravi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tspsc-depleted-to-one-member/article34228608.ece
03 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Amrabad incident assumes political colour||The incident of alleged attack on tribals by the Forest Department personnel in Amrabad Tiger Reserve is assuming political significance in view of the by-elections to Nagarjunasagar constituency. With considerable tribal population in the constituency and the BJP candidate P. Ravi Kumar Naik representing the Banjara/Lambada tribe, it is no wonder that BJP leader Vijayashanti spewed fire against the State government for the “attack”. CPI State secretary Chada Venkat Reddy too jumped the bandwagon, and condemned the “attack on Chenchus”, and spoke for their right to collect forest produce. However, contrary to Mr. Venkat Reddy’s assertion, the tribals alleging attack by forest officials belonged to Banjara community and not Chenchu. The incident is perceived as having strength enough to unite the entire community against the ruling party. According to tribals’ version making rounds, the forest officials accosted a group of Banjara men and women venturing into the forest for collection of Mahua flower, and thrashed them severely. Four tribals who were reportedly injured in the attack, were admitted in the hospital, and an enquiry has been ordered into the incident. Meanwhile, Forest Department officials have unofficially released two video clips, the first of which showed women from the tribal group being questioned by the foresters. The second clip is that of a large group of tribals attacking forest officials and staff. As per the Forest Divisional Officer, Amrabad, Rohith Gopidi, on the intervening night between March 26 and 27, four members of the Quick Response Team and a driver, led by a section officer, went deep inside the forest after receiving a report about fire at about 1 a.m. “They found close to 30 persons, men and women, camping inside for the past two days, as per their own admission. The surroundings were totally burnt in an effort to collect Mahua. Our staff rounded them up and brought them to the base camp, during which three men escaped and ran downhill,” Mr.Rohith narrated. The three men too were later brought to the base camp, and it was revealed that they were from Chenchu Palugu Tanda of Achhampet mandal, 40 kilometres from the camp location. Meanwhile, alerted by news of their people being in foresters’ custody, a large group of persons reportedly arrived at the base camp, armed with sticks. As soon as the Quick Response Team arrived, they beat the officials and forest watchers mercilessly, Mr.Rohith said. The officials came to know of the incident very late, as the forest section officer who was from the Chenchu tribe was shocked by the incident, and reportedly switched off his mobile phone. “They were not local tribals, and staying in deep forest at that hour could prove to be very dangerous, as the area is frequented by tigers and bears. We have increased vigilance after a recent incident wherein three tribals died in the fire they created for collection of Nannari roots,” Mr.Rohith said. Death of the three Chenchu tribesmen earlier in March created no political furore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/amrabad-incident-assumes-political-colour/article34228611.ece
03 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||WLP adds Hyderabad as its second hub||World Logistics Passport (WLP), a unique loyalty program established to increase trading opportunities between emerging markets, is expanding in India – with Hyderabad registering as a ‘Hub’ and two subsidiaries of the GMR conglomerate registering as partners, both operating in Hyderabad airport. It is the second WLP Hub registered in India, after Mumbai. The city is strategically important for the country’s international exports of goods and services, totalling approximately US $21 billion. With trade routes to Mumbai and New Delhi, as well as to the WLP’s global network, Hyderabad’s trade infrastructure includes Rajiv Gandhi International Airport. More than 10 countries such as Brazil, Indonesia, and South Africa, are now part of the major policy initiative. In addition, major multinational corporations including UPS, Pfizer, Sony, Johnson & Johnson, and LG are also engaged with the WLP. Earlier this year, WLP signed Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport, Nhava Sheva International Container Terminal (Mumbai), and Nepal as partners. “India has been one of the first countries to engage in our program, showing a clear commitment to think differently about how goods and services move round the world. Today’s announcement is yet another endorsement of this new approach to global trade, and we are eyeing additional expansion,” said CEO Mike Bhaskaran, in a release.  India has been one of the first countries to engage in our program, showing a clear commitment to think differently about how goods and services move round the world. Mike Bhaskaran, CEO, World Logistics Passport||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/wlp-adds-hyderabad-as-its-second-hub/article34228405.ece
03 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Venkaiah’s clarion call to elect people with ‘character’||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday emphasised the need for people to elect their representatives on the basis of 4Cs — character, conduct, calibre and capacity. Book release Releasing the book ‘Suparipalana’, the Telugu translation of ‘Echo T Calling: Towards People-Centric Governance’, written by former Telangana Chief Secretary S.K. Joshi, the Vice-President said that, unfortunately, the other 4Cs — caste, community, cash and criminality — were replacing the ideal 4Cs, which are essential for providing good governance. “Citizen-centric governance will come from governance-centric electorate,” he reminded. Describing elected governments as ‘holders of public trust’, the V-P advised them to act “responsibly” and serve the people “conscientiously”. He called for streamlining government’s efforts to make ease of living better for all citizens. He also complimented Mr. Joshi, the translator A. Brahmaiah and publisher Maruthi for bringing out the book, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/v-ps-clarion-call-to-elect-people-with-character/article34228406.ece
03 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RLB reps felicitated||The Palle Pragathi initiative of the State government was a comprehensive village development policy in itself as it had been transforming the villages and improving the liveability index, Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Errabelli Dayakar Rao said. At a meeting held here on Friday to felicitate elected representative of rural local bodies RLBs) on winning several national awards, the Minister urged the Centre to extend financial assistance to good programmes of the State besides giving awards and rewards. ‘Planned progress’ Stating that the programme was conceived towards planned progress of villages, the Minister said the focus was on better sanitation and improved greenery along with creation of community facilities such as dump yards, village parks, graveyards and others. The programmes had already been conducted in three phases so far. The rural local bodies from the State had won awards in 12 categories as part of the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskars. The Minister felicitated Sangareddy Zilla Parishad chairperson Manjushri Jaipal Reddy, other award-winning Mandal Parishad presidents, sarpanches, a CEO, MPDOs, and panchayat secretaries at the meeting. Later, he accompanied them to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for their felicitation at Pragati Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rlb-reps-felicitated/article34228429.ece
03 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Jagitial, Kollapur mango markets to start operations soon||Two full-fledged mango markets would be established at Jagityal and Kollapur soon, Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy stated here on Friday. Trading of the fruit crop would also be commenced in the current season itself. At a meeting with officials on the arrangements being made for procurement of rabi (yasangi) crops, the Minister said the Jagityal mango market would be developed on the 10 acres of Water and Land Management Training and Research Institute there. A meeting would be held soon with the farmers, traders and officials. The Minister instructed the officials to develop Tandur Rythu Bazaar into an integrated market. On procurement of food crops this season, the Minister told the officials to make arrangements following the COVID-19 norms and take measures to prevent damage of the produce with untimely rains at the procurement centres/markets. He suggested that farmers get tarpaulin sheets available with them along with their produce to markets/procurement centres. Paddy procurement centres would be opened in Suryapet district on April 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-new-mango-markets-soon/article34228430.ece
03 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||73 youth trained by SCCL make the grade||The 50-day pre-army recruitment training camps conducted for the youth of villages in the Singareni Collieries areas by the company management have helped in selection of 73 youth for the written test in army jobs. A total of 500 youth have attended the pre-army recruitment training camps conducted by the management of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) in 10 mining areas this year. In the past, the company would conduct residential camps but this time, in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, only training in physical fitness was provided in the morning and evening hours without stay facilities. Those attended the training camps included the unemployed youth of farmers’ families and from the families of former employees of Singareni from the surrounding villages. In the army recruitment rally conducted at Hakimpet here from March 4 to 25, a total of 96 candidates trained at Singareni camps cleared the physical fitness test and later 73 of them had cleared medical test and have become eligible for the written test, the final hurdle for recruitment into the army. Vice president of Singareni Seva Samithi, the CSR arm of Singareni, which provided the pre-recruitment rally training, K. Suryanarayana, General Manager (coordination) of SCCL, and chief coordinating office, Mahesh, stated that of the 73 candidates who have become eligible for the written test, 41 would be appearing for the test for general duty soldier posts, 27 for tradesmen posts and five for nursing and clerical posts. The Seva Samithi officials said they were unable to conduct mock written tests as in the past due to COVID-19 spread but were helping the candidates through online guidance and exuded confidence that all the 73 candidates would clear the test and get recruited in the army. Last year, residential training with boarding and lodging facility was given to 300 selected youth and of them 272 had attended the recruitment rally with 162 of them clearing the physical fitness test. Of the 114 who cleared the medical test, 35 had passed the written test and were recruited in the army.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/73-youth-trained-by-sccl-make-the-grade/article34228613.ece
03 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Woman nabbed for trying to smuggle gold||A woman, who arrived from Sharjah, was detained by Customs officials at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Shamshabad, on Friday for trying to smuggle in gold paste. The accused passenger arrived by Air Arabia flight no. G9458 and concealed 548.35 grams paste worth Rs. 25.4 lakh in her under-garments. On Thursday evening, Central Industrial Security Force personnel nabbed a Sharjah-bound passenger who was trying to smuggle out foreign currencies. The passenger was caught with currencies of different countries equivalent to Rs. 8.4 lakh. He was scheduled to board Air Arabia flight G9451.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-nabbed-for-trying-to-smuggle-gold/article34228427.ece
03 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NTPC achieves targets in generation||The COVID-19 pandemic impact aside, the 2,600 megawatt (MW) super thermal power station of NTPC at Ramagundam in Peddapally district has achieved the targets of power generation, ash utilisation and also in several other parameters. According to officials of NTPC-Ramagundam, the plant has generated 16,711.58 million units (MU) of energy against the target of 15,444 MU during 2020-21. The Plant Load Factor (PLF) for the just-concluded fiscal was 73.37% against the target of 67.81%. It has also achieved annual targets in the parameters such as specific oil consumption, aux power consumption, specific water consumption and energy conservation. In utilisation of ash, the plant has crossed the target and achieved 111%. The plant has been achieving ash utilisation target by over 100% for the last four years. With a view to enhancing ash utilisation further, the station has developed geo-polymer coarse aggregates as a replacement to natural aggregates for the construction of buildings with geo-polymer substances composed of 90% fly ash. About seven cubic metres of aggregates have been used in building construction in shopping complex inside the township already and a proposal for laying a road for about 1.25 km length was under consideration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ntpc-achieves-targets-in-generation/article34228441.ece
03 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Former V-C of EFLU on prestigious advisory board||Sunaina Singh, the Vice Chancellor of Nalanda University, has been appointed on Advisory Board of Association of the Universities of Asia and the Pacific. Ms Singh, who was earlier the Vice-Chancellor of English and Foreign Languages University, Hyderabad, has been honoured with the global recognition for her academic and administrative excellence and leadership. Having recently been honoured with Honorary Professorship from Oxford, she has now been appointed by the Association of the Universities of Asia and the Pacific (AUAP) as a member on its Advisory Board. AUAP is a global platform and voice of universities in Asia and the Pacific. It enjoys the highest formal consultative status with UNESCO. One of the main purposes of AUAP is to promote a culture of quality and innovation in higher academia and to facilitate research and community service to be a voice of universities in Asia and the Pacific. Known as a prominent educational leader and institution builder, Ms Singh has made significant contributions to promote knowledge mapping, culture, innovation, and research in higher education sectors in the Asia and Pacific region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/former-v-c-of-eflu-on-prestigious-advisory-board/article34228409.ece
03 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Goods shed at Dichpalli commissioned||South Central Railway (SCR), on Friday, commissioned a new goods shed at Dichpalli railway station to facilitate loading of food grains and fertilizers across the country. It has been developed as an alternate goods shed to Nizamabad to reduce congestion of loading facilities. Freight customers, who offer loading at Dichpalli, have been exempted from terminal charges of Rs. 20 per tonne. The first rake has been loaded with rice of 2,670 tonnes bound to FCI sidings at Karungapalli and Mulagunnathukavu in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, and dispatched.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/goods-shed-at-dichpalli-commissioned/article34228416.ece
03 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CREDAI property show put off||Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI) postponed the 10th edition of Hyderabad property show in view of the government banning public gatherings and events till April 30 after the rising cases of COVID. The revised schedule will be shared following appropriate government notifications, a press release said on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/credai-property-show-put-off/article34228417.ece
03 April 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Our IT exports greater than country’s: KTR||Information Technology (IT) exports from Telangana have witnessed enormous growth and reached 1.40 lakh crore in 2021 as against 56,000 crore in 2014, since the formation of the State, said Information and Technology Minister K T Rama Rao. The leadership of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and the stable governance coupled with progressive policies had spurred the massive growth of the IT sector in the State, which was more than double India’s growth rate, he noted, saying Hyderabad emerged a preferred destination for leading global IT companies. The conducive environment ushered in by the Telangana State Industrial Project Approval and Self-Certification Scheme (TS-iPass) and the local talent pool facilitated this growth trajectory, he asserted. He was speaking after laying the foundation stone for the second phase of the IT hub at an estimated cost of Rs. 36 crore here on Friday. The IT Tower-II was sanctioned by the State government to meet the demand for additional space at the existing IT hub, the first phase of which was inaugurated by Mr Rao here on December 7 last year. The second phase of the IT hub will be constructed with a built-up space of 55,000 sq ft and a seating capacity of 570. There were some apprehensions among certain sections over the prospects of new investments and employment generation when Telangana was formed in 2014, recalled Mr Rama Rao while addressing a gathering comprising techies and representatives of IT companies at the IT hub.The brisk pace of IT growth in Telangana and the surge in IT exports from the State in the past six years proved all such apprehensions wrong. As part of the decentralised approach to develop IT infrastructure and create employment locally, the State government had set up IT hubs in tier-II cities like Karimnagar, Nizamabad and Khammam in addition to the IT incubation centre in Warangal. New IT hubs are all set to come up under the aegis of the Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) in a few more tier-II towns soon. Plans were afoot to strengthen digital infrastructure by implementing T-fiber project to ensure high speed Internet services to around one crore households to harness technology for promoting e-commerce and e-health initiatives as a means to create employment opportunities for youth, the IT Minister said. Transport Minister P Ajay Kumar said as many as 19 IT companies had become partners in the first phase of the IT hub thereby providing employment opportunities to more than 350 local youths so far. A host of IT companies from various countries including the U.S. and Australia evinced interest to associate with the second phase of the IT hub. Roads and Buildings Minister V Prashanth Reddy, Khammam MP Nama Nageswara Rao, and Collector R V Karnan were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/our-it-exports-higher-than-countrys-ktr/article34228435.ece
03 April 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||New bus station launched||An array of developmental works worth about Rs. 418 crore were launched by Municipal Administration Minister K T Rama Rao in Khammam Municipal Corporation limits on Friday. Mr Rao went on an inaugural spree in various divisions of the KMC, where the civic polls are due. He inaugurated a modern bus station constructed at a cost of Rs. 25 crore adjoining the bypass road here. Mr Rao and his Cabinet colleagues and Khammam MP inaugurated a 2BHK colony christened KCR towers, comprising 1,004 double bedroom houses at Tekulapalli, launched 45,000 household water tap connections and daily water supply in KMC at a cost of Rs. 229.95 crore, renovated Vaikunta Dhamam and road works worth Rs. 35 crore. Later, he participated in various developmental activities in Sattupalli town. Meanwhile, BJP Kisan Morcha State president K Sridhar Reddy alleged that the police detained several party cadre during the visit of KTR to prevent them from raising the issues of farmers and unemployed youth. The cadre were let off after the tour of Mr Rama Rao, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-bus-station-launched/article34228436.ece
03 April 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Farmers demand higher compensation for lands||The NIMZ was proposed near Zaheerabad on about 12,635 acres during the tenure of United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government at the Centre in its second term. That was the same time the division of Andhra Pradesh took place in 2014. Soon after division of the State, in 2015, the Telangana government has started land acquisition at Zaheerabad for 12,600 acres. About 3,500 acres of land was already acquired and later the State government did not focus on land acquisition. The land was already handed over to Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation by the district authorities. Meanwhile, with the news spreading that NIMZ was coming up at this area, land rates skyrocketed and farmers openly expressed unwillingness to part with their lands for the compensation being offered by the government. While the open market value of lands was between Rs. 15 lakh and Rs. 50 lakh, on the roadside, depending on the location, the government has been offering about Rs. 6 lakh or so per acre. The farmers, time and again, made it clear to officials that they were not ready to sell their lands to the government for NIMZ as they would lose their livelihoods. On January 20, the mandatory public hearing for environment clearance was held at Bardipur near Zaheerabad with police protection. At the time, some protesters were forcibly taken away from the venue by police. Though officials made it clear again and again that the meeting was aimed at discussing environment-related issues with the establishment of NIMZ, majority farmers raised the issue of compensation being paid by the government and market price of lands. Several farmers were not allowed to attend the public hearing and stopped at their villages. Some farmers walked several kilometres to attend the public hearing but were not allowed inside. "We will lose our lands and livelihood if we sell our lands. We are not ready. Do not establish NIMZ in our area. The only option left with us will be committing suicide," argued a woman farmer from a tanda during public hearing. Bhukya, another farmer from a thanda, demanded that the government implement Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act- 2013 (LA ACT- 2013) if the government needed land from farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmers-demand-higher-compensation-for-lands/article34228433.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Supreme sacrifice||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/supreme-sacrifice/article34228599.ece
03 April 2021||New Delhi,||Constable’s wife ends life at home||A police constable’s wife allegedly ended her life at her house in south-west Delhi’s Ghitorni village, officers said on Friday. According to the police, a caller informed them on Thursday evening that his wife and two sons were at home but no one was answering the door. “Police reached the spot and the door of the house was found latched from inside. They broke open the door and found the woman hanging,” DCP (South-West) Ingit Pratap Singh said. The couple’s two sons were found unconscious and were rushed to the hospital where they are undergoing treatment. The elder son is stable but the condition of the younger one is critical, the police added.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/constables-wife-ends-life-at-home/article34228377.ece
03 April 2021||MUMBAI,||Postmaster General’s tribute to Netaji wins laurels||Elephants Do Remember, a documentary on Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, recently adjudged the Best Biographical Film at the 67th National Film Awards 2019, marks the directorial debut of Swati Pandey, Postmaster General, India Post, Mumbai Region. The film, which will bring to the fore unknown facts about the great freedom fighter, revolves around the life of Rama Khandwala, 94, a resident of Opera House, Mumbai, who served in the Indian National Army and worked closely with Netaji. With a run time of 37 minutes, the film is co-directed by Viplove Bhatia and Manu Bist, and produced by Films Division. The film-makers will receive the award from the President on May 3 in Delhi. Ms. Khandwala is the oldest tourist guide in India, helping Japanese tourists during their visits to Mumbai, and recipient of the Presidential Award. The film records the thrilling experiences of Ms. Khandwala, who hails from Burma (now Myanmar). In the film, she leaves the viewers awe-struck as she reminisces her association with Netaji. “Since my childhood, I was inspired by Netaji. This film is my tribute to him, the most underrated and forgotten freedom fighter of India,” Ms. Pandey said. “This film is an ode to my Baba (father) who was a refugee from East Bengal and reminisced the influence of Netaji through his life. I saw Netaji through my Baba ’s eyes and I got to know Netaji through his words,” she said. Through this documentary, I attempt to revive the legacy of Netaji, his undying patriotism and altruistic love towards his motherland, the way he still influences our lives, she added. The film was also nominated under the Short Documentary category at the IFFI, Goa, 2019. “This award is an acknowledgement for Rama didi , who at the age of 16 was not only an integral part of Netaji’s Rani Jhansi Regiment, that fought for India’s freedom, but also led a team of 30 women soldiers (known as Ranis) at the war front. This was she! Fearless, Passionate Valiant!” said Ms. Pandey, who has become the first officer of the Indian Post to win a National Film Award.  Ms Pandey, an Indian Postal Service Officer of the 1997 batch, said she was always inspired by creativity and filmmaking came naturally. Born in a Bengali family displaced by the Partition, she grew up in the Dandakaranya region of Odisha. In the postal department, she has started innovative projects like SOFT (Supporting Officials for Treatment), Smartest Postmen Campaign, Digital Identity of Postmen and a heritage walk of the Mumbai General Post office. New project Ms. Pandey is now working on a documentary on the 160-year history of India Post along with Epic Channel. Recently, she also published the first-ever e-book on the Mumbai General Post Office, co-authored with another government officer Orchida Mukherjee. The book showcases the archaeological beauty and splendour of the heritage building, constructed in Indo-Saracenic style of architecture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/postmaster-generals-tribute-to-netaji-wins-laurels/article34228050.ece
03 April 2021||Mumbai,||Congress ministers discuss Deshmukh controversy with AICC secretary||Congress ministers in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on Friday discussed the allegations of corruption against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh in a meeting with All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for the State H.K. Patil, sources said. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut’s repeated remarks that NCP chief Sharad Pawar should take over as UPA chairperson also came up during the discussion, sources added. The meeting in Mumbai with Mr. Patil, an AICC secretary, was held for discussing the political situation in the State, sources said. “They talked about how the State government’s image is being tarnished due to the allegations of corruption against NCP leader Mr. Deshmukh and how our party is getting maligned unnecessarily,” a Congress leader said. Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh alleged last month that Mr. Deshmukh had asked police officials to collect Rs. 100 crore a month from bars and hotels, an allegations the latter denied. “The view in the meeting was that the NCP should have handled the Deshmukh issue in a better way,” the leader added. Congress ministers also complained about Sena spokesperson Mr. Raut repeatedly stating that Mr. Pawar be made UPA chairperson by replacing Congress president Sonia Gandhi. The issue of development funds for constituencies of Congress ministers not being disbursed in time also came up, sources said. The Congress has 12 ministers in the Sena-led coalition government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/congress-ministers-discuss-deshmukh-controversy-with-aicc-secretary/article34228045.ece
03 April 2021||Mumbai,||HC quashes FIR against businessman accused of stealing 17 currency notes||The Bombay High Court recently granted relief to a 45-year-old man by quashing the FIR and chargesheet against him for being accused of stealing 17 currency notes in Rs. 2,000 denomination and said that “allowing the proceedings would not be in the interest of justice”. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale was hearing a criminal petition filed by Taleb Rafiq Beg, a businessman at Beed. On February 3, 2017, Mr. Beg went to one Damyanti Pardeshi’s office and requested to get one Rs. 2,000 currency note in exchange of four Rs. 500 currency notes required for a pooja. Ms. Pardeshi alleged that he snatched a bundle of Rs. 2,000 notes from her and took out 17 notes instead of one. A day after, she lodged a complaint against Mr. Beg accusing him of cheating and criminal breach of trust at Pimpri police station. Advocate Hassnain Kaazi Sayyed, representing Mr. Beg, argued that he was falsely implicated and there was no material to link him to the case. The Bench said, “A bare perusal of the FIR does not show any offence with which Mr. Beg can be linked to the present case. The police apprehended him on August 6, 2017 and sought his remand on August 7 for an incident that occurred on February 4, 2017, without there being even an iota of material to link him with the incident in question. Therefore, we are of the opinion that Mr. Beg has successfully made out the case for quashing of the FIR.” While allowing the petition, the HC said, “Mr. Beg has been able to make out his case for exercise of extraordinary and inherent power of this court to quash the criminal proceedings initiated against him. We find that the nature of material brought on record in pursuance of investigation and filing of chargesheet does not even prima facie indicate his involvement in the alleged offence. Therefore, allowing the proceedings to continue in pursuance of such an FIR and chargesheet would not be in the interest of justice and would amount to abuse of the process of law.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-quashes-fir-against-businessman-accused-of-stealing-17-currency-notes/article34228048.ece
03 April 2021||Mumbai,||Author refuses to work under Ambedkar publication committee member-secretary||The reorganisation of Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Source Material Publication Committee by the Maharashtra government has sparked a controversy after veteran Ambedkarite and author J.V. Pawar refused to work under a relatively unknown member-secretary of the committee, questioning his eligibility and credentials. The State Higher and Technical Education Department on March 30 issued a list of new members, including Mr. Pawar, in an attempt to reorganise the dormant committee which is tasked with editing, translating, and re-publishing the works of Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar. Apart from ministers, MLA and officials, it has 16 private members, including activists, authors and researchers of the Ambedkarite movement. On April 1, Mr. Pawar wrote to Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant, who is the president of the committee, questioning the credentials of Dr. Krishna Kamble appointed as the member-secretary. “I have been active in the Ambedkarite movement for over 50 years. It was me who ensured the legal battle over this literature ended in 70s and material was made available for publication. I have authored numerous books, articles on Dr. Ambedkar, and even at the age of 78, I am active in the movement. I have never heard the name of Dr. Krishna Kamble nor am I aware of his contribution to the movement. Why should I work under him?” Mr. Pawar asked. In his letter, Mr. Pawar said that he was willing to work for the committee but would not work under someone who hardly had any contribution to the movement. “I had expressed my desire to work for the committee but not like this,” he said. Mr. Pawar has long been associated with Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi leader Prakash Ambedkar who contested against the Maha Vikas Aghadi partners (Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena) in the 2019 Assembly polls. According to sources in the government, the committee is an attempt to go beyond politics and try to work towards the larger aim of bringing out literature of Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar. Interestingly, one of the members of the committee, senior journalist Nikhil Wagle, has already declared that he is not part of it. “As a journalist, it has been my policy to not work with any government committee. Here I was not even consulted before selecting me. I also believe that researchers on Dr. Ambedkar and his work should be part of this committee instead of me,” he told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/author-refuses-to-work-under-ambedkar-publication-committee-member-secretary/article34228040.ece
03 April 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra sees 47,827 new cases, 202 fatalities||Maharashtra on Friday recorded 47,827 new COVID-19 cases, the highest daily count since the novel coronavirus pandemic began. The new figure took the State tally of positive cases to 29,04,076, a Health Department statement said. As many as 202 novel coronavirus patients died in the State on Friday, taking the death toll to 55,379, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-sees-47827-new-cases-202-fatalities/article34228046.ece
03 April 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Two months after Kharghar gang rape, police arrest main accused in Chembur||Nearly two months after a 19-year-old woman was gang-raped by two people inside a stationary bus in Kharghar, the police arrested the main accused in Chembur on Wednesday. The arrested accused, identified as Abhishek Kharat (31), was the driver of the bus in which he committed the crime along with his accomplice, Tejash Dewlekar (19), a college-going student. Mr. Dewlekar was arrested on February 4 after an FIR was registered at Kharghar police station. According to the police, the victim and the duo lived in the same locality and were known to each other. On the night of February 3, the victim had gone for a pre-wedding programme with her parents. In between, the victim was thirsty and the duo who were also present at the programme took her to a nearby minibus and gave her a spiked drink. After she became unconscious, the two sexually assaulted her in the bus. The duo then took her to a secluded spot in Taloja in the dark and abandoned her. She reached home with the help of some citizens and informed her family about the incident. The next day, based on a complaint, the Kharghar police registered a case of gang-rape against the two and immediately arrested Mr. Dewlekar. However, Mr. Kharat, had absconded. On Wednesday, he was traced to Lal Dongar in Chembur where he was hiding at his sister’s house and was arrested by assistant police inspector Shridhar Pawar. While Mr. Dewlekar is in judicial custody, Mr. Kharat has been remanded in police custody till April 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/two-months-after-kharghar-gang-rape-police-arrest-main-accused-in-chembur/article34228047.ece
03 April 2021||New Delhi,||Not planning to impose lockdown, says Kejriwal amid surge in cases||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the Delhi government is not planning to impose any lockdown in the Capital. He said the “fourth wave” of COVID-19 was “less serious” than others before it.  If needed, Mr. Kejriwal said, the government would consider a lockdown only “after due consultation with the public” even as he sought to urge the Central government to open up the vaccination process for everyone instead of keeping it restricted to specific age groups due to the rising number of cases. “India is witnessing a rise in cases. Delhi, too, is witnessing a surge. As I have always said Delhi has encountered the worst COVID situation, this is the fourth wave for the city. For the country, this might be the second wave but Delhi is encountering the fourth peak,” he told at a digital briefing after an emergency meeting at his residence to assess the situation. ‘Govt. keeping an eye’ “At this peak, we have seen that the cases have been rapidly increasing regularly and this is a matter of grave concern but one must not worry. The government is keeping an eye on the situation and all mandatory steps that need to be taken, are being looked into,” he added. On March 16, he said, the city witnessed 425 cases, which has now surged beyond 3,500. According to data, he said, the fourth wave is “less serious than the previous ones” as mortality rates are relatively low and so was the number of people being admitted to hospitals and ICUs. In October, he said, 3,000 to 4,000 new cases came up daily with around 1,700 patients in ICU. On Friday, the number was around 800 - registering a drop of 50%. The mortality rate then was 40 deaths per day but on Friday it was around 10-12. “We have looked into the provision for additional requirements for hospitals in case people fall sick and need to get admitted to the hospital. The provision of ambulance, hospital, ventilator, oxygen, and ICU were all discussed. For this, a plan has been laid down as to in what stages the number of ICU beds in the private and government hospitals would be increased,” he added. The government has three broad concerns, including preventing the spread of infection, hospital management and the ongoing vaccination drive. Mr. Kejriwal said he was happy that the Centre allowed the vaccination to people above the age of 45. “If the Centre permits us to do mass vaccination, then hundreds and thousands of facilities can be created in community centres, schools and a mass vaccination drive could be initiated. If this is done, it would be a great aid to control the spread of the virus,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/not-planning-to-impose-lockdown-says-kejriwal-amid-surge-in-cases/article34228035.ece
03 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Daily new COVID-19 cases cross 3,500 mark in Capital||The city on Friday recorded 3,594 new COVID-19 cases and 14 deaths, stated a health bulletin released by the government. The bulletin added that 87,505 tests had been conducted in 24 hours with a positivity rate of 4.11%. Out of the total tests, 54,898 were RTPCR and 32,607 were rapid antigen. At present, there are 11,994 active cases in the city out of which 6,106 were under home isolation. There are 2,338 containment zones in the city. Since the pandemic began over a year ago, the total number of positive cases has reached 6,68,814 cases with 11,050 deaths. The last time the number of new cases was over the 3,500 mark was on December 4 when 4,067 cases were recorded. Over the past few weeks, the Capital has seen a surge in the number of cases reporting 2,790 cases on Thursday, 1,819 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, 992 cases on Tuesday, 1,904 cases on Monday and 1,881 cases on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/daily-new-covid-19-cases-cross-3500-mark-in-capital/article34228028.ece
03 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cong. criticises AAP for letting students down||The Delhi Congress on Friday criticised the government for allegedly failing to provide students with the necessary infrastructure to attend online classes during the pandemic. “Instead of providing the necessary facilities for online class to the students and teachers, the Kejriwal government is showing the dream of a virtual school so that one school can be used to promote it, while it is a common opinion that students during the pandemic period did not get the benefit of education,” Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said. Digital inequality He added that for the second year in a row, students will be forced to study through online classes, and due to the digital inequality, many will be deprived of education and will lag. “If there is no timely and thoughtful action on this inequality, then poor students will get backward in the future not only in terms of education but also employment,” Mr. Kumar said. Mr. Kumar said that the budget presented for the year 2021-22 also did not make any allocation to overcome the problem. No incentive, like laptops, tablets or data for mobile phones and Internet, was announced for them either.  If there is no timely action on this inequality, then poor students will get backward not only in terms of education but also employment Ch. Anil Kumar Delhi Congress chief||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cong-criticises-aap-for-letting-students-down/article34228029.ece
03 April 2021||New Delhi,||Temperature in Capital likely to rise to 38°C by Monday, forecasts IMD||The Capital recorded a maximum temperature of 34.4 degrees Celsius on Friday, two notches above the normal, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The city’s minimum temperature settled at 16.2 degrees Celsius. The weatherman said mercury is likely to rise to 38 degrees Celsius by Monday. The Capital had recorded a mean maximum temperature of 33.1 degrees Celsius last month, making it the “hottest” March in the last 11 years, according to the IMD. Worst since 2010 It was the highest mean maximum temperature in March since 2010, when it was 34.1 degrees Celsius. Normally, the mean maximum temperature for the month of March in Delhi is 29.6 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD. Heat wave condition On Monday, Delhi reeled under a “severe” heat wave, as the maximum temperature shot up to 40.1 degrees Celsius, making it the hottest day in March in 76 years, the IMD had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/temperature-in-capital-likely-to-rise-to-38c-by-monday-forecasts-imd/article34228025.ece
03 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP won’t be able to earn from liquor mafia: Atishi||Senior AAP leader and MLA Atishi on Friday alleged that the BJP was critical of the Delhi government’s new excise policy as it would now no longer earn money from the liquor mafia. She hit out at them for opposing the lowering of the drinking age from 25 to 21 years, asking when BJP-ruled Goa, Karnataka and Himachal Pradesh have a legal drinking age of 18 years, then why was it opposing the same in Delhi. “Delhi government has brought in a new excise policy to end the activities of liquor mafia in the city. The Aam Aadmi Party had previously endeavoured to end the private school mafia, tanker mafia, hospital mafia — in the same manner, the Kejriwal government will now attempt to break the hold of the liquor mafia,” she said. She added that till now there were many areas in Delhi that did not have legal outlets for the sale of alcohol due to which there was an uneven distribution of shops. As a result, liquor was sold illegally and therefore the Delhi government had brought in the policy to ensure that alcohol was not sold illegally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-wont-be-able-to-earn-from-liquor-mafia-atishi/article34228031.ece
03 April 2021||New Delhi,||LoP says AAP govt. in nexus with liquor mafia||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Friday demanded the immediate resignation of Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia for conceding that a big “liquor mafia” had illegally operated in the Capital for the past six years of AAP government rule and had caused nearly Rs. 12,000 crore worth of losses to the exchequer. The LoP alleged that the inaction of the Delhi government against the alleged mafia is an indication that it was hand in glove with the mafia. “The AAP government was ruling Delhi for the past six years and if they knew that such an illegal thing was taking place, why did they not act? It is very clear that the AAP government was hand in glove with the mafia and patronising them,” Mr. Bidhuri alleged. “Now, they have suddenly woken up to this illegal practice and loss of revenue. Why were they sleeping over it? This is a clear case of collaboration in corruption and therefore Mr. Sisodia should immediately step down owning responsibility for this scam,” he also said. How many people from the liquor mafia were prosecuted and sent to jail and how many cases under the Excise Act were registered in relation to their activitie? Mr. Bidhuri asked. Similarly, he asked, what action had been taken against errant shops and how many criminal cases had the Delhi government got registered against those allegedly indulging in irregularities related to liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/lop-says-aap-govt-in-nexus-with-liquor-mafia/article34228032.ece
03 April 2021||New Delhi,||HC refuses to stay order for FIR against councillor||The Delhi High Court has declined to stay the Lokayukta order for registering an FIR against a councillor of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation for alleged pecuniary loss caused to exchequer over disbursal of old-age stipends under a 2018 scheme. Justice Prathiba M. Singh also did not put on hold any investigation or trial in connection with the FIR which was ordered to be lodged by the Lokayukta in January last year. Recovery of loss “The interim prayer for stay of the FIR and the trial and investigation is rejected considering the nature of the allegations. However, if any steps are taken for recovery of the pecuniary [loss], at that stage, the petitioner [councillor] is permitted to approach the court,” the Judge said in the order of March 24. It further said that if any such application is filed by the petitioner, the court shall consider whether any interim protection is to be granted and on what terms and conditions. Notice issued The court also issued notice to the office of the Lt.-Governor and the Delhi government seeking their stand on the plea by the councillor – Bhoomi Chatter Singh Rachhoya – and listed the matter for hearing on August 31. The order came on the councillor’s plea challenging the Lokayukta’s order on the ground that it was not the sanctioning authority for old-age stipends as per the rules and guidelines governing the scheme of 2018. Apart from lodging of an FIR, the Lokayukta had also directed the Commissioner of the North body to recover from the councillor the alleged pecuniary loss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-refuses-to-stay-order-for-fir-against-councillor/article34228024.ece
03 April 2021||New Delhi,||CM will represent Delhi at World Cities Cultural Forum||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will represent the Capital and India at the World Cities Cultural Forum, the Delhi government said here Friday. Mr. Kejriwal, the government said, had recently accepted an invitation by the Mayor of London to represent Delhi at the forum, which comprises 40 world cities including London, Tokyo and New York. All the cities ‘recognise the impact and importance of culture and creativity and seek to inculcate these values in public policy and city planning’, the government said. The annual Summit, attended by Deputy Mayors for Culture and Heads of Culture from the member cities, is at the heart of the forum’s activity, the government said, adding that Delhi will also be part of the World Cities Culture Report, the most comprehensive global dataset on culture in cities. This year’s theme — The Future of Culture — will play a crucial role in reimagining the culture of Delhi, especially in the wake of several devastating challenges and COVID crisis faced by the people in the last one year, the government said. Reimagining culture In his response to the invitation received from the Mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, Mr. Kejriwal said: “’Future of Culture’ is certainly a topic of relevance at this challenging juncture. As people around the world struggled in isolation — it has been art and music that helped us stay connected and cope with the crisis at hand. Creativity and sharing provided hope and strength to respond to the COVID-19 with resilience. The unfortunate circumstances of the pandemic have posed new challenges and possibilities to reimagine the modes of cultural practice. As we move towards recovery, the arts and culture will play a vital role in rebuilding lives and society.” “As a historic capital city seeped in diverse art and heritage, Delhi has been at the forefront of promoting and preserving our rich culture. Our government strongly believes in the role culture plays in shaping the city and positively impacting lives. Our goal is to transform Delhi into a world leader in the field of culture and an artist friendly city,” he added.  Our government strongly believes in the role culture plays in shaping the city. Our goal is to transform Delhi into a world leader in the field of culture and an artist friendly city Arvind Kejriwal Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cm-will-represent-delhi-at-world-cities-cultural-forum/article34228033.ece
03 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Prisons discontinue family ‘mulaqat’ of inmates||In the wake of a surge in COVID-19 cases, the Delhi Prison decided to suspend family mulaqat (meeting) of inmates from Monday till further orders, jail authorities said on Friday. Meetings had resumed In its step towards normalising the routine of inmates, Delhi Prisons Department on March 21 had resumed the process of internal mulaqat of inmates inside the jail premises. The Meeting of inmates with their legal counsels, however, will continue with proper COVID-19 precautions. Also, the facility of telephone and e-mulaqat will continue as per rules, the jail authorities said. "In view of rising trend of Covid-19 cases once again, it has been decided to suspend physical mulaqat of Delhi Prison inmates with family and friends with effect from Monday till further orders and the situation will be reviewed in 15 days," said Director General (Delhi Prisons) Sandeep Goel. According to the latest data shared by Delhi Prisons as on April 2, out of the 130 inmates detected positive for COVID, 118 have recovered, two died and there are presently 10 active cases. All the 293 prison staff who were found positive have also recovered, it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-prisons-discontinue-family-mulaqat-of-inmates/article34228039.ece
03 April 2021||Pune,||Car falls into waterbody; 4 of family dead||A woman and her three daughters died and her husband was injured after their car fell into a roadside waterbody in the Panshet dam catchment area near Pune on Friday afternoon, police said. After locals alerted authorities about the incident, the bodies were brought out, said fire brigade officials of PMRDA. The deceased have been identified as Alpana Bhikule (45) and her daughters Prajkta (21), Pranita (17) and Vaidahi (8), while the injured person is Vitthal Bhikule, a rural police station official said. “The family was returning to their home in Pune from their native village in Velhe tehsil. It is suspected the man lost control of the vehicle and it fell into the waterbody,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/car-falls-into-waterbody-4-of-family-dead/article34228043.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Remembering Christ||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/remembering-christ/article34228394.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Testing at station||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/testing-at-station/article34228037.ece
03 April 2021||Brussels,||U.S., Iran agree to indirect nuclear talks||The U.S. and Iran said on Friday that they would begin negotiations through intermediaries next week to try to get both countries back into an accord limiting Iran’s nuclear programme, nearly three years after President Donald Trump pulled the U.S. out of the deal. The announcement marked the first major progress in efforts to return both countries to the 2015 accord, which bound Iran to restrictions on its nuclear programmes in return for relief from U.S. and international sanctions. President Joe Biden came into office saying that getting back into the accord was a priority. But Iran and the U.S. have disagreed over Iran's demands that sanctions be lifted first, and the stalemate threatened to become an early foreign policy setback for the Biden administration. State Department spokesperson Ned Price called the resumption of negotiations, scheduled for Tuesday in Vienna, “a healthy step forward”. But Mr. Price added: “These remain early days, and we don’t anticipate an immediate breakthrough as there will be difficult discussions ahead.” Mr. Trump pulled the U.S. out of the accord in 2018, opting for a “maximum pressure” campaign of stepped-up U.S. sanctions and other tough actions. Iran responded by intensifying its enrichment of uranium and building of centrifuges, while maintaining its insistence that its nuclear development was for civilian and not military purposes. Iran’s moves increased pressure on major world powers over the Trump administration's sanctions and raised tensions among U.S. allies and strategic partners in West Asia. Agreement on the start of indirect talks came after the EU helped broker a virtual meeting of officials from Britain, China, France, Germany, Russia and Iran, which have remained in the accord, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). Mr. Price said next week's talks will be structured around working groups that the EU was forming with the remaining participants in the accord, including Iran. Primary issue “The primary issues that will be discussed are the nuclear steps that Iran would need to take in order to return to compliance with the terms of the JCPOA, and the sanctions relief steps that the U.S. would need to take in order to return to compliance as well,” Mr. Price said. The U.S., like Iran, said it did not anticipate direct talks between the U.S. and Iran now. Mr. Price said the U.S. remains open to that idea, however. In a tweet, Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif said the aim of the Vienna session would be to “rapidly finalize sanction-lifting & nuclear measures for choreographed removal of all sanctions, followed by Iran ceasing remedial measures.” Iranian state television quoted Abbas Araghchi, Iran’s nuclear negotiator at the virtual meeting, as saying during Friday’s discussions that any “return by the U.S. to the nuclear deal does not require any negotiation and the path is quite clear”. “The U.S. can return to the deal and stop breaching the law in the same way it withdrew from the deal and imposed illegal sanctions on Iran,” Mr. Araghchi was quoted as as saying. Russia's Ambassador to international organisations in Vienna, Mikhail Ulyanov, said “the impression is that we are on the right track, but the way ahead will not be easy and will require intensive efforts. The stakeholders seem to be ready for that”. Any return of the United States would involve complications. Iran has said before it resumes compliance with the deal, the U.S. needs to return to its own obligations by dropping the sanctions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-iran-agree-to-indirect-nuclear-talks/article34227692.ece
03 April 2021||Hualien,||At least 50 dead after train derails in Taiwan tunnel||At least 50 people were killed in Taiwan on Friday when a packed train collided with a vehicle on the tracks and then derailed inside a tunnel, in the island’s worst railway accident in decades. Officials said the devastating collision was caused by a railway maintenance vehicle which slipped down an embankment above the tracks near the eastern coastal city of Hualien. “(The driver) was suspected of not pulling the parking brake tight enough so the vehicle slid 20 meters... onto the train line,” Feng Hui-sheng, deputy director of Taiwan Railways Authority, told reporters. Local media images from the scene showed the back of a yellow flatbed truck on its side next to the train just a few metres from the tunnel entrance. The eight-carriage train was packed with some 480 people heading down the east coast for the annual Tomb Sweeping Festival, a four-day public holiday. The Taiwan Railways Agency said 146 passengers were sent to hospital in addition to the 50 confirmed dead. A French national was among those killed while two Japanese and one Macau resident were injured. One unnamed female survivor told TVBS news channel of trapped passengers — some crying out for help, others unconscious. President Tsai Ing-wen visited an emergency response centre in the capital Taipei, and said investigators would get to the bottom of how such a deadly crash could have occurred. “We will definitely clarify the cause of the incident that has caused major casualties,” she told reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/at-least-50-dead-after-train-derails-in-taiwan-tunnel/article34227693.ece
03 April 2021||Moscow,||Biden vows support to Kiev after Russian buildup||U.S. President Joe Biden affirmed his “unwavering support” for Ukraine in a call to President Volodymyr Zelensky on Friday after Kiev accused Moscow of building up military forces on its border. The call, which was Mr. Biden’s first conversation with Mr. Zelensky since the US leader’s inauguration in January, came after Russia warned the West earlier Friday against sending troops to Ukraine to buttress its ally. It also came as tensions between the U.S. and Russia have hit rock bottom after Mr. Biden last month infuriated Moscow by agreeing with a description of his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin as a “killer”. The White House said in a statement that Mr. Biden “affirmed the U.S.’ unwavering support for Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity in the face of Russia’s ongoing aggression”. Mr. Zelensky, who this week accused Russia of amassing troops on Ukraine’s border, said in a video released by his office that “President Biden assured me that Ukraine will never be left alone against Russian aggression.” Tensions raised Weeks of renewed frontline clashes have shredded a ceasefire and raised fears of an escalation of the simmering conflict in eastern Ukraine. Speaking to reporters on Friday, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Russia would be forced to respond if the U.S. sent troops. “There is no doubt such a scenario would lead to a further increase in tensions close to Russia’s borders. Of course, this would call for additional measures from the Russian side to ensure its security,” Mr. Peskov said. He declined to specify which measures would be adopted, while insisting that Russia was not making moves to threaten Ukraine. “Russia is not threatening anyone, it has never threatened anyone,” he said. On Friday, Russia said its armed forces would hold military exercises close to Ukraine’s border to practise defence against attack drones. More than 50 battalion combat teams comprising 15,000 people will take part in those , the military told reporters. Kiev has been battling pro-Russian separatists in the eastern Donetsk and Lugansk regions since 2014, following Moscow’s annexation of the Crimean peninsula after an uprising that ousted Ukraine’s Kremlin-friendly president Viktor Yanukovych.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-warns-us-against-deployment-to-ukraine/article34227700.ece
03 April 2021||Brussels,||EU condemns ‘harassment’ of foreign media in China||The European Union on Friday condemned the “harassment” of foreign journalists in China after a BBC correspondent left the country in the face of legal threats and pressure from authorities. John Sudworth said he had quit China for Taiwan — along with his journalist wife — after a “full-on propaganda attack” from the authorities due to his reporting on Xinjiang rights abuses and the pandemic. “This is the latest case of foreign correspondents being driven out of China as a result of continuous harassment and obstruction to their work, coming on top of the expulsion of at least 18 correspondents last year,” a spokesperson for EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said. “The EU has repeatedly expressed its concerns to the Chinese authorities at the undue working restrictions imposed on foreign journalists and reported related harassment.” “Foreign correspondents play an important role in imparting information across frontiers and contributing to strengthening mutual understanding between the EU and China.” Tight control Press freedom groups say the space for reporters to operate in China is tightly controlled, with journalists followed on the streets, suffering harassment online and refused visas. At least 18 foreign correspondents were expelled by China last year, during a tit-for-tat row with the U.S. that decimated the international press presence in the country. Chinese state media and officials repeatedly attacked Mr. Sudworth for his reporting on alleged forced labour practices targeting Uighur Muslim minorities in Xinjiang, cotton industry in particular. A spokeswoman for China’s Foreign Ministry accused the BBC of spreading “fake news with strong ideological bias”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-condemns-harassment-of-foreign-media-in-china/article34227694.ece
03 April 2021||Washington,||U.S. Capitol under lockdown after car rams into 2 officials||A car rammed into two police officers at a barricade outside the U.S. Capitol on Friday, and the driver got out of the vehicle while appearing to brandish a knife before being shot by authorities, two law enforcement officials said. The U.S. Capitol complex was placed on lockdown after the shooting. The driver has died after being shot by authorities, sources told AP. The crash and shooting happened at a security checkpoint near the Capitol as Congress is on recess. It comes as the Washington region remains on edge nearly three months after a mob of armed insurrectionists stormed the Capitol as Congress was voting to certify Joe Biden’s presidential win. Yogananda Pittman, acting chief of U.S. Capitol Police, said the suspect rammed a barricade near the U.S. Capitol, and then exited the vehicle with a knife and lunged at the officers. The suspect was shot and died at the hospital. “One of our officers has succumbed to his injuries,” she told a news conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-capitol-under-lockdown-after-car-rams-into-2-officials/article34228292.ece
03 April 2021||Tunis,||‘Extremist’ kills self, baby in Tunisia suicide attack||Tunisian authorities said a female suicide bomber killed herself and her baby during counterterrorism operations in mountains of central Tunisia. Two other Islamic extremists were killed in the security operations, according to an Interior Ministry statement on Thursday night. In one operation, Tunisian forces were tracking an extremist group in the Mount Salloum area of Kasserine province. They killed one suspected jihadist, whose wife then killed herself by activating an explosive belt, the statement said. The explosion killed her baby in her arms, while an older daughter also at the scene survived, according to the Ministry. In a second operation, in the Mount Mghila area, security forces killed a suspected leader of Jund Al Khilafa brigade, the statement said. The brigade has pledged allegiance to the Islamic State group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/extremist-kills-self-baby-in-tunisia-suicide-attack/article34227697.ece
03 April 2021||Yangon,||Military slammed for child deaths||Myanmar’s junta faced fresh criticism on Friday over the deaths of more than 40 children and the “forced disappearance” of hundreds of people in its crackdown on pro-democracy protests. Violence has ramped up in recent weeks, with Save the Children saying the death toll of youngsters had more than doubled in the past 12 days. “We are shocked that children continue to be among the targets of these fatal attacks, despite repeated calls to protect children,” the charity said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/military-slammed-for-child-deaths/article34227698.ece
03 April 2021||Karachi,||Pilgrims clash with police at Pak. shrine||Pakistan deployed paramilitary troops early on Friday to a shrine closed due to coronavirus restrictions, after hundreds of pilgrims trying to get in clashed with the police. Police said the pilgrims broke open the main gate of the the shrine of Lal Shahbaz Qalandar, a 13th-century mystic Sufi saint, located in the town of Sehwan in the southern Sindh province. The crowds attacked police and threw stones on Thursday night, police said. Several policemen suffered minor injuries and investigations are ongoing. Shrines in Pakistan were closed recently as part of measures to help stem the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pilgrims-clash-with-police-at-pak-shrine/article34227699.ece
03 April 2021||TOKYO,||AS--Japan-US||Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga will visit Washington for talks with President Joe Biden on April 16, the government said on Friday. Chief Cabinet Secretary Katsunobu Kato told reporters that Mr. Suga will be the first foreign leader to meet Mr. Biden in person since he took office in January.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-japan-us/article34227696.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||A missing science pillar in the COVID response||The optimism that India might have beaten the COVID-19 pandemic has given way to pessimism from a sharp increase in new cases and deaths from the disease. Maharashtra seems to be particularly affected, but nearly all States are reporting increases. The epidemiology of COVID-19 is poorly understood, but some early understanding of the transmission of the virus can enable a more effective science-driven response. Spread of variants First, the surge is probably driven by variants from the original, as variants worldwide comprise much of the current wave. A resumption of global travel meant that spread of variants into India was inevitable, with the only question being when. Evolutionary theory would expect SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, to mutate to become more transmissible. After all, the only task of a virus is to reproduce. However, the expected concomitant decrease in lethality has not yet been documented. Anecdotal reports that the current surge is occurring more in younger adults and accompanied by unusual symptoms also support the idea that variants are responsible. Direct evidence is needed from genetic sequencing of the virus. Second, it was, and remains, wishful thinking that India had achieved “herd immunity”. The patterns of infection in India clearly suggest multi-generational transmission, with younger adults the engine of transmission into the elderly. Various serosurveys have consistently found that half or more of tested urban populations have antibodies to the virus. However, this high level of infection is not the same as a markedly reduced level of transmission, which is what is required for herd immunity. Notions of herd immunity do not fully capture the fact that for largely unknown reasons, viral transmission is cyclical. Delhi had two major peaks, in 2020, of death rates and case rates, one in June and another in November, and now is entering a third major wave. Within Mumbai, the current wave appears to be affecting more affluent areas and private hospitals, in contrast to last year where the highest infection levels were in the slums and poorer areas. Our forthcoming mortality-based analyses (https://bit.ly/3sY0KYZ) suggest several sub-waves exist within major viral peaks, reflecting subtle changes in community transmission. The ebbs and flow of vaccine transmission are far more variable than we assume. As well, much of infection in India might well be mild, with less durable immune protection than induced by vaccination. ‘Asymptomatic infection is more commonly reported in Indian serosurveys, exceeding 90% in some, in contrast to high-income countries, where about one-third of infections report as asymptomatic’. Recent findings from Wuhan, China show most seropositive infections were asymptomatic and among these, the important protective antibodies were low during follow-up periods. Milder infection might well also correlate with lower severity of clinical illness, helping to explain the Indian paradox of widespread transmission but with low mortality rates. Data must guide decisions India needs to increase the quantity, quality and public availability of actual data to guide decision-making. Theories or mathematical models are hugely uncertain, particularly early on in the epidemic. Better understanding of the unique patterns of Indian viral transmission has a few pillars, which can be achieved quickly. First, collection of anonymised demographic and risk details (age, sex, travel, contact with other COVID-19 patients, existing chronic conditions, current smoking) on all positive cases on a central website in each State remains a priority. Second, greatly expanded sequencing of the viral genome is needed from many parts of India, which can be achieved by re-programming sequencing capacity in Indian academic and commercial laboratories. Third, far better reporting of COVID-19 deaths is needed. Daily or weekly reporting of the total death counts by age and sex by each municipality would help track if there is a spike in presumed COVID-19 deaths. The Registrar General of India’s verbal autopsy studies are invaluable, but must be reactivated to review deaths occurring in 2020, given that the last available results are from 2013. Third, the Indian Council of Medical Research’s national serosurvey had design limitations such that it probably underestimated the true national prevalence. A far larger and better set of serial surveys is required. Finally, we need to understand better why some populations are not affected. For example, COVID-19 infection and death levels in Thailand and Vietnam are remarkably low, and cannot be assigned to their stronger testing and tracing programmes. Widespread existing immunity, perhaps from direct exposure to bat coronaviruses might be one explanation. Rapidly assembled comparative studies across parts of India and Asia are a priority. Counter growing inequity The science pillar of a response is complementary to action. The central and State governments have already pushed for a rapid expansion of COVID-19 vaccination. India can learn from Chile, which has successfully provided at least one dose to over half of its population. Affluent and connected urban elites of India are vaccinating quickly, but the poorer and less educated Indians are being left behind. Vaccination campaigns need to reach the poor adults over age 45, without having to prove anything other than approximate age. Follow-up studies among the vaccinated can establish the durability of protection, and, ideally, reduction in transmission. Similarly, India must capture and report data on who is vaccinated, including by education or wealth levels. The poor cannot be left in the dark. Adult vaccination plan COVID-19 could well turn into a seasonal challenge and thus, the central government should actively consider launching a national adult vaccination programme that matches India’s commitment and success in expanding universal childhood vaccination. The Disease Control Priorities Project estimates an adult national programme would cost about Rs. 250 per Indian per year to cover routine annual flu vaccination, five-yearly pneumococcal vaccines, HPV vaccines for adolescent girls and tetanus for expectant mothers. Per year, vaccines for one billion adults might save about 200,000 lives from the targeted diseases. Annual flu vaccination reduces the risk of influenza pandemics and perhaps even COVID-19 infection. Indeed, we might already be in the era where major zoonotic diseases are not once-a-century events, but once a decade. Thus, adult and child vaccination programmes are essential to prepare for future pandemics. More draconian steps, such as another full national lockdown should be considered carefully, as they incur a huge toll on the poor and stunt education of Indian children. It also remains unclear if the population would comply. The resurgence of COVID-19 presents a major challenge for governments, yet the best hope is to rapidly expand epidemiological evidence, share it with the public and build confidence that the vaccination programme will benefit all Indians. Prabhat Jha is a professor of epidemiology and global health at the University of Toronto, Canada||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-missing-science-pillar-in-the-covid-response/article34227676.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||In Geneva face-off, outrage versus hope||“Hey Geneva” laments Ajith Kumarasiri (musician, songwriter, and composer in Sri Lanka) in powerful Sinhala rhythm and blues. “We no longer kill.” “We don’t shoot anymore.” “Give us our island back.” Geneva as an idea is firmly embedded in the Sri Lankan consciousness. For many Sri Lankans, especially the Sinhalese, it is an attack on national honour, a place where their vulnerability as a small island is exploited. For many Tamils and now Muslims, it is a place of hope. For human rights activists the world over, it is their forum. The setting The Human Rights Council in Geneva is a place where Sinhala and Tamil nationalisms meet, confront each other and fight countless shadow battles. In some of the side events of the Council, before the novel coronavirus pandemic, people have fainted, come to fisticuffs and been removed by UN security. It is the place where both communities have large demonstrations next to the legless chair that reminds the Palais de Nations of the consequence of war. There are heated, blood-chilling speeches aimed at the supporters. For bystanders, much of this drama is quite unsettling. The government playbook with regard to the Geneva process at the UN Human Rights Council is to present it as an enormous power play full of double standards. It is seen as western countries ganging up on Sri Lanka for its closeness to China. Imperialism and neocolonialism remain in the frame. There is no government recognition that there may be any grievance or a victim. This just compounds the insensitivity. The government’s aim this year was to have no resolution at all, while the major Tamil groups wanted the Human Rights Council to begin a pathway to the International Criminal Court. In the end, the resolution decided to create capacity at the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) to collect, preserve and consolidate evidence not only on war crimes but also on other gross violations of human rights and serious violations of humanitarian law. There is no date or time period. Geopolitics ‘plus’ Though geopolitics is the framework for decision making at the Human Rights Council, the actual process is more nuanced and may be described as geopolitics “plus”. Unless one acknowledges this “plus” factor, one will never understand the actual workings of the Human Rights Council. The activism, agitation and the momentum around a resolution created by this “plus” factor spills over and creates the atmosphere in which the resolution is adopted. The “plus” factors around the Sri Lankan resolution were easy to identify. First came the legal experts of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, as well as the Special Rapporteurs and procedures who took very strong positions. The pivotal input by the Office was the Report of the High Commissioner on “Promoting Accountability and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka”. Michelle Bachelet as a High Commissioner, a torture victim, President, and a Minister of Defence, put her full weight behind the report. More than anything else, her report and words made the resolution inevitable. In addition to the work of OHCHR, the Tamil groups nationally and globally were extremely active. But, it was Muslim civil society and the Muslim diaspora that made the difference for this resolution. Their passion, energy and sense of injustice filled the spaces. Despite heavy lobbying from Pakistan, (the Coordinator on Human rights and humanitarian issues in the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, at Geneva), and from Bangladesh, after Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa’s visit in March, despite pressure from China and after the Rajapaksas made personal calls to OIC members, the large majority of Muslim countries still decided to abstain. Elements to a global cause Though the diasporas are always active, it is an international civil society made up of a whole array of disparate groups that dominate the agitational space of the Human Rights Council. These groups are often at odds with each other but act in solidarity when it comes to global causes. Sri Lanka has again become a global cause. Once you get on the agenda of international civil society, it is difficult to get off. As Christine Schöwebel-Patel, the academic in international law and political economy, has recently written, there is a kind of “branding” in a communications sense that takes place and has severe consequences for country and community. The events unfolding in Geneva are particularly disturbing because of their shortsightedness. In 2014, Sri Lanka faced a hostile Council and was an outlier in the international system very much like today. Most people have conveniently forgotten this history. The Resolution of the Human Rights Council in 2015 (https://bit.ly/3md0P8x) that Sri Lanka cosponsored after the government changed was to pull Sri Lanka out of the rut that it had fallen into. If that resolution were not passed, Sri Lanka would have had the evidence collection and preserving mechanism in some form by 2016. The 2015 resolution accepted international best practices, an office for missing persons, an office for reparations, a truth commission and a judicial process for those guilty of serious crimes. At that time, the focus was on the need for a system that gave confidence to the victims. Victim groups were clear that a purely domestic process had failed them before. As a result, it was agreed to have a framework with an element of foreign participation. International, resolution 30/1 became a great success though victim groups thought it was a failure due to a lack of implementation. International hostility disappeared; Sri Lanka was dropped from international punitive agendas, became open to GSP plus (or the European Union’s Generalised Scheme of Preferences Plus) and other trade and financial benefits and was welcomed back into UN peacekeeping. Despite its international success, 30/1 was reviled nationally as a resolution that “sold out the soldiers” — blurring the lines between the few who have committed war crimes and the large majority who have not. Fundamentally, there was also a lack of understanding of what “co-sponsorship” meant and the enlightened self-interest that it entailed. Co-sponsorship has always meant accepting international standards while keeping control of the national process — the legislation to be enacted and the personnel to be appointed. By arbitrarily withdrawing from the resolution, Sri Lanka created the space for the Human Rights Council to create a new mechanism to collect and preserve evidence. This process is now independent of the Colombo government and will eventually have a life of its own. The two sides With this dedicated capacity at the OHCHR, the human rights issues regarding Sri Lanka will not go away. For many Sri Lankans, especially the Sinhalese, this is an outrage of double standards. There is real fury at what they see as global inequity. For many members of the minorities, opposition leaders, journalists, lawyers, victim groups and civil society activists who claim they are being harassed, prosecuted and intimidated on a daily basis by a surveillance state, there is relief to know that someone will be watching. Radhika Coomaraswamy is former Under Secretary General and Special Representative of the Secretary General on Children and Armed Conflict||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-geneva-face-off-outrage-versus-hope/article34227679.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Better late||Rajinikanth, the reigning demigod of Tamil filmdom, richly deserves the Dadasaheb Phalke award, Indian cinema’s highest recognition, bestowed by the jury this year. The film world has few parallels to his success story. His transition from Shivaji Rao Gaekwad, a Marathi-born struggling bus conductor in Bengaluru, to a worshipped superstar in the Dravidian heartland, was made possible only by his undimmed passion and sustained hard work. From early on, he introduced novelty to his screen characters. He has kept innovating on his unique styles of tossing a cigarette or a mint, twirling his sunglasses and walking with a swagger. While style remains his hallmark, it would be an injustice to dismiss him as just a mass hero. He had excelled as an actor with sensitive portrayals in films such as Mullum Malarum and Aarilirindhu Arubadhu Varai before getting trapped in superstardom with Billa and donning larger than life roles. He is among the rare heroes who handle comedy scenes with ease, his dual roles in Thillu Mullu being an example. His charisma has attracted three generations of fans, with a following even in Japan where he is lovingly called ‘Odori Maharaja’ (The Dancing Maharaja). He is also the only Indian actor to have featured in black and white, colour, 3D and motion capture films. But despite Rajinikanth’s demonstrable body of work, given his active inclination for a foray into “spiritual politics” until last year, inevitable questions are being raised if the award is a calculated choice to influence poll-bound Tamil Nadu. While Rajinikanth lent support during elections to the DMK-TMC (1996, 1998) and AIADMK-BJP (2004), in recent years he has made no secret of his admiration for BJP leaders. Not only did he hail Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah as ‘Lord Krishna and Arjuna’ — after the scrapping of special status granted to Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 — he targeted Dravidian icon Periyar E.V. Ramasamy while recalling the alleged attacks on Hindu deities during a 1971 anti-superstition rally. He backed the Citizenship Amendment Act. To be fair, since his ‘no show’ in politics, the actor has remained politically withdrawn, though previously he indirectly targeted the DMK and the AIADMK. He has not responded to appeals from ‘neutral’ observers to lend his support for “honest, dynasty-free politics”. Whether the award’s timing would influence the voting choice of his legion of fans is difficult to say as he remains an untested electoral force. However, had the jury put off the announcement of the award by just a week till polling was over, everyone would have unconditionally welcomed the choice. The giver has done the recipient a disservice through the timing of the announcement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/better-late/article34227671.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Prudence prevails||The Finance Ministry has put to rest all speculation about the inflation targeting framework that will guide the interest rate decisions of the RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee over the five-year period starting on April 1. In a terse notification, the Department of Economic Affairs announced that the inflation target for the quinquennium ending on March 31, 2026, will be 4%, with an upper tolerance level of 6% and a lower tolerance level of 2%. Economic Affairs Secretary Tarun Bajaj said that the framework’s parameters would remain unchanged from what had prevailed in the five years that ended on March 31. The government’s announcement is a welcome step in reiterating that inflation targeting remains the centrepiece of the monetary policy framework and signals that the fiscal and monetary authorities are in lockstep in ensuring the primacy of price stability as the bedrock for all macro-economic development. This is particularly apposite at a time when inflation pressures are mounting in an economy that is still struggling to regain its footing from the devastating contraction in the just-ended fiscal year, when the COVID-19 pandemic and the drastic measures to curb its spread resulted in widespread precarity. The latest Consumer Price Index data show retail inflation accelerated by almost 100 basis points to a three-month high of 5.03% in February, with food and fuel costs continuing to remain volatile. Also, with the prices of multiple raw materials on an upward trajectory, an IHS Markit India Business Outlook survey last month showed companies were planning to raise selling prices over the coming 12 months to cope with rising costs. The RBI’s officials have in recent months maintained an unwavering focus on emphasising the need to retain the flexible inflation targeting framework. In a December working paper titled ‘Measuring Trend Inflation in India’, the Deputy Governor overseeing monetary policy, Michael Debabrata Patra, and a colleague underscored the importance of ensuring the appropriateness of the inflation target. Observing that there had been a steady decline in trend inflation to a 4.1%-4.3% band since 2014, they said a target far lower than the trend ran the risk of imparting a ‘deflationary bias’ that would dampen economic momentum, while a goal much above the trend could engender expansionary monetary conditions that would likely lead to inflation shocks. And in February, the RBI’s researchers authoring its Report on Currency and Finance — themed ‘Reviewing the Monetary Policy Framework’ — made clear that the framework had served the economy well, attested by a decline in inflation volatility and more credible anchoring of inflation expectations. That the government’s economic officials have heeded these calls will certainly reassure investors and savers that inflation remains a central concern for all policymakers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/prudence-prevails/article34227670.ece
03 April 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. asks PSU refiners to review Saudi oil deals||Amid tensions with Saudi Arabia over oil production cuts, India has asked its state refiners to review contracts for buying crude oil from the West Asian nation and negotiate more favourable terms, a top official said. Keen to break the producers’ cartel dictating pricing and contractual terms, the government has told Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corporation (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation (HPCL) to look for supplies from outside the region and use collective bargaining power to get favourable terms. India imports 85% of its oil needs and is often vulnerable to global supply and price shocks. When oil prices started to rise in February, it wanted Saudi Arabia to relax output controls but the Kindgom ignored its calls. This has led to the government now pressing for diversification of the supply base. “Traditionally, Saudi Arabia and other OPEC producers have been our mainstay suppliers of crude oil,” the official with direct knowledge of the discussions said. “But their terms have often been loaded against the buyer,” the official added. Indian firms buy two-thirds of their purchases on term or fixed annual contracts. These contracts provide assured supplies of the contracted quantity but the pricing and other terms favour the supplier, he said. “While buyers have an obligation to lift all of the contracted quantity, Saudi and other producers have the option to reduce supplies in case OPEC decides to keep production artificially lower to boost prices. Why should the consumer have to pay for decisions of OPEC? If we commit to offtake, they should also supply no matter what,” he said. More importantly, the buyer has to indicate at least six weeks in advance of their intention to lift quantity out of the annual term contract in any month and has to pay an average official price announced by the producer. “In an ideal market, the pricing should be of the day when the loading is taking place. That way we can get the advantage of any drop in international oil rates. But that is not the case. They (Saudi and other OPEC suppliers) insist on selling at their official selling price only,” the official said. Shift to spot market To begin with, Indian refiners will look to reduce the quantity they buy through term contracts and instead buy more from the spot or current market. Buying from the spot market would ensure that India can take advantage of any fall in prices on any day and book quantities. “It’s like the stock market. You would want to buy shares on a day or time when the prices are low. So is the case with crude oil — we would want to buy when we see there is a drop,” he said. Indian refiners have raised spot purchases from 20% a decade back to 30-35% of the total oil bought now. “We want pricing flexibility as well as the certainty of supply even during times when production falls due to any reason,” the official said, adding that the state-owned refineries have been asked to coordinate buying and also explore joint strategy with private refiners such as Reliance Industries and Nayara Energy. West Asia accounts for 60% of oil bought by India. Latin America and Africa are the other big supplier blocks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-asks-psu-refiners-to-review-saudi-oil-deals/article34227659.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Millet-based products set to gain increasing acceptance’||The United Nations has declared 2023 as the International Year of Millets. India is fast catching up with the western world in millet consumption, said N. Murugan , CEO, Southern Health Foods, makers of the Manna brand of foods. Excerpts:  Millet-based products are fast gaining acceptance in the West. How is the scenario in India? India, Nigeria and China are the largest producers of millets in the world, accounting for more than 55% of the global production. For many years, India was a major producer of millets. However, in recent years, millet production has increased dramatically in Africa. In India, pearl millet is the fourth-most widely cultivated food crop after rice, wheat and maize. It occupies an area of 6.93 million hectare with an average production of 8.61 million tonnes and productivity of 1,243 kg/ha during 2018-19. Why is India slow in adopting millet-based products? Millets are available almost across India. They need very little water for growing. The awareness of the benefits of millets is still low and this is the reason for lesser number of players working on value-added millet products in India. However, we see this increasing in the coming years as many States will start supporting millet cultivation both on account of the benefits and the fact that they need less water. So, we see a slow expansion of millet-based products in the next few years and a big explosion in these products after that. Why are many firms not keen on entering this sector? There are only a handful of players in the branded and/or in the organised sector at the moment. However, it is going to change in the next 12 to 24 months. How does Southern Health Foods fit into this? We want to make many foods and beverages more nutritious for consumers through millets and multi-grains. Most of our products have a high percentage of millets in them. In a country such as India where there is a high incidence of diabetes, millets, being complex carbohydrates with low GI [glycemic index], are indeed wonder grains and [hence] we see a huge relevance in shifting consumers to millets and millet-based products. We will communicate the same to consumers through the media. We want to be one of the pioneers in leading the country’s millet revolution that, we are sure, will happen soon. Your growth strategy? Ours is a food and beverage company that wants to make consumers healthier by increasing the nutrition content in food intake. Apart from having health products, the company is looking to expand its portfolio through relevant innovations in the health-food space. Products under Manna, our Made-in-India brand, are also exported to countries around the world. We will keep researching and formulating new millet-based food products that will help in improving the nutrition quotient of what consumers eat everyday. So, innovation, consumer awareness and engagement are the cornerstones of the strategy. Our aim is to introduce at least one new product every quarter. What is your target for the next two years? Our goal is to improve the share of millet and millet- based value-added products in our portfolio from the present 60% to 80%, double the number of products and distribution channels and increase distributors by 30%. The share of e-commerce is about 8% and this is set to increase. On the pandemic’s impact on your operations...? Our sales did not drop as 80-90% of our volume came through sales of health-mix products. Currently, we operate our units at 70% to 80% of capacity in a single shift and this will increase with an increase in demand. The lower demand also means limited supply and higher prices. This will change as more consumers start trying out millets and value-add millet products.  Given the high incidence of diabetes, millets are wonder grains with their low GI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/millet-based-products-set-to-gain-increasing-acceptance/article34227661.ece
03 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||No plans to exit India, says Franklin Templeton’s Sapre||Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund on Friday said its commitment to India remains ‘steadfast’ and the fund house has no plans to exit its operations in the country. This comes following media reports suggesting intervention by the fund house’s U.S.-headquartered parent seeking the diplomatic route for a “just and fair” hearing by market regulator SEBI in the investigation pertaining to six wound-up debt schemes. According to the reports, Franklin Templeton had threatened to exit India if it was not given a fair hearing. In a letter to investors, Franklin Templeton Asset Management (India) Pvt. Ltd. president Sanjay Sapre said, “We have no plans to exit our India business. Any speculation suggesting otherwise, or any rumours around sale of business in India are incorrect and simply that — rumours”. He said Franklin Templeton was an early entrant in the Indian mutual fund industry and stayed put even while many other global asset managers decided to leave. He, however, did not deny reports of engaging with government authorities. “Our engagement with government authorities, in India and globally, is also something we... do, as a matter of course.” The intention in reaching out remains bringing current matters to an appropriate and satisfactory conclusion, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/no-plans-to-exit-india-says-franklin-templetons-sapre/article34227666.ece
03 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Reliance Retail extends deadline for Future deal||Reliance Retail Ventures, the retail arm of Reliance Industries, has extended the timeline by six months to complete its Rs. 24,713 crore deal with Kishore Biyani-led Future group to buy its retail and wholesale business. Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd. (RRVL) has extended the ‘Long Stop Date’ from March 31 to September 30, of this year, Future Retail said a regulatory filing. “RRVL has... extended the timeline for ‘Long Stop Date’ from March 31, 2021 to September 30, 2021 which has been duly acknowledged by Reliance Retail and Fashion Lifestyle Limited, wholly-owned subsidiary of RRVL,” it said.  The deal, contested by Amazon, is facing legal hurdles and a decision from the Supreme Court is pending over the petition filed by the e-commerce major. The Future-Reliance deal, announced on August 29, 2020, has already received clearance from the CCI, SEBI and the bourses, and the scheme of arrangement is now awaiting a nod from the NCLT and shareholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/reliance-retail-extends-deadline-for-future-deal/article34227668.ece
03 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||SAIL clocks ‘best-ever’ quarterly sales of 4.27 MT||Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL) clocked its best-ever quarterly sales at 4.27 million tonnes (MT) during the March quarter of the last fiscal year, up 14% from the year-earlier period. The domestic steel giant’s crude steel production, too, increased by 6% during the quarter to 4.55 MT. “(SAIL), the Maharatna PSU, has recorded its best- ever quarterly performance in both production and sales during Q4 FY’21,” the company said. About annual figures, the company said despite the volatility in the market during the year, determined efforts by the company to improve its volumes saw it clock its best-ever annual sales at 14.87 MT, a growth of 4.4% over 14.23 MT during FY20,” it said. SAIL chief Soma Mondal said, “[a] multi-pronged strategy has helped us top the performances during the month, quarter as well as the year.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sail-clocks-best-ever-quarterly-sales-of-427-mt/article34227658.ece
03 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Royal Enfield sells 60,173 bikes in March||Eicher Motors Ltd., the makers of Royal Enfield motorbikes, has reported a sales volume of 60,173 units in March this year. In a statement, the company said this was not comparable with March 2020 figures on account of COVID-19 and associated lockdown. Exports stood at 5,885 units. The company, meanwhile, reported a 12% dip in its FY21 sales to 6.12 lakh units. Exports contracted 2% to 38,622 units. During March, sales volume for bikes with an engine capacity of up to 350cc contracted 10% to 5.58 lakh units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/royal-enfield-sells-60173-bikes-in-march/article34227662.ece
03 April 2021||MUMBAI,||ABT steps into Mumbai with health drink||ABT Ltd., one of south India’s larger corporate houses with a revenue of $1.4 billion, has forayed into Mumbai and Pune with ‘Mirakle’ — a vitamin C drink that it claimed can boost the immunity levels of consumers. The health drink is approved by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India, said the company. “The drink is infused with 1,000 mg of vitamin C which is known for enhancing resistance to various diseases,” said Manickam Mahalingam, CMD. “Given the viral infections, Mumbai is a very promising market and we hope to gradually strengthen our footprint across the country,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/abt-steps-into-mumbai-with-health-drink/article34227663.ece
03 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||FT MF’s 6 shut schemes get Rs. 15,776 crore||Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund on Friday said its six shut schemes have received Rs. 15,776 crore from maturities, pre-payments and coupon payments since closing down in April, 2020. The fund house shut six debt mutual fund schemes on April 23, citing redemption pressures and lack of liquidity in the bond market. The schemes together had an estimated Rs. 25,000 crore as assets under management (AUM). It said that the net asset value of all the six schemes were higher as on March 31, vis-a-vis their respective NAVs on April 23, 2020. Franklin Templeton MF said its primary focus has been, and remains on returning money to unit holders as quickly as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ft-mfs-6-shut-schemes-get-rs-15776-crore/article34227664.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Knight Riders bolster armoury, mount campaign for third title||After narrowly missing out on a playoff berth in two successive seasons, Kolkata Knight Riders has strengthened itself in two key areas ahead of the Indian Premier League’s 14th edition. The two-time champion has added experience and also enhanced its options in every department. The side has fortified itself with multidimensional players, hiring four all-rounders — Shakib Al Hasan, its ‘lucky charm’ in two title wins, Australian Ben Cutting, old hand Pawan Negi and newcomer Venkatesh Iyer — and two wicketkeeper-batsmen — New Zealander Tim Seifert and domestic stalwart Sheldon Jackson. Last season, KKR’s progress was dented to some extent because of the underperformance of Sunil Narine and Andre Russell, two vital components in the team’s makeup. Shakib and Cutting are seen as alternatives to the Caribbean duo, but some experimentation cannot be ruled out. Seifert and Jackson are considered backups for vice-captain Dinesh Karthik. The recruitment of Harbhajan Singh — who will play the dual role of being a lead spinner and a mentor to younger colleagues — and experienced batsman Karun Nair offers flexibility and provides cover in case of injuries and health issues. Eoin Morgan, who missed the final two ODIs against India after splitting his webbing, is optimistic of being fit to lead KKR from the beginning. Suitable opening partner Finding a suitable opening partner for Shubman Gill and additional finishers will be high on the captain’s agenda. Gill and Nitish Rana are important members of KKR’s batting unit while Rahul Tripathi and Rinku Singh can chip in if required. KKR will also need to devise ways to improve its PowerPlay scores.  Australian Pat Cummins will lead the pacers. Kiwi Lockie Ferguson and a bunch of promising Indians — new international Prasidh Krishna, Shivam Mavi, Kamlesh Nagarkoti and Sandeep Warrier — will be additional sources of firepower. With the diversity of its spin department — left-arm wrist spinner Kuldeep Yadav and mystery spinner Varun Chakravarthy complement Harbhajan’s off-spin — KKR has the potential to keep the best of batters in check. The think-tank will be keen to see Harbhajan, who trained at his hometown Jalandhar, perform well in the purple and gold. England white-ball analyst Nathan Leamon will give the side an edge, but it must play positively in order to win its third crown.     X-factor   Varun Chakaravarthy: Varun Chakaravarthy, who impressed last season with a bag of 17 wickets (including a five-for), is a vital member of the attack. The spinner, known for his variations, will have gained in confidence after being named in the Indian squad following his success. He should, however, be prepared for newer challenges||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/knight-riders-bolster-armoury-mount-campaign-for-third-title/article34227771.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Top recognition for Visvanath, Tendulkar, Dhoni and Mithali||G.R. Viswanath was conferred the ‘Lifetime Achievement Award’ while Sachin Tendulkar, M.S. Dhoni and Mithali Raj were also honoured in the 2021 Sportstar Aces Awards on Friday. “To receive a recognition of this nature at this stage of my life is an unexpected and very pleasant surprise,” Viswanath said. Tendulkar shared his ambitions for the sport in the country in the years to come. “I hope India moves from being a sport-loving nation to a sport-playing one. We will have a younger, healthier and fitter India,” said the 47-year-old, who was honoured with the ‘Inspirational Giant of Indian Sport’ award. India ODI captain Mithali credited her support staff and coaches on winning the ‘Sportswoman of the Decade’ (Cricket). “ I would like to acknowledge the contribution of various coaches who have worked tirelessly towards the growth of my game and my physios and trainers who worked very hard on my fitness and injury management,” she said. The 2011 World Cup-winning Indian team was also honoured with the ‘National Team of the Decade’ award, coincidentally on the 10th anniversary of the triumph. Anantapur Sports Academy won the inaugural Sportstar Aces ‘Sports for Social Good’ award for its work in rural Andhra Pradesh using grassroot programmes as a tool. “We decided to institute this award to recognise dedicated organisations who are using sport as a medium of social change to benefit rural youth. We hope this motivates others to follow their example,” said Malini Parthasarathy, Chairperson, The Hindu Publishing Group.   The second list of Sportstar Aces   award winners   Sportsman of the Decade (Cricket): M.S. Dhoni  Sportswoman of the Decade (Cricket): Mithali Raj  National Team of the Decade: 2011 WC-winning Indian men’s cricket team  Sports for Social Good: Anantapur Sports Academy  Inspirational Giant of Indian Sport: Sachin Tendulkar  Lifetime Achievement Award: G.R. Viswanath||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/top-recognition-for-visvanath-tendulkar-dhoni-and-mithali/article34227836.ece
03 April 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Emil Benny — new star of Indian football||His ponytail bouncing, his feet glued to the ball, the swiftly moving Emil Benny provided one of the most fascinating images of this season’s I-League. The 20-year-old was a revelation. He was adjudged the ‘Best Emerging Player’ of the league that concluded at Kolkata last Saturday. And he was the ‘player-of-the-match’ in the deciding encounter against TRAU. On Friday, the midfielder was felicitated at a function at Kalpetta, where he went to school and blossomed as a promising footballer. Emil could be pardoned if he thinks he is living a fairytale at the moment. Shortly after the function organised by the Wayanad District Football Association, he told The Hindu over phone: “I never imagined that I could get to play in the I-League so early in my career, let alone be part of the champion side and score a goal in the deciding match.” That goal, scored with 16 minutes remaining, had given Gokulam the lead. It was his third goal of the tournament, in which he shone brightly as an attacking midfielder. Preferred position “I would prefer to be a striker, but I was happy to be the midfielder, something coach Vincenzo Alberto Annese asked me to,’ Emil said. “I owe a lot to him; but for him, I would not have played in the I-League at all. He promoted me to Gokulam’s main side from the reserves.” And the coach is delighted with Emil’s show. “I think he will be playing for India before long,” said Annese. “I haven’t seen any other Indian midfielder who is as good in one-on-one. He is a fine dribbler and has good speed too.” It was Emil’s dribbling skills that made him stand out as he started playing for SKMJ Higher Secondary School, Kalpetta. “I had begun playing football in my village Thrikkepatta, but it was after training under coach G.S. Baiju at SKMJ that I improved greatly,” he said. “I also learnt a great deal from my coach Binoy at the MSP Academy, Malappuram.” From the academy, he was recruited by Gokulam’s technical director Bino George, under whom he also played for Kerala in the Santosh Trophy qualifying tournament in 2019. “I have been fortunate to work with good coaches like Bino throughout my career so far,” said Emil, who admires I.M. Vijayan and Sunil Chhetri. Among the international footballers, he idolises Ronaldinho. “I am wearing my hair because of Ronaldinho,” he smiles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/emil-benny-new-star-of-indian-football/article34228054.ece
03 April 2021||Hyderabad,||‘Delighted with the Sportstar Aces award for ASA’||“We are delighted to share with you that our Sports for Development Programme, Anantapur Sports Academy (ASA), has won the prestigious Sportstar Aces Award 2021, in the ‘Sports for Social Good’ category,” Moncho Ferrer, Programme Director, said in a statement on Friday. “The Sportstar Aces Awards by Sportstar Magazine and The Hindu Group recognise sporting achievements and efforts to contribute to the country’s sporting fabric in equal measure, and ASA is being honoured for its role in tying sports together with attention to social indicators” he said.. Ferrer, who received the award through a virtual ceremony (because of COVID-19 restriction) held on Friday, said their sports programme is all about sports for good. “I appreciate our team at Anantapur Sports Academy for their work over the years and thank the children for their participation,” he said. “This award reminds us that we are on the right track, and encourages us to work towards realising our vision to leverage the power of sports for the benefit of underprivileged and marginalised children and youth in Anantapur district,” he added. P. Sai Krishna, Director of Anantapur Sports Academy said, he would like to thank the Sportstar Aces Awards team for including a Sports for Good category for the first time to acknowledge the efforts of sports for development organisations across India. “On this note, we also thank the support from our local community including parents, schools as well as our numerous partners we have been fortunate to collaborate over the years,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/delighted-with-the-sportstar-aces-award-for-asa/article34227845.ece
03 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Harrity beats Mangaonkar to the title||Todd Harrity of the USA blunted the power and will of Mahesh Mangaonkar 11-9, 11-6, 7-11, 2-11, 11-0 to win the men’s title — his fourth overall — in the PSA Challenger Tour squash tournament at the ISA courts on Friday. Egypt’s Hana Moataz bagged the women’s crown with a clinical 11-3, 11-9, 11-5 victory over compatriot Malak Kamal. Hana's first, and last PSA title came way back in 2016. The American dominated the first two games, pushing the top-seeded Mangaonkar all over the court. The American actually gave the top seed neither the time nor the space to settle into any sort of rhythm. Mangaonkar turned the tide in his favour in the third and fourth games with the right mix of power and finesse. So much so that in the fourth Harrity could pocket just two points. However, all that changed in the decider. Harrity raced to a 7-0 lead and kept the points short for the rest of the game. “I have played Mahesh quite a few times before, it’s always tough. After losing the third and fourth games, I stayed mentally strong,” said Harrity. Hana was relieved at winning a title after five years. "I hope the next title does not take this long," she said.  The results (finals):   Men: Todd Harrity (USA) bt Mahesh Mangaonkar 11-9, 11-6, 7-11, 2-11, 11-0. Women: Hana Moataz (Egy) bt Malak Kamal (Egy)11-3, 11-9, 11-5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harrity-beats-mangaonkar-to-the-title/article34227841.ece
03 April 2021||North Sound,||Karunaratne and Thirimanne bat well||Sri Lanka skipper Dimuth Karunaratne (75) and his opening partner Lahiru Thirimanne (39) added 101 as the visitors, chasing a target of 377, were 146 for two at tea on the last day of the second and final Test against the West Indies on Friday. Earlier, West Indies had declared its second innings at 280 for four, with Kraigg Brathwaite missing out on the rare feat of centuries in both innings of a Test when he was dismissed for 85.  The scores: West Indies 354 & 280/4 decl. (Kraigg Brathwaite 85, Kyle Mayers 55, Jason Holder 71 n.o.) vs Sri Lanka 258 & 146/2 (Dimuth Karunaratne 75), at tea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/windies-throws-down-the-gauntlet/article34227762.ece
03 April 2021||Los Angeles,||Brooklyn Nets hammers Charlotte Hornets||Jeff Green scored a team-high 21 points as Brooklyn Nets became the first Eastern Conference team to win 20 home games this season with a 111-89 rout of Charlotte Hornets on Thursday. Kyrie Irving tallied 15 points and 11 rebounds and Landry Shamet and Tyler Johnson scored 17 and 15 points respectively off the bench for the Nets, who won despite missing all-star James Harden. Harden suffered a hamstring injury on Wednesday and sat out the fourth quarter in the team's come-from-behind win over Houston Rockets. Philadelphia 76ers kept pace with the Nets for the number one seed in the standings, wrapping up its six-game road swing on a winning note by beating Cleveland Cavaliers 114-94. Trae Young scored 15 of his 28 points in the two overtime periods as the Atlanta Hawks outlasted the San Antonio Spurs 134-129 in a double-overtime thriller and Jamal Murray scored 23 points and the Denver Nuggets led wire-to-wire to beat the Los Angeles Clippers 101-94.  The results:   Miami Heat 116 bt Golden State Warriors 109; San Antonio Spurs 129 lost to Atlanta Hawks 134 (OT); Brooklyn Nets 111 bt Charlotte Hornets 89.   LA Clippers 94 lost to Denver Nuggets 101; New Orleans Pelicans 110 lost to Orlando Magic 115 (OT); Detroit Pistons 120 bt Washington Wizards 91; Cleveland Cavaliers 94 lost to Philadelphia 76ers 114.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/green-helps-nets-hammer-hornets/article34228060.ece
03 April 2021||BENGALURU,||Swimmers jittery after government imposes curbs||The Karnataka government’s decision on Friday to close swimming pools and gymnasiums in the wake of a surge in COVID-19 cases has Olympic hopefuls like Srihari Nataraj worried. Though the decision has come after the National camp for elite swimmers wound up on March 22 at the Padukone-Dravid Center for Sports Excellence here, a few outstation swimmers like Kenisha Gupta, along with the likes of Srihari, had stayed back in the city to train. “It is annoying and frustrating that they are doing this,” said Srihari, who is preparing for an international meet later this month. “Swimming is one of the safer sports. As far as I know, there have been no cases in swimming. But other sports have had cases. So, it doesn’t make sense to shut swimming pools.” No distinction made Dronacharya awardee and Srihari’s coach Nihar Ameen rued the fact that the government had made no distinction between recreational swimming and competitive swimming. “I have no idea what we will do about training now but people in training should be absolutely allowed to continue,” Ameen said. The Karnataka Swimming Association secretary Satish Kumar was a disappointed man too. “As of now, we can’t do anything but close,” he said. “We have to talk to the government about the athletes. But we can vouch for Karnataka and Bangalore that there has not been a single case from the pool. And still, this is happening.” Swimming was among the last activities to emerge out of the National lockdown last year, severely hampering athletes’ preparations for Olympic qualification competitions. With the country now experiencing a second wave of coronavirus infections, it remains to be seen if exceptions will be made for Tokyo 2020 hopefuls to train and compete.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/swimmers-jittery-after-government-imposes-curbs/article34228099.ece
03 April 2021||INDORE,||Manas fights his way past Rushil||Manas Dhamne fought his way past Rushil Khosla 7-6(2), 1-6, 7-5 in the semifinals of the National junior championships at the Indore Tennis Club on Friday. The 13-year-old Manas, who is waiting to get his visa to train with the renowned coach Riccardo Piatti in Italy as part of support from IMG, capitalised on the available time to make his mark. The 14-year-old Rushil, a talented player who has been slowly stepping up with good results, had defeated second seed Karan Singh in the earlier round. In the final, Manas will play Sandesh Kurale who knocked out top seed Krishan Hooda in three sets. In the girls section, Suhitha Maruri will play second seed Sanjana Sirimalla in the final.  The results: U-18:   Boys: Semifinals: Sandesh Kurale bt Krishan Hooda 1-6, 6-2, 6-4; Manas Dhamne bt Rushil Khosla 7-6(2), 1-6, 7-5.   Doubles (final): Aayush Bhat & Denim Yadav bt Anup Bangargi & Torus Rawat 7-5, 6-4.   Girls: Semifinals: Suhitha Maruri bt Anjali Rathi 6-4, 7-5; Sanjana Sirimalla bt Lakshmi Prabha 7-5, 6-1.   Doubles (final): Reshma Maruri & Suhitha Maruri bt Sudipta Senthilkumar & Riya Uboveja 6-3, 7-5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manas-fights-his-way-past-rushil/article34228370.ece
03 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Calm Niki Poonacha trumps tempestuous Lorenzo Bocchi||Niki Poonacha can fight hard, and still stay quiet on court, sporting the best behaviour. It was a glaring sight when the 25-year-old Niki retained his composure, and tamed the boisterous Lorenzo Bocchi of Italy, who was throwing tantrums right through the three-hour duel, for a 6-3, 6-7(4), 6-3 victory, in the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament at the DLTA Complex on Friday. Serving well, stroking with varying pace and intensity, Niki did control the contest most of the time. A slight dip in concentration saw him deliver double-faults while serving for the match in the 12th game. That opening was grabbed by the Italian who played sharp in clinching the subsequent tie-break to get himself a fresh lease of life on court.  In the decider, Niki was in a spot of trouble as he trailed 0-2, but found the grip on his game to cruise to a 5-2 lead, even as the Italian made it a noisy affair with his ramblings. Niki served out the match at love in the ninth game to set up a semifinal against Dalibor Svrcina of the Czech Republic. The Czech beat the third seed Aidan Mchugh of Britain 4-6, 6-0, 6-2. The Briton was perhaps exhausted after a four-hour clash against lucky-loser Nitin Kumar Sinha on Thursday. Second seed Simon Carr was energetic in a baseline battle against Zsombor Vvelcz of Hungary and pulled through in three sets. He will play fourth seed Oliver Crawford of US in the semifinals. In doubles, top seeds Arjun Kadhe and Saketh Myneni set up a title clash against Dalibor Svrcina and Zsombor Velcz.  The results: Singles (quarterfinals): Niki Poonacha bt Lorenzo Bocchi (Ita) 6-3, 6-7(4), 6-3; Dalibor Svrcina (Cze) bt Aidan Mchugh (GBR) 4-6, 6-0, 6-2; Oliver Crawford (US) bt Alexander Kotzen (US) 6-4, 7-5; Simon Carr (Irl) bt Zsombor Velcz (Cze) 6-3 2-6, 6-3.   Doubles (semifinals): Arjun Kadhe & Saketh Myneni bt Anirudh Chandrasekar & Niki Poonacha 6-4, 7-6(0); Dalibor Svrcina (Cze) & Zsombor Velcz (Hun) bt Manish Sureshkumar & V.M. Ranjeet 6-1, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/calm-niki-poonacha-trumps-tempestuous-lorenzo-bocchi/article34228372.ece
03 April 2021||Mumbai,||Tendulkar in hospital as precautionary measure||Sachin Tendulkar was on Friday admitted to hospital as a precautionary measure six days after announcing that he had coronavirus. The 47-year-old is one of the most high-profile cases of a new pandemic surge in the country. “As a matter of abundant precaution under medical advice, I have been hospitalised,” Tendulkar said on Twitter. “I hope to be back home in a few days. Take care and stay safe everyone.” Fans took to social media to wish him a speedy recovery. Indian Premier League teams like the Delhi Capitals all released messages of goodwill. “Praying for the speedy recovery of Sachin Tendulkar,” said Jay Shah, BCCI secretary. ‘Hit COVID-19 for a six’ Former Pakistan archrival Wasim Akram also sent special wishes. “Even when you were 16, you battled world’s best bowlers with guts and aplomb... so I am sure you will hit COVID-19 for a six!” said Akram, who bowled at Tendulkar in his debut series. “Recover soon master! Would be great if you celebrate India’s World Cup 2011 anniversary with doctors and hospital staff... do send me a pic!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tendulkar-in-hospital-as-precautionary-measure/article34227764.ece
03 April 2021||CENTURION,||Babar stars, Pakistan wins off final ball||A century by Babar Azam set up a three-wicket last-ball win for Pakistan in the first ODI against South Africa at SuperSport Park on Friday. Chasing a target of 274, Babar and Imam-ul-Haq (70) put on 177 for the second wicket, taking the visitors to within 88 runs of victory with 18.2 overs left when the former was caught behind off speedster Anrich Nortje. Babar hit a stroke-filled 103 off 104 balls, but his dismissal triggered a collapse as Nortje took four wickets in four overs. Mohammad Rizwan and Shadab Khan steadied the innings with a sixth-wicket stand of 53 before both fell. However, Faheem Ashraf hit the winning run off the final ball. Earlier, Rassie van der Dussen’s unbeaten 123, his maiden International century, lifted the hosts to 273 for six. South Africa was struggling at 55 for four before van der Dussen and David Miller (50) revived the innings with a fourth-wicket stand of 116. Van der Dussen, 32, had been dismissed three times in the 90s — twice in ODIs and once in a Test — since making his debut two seasons ago. However, his effort was overshadowed by Babar and Pakistan on this day.  The scores: South Africa 273/6 in 50 overs (Rassie van der Dussen 123 n.o., David Miller 50) lost to Pakistan 274/7 in 50 overs (Babar Azam 103, Imam-ul-Haq 70, Mohammad Rizwan 40, Anrich Nortje 4/51) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/babar-helps-pakistan-ace-the-chase/article34227773.ece
03 April 2021||Dubai,||Bhagat and Kadam enter semifinals||World No. 1 Pramod Bhagat and World No. 5 Sukant Kadam sailed into the semifinals of the Dubai para-badminton tournament after winning their respective matches here. In the SL3 category, Bhagat showed why he is the top-ranked player in the world with a strong performance against Indonesian Ukun Rukaendi, taking 44 minutes to win 21-16, 21-13. Bhagat will play Muhammad Huzairi Abdul Malek of Malaysia in the semifinals. In the SL3 category, participants usually have impairment in one or both lower limbs and poor walking/running balance. Bhagat has partnered Manoj Sarkar (SL4) in the men’s doubles and will play against Mohammad Arwaz Ansari and Deep Ranjan Bisoyee in the semifinals. Kadam, in SL4 category, stormed into the semifinals with a comfortable 21-17, 21-8 win over Muhammad Norhilmie Mohd Zainudin from Malaysia. Kadam started off slowly but as the game progressed, became more confident. Kadam will take on Marcel Adam of Germany in his last-four clash. In the SL4 category, players have impairment in one or both lower limbs and minimal impairment in walking/running balance, but better compared to SL3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhagat-kadam-in-semis/article34228052.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The cause of Srishti||Srutis and the sastras exist to aid the entire world and the beings in it. They teach us to attain the highest goal, that is, release from samsara. Spiritual tradition holds the Vedas as the greatest sastra and their supremacy and authority rest on the fact that they are ‘apaurusheya,’ meaning they are not created by any being and are hence faultless. They are also looked upon as the only valid means of arriving at the highest truth and this truth is knowledge of God. Sastra study thus leads all beings towards the ultimate goal of liberation by showing them the path which is meditating on God who is shown to be the sole cause of this entire universe, pointed out Sri Padmanabhachariar in a discourse. In this regard, the practice of the acharyas in the Vaishnava tradition since the time of Nathamuni, Alavandar, Ramanuja, Vedanta Desika and others in the lineage is to explain the sutras on Jagat srishti by drawing from the Srutis which deal with this idea. They also derive the rich hidden meanings in the Srutis by referring to the hymns of Azhwars. Azhwars are held to be incarnations of the Nityasuris and hence endowed with divine knowledge. The Divya Prabandha hymns are hailed as the Tamil Vedas and are known as ‘Dravida Veda Sara.’ Nammazhwar’s Tiruvaimozhi hymns, especially the first 21 hymns, convincingly establish the Paratva of Narayana without any trace of doubt. In the very first verse, obeisance is offered to the Highest Eternal Truth who is higher than the highest. He alone can grant jnana and bhakti that can remove the ignorance. He is by nature the sat-chit-ananda swaroopa. He is the Lord of the Nityasuris and other celestial beings and Azhwar exhorts his mind to seek His feet that are sure to confer eternal freedom from sorrow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-cause-of-srishti/article34227758.ece
03 April 2021||MUMBAI,||Eight Wankhede groundsmen test positive||Eight groundsmen of the Wankhede Stadium were COVID-19 positive during the tests conducted ahead of IPL 2021. Mumbai is scheduled to host 10 league games from April 10 to 25.  The Hindu understands that all the groundstaff — 19 — underwent RT-PCR tests over the last week. While three returned positive during the tests conducted on March 26, five more positive cases were reported on Friday from the tests held on April 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/eight-wankhede-groundsmen-test-positive/article34228299.ece
03 April 2021||TOKYO,||Torch relay barred from Osakaroads||The Olympic torch relay will not be run on public roads in Osaka City given the rising virus cases, the Japanese region’s governor said on Friday, but a cancellation has not yet been decided. “We’re sorry for torch relay runners... but we won’t do the torch relay on public roads in Osaka City,” Governor Hirofumi Yoshimura told reporters. “We’ll discuss with the Tokyo 2020 organising committee if there are any alternatives." His comments came a day after he and the City’s mayor called for the torch relay leg to be cancelled given a recent spike in COVID-19 infections in the region. Japan’s Olympic Minister Tamayo Marukawa expressed support in the morning, saying it was “reasonable” that the Osaka government has proposed cancellation as they need to contain the spread of infections. The relay began on March 25 from Fukushima, with organisers hoping it will help build enthusiasm across Japan for the Games after a year-long delay caused by the pandemic. It is scheduled to travel through Osaka prefecture on April 13 and 14, starting in Sakai City and ending in Osaka City. Rules already require spectators lining the relay route to wear masks and avoid cheering, and the organisers have said legs of the route could be cancelled if overcrowding occurs. Meanwhile, Olympic officials have released a series of rulebooks they say will allow the Games to go ahead this summer despite the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympic-torch-relay-barred-from-osaka-public-roads-governor/article34228098.ece
03 April 2021||New Delhi,||Football scouts camp begins||Mexican football coach David Fernandez believes the untapped talent in India needs to be spotted and trained in a systematic manner. Fernandez, who is here as part of the World Sports Week Football Scouts Camp that began on Friday, said, “There is talent in plenty in India and it is only a matter of giving them the right kind of training. With nearly 30 academies likely to open in the next three years, and with UEFA Pro-licensed coaches to show the way, I have no doubt India’s performance graph will go up.” Indo Europe Sports aims to promote relations between India and Europe besides North America, through football by training the youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/football-scouts-camp-begins/article34228367.ece
03 April 2021||TIRUNELVELI:,||Pranav lives up to his billing||Top seed V. Pranav, with nine points from as many rounds, won the title in the 68th State Open FIDE-rated chess championship, organised by the Tirunelveli District Chess Development Association, at Thamirabharani EC on Friday.  Important results (ninth and final round):   V. Pranav 9 bt S. Suganthan 7; A.R. Ilamparthi 7.5 drew with Ramnathan Balasubramaniam 7.5; S.S. Manigandan 7.5 bt B. Vignesh 6.5; Dinesh Kumar Jaganathan 7.5 bt Ram S. Krishnan 6.5.   R. Anup Shankar 7 drew with A. Rathina Sabapathi 7; A. Suthershun 7 drew with R. Srimathi 7; Sa Kannan 7 drew with K. Nandha Kumar 7; N. Lokesh 7 bt R.M. Subramanian 6.5; K. Senthil Maran 7 bt R. Shadhursshaan 6; M. Barath Kalyan 6.5 drew with S.P.K. Arul Anandh 6.5.   Final standings (top five): 1. V. Pranav (9), 2-5. Ramnathan Balasubramaniam, A.R. Ilamparthi, S.S. Manigandan, and Dinesh Kumar Jaganathan (7.5) .    A. Sasikumar claimed six for 10 as Infra defeated Gladiators by 112 runs in the JSW-SDCA third division league. In the first division, S. Anbalagan’s five-wicket haul went in vain as Salem CC lost to Salem Kings by five wickets.  The scores:   I div.: Thrive Chevrolet 268/6 in 45 overs (J. Gowrishankar 88, Vijayakumar 44, Arun 40) bt Ruff Krudoz XI 136 in 45 overs (K. Logeshwaran 38, K. Venkatapathy 4/53).   Salem 123 in 45 overs (M. Ganesan 54, R. Sivashankar 4/23, G. Periyasamy 3/34) lost to Salem Kings 124/5 in 25.2 overs (K. Krishnakumar 57 n.o., S. Anbalagan 5/29).   III div.: Writer Ramasamy Memorial 212/9 in 45 overs (M. Mani Arjunan 44, S. Sivashankar 32 n.o., Vellingiri 35, G. Praveen 35, Aneesh Kumar 3/14) lost to Parks XI 213/8 in 39.2 overs (A. Manikandan 34 n.o., R. Sridharan 52, A. Veeramani 3/44).   Infra 193/7 in 45 overs (S. Muthupandian 40, K. Balamurugan 43, D. Akshavanth 3/50) bt Gladiators 81 in 45 overs (A. Sasikumar 6/10).    B. Kamalanathan produced an all-round show, scoring a 50 and taking a five-wicket haul, as United CC A beat SK XI by 178 runs in Villupuram DCA first division league recently.  The scores: I div. : United CC A 270 in 49.2 overs (P. Rajesh 25, M. Nirubankumar 35, D. Suresh 30, T. Deeparasu 60, B. Kamalanathan 50) bt SK XI 92 in 22.1 overs (B. Kamalanathan 5/14, S. Senthilkumar 3/17).   Kallakuruchi CC 202 in 49.1 overs (M. Vinoth 35, N. Raja 79) bt Sunny Sachin CC 129 in 37.3 overs (V. Sakthivel 26).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pranav-lives-up-to-his-billing/article34227840.ece
03 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA:,||Sanjana stars in Sapphire’s win||S. Sajana’s unbeaten 62 off 44 balls set up Sapphire’s two-run win over Amber in the KCA Pink Challengers Women's T20 tournament here on Friday. Later, Emerald defeated Pearls by six runs.  The scores: Sapphire 107/5 in 20 overs (S. Sanjana 62 n.o.) bt Amber 105/6 in 20 overs (Jincy George 72 n.o.).   Emerald 66/4 in 20 overs bt Pearls 60/9 in 20 overs.     Zeros CC and Swantons CC scored easy wins in the Athreya Trophy under-22 cricket tournament here on Friday. Zeros defeated New Kids CC by 69 runs while Swantons beat TCA Kayamkulam by eight wickets.  The scores:   Zeros, Thiruvananthapuram 201/7 in 30 overs (M.B. Aryan 52, Shebab Salim 34) bt New Kids, Chengannur 139 in 26.3 overs (Vijay S. Viswanath 4/13, Akhil Krishnan 3/24).   TCA, Kayamkulam 88 in 23 overs (Farhan 34, C.N. Jaseer 5/15) lost to Swantons, Ernakulam 89/2 in 11 overs (K.S. Aravind 41).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sanjana-stars-in-sapphires-win/article34228058.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: YSCA 64th annual day, guests of honour, R.S. Ramasaamy, Hony. Secretary, TNCA and R. Balaji, Head, Shared Services Centre, L&T Limited, Krishnaswamy Kalyana Mandapam, T. Nagar, 6.45 p.m. 16th Lucas TVS TDCA Trophy, Apollo Tyres vs Ashok Leyland Ennore (8 a.m.), Gojan SBT. KDCA league, Venugopal RC vs Syndicate (7.30 a.m.); Mani Memorial vs Central Bank (12.30 p.m.), Dhanish EC. DCAC league, Vijay CC vs Southern Railway Institute (Tbm) (9.00 a.m ); Bharat CC vs Gopalakrishnan Memorial CC (1 p.m.), Agni Engineering College ground.  Hockey: N.P.V. Ramasamy Udayar Cup, IOB vs Loyola (6.30 a.m.), Indian Bank vs TN Postal (2.30 p.m.), ICF vs GST & Central Excise (4 p.m.), N.P.V. Ramasamy Udayar Centre (Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education & Research), Porur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article34228326.ece
03 April 2021||Monastir (Tunisia),||Karman in semifinals||Karman Kaur Thandi beat third seed Mallaurie Noel of France 6-1, 2-6, 6-1 to reach the semifinals of the $15,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament on Friday. In the semifinals, Karman will play Anna Kubareva of Belarus.  The results (quarterfinals): Karman Kaur Thandi bt Mallaurie Noel (Fra) 6-1, 2-6, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karman-in-semifinals/article34228051.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 09:47 IST,||Sudoku — April 3, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-3-2021/article34228894.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Festival of flavours||I was a wee lad when I had my first Chinese meal in Delhi. It was at Ginza in Connaught Place. Your childhood food memories mould your tastes, no matter how many cuisines and flavours you try out as you grow older. That explains why Chinjabi — a mix of Chinese and Punjabi — continues to enthral me. I was in a nostalgic mood last week, as it was Holi and we were cooped up inside. I thought back to the old Chinese restaurants we used to frequent on festive occasions. The yearning for some old-fashioned Delhi-style Chinese food — doused with a generous dollop of soya sauce — grew. I went looking for a suitable Chinese eatery that I had not tried out before. The result was a place called Noodle Bowl, a popular chain with branches everywhere. I looked up Swiggy, and found that the menu included pork, which many restaurants sadly do not serve any more. After a brief discussion at home, we decided on Chong do chicken (Rs. 359), five spice lamb (Rs. 479), crispy pork pepper salt (Rs. 379), vegetable spring roll (Rs. 109), chicken momos (Rs. 109 for four), vegetable fried rice (Rs. 189) and half a plate of vegetable noodles (Rs. 119). First the bad news: The dishes more or less looked the same. Now the good news: They, however, had their own characteristic flavours, and quite a nice taste. The pork was crunchy, had an aftertaste of pepper, and was a good appetiser. Both the lamb and the chicken dishes did come in a soya dressing, but I enjoyed them. The lamb was tender and the sauce, cooked with onion, ginger and capsicum, nicely tangy. What was really nice was the chicken: pieces of chicken breast with spring onions, red and yellow pepper, black mushroom, Chinese cabbage and lemon juice. The sauce was mildly sweet, possibly because of the peppers, and I really enjoyed that. The crunchy veggies added to the taste and texture. The chicken pieces were deliciously squashy and went well with the fried rice. The rice was long-grained, and came with bits of veggies, and a nice aroma. The noodles, however, were nothing much to write home about, quite like the spring rolls, which were too hard. The dim sums got a B from us — neither very good, nor too bad. Noodle Bowl is value for money, and the portions are generous. Four of us had this meal, and there was enough left over for lunch and half a dinner the next day, I am not all that fond of Chinese dessert, so I ended with two kinds of gujiyas (it was around Holi, after all). One was from Hira Sweets, with a filling of thickened milk and khoya . The second from Pitara was a soft gujiya , with a filling of stewed apples, walnut and jaggery. It was delicious, and healthy to boot. Holi turned out to be quite nice after all. It wasn’t the festival of colours, but certainly one of flavours. The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/festival-of-flavours/article34228506.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The election game||Remember, before starting this game, you must pledge to not play fair. Now, let’s begin. Roll the dice. Whatever you get — protest! Loudly. Arrange for a stage and the loudest loud speakers that (tax payer) money can buy. Say that the other party has rigged your dice. Whatever the results, you’re being cheated. 10 points.  Oops, the first round of results show you’re in the lead. Instantly do a U-Turn. Go back onto the stage. Give interviews. Tell people how honest the elections are, how you believe in the system, and that anyone who protests is anti-national. 15 points for this turnaround. Proceed. You are now entering a new phase. Rallies. One rule. Make sure you organise more than your opponent. Bring out the biggest face of your party, give away masks of the face, splash the face on every hoarding. Promise free everything — money, rice, places of worship, free air (fabricate statistics about how much pollution there is in the states you do not run yet). 25 points.  This annoying popular candidate from the other party keeps edging ahead. Resort to your Rescue Card. Horse-trading. Threaten, publish fake stories about this dirty scoundrel. If all else fails, bribe the dirty scoundrel to join your party. Throw him a party to welcome him in. Kill any media story that says you said he was dirty. Wear matching halos. 45 points . Your ally, the media channel, has to keep at 24x7 stories about how you are winning (especially if you’re not, no one really wants the truth anyway). Fire the journalists who expose the truth. Are we a nation of people who expose? Hack their accounts, get them arrested. Replace them with lip-sync dolls who will shout and spout whatever you tell them to. Brilliant! You’re almost there. 65 points . Diversion needed. Quick! Some idiot party member said something sick. Start stories about Covid-19 (thank God for such a timely diversion), border problems, film stars, drugs. Blame the foreign hand for trying to roll the dice. Not working? Talk history, even better, make up history. The voting masses lap it up. 80 points . There are still some stubborn hurdles in the game. Activists, students, writers. Get rid of them. Any way you can. Now, the flag at the end is in sight. Make sure it is yours. Give a tear-jerker speech about honesty and democracy. 90 points. If you can squeeze out a tear too, you make it to 100 points . Congratulations! Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-election-game/article34228230.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||For 10 to 13 years||Baalgatha, a mix of contemporary tales and stories from the Panchatantra , Jataka and Hitopadesha may be the most well-known from Gaathastory’s bouquet of podcasts, but its selection for pre-teens is picking up too. “Veergatha honours the National Bravery Award winners and others who have done courageous deeds”, says Bengaluru-based Amar Deshpande, who started the platform with his wife Mrunal. What is common to all the content is their intention that “every story should have a moral” and an India connect. “We have a library of about 4,000 curated stories that we rewrite and edit, and correlate to topical events,” he says, adding that the aim is to educate while bringing in different elements. New seasons of all their podcasts out this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/for-10-to-13-years/article34228278.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Pundit’s day out||A couple of weeks ago, a video was posted on Instagram from Bengaluru, where an influencer named Hitesha accused a Zomato delivery man named Kamaraj of assaulting her after an argument over a late delivery. She then rode a sympathy wave which allegedly gave her some 10,000 extra followers. But within a couple of days Kamaraj refuted her claim, saying it was Hitesha who had abused and hit him. Did Kamaraj abuse her and punch her nose? Or did Hitesha abuse him and hit him with slippers? Nobody really knows, but FIRs have been registered against both. As the news broke, it was amusing to see how easily people were making up their minds and as quickly changing them. It was also amusing to see the simplistic sorts of tribalism that immediately came to the fore. First came commiseration for a customer, hailed as ‘king’ (or ‘queen’ in this case), being shabbily treated by a delivery executive, so there was much tagging of Zomato. As Kamaraj’s version came out, the wave swung towards him, quickly morphing into a class debate — middle-class versus working class. Paeans were written about why one must always believe the hard-working salt of the earth and not privileged middle-class occupants of apartment blocks. This brought its own backlash — how dare you disbelieve a woman, some demanded. According to this school, any woman who complains of assault must be instantly believed and any attempt to question her story automatically becomes an anti-woman stance. The men then came out in hordes. Kamaraj’s weepy video became the excuse to launch a nasty storm of misogyny directed against not just Hitesha but all women who, these men said, have been lying since the dawn of time and getting away with it. Meanwhile, someone claiming to be a former flatmate insinuated that Hitesha had a history of freeloading. This was grist to the misogyny mill, as expected, but women too responded with self-flagellation, absurdly lamenting that when women like Hitesha lie and swindle, all women everywhere are discredited forever. It is human to take sides in a debate, depending on where your sympathies lie, but issues are almost never as black and white as one would like them to be. As much as it’s possible that Hitesha might have overplayed her hand in her eagerness to wrangle free food, it’s possible that Kamaraj lost his temper and said intemperate things or fobbed her off too violently. Or it might be a bit of both, with both sides downplaying their own transgressions as much as possible. Neither Kamaraj’s working-class background nor Hitesha’s gender make them intrinsically violent or fragile, honest or dishonest. To ignore their individual quirks and propensities and focus exclusively on their larger ‘tribal’ memberships is a fraught path. Each individual incident comes with its own script, back-story and inter-personal dynamics, but our need to be facile, popcorn-munching pundit-judge-jury makes us push everything into one crude template and then take predictable positions. Social media might intend to be a ‘democracy aggregator’ but it works more as a ‘prejudice aggregator,’ setting up gladiatorial contests between unreal binaries of good-bad, guilty-innocent, right-wrong. The protagonists become irrelevant as the commentators’ blood lust takes over. Let us, for argument’s sake, pretend that Hitesha indeed lied. So what? Why is she expected to be the poster figure for #AllWomen? In fact, why should we expect that all women will tell the truth? As among men, among women too there are liars and killers, frauds and fakes, and this exaggerated expectation that all women must be kind and gentle and honest is a classic trap. It forces women to feel defensive about all manner of female offences. And it allows toxic handles like ‘Save Indian Family Foundation’ and ‘Men’s Day Out’ to convert each incident into another excuse for woman-bashing, for demanding the dilution of dowry or rape laws. Hitesha was an influencer, that uniquely millennial profession, where you are constantly visible, monetising tiny details of your life, chasing followers, seeking endorsement. So Hitesha decided to put Kamaraj on a social media trial. It got him suspended, even locked up for a bit, but when the locusts descended, they consumed Hitesha too. She has left her home and her Instagram handle has gone quiet. The social media glasshouse is such a terribly brittle thing. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/pundits-day-out/article34228220.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Green mascara from corn||When it comes to clean beauty, natural mascaras often fall short. Either they are not dark enough (natural oils are not able to disperse pigments easily), can’t be applied smoothly, or worse, aren’t water resistant. The absence of film formers, that seal mascara on to lashes, has been an issue in the green mascara department. This is where pullulan comes in. A natural polymer made from corn or potato starch, it has been seen in mascaras like Burt’s Bees Nourishing Mascara, and said to prevent flaking. But it is when cosmetic giants like L’Oreal get in the picture that you know pullulan is here to stay.  From food to beauty At last month’s Transparency Summit by L’Oreal Group, a virtual conference, the company’s top management took questions from the media on their investment in green sciences and shared updates from their 4,000-strong research team. The elegant Julia Sarhy, L’Oreal Global Consumer Insight Director, admitted that their move to review formulations and move to safer ingredients is part of the brand’s commitment to switch to 95% circular technology by 2030. Later, on mail, Delphine Bouvier, Head of Open Innovation at L’Oreal, explained their focus on pullulan, the same polymer that is traditionally used in the food industry for capsules, and how they discovered that “it boosts the wear of our formula while maintaining a good texture”. “The properties explored were long lastingness and to get the mascara properly coated on the lashes,” she said, adding, “Such polymer originates from biotechnology and is derived from the fermentation of corn or potato starch, and it allows the mascara to act as a binder.” The mascara, to be launched later this month in Europe, will be made of 99% naturally derived ingredients, according to Bouvier, is hypoallergenic and suitable for sensitive eyes and contact lens wearers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/green-mascara-from-corn/article34228217.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Transforming Alappuzha’s warehouses||A wind of change is blowing through the historic coir factories of Alappuzha, past 100-year-old doors, halls and vaulted ceilings. The spaces that once resonated with the sounds of yarn being spun, toiling workers and political uprisings are now gearing up for a major makeover. “These were once busy spaces but with changing businesses, many sections of the factories are unused and some are in a dilapidated condition,” explains Benny Kuriakose, conservation architect. He heads the Alappuzha Heritage Project, under which factories at Coirfed, Kerala State Coir Corporation (KSCC), and New Model Co-operative Society Building (NMCSB) will be repurposed and turned into tourist spots. “Architecturally, as these spaces were full-fledged factories, they were well ventilated. By a twist of fate, when business dropped, they became places to store things,” he says, adding that while they will “conserve and design for adaptive reuse, very little new construction will take place”. A remarkable turnaround It is interesting to note that in 1975, when Aspinwall first imported power looms from Germany, the industry rejected mechanisation as it would lead to loss of jobs. Now, state-of-the-art machines are being installed in the factories to compete with cheaper Chinese-made tufted coir mats. Yet there is room for art and culture alongside coir processing and production. Factory timings and gallery hours, labour unions and tourist groups, canteen meals and cafe menus are to soon coexist within these century-old coir processing factories. The repurposing, explains Kuriakose, is part of an integrated plan (estimated to cost around Rs. 260 crore) that includes conserving the heritage of Alappuzha, also called the Venice of the East, and will include rejuvenation of its canals and construction of walkways. Unlike the gentrification of Mumbai’s textile mills that became shopping malls, this project, he says, is in sync with the history of the town. Yarn history and a cafe Naushad PM, MD of the Muziris Heritage Project, says the collaboration by different government departments — Tourism, Coir, Port — will see 21 museums take shape, of which three will be exclusively dedicated to coir. “A yarn museum will come up at the Coirfed building [formerly Darragh Smail]. The KSCC will house a coir history museum, and the NMCSB will have a Living Coir museum,” he explains. While preparations for an immersive coir experience are underway, two spaces in KSCC and NMCSB are already experimenting with art — Lokame Tharavadu, an upcoming mega show of contemporary art, will exhibit works, installations and paintings of 268 artists of Kerala. At Port Museum on the beach, the cafe will be partially alfresco to remain accessible to the public even after gallery hours. Citing the example of Admiral Hotel in Copenhagen, which was a granary before it turned to offer a new role, veteran conservation architect Ramesh Tharakan says, “Old warehouses can be retrofitted into interesting and dynamic hospitality as well as retail spaces. European cities are replete with examples of such transformation”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/transforming-alappuzhas-warehouses/article34228228.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Lured by a spectacle||As you read this, Godzilla vs. Kong is already the biggest hit across the planet, including in India, China, the US, wherever cinemas are open, really. People are flocking by the millions to watch the beloved monsters go up against each other in an epic spectacle. By the same token, medium-level films, budget and spectacle-wise, are not exactly falling by the wayside, but aren’t doing humongous box office numbers either. The debate that has been raging on for the last year, ever since Covid-19 began ravaging the world, and producers started giving their babies to OTT platforms for direct to digital premières, is about the death of small cinema. Small, intimate films are going nowhere soon and will continue to be made and consumed, but the question is whether their platforms will be restricted. The year that has passed has had a devastating effect on cinemas. The latest FICCI report reveals that in India alone, some 1,500 cinemas were forced to close over the last 12 months, leaving just 8,000 screens for a population of 1.3 billion. Though there are dedicated repertory single cinemas and chains for independent films around the world, won’t producers be tempted to recover costs in one fell swoop? Or maybe even turn a profit by selling rights to a giant global streamer, with the justification that their product is reaching some 200 countries at the same time and potentially hundreds of millions of eyeballs. From an audience point of view, in a post-Covid, vaccinated world (and that world can’t come soon enough), will they be willing to take a risk (vaccinations aren’t 100% guarantees of not getting the virus, it only makes it much milder) and go to a cinema and sit cheek-by-jowl with a potentially infected stranger to drink in an independent film, as opposed to a James Bond or a Marvel spectacle? Will the only event remaining be ‘event’ cinema? If such a scenario transpires, it’ll be a crying shame. For, however small the film, the big screen in a darkened cinema creates a powerful bond between the subject matter and the viewer. Unless you are wealthy or fortunate enough to have a home theatre, the at-home viewing experience is just not the same. I leave you with a personal experience. Along with a prominent Indian independent filmmaker I watched Cate Blanchett’s Oscar-winning performance in Blue Jasmine in a giant multiplex in Leicester Square. We were stunned by the agony Blanchett conveyed in the film. As we stumbled out into daylight, rendered speechless, the moment was somewhat ruined by a selfie seeker (for a picture with him, not me), but the effect was indelible enough for both of us to remember today, eight years down the line. I somehow doubt a small screen will provide that level of engagement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lured-by-a-spectacle/article34228232.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The comfort of||Most OTT successes last year stuck to the script and doled out the standard concoction of crime, drama and suspense. But some surprised viewers by taking a route less travelled — slice-of-life comedy. Take the recent hit Gullak, for example — a web series (the second season released earlier this year) that revolves around a caricature of the middle-class Indian family that you very well might bump into on the streets. Simple in treatment and layered in commentary, not only are these shows resurrecting a genre of comedy favoured in the eras gone by, but they are tweaking it to suit modern-day sensibilities. So what is the winning formula? Most shows draw from reruns of old Bollywood and regional cinema hits and place the spotlight on India’s rural heartland. Also, these shows dabble in commentary on topics like masculinity, aspiration and loneliness (writer Chandan Kumar sought inspiration from phases of his own stay in Mumbai, for Panchayat ). “If you’re exploring a segment of life, it will be affected by social and political factors; it’s very hard to see it in a vacuum,” explains Ankur Pathak, former entertainment editor at HuffPost India , who sees such comedies on OTT as a welcome trend. “ Panchayat is like going to rehab after watching Paatal Lok !” Makers have banked on the crime drama fatigue that has now set in after a year in lockdown. In a 2020 piece for Financial Express , Prathyusha Agarwal, Chief Consumer Officer, Zee Entertainment Enterprises, highlighted how the return of comedy was the biggest trend as opposed to predominantly action genre-led performances over the past few years. Rather promising for makers heading towards the same path. Making it relatable While Panchayat follows an engineering graduate who ends up working for thepanchayatof a remote village, Kota Factory (season 2 will make its way to Netflix soon) takes viewers behind the scenes of the making of a successful IIT applicant. This is wholesome family viewing without the pressure of sitting through expletive-laden scenes. “People are falling back on things they love. For an average family who is stuck in the same house, they want to watch something together,” says film critic Raja Sen. None of these shows subscribe to elements that are staple to other OTT offerings — gun wielding gangsters, flashy cabarets, or gruesome midnight murders. “We can’t change our past, our childhood. And it’s this sense of nostalgia that makes us love talking about it,” says Durgesh Singh, writer of Gullak , about his inspiration while scripting. Smaller towns account for a majority of OTT viewership and people increasingly prefer shows in regional languages with a rural backdrop. By setting these shows in small towns the makers aren’t alienating their audience, points out film critic Sucharita Tyagi. “A majority of the viewers don’t live in Mumbai and New Delhi and neither do they go to clubs.” Drawing from the 80s Being insightful in content, and modest in treatment, isn’t a 2021 phenomenon. A number of these shows today are reminiscent of Hrishikesh Mukherjee, Basu Chatterjee, Sai Paranjpye and Kundan Shah fair. “Though nothing here has come close to what those filmmakers were doing at the height of their career, it’s a good parallel to draw. They’re taking steps in that direction,” says Sen. Singh, for example, was confident of his humour in Gullak being responsible and meaningful as he had been seeking to replicate comedy of the 1970s-80s, but wasn’t sure whether it would work for the millennials. Incidentally, he has been roped in for the second season of Panchayat as well. Room for a message Another facet most writers seem to agree on is the need to serve a purpose through comedy. “India has the same problems that it had 30 years ago and I wanted to show that,” says Singh. For example, in spite of being set in contemporary times, the household in Gullak doesn’t have a mixer grinder. For him, this was to show how a patriarchal household prefers the women in the house to use a grinder stone for their cooking. Singh hopes this kind of storytelling makes the audience pause and think, like you would if you were to read classic Indian literature. “We haven’t created good listeners, just good orators. This has made us very reactive, and quick to take offence.” Future of the funnies For Singh, the recent spike in realistic comedies has a flip side. “Post Gullak , I’ve got around 10 calls to write a story based out of rural India,” he says. Trend or not, they are aware of the dangers of excess that have eaten into the Hindi heartland crime drama-genre. Referring to Canadian hit Schitt’s Creek , Kumar feels slice-of-life is more of a treatment, rather than a subject in itself. “As long as this kind of content has insights, the trend will remain,” he says. For example, Doordarshan-era comedy series Wagle Ki Duniya staged a rerun this year on TV as well as on SonyLIV, albeit with a new cast and in a pandemic setting. Streaming platform ZEE5 is also experimenting. “We have often mixed comedy with other genres to enhance the characters and the narrative, like how we added comedy to romance in Comedy Couple ,” says Manish Kalra, Chief Business Officer. One of the more popular offerings on the platform is the 2020 series Amrutham Dhvitheeyam , the sequel to a cult Telugu comedy series on TV, staging a return after nearly 13 years. So while these kinds of shows do stand the risk of getting repetitive, experimenting is key. “This year, I hope we see comedies that really take on conventional thinking and say things that are counter-cultural,” says Sen, affirming that the stage seems to be set for makers to further develop this kind of storytelling.  Panchayat is like going to rehab after watching Paatal Lok! Ankur Pathak, former entertainment editor at HuffPost India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-comfort-of/article34228222.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The Farewell, &PrivéHD, 9 pm||You can now watch writer-director Lulu Wang’sThe Farewell(2019) on &PrivéHD. The Golden Globe nominated Mandarin movie follows the story of a Chinese family that discovers their grandmother has only a short while left to live. They decide to keep her in the dark and schedule a wedding to get everyone together before she passes. The critically-acclaimed film has been lauded for its strong female performances by Awkwafina and Zhao Shuzhen. The Farewellwill air at 9 pm until next Thursday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-farewell-privhd-9-pm/article34228224.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Delhi Art Week: As Art Dubai, held as an in-person event, comes to a close today, a new initiative, Delhi Art Week, gets underway. The city has been divided into four ‘art zones’ with exhibitions, workshops and walkthroughs from about 37 galleries. Details: delhiartweek.com. Till April 10. If pop art is more your speed, Super Nintendo World is finally a reality at Universal Studios Japan in Osaka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article34228234.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||XXL beer paradise||Bengaluru, home to over 60 microbreweries, can add ‘world’s largest microbrewery’ to the list with the opening of Ironhill India. Eight varieties of beer are on offer, including Sinnerman Stout, at the 1.3 lakh sq ft space in the IT hub of Marathahalli. It can accommodate over 1,500 people.9606044623/24. ForChennai residents looking to eat healthy, Swiggy’s Health Hub section is now available with 9,000 dishes across 700 restaurants. Nutritional information will be given for each dish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/xxl-beer-paradise/article34228236.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Ruby-loaded eggs||Marzipan eggs are passé, you say? Perhaps chocolate will do the trick instead. Smash Fabelle Chocolates’ Signature Easter Egg to reveal nut clusters enrobed in milk and ruby chocolate. Buy the signature egg at Rs. 2,475 or mini eggs (box of 10) for Rs. 495 at ITC hotels or order online. Ifyou would rather eat hot cross buns, Pumpkin Tales has raisin and chocolate versions at Rs. 50 each. Another holiday special, the cranberry and walnut sourdough, is also available till this weekend.24995510||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/ruby-loaded-eggs/article34228238.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Return of the watches||Watchmaking worldwide is set to be in the spotlight as the annual trade show, where leading names reveal their latest products, will soon get underway. Set to be a hybrid show this year, Watches and Wonders Geneva’s digital event is a private affair. As many as 38 prestigious brands will gather on watchesandwonders.com. April 7 to 13. This will be followed by an in-person event in Shanghai, which will host 19 brands, including first-time exhibitors Chopard, Montblanc, Rolex, Tudor and Ulysse Nardin. April 14 to 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/return-of-the-watches/article34228240.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Excelsior Pass: What’s the latest on digital vaccine passports? You know, the health certificate that will see you enjoying a concert with hundreds of people and the tourism industry sighing with relief. New York, with IBM, has rolled out the pass, which shows a person’s Covid-19 status (whether vaccinated and results of a recent test). And then follow the questions about privacy and data protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article34228242.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||On Korean culture||As a reminder that there is more to Korean culture than K-dramas, The Korean Cultural Centre UK presents A Viewing Room. The artist film programme features new and recent video works by eight contemporary Korean artists.Themes include psychological well-being and the transition from offline to online. The works include Sound Garden by Jeamin Cha and After Life by Cha Ji Ryang. April 6 to May 31. kccuk.org.uk. Meanwhile, Minari , nominated for six Oscars, is set to release in India on April 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/on-korean-culture/article34228244.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Sufi and some ghazals||Ruhaniyat, the Sufi and mystic music festival, will be held digitally across seven cities, including Chennai. The shows curated for each city will be a combination of newly shot and archival performances. April 3. Rs. 350. 6 pm. in.bookmyshow.com. Kommunepresents Mulaqat: An Introductory Workshop on Urdu Ghazal . Learn the history ofghazalsand more from writer and lyricist Swapnil Tiwari. Some participants may even get the chance to perform at an online event. April 3, 4. Rs. 499. insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/sufi-and-some-ghazals/article34228246.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Vali Vadhe online||Vali Vadhe is part of Staged@RS — Bengaluru-based Ranga Shankara’s digital programme. Based on celebrated writer Kuvempu’s Sri Ramayana Darshana , the play blends elements of Yakshagana, Kalaripayattu and the Manipuri art form. Rs. 150 at insider.in. What is the purpose of art? Find out with The Right Way by Thespo. The play has been created by Daniele Bartolini, and is “audience-specific art” (meant for one person at a time). April 3, 4. 4 pm onwards. Rs. 300. insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/vali-vadhe-online/article34228248.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Kate’s photo project||Even as the UK takes steps to unlock, Kate Middleton’s project, Hold Still , which invited photo submissions that captured life in lockdown, has been turned into a book, Hold Still: A Portrait of Our Nation in 2020 . The book features 100 images selected by a panel of judges, including the Duchess of Cambridge and National Portrait Gallery Director Nicholas Cullinan. Meanwhile,kids can learn about alphabets, numbers and Pokemon, of course, via Pikachu Press’ new series of interactive books for children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/kates-photo-project/article34228250.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Gen Z and the hip-hop boom||In between selling shirts and trousers at a readymade textile shop in Bhilwara, Lucky Samtani found his calling in hip-hop. It is a passion that began in the eighth standard when the Rajasthani rapper (better known as Luck) was introduced to Eminem and, much later, to Raftaar, one of the OGs of the Indian hip-hop scene. Luck, 22, began teaching himself music production and rapping online. And soon things began changing for him. Last year, in the midst of the pandemic, he found a collaborator in ace producer Sez On The Beat, re-released his older song ‘ Love Again ’ on Sony Music India’s imprint Artisttaan, and even got into producing and sound engineering. “After the pandemic hit, business went down and I didn’t have a job. So all my time went into music,” he tells me. He now works at his family-run shoe store, but it’s more to get a “vibe change”, he explains. “You get bored just sitting and doing the same thing. If I get to see and meet different people, I get a new vibe.” And that helps his music, which is both lyrical and stylistic — think R&B rhythms and AK-47 referencing rap. While he could release two albums worth of material that’s been finessed over the last three years, he’s biding his time. “I don’t feel like it right now — not until I get more fame and reach. I still need to find the right audience for my songs [who will turn long-term followers]. I’m hoping I get a good deal, a scene-changing thing [like a hip-hop contest streaming on OTT],” he says.  Young blood  You could argue that we’ve had rappers since the early 1990s (does Baba Sehgal even count?). The early 2000s saw crews such as Mafia Mundeer (its five members included names such as Yo Yo Honey Singh, Badshah and Raftaar). But it wasn’t until a decade later that the actual movement began — when hip-hop went from derivative to original. In 2014, Naezy, aka Naved Sheikh, broke on to the scene with ‘ Aafat ’. The raw track with its gritty, honest lyrics, gave an impetus to India’s underground scene. Then in 2015, Sony Music India released DIVINE’s ‘ Mere Gully Mein ’ (feat Naezy), the first time a major record label had released a track featuring Mumbai street rappers. Its breakout success pumped up the popularity of gully rap and, later, inspired director Zoya Akhtar to make her 2019 superhit, Gully Boy, starring Ranveer Singh.  Suddenly the masses were eager to understand the intricacies of the hip-hop sub-culture, from the slangs to what battle rap means! Today, the country’s second generation of rappers — mostly 25 years and under — are reaping the benefits. The older crop, who found the right balance of an accessible sound and their own distinct musical style, are turning mentors. Brands and labels are spotlighting new talent. And even the internet — previously credited for only introducing hip-hop to any young Indian with a connection on their phone — is being leveraged for learning DIY production chops (using free, or pirated, programmes) and finding free-to-use beats uploaded on YouTube. Sez on the Beat, known for his work with top-tier hip-hop artists, is now focussing on young, raw talent. With his platform, The MVMNT, launched early last year, he took A&R (artists and repertoire, or talent scouting) to another level by almost exclusively betting on rappers, and also began an “artist accelerator programme” called New Kids on the Block. Its debut EP, released last year, featured young rappers such as Luck, Dhruv Rajpal (DRs. V), Rawal, Lit Happu and NoNation. “So many of them have that hunger and drive, which is the main ingredient you need because growth is triggered by consistent hunger,” says the producer. “The responsibility is with the overall industry to give them the right opportunities to keep levelling up.” One of the newer platforms helping upcoming artistes is Majjaa. Co-founded by AR Rahman and launched this January, it aims to amplify South Asian indie voices. “They have plans to platform 30 artistes across the world. Dhee and I feature in the list,” says rapper Arivu, 27, who is part of their latest project ‘ Enjoy Enjaami ’. The song — which also features Colombo-born singer Dhee (of ‘ Rowdy Baby ’ fame) and composer-producer Santosh Narayanan — has already raked up over eight crore views on YouTube, and can be heard everywhere, from malls and cafes to local markets. In it, Arivu raps about caste atrocities, environment issues and the pain of the landless labourers. Stars such as Dulquer Salmaan and Siddharth have tweeted about listening to it on loop, while Netflix made it part of a meme.  Changing vocabulary  While most of us are hard-pressed to find positives in 2020, the pandemic did give many people the luxury of time. For potential hip-hop stars, this meant everything. Take MBA student and Chennai rapper A-Gan, aka Anbu Ganapathy. The 21-year-old is the winner of rap competition Red Bull Spotlight, which is now airing on MX Player. Among eight finalists gleaned from preliminary college rounds, he clinched it with a song called ‘ China Soup ’. It highlights the pandemic but also his own introverted nature. A-Gan says caste and religion-based oppression are among the main themes he wants to write about. The song is yet another example of how themes are changing. Lyrics today reflect the socio-cultural realities of living in India, as well as escapist fantasies of fame and power. The Gen Z of hip-hop are looking beyond emulating veteran stars like DIVINE, Emiway Bantai and their ilk. For instance, DRs. V’s music — informed by the Atlanta style of laidback, sometimes hedonistic rap — is starkly different from the steely stories off the street that made Naezy or Prabh Deep famous. “People have knowledge of this art form now, that hip-hop is used to communicate and tell stories,” says Naezy, one of the pioneers in shifting the desi hip-hop vocabulary from women, alcohol and showbaazi to showcase the true essence of the culture — of surviving against the odds and calling out systemic injustices. “Right now, it’s going in the right direction and I hope that it continues to grow,” he adds.  Doing what they love  The pandemic has also increased output across the country. Earlier this year, New Delhi-based hip-hop artiste Aditya Guglani, aka Qoini, released his single ‘ Ghissey Jootey ’, a haunting track on the year gone by and its chaos. In Jammu, rapper-poet-producer Shen B released 10 songs in 2020 — a time when he was reeling not just from Covid-19 lockdowns, but also the clampdown on 4G internet. “I began creating more and more to fill the emptiness and sorrow within,” he told Rolling Stone India a few days ago. “Whether I have to ask someone for Internet connectivity for half an hour to upload a video or borrow a mic or camera from someone, I was willing to do it all to survive in the game.” Over 3,000 km away, in Arunachal Pradesh, 25-year-old rapper K4 Kekho has just received news that he will be part of the upcoming Varun Dhawan-starrer Bhediya ’s soundtrack, contributing to two tracks. Director Amar Kaushik wanted to sign him on after coming across his rousing Hindi-English tunes such as ‘ I Am an Indian ’ and ‘ Yoksa ’. It’s happy days, especially since the club shows and music festivals, such as Ziro, that earned him income (which he pumped into music videos) have dried up. But he says, “I’ll be doing it again and again until I am exhausted. We’re all struggling artistes right now. I have done a lot of songs, but I’ve got to do more in order to build a bigger fan base.” He is currently setting up his own music studio in a bamboo house in Ittanagar. “Hip-hop is not something I can live without,” he adds. As hip-hop comes of age in India, more entrenched investors like Sez already have an eye on the next generation. The 15-year-olds coming up in five years who will discover the artists who define their generation. “So for me, it’s a matter making sure that hip-hop in India continues to win and stay on top. I want to do as much as possible to support and shape young rappers and producers, so that we can all collectively keep winning in the future as well,” Sez concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/gen-z-and-the-hip-hop-boom/article34228266.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||A surge in sales||The housing sector across India’s top seven cities staged an impressive comeback post-COVID-19. Anarock’s Q1 2021 data shows that housing sales in the top cities increased by 29% and new launches by 51% during this quarter against the corresponding period in 2020. As many as 58,290 homes were sold in the top seven cities in Q1 2021 in comparison to 45,200 units in Q1 2020 — effectively breaching pre-COVID levels. MMR and Pune together accounted for 53% of housing sales in the quarter — MMR sales increasing by 46% annually, and Pune by 47%. With approximately 8,670 units sold, Bengaluru was the only city in the top seven to not record a major yearly change in total sales numbers in this quarter. New launches in these cities yielded 62,130 units in Q1 2021, against 41,220 units in Q1 2020. Again, Bengaluru was the only city to see a 11% yearly drop in new launches. MMR, Pune, and Hyderabad together contributed 66% of the total new supply in the quarter. Driving factors Despite spiralling new launches in the current and previous quarter, unsold inventory in the top cities saw a nominal yearly decline — from 6.44 lakh units towards Q1 2020-end to approx. 6.42 lakh units by Q1 2021-end. However, on a q-o-q basis, unsold stock rose by 1% due to a robust healthy new launch pipeline in most cities. Anuj Puri, Chairman, Anarock Property Consultants, says, “Demand boosters like stamp duty cuts, further reductions in home loan rates by most banks (to 6.70%) and ongoing developer discounts and offers helped the residential sector stage a convincing comeback in Q1 2021.” Egged on by buoyant sales and enthusiastic consumer sentiment in the October-December period, developers launched several new projects in this quarter — with some spill-over from the pandemic-dampened 2020 pipeline. “MMR and Pune were the most active since the limited-period stamp duty cuts and other sops and discounts substantially reduced acquisition cost,” says Puri, adding that MMR’s homebuyers have responded pro-actively to the bottomed-out property prices in the country’s most expensive real estate market. This is adequately vouchsafed by the significant rise in property registrations in Mumbai in the first two months of the year.” Average property prices saw some movement in Q1 2021, with most cities recording a rise of 1-2% over Q1 2020, except Kolkata where prices remained stagnant. NCR and Bengaluru saw property prices rise by 2% during the year. In the future Housing affordability will potentially remain extremely favourable throughout 2021. If the current sops continue, we will see sustained vibrancy in the upcoming quarters as well. End-users will drive maximum demand. Mid-segment housing saw the maximum new launches in the quarter with a 43% overall share, with the affordable housing segment accounting for 30%. The supply of luxury housing (priced >Rs. 1.5 crore) also rose by 31% in Q1 2021 against the corresponding period in the year 2020. Sales overview Around 58,290 units were sold in Q1 2021 — a yearly increase of 29% over Q1 2020. NCR, MMR, Bengaluru, and Pune together accounted for 83% of the sales in the quarter.  Hyderabad recorded the maximum rise in sales in this quarter among the top cities. City sales increased by 64% — from 2,680 units in Q1 2020 to approx. 4,400 units in Q1 2021.  MMR and Pune also saw significantly boosted sales in this quarter when compared to other top cities. Sales in MMR and Pune increased by 46% and 47% respectively and stood at approx. 20,350 and 10,550 units, respectively.  In Chennai, approx. 2,850 units were sold — an increase of 30% over Q1 2020.  In Kolkata and NCR, housing sales increased by 10% and 8% respectively over Q1 2020, with approx. 2,680 units, and 8,790 units, respectively.  In Bengaluru, approx. 8,670 units were sold as compared to 8,630 units sold in Q1 2020.   New launches The top seven cities saw around 62,130 new homes launched in Q1 2021 (as opposed to 41,220 units in Q1 2020), a significant increase of 51% Y-o-Y. The key cities contributing to new unit launches in Q1 2021 were MMR, Hyderabad, Pune, and Bengaluru, together accounting for 79% of supply addition.  In MMR, approx. 14,820 units were launched — a significant increase of nearly 41% over Q1 2020. Over 66% of the new supply was added in the sub Rs. 80 lakh budget range.  Bengaluru added approx. 7,690 units in Q1 2021, a yearly decrease of 11% over Q1 2020. Over 68% of the new supply was added in the sub Rs. 40 lakh to Rs. 1.5 crore price bracket.  Pune added new supply of approx. 13,820 units in Q1 2021, compared to 7,790 units in Q1 2020 — a massive rise of 77%. Over 60% of the new supply was added in sub Rs. 40 lakh to Rs. 80 lakh budget segment.  NCR added approx. 6,750 units in Q1 2021, a Y-o-Y increase of 9%. Approx. 52% of the new supply was in the affordable segment.  Hyderabad recorded a massive spike of 273% in new supply from the previous year, with approx. 12,620 units launched in Q1 2021.  Chennai added approx. 4,620 units in Q1 2021, a Y-o-Y increase of 25% over Q1 2020.  Kolkata added approx. 1,810 units in Q1 2021, an increase of 66% over Q1 2020. Approx. 41% of the new supply was in the affordable segment. Unsold inventory Changes in the overall unsold stock in Q1 2021 over Q1 2020 were negligible, as new supply between Q4 2020 and Q1 2021 outpaced overall absorption numbers. MMR witnessed the highest yearly reduction in unsold inventory of 8%, while Bengaluru and Kolkata witnessed yearly reductions of 7% each. In contrast, unsold stock increased by 81% in Hyderabad in the same period, due to considerable new supply hitting this city in the last two quarters — Q1 2021 and Q4 2020.  Anarock Property Consultants   The top seven cities saw around 62,130 new homes launched in Q1 2021||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/a-surge-in-sales/article34228279.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||A vaccine for the environment||If one were to look at the environmental implications of the coronavirus pandemic, the list is rather exhausting. It first started with everyone celebrating lowered pollution levels and wildlife thriving sans humans interfering in their habitats. Then came the masks and PPE suits bringing with them a snowballing plastic and medical waste crisis. A year into the pandemic, and what we are now learning is that the crisis has significantly impacted not just humans but also nature conservation efforts across the globe. A collection of new research papers published by International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) in a special issue of PARKS, the journal of the IUCN World Commission on Protected Areas, states that COVID-19 has negatively affected not just laws, but has given rise to job losses among protected area rangers, and reduced anti-poaching patrols and environmental protection rollbacks. The paper finds that conservation efforts in Africa and Asia were most severely affected, which comes as no surprise at least for India, where 2020 saw a number of laws and policies — that adversely impacted the environment — come into play. Projects, including and not limited to a highway construction through Goa’s Mollem Wildlife Sanctuary, a Nagpur-Mumbai superhighway that will need over 32,000 trees to be felled for the proposed design, and a slew of mining projects were cleared via video conferencing by April 2020. These were followed by the much-discussed draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification 2020 (set to replace the EIA notification 2006) that doesn’t require public hearings for certain projects, eases project expansion, and makes way for legal loopholes, among many other drawbacks. The paper (for India) cited 31 infrastructure proposals for national parks and sanctuaries, extraction and development projects, including coal mining. As for Africa, more than half of the protected areas reported that they were forced to halt or reduce field patrols and anti-poaching operations as well as conservation education and outreach. A quarter of protected areas in Asia also reported that conservation activities had been reduced. In Latin and North America, Europe and Oceania most protected areas were able to maintain core operations despite closures and loss of tourism revenue (iucn.org). Other reports also address how industries such as fossil fuels, plastics, airlines, and automobiles have been getting governments to address their pleas for cash, regulatory rollbacks, and other special favours. Given these facts, are we heading towards a rather ‘dirty’ recovery rather than the ‘clean Covid-19 recovery’ that was spoken of a year ago? I think, yes. To make matters worse, the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change has recently proposed a new environmental management law, an umbrella law of sorts, to replace the Air Act 1981, Water Act 1974, and the Environment (Protection) Act 1986, as a single all-encompassing law to regulate environmental issues in India. A report in Hindustan Times looks at how this ruling is similar to 2014, when the Union environment ministry’s high-level committee had recommended the creation of a new ‘umbrella’ law — Environmental laws (Management) Act (ELMA). Environmental lawyer Ritwick Dutta says that the biggest problem with ELMA was that it was in complete violation of the ‘precautionary principle’. “The act wanted to bring in management and supplementary plans to regularise violations as opposed to preventing environmental violations.” In the story, he goes on to say that while the act was not notified, these changes were introduced by the ministry through a number of office memorandums and circulars over the past few years. 2020 was a year that we all hoped would usher in sensitivity towards the climate and force governments to pull up their socks. Instead, we are seeing a rather bleak future unfold. The thought of a vaccine for the deadly virus is no doubt reassuring, and we can only hope that our leaders and policy makers aren’t awaiting a magic vaccine to cure earth of all the destruction we’re causing now.  A fortnightly column on environmental sustainability and urban issues   The COVID crisis has significantly impacted not just humans but also nature conservation efforts across the globe||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/a-vaccine-for-the-environment/article34228289.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Kickstart your spring cleaning||The tradition of spring cleaning — thoroughly cleaning a house in the spring — dates back centuries and continues to be followed in many countries. Some researchers trace the origin of spring cleaning to the Persian new year, which falls on the first day of spring. The Catholic church thoroughly cleans the church altar and everything associated with it on Maundy Thursday, the day before Good Friday — also in the spring. In India, a heavy-duty clean-up is done in most homes ahead of Diwali, but spring — the onset of a new season — could be a good time to clean up your home and rid it of material energies that are sapping you. Research has shown that a make-under, which ensures you only keep the things that you love and need, ensures a simplified, happier life and gives you a clean spiritual slate. Get set for the hot, sultry summer by giving your home a thorough deep cleanse. Along the way, get rid of things and items that you and your family members have hoarded over the years, but never use. So, either give them away or hand them over to a charity. Letting go of things that you don’t need and that don’t ‘spark joy’ will make you happy. Here are ten things that you must get rid of:  Coffee mugs . Mugs that you have collected as souvenirs or received as promotional gifts sit on your kitchen rack and take space. They linger even though you always reach for your favourite one. Give them away if you haven’t used them in six months.  Travel-size toiletries . If you are the kind of traveller who grabs hotel shampoos and soaps, chances are you have a huge stash of toiletries somewhere in your house. You should consider parting with your collection to ensure a clutter-free home.  Sentimental collectibles. That Chinese lantern you had in your college dorm room should really go if you want your home to reflect your taste. Same with the ratty rug that you bought with your first salary and can’t bear to give away. And does your living room really need all the cards that your niece mailed you?  Old medications. When you reach into your medicine cabinet, do you find a headache pill past its expiry date? Do clean out the cupboard and toss those that are past their prime or those you have no idea of.  Ornamental items. Vases that lack personality but keep sprouting in corners of your house, as gifts or prizes, should be disposed of. We understand throwing them away may make you feel bad, but clinging to them will add to the clutter around your house.  Party and craft supplies . Leftover paper plates, napkins, Styrofoam glasses hold such promise that throwing them away feels criminal. After all, what about that picnic you may go to or the impromptu evening get together? But let’s be honest — you forget them after dumping them in the depths of your cupboard.  Books . Yes, hard as it may sound, your growing book collection has been silently cluttering your home. Keep the classics, let go of the cheap paperback thrillers and the books that you know you will never return to again.  Furniture bought on sale. That fuchsia sofa with zebra print you bought at rock-bottom price may have looked amazing but it is now jarring in your drawing room. Same for the other furniture that you picked up as it seemed too good a deal to pass up. These need to go and trust us, you won’t miss them one bit!  Old cassettes/CDs/DVDs. Think MP3s and iPods. Those cumbersome George Michael audio cassettes should really go.  DIY projects you will never finish. We applaud you for your enthusiasm when you bought paint to give your garden chairs a new new or the paraphernalia for that 12-piece crochet set. Even though you believe you will finish it, the date still looks like a speck in the horizon. Find a new home for those things and get over the guilt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/kickstart-your-spring-cleaning/article34228287.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||A look at the Global Residential Cities Index||As per real estate consultancy Knight Frank India’s latest report, Global Residential Cities Index Q4 2020, Hyderabad has been featured as the only Indian city globally to witness residential price appreciation in Q4 2020, positioning it at a 122nd rank with a marginal 0.2% year-on-year (YoY) rise in home prices. In terms of the de-growth of residential prices, Chennai was the lowest-ranked Indian city standing at the 150th spot, registering a 9.0% decline in home prices. Shishir Baijal, Chairman and Managing Director, Knight Frank India says, “The performance of Hyderabad’s residential market has remained consistent all through the pandemic, with the city’s real estate market maintaining annual price growth in each quarter, all through 2020. This performance can largely be attributed to the city being a preferred destination by professionals from IT/ITeS companies.” Prices across the 150 cities worldwide increased at 5.6% on average in 2020, up from 3.2% in 2019, it states. The report also highlighted that 81% of cities saw prices increase in the year to Q4 2020, the index’s annual rate of growth increased for the sixth consecutive quarter in Q4 2020. 20% of cities registered double-digit price growth in the year to Q4 2020. “The Indian residential market has strongly rebounded over the last three quarters with the pandemic experience on owning houses, lower prices and multi-decade low home loan interest rate. The Government interventions on stamp duty cuts in key markets also helped the sector gain momentum back to pre-Covid levels,” added Balaji. The Global Residential Cities Index tracks the movement in mainstream residential prices across 150 cities worldwide using official statistics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/a-look-at-the-global-residential-cities-index/article34228281.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||ITC Windsor is LEED Zero Carbon certified||ITC Windsor in Bengaluru is the world’s first hotel to bag a LEED Zero Carbon Certification. This certification, awarded by the United States Green Building Council (USGBC) recognises the hospitality major’s efforts to go green. These include having their own wind turbine generators, energy-efficient technologies such as electrical boilers and induction burners, eliminating single-use plastic and ensuring a low-carbon food chain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/itc-windsor-is-leed-zero-carbon-certified/article34228283.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Hooked at first listen||After a year of online classes and kids glued to screens of various kinds, give digital fatigue the boot this summer holidays. Introduce your children to podcasts. Parents who are dipping their toes into this auditory world for the first time, don’t worry. As Kitty Felde, award-winning journalist and host of Book Club for Kids, suggests, try a ‘podcast tasting’. “Listen to one episode every night from a different podcast [and] see which one your child likes. Which one do you like? Make a date to listen together: in the car, at bedtime, while walking the dog together. That podcast can be a jumping off place for a longer discussion between you and your child about topics you never even imagined.” Here is a list to get you started:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/for-10-to-13-years/article34227825.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The election game||Remember, before starting this game, you must pledge to not play fair. Now, let’s begin. Roll the dice. Whatever you get — protest! Loudly. Arrange for a stage and the loudest loud speakers that (tax payer) money can buy. Say that the other party has rigged your dice. Whatever the results, you’re being cheated. 10 points.  Oops, the first round of results show you’re in the lead. Instantly do a U-Turn. Go back onto the stage. Give interviews. Tell people how honest the elections are, how you believe in the system, and that anyone who protests is anti-national. 15 points for this turnaround. Proceed. You are now entering a new phase. Rallies. One rule. Make sure you organise more than your opponent. Bring out the biggest face of your party, give away masks of the face, splash the face on every hoarding. Promise free everything — money, rice, places of worship, free air (fabricate statistics about how much pollution there is in the states you do not run yet). 25 points.  This annoying popular candidate from the other party keeps edging ahead. Resort to your Rescue Card. Horse-trading. Threaten, publish fake stories about this dirty scoundrel. If all else fails, bribe the dirty scoundrel to join your party. Throw him a party to welcome him in. Kill any media story that says you said he was dirty. Wear matching halos. 45 points . Your ally, the media channel, has to keep at 24x7 stories about how you are winning (especially if you’re not, no one really wants the truth anyway). Fire the journalists who expose the truth. Are we a nation of people who expose? Hack their accounts, get them arrested. Replace them with lip-sync dolls who will shout and spout whatever you tell them to. Brilliant! You’re almost there. 65 points . Diversion needed. Quick! Some idiot party member said something sick. Start stories about Covid-19 (thank God for such a timely diversion), border problems, film stars, drugs. Blame the foreign hand for trying to roll the dice. Not working? Talk history, even better, make up history. The voting masses lap it up. 80 points . There are still some stubborn hurdles in the game. Activists, students, writers. Get rid of them. Any way you can. Now, the flag at the end is in sight. Make sure it is yours. Give a tear-jerker speech about honesty and democracy. 90 points. If you can squeeze out a tear too, you make it to 100 points . Congratulations! Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-election-game/article34228493.ece
03 April 2021||JAIPUR/Ghaziabad,||Rakesh Tikait’s convoy attacked||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait’s convoy was allegedly attacked in Rajasthan’s Alwar district on Friday, when he was going to address a farmers’ rally in Bansur town. A group of people pelted stones at the cavalcade, damaging the rear windscreen of his car. Mr. Tikait was safe and did not get any injury. The farmer leader, who has been leading the agitation against the Centre’s agriculture sector laws for over four months, held the “goons of Bharatiya Janata Party” responsible for the attack. “The goons of BJP indulged in a lethal attack [on our convoy] at Tatarpur intersection on Bansur road. This is the murder of democracy,” Mr. Tikait remarked while posting a video clip of his car with the smashed window glass on twitter. Mr. Tikait addressed two rallies in Alwar district on Friday. He was travelling from Harsauli to Bansur when the attack, allegedly with stones and iron rods, took place. Police have detained four persons, including a student leader, in connection with the incident. The BKU leader’s supporters and a large number of farmers from the region blocked the Bansur road after the attack. A huge police force was deployed in the area late in the evening.  BKU flays attack Meanwhile, the BKU and the Samyukt Kisan Morcha have criticised the alleged attack on Mr. Tikait. BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said the assailants came in an SUV and were close to the local BJP MLA. He said the BKU members blocked the road in protest and an FIR was registered against unidentified assailants. “The SUV that the attackers left is said to have belonged to Kuldeep Yadav, student union president of Matsya University. Kuldeep could be seen in photos with Rajasthan BJP chief Satish Punia and is said to be close to him,” Mr. Malik said. In response to the attack, the BKU workers blocked the Delhi-Meerut Expressway at Ghazipur border for two hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rakesh-tikaits-convoy-attacked/article34228013.ece
03 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||In bloom, a vegetable garden at Singhu||With protesting farmers continuing to install semi-permanent structures at the Singhu border, mostly for accommodation purposes, several protesters have started sowing a varied range of vegetables, some along the perimeters of the structures. A park, which was recently made by the protesters, is also set to turn into a kitchen garden for the farmers. Volunteers said that more such gardens will be made depending on space. Charanjit Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Ludhiana district, said: “The park was opened a few days ago. Now several women and children visit the park in the mornings. We have also decided to plant saplings and sow so that we can grow vegetables ourselves for consumption later.” Mr. Singh, who is also a volunteer looking after the park, added: “As of now we have coriander and bottle gourd among other vegetables. We are also growing mint and have started using it. These days most people are busy constructing their houses over here. Once it is done, we will see if there is enough space available where we can make other similar gardens.” “We also have to decide on where the water from the existing langars will get drained to ensure that the roads are not flooded,” he said. Beyond beautifying Several others said that apart from beautification purposes, they have also started sowing in limited quantities. Joginder Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Roopnagar, district said: “People often come here to sell saplings. So we have kept a few along the boundary. Apart from beautification purposes, we have also sowed a few vegetables so that over the next few months we can consume it right from here.” Stating that the preparations and modifications are towards a longer haul, Mr. Singh said: “We still do not know how long the movement will continue. For the last few months we have been self-sufficient throughout and we intend to continue doing the same. We have survived harsh conditions over all these months and we are not moving from here.” Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders demanding a minimum support price and repeal of the three farm laws brought in by the Centre last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/in-bloom-a-vegetable-garden-at-singhu/article34228390.ece
03 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man held for creating girl’s fake profile||A 25-year-old event manager was arrested for allegedly creating a fake profile of a Class VIII student on Instagram and threatening her with obscene messages, the police said on Friday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said that the accused has been identified as Bharat Khatar, who allegedly posted a 14-year-old girl’s morphed nude pictures on the social media. He wanted to take revenge from her as she had warned him against harassing her friend. The police said that a complaint was received from the victim’s mother who stated that a fake Instagram profile of her daughter was created and that the accused has been sending obscene messages from the same and stalking her daughter. Based on the complaint, a case under Sections 354D (stalking), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman), 354A (sexual harassment and punishment for sexual harassment) and other relevant section of the POCSO Act was registered at Kotla Mubarakpur police station. During probe, letters were sent to Facebook to seek details about the Instagram account and with the help of technical intelligence, the accused was identified. After due verification, the accused was apprehended from his residence in Faridabad on Thursday, Mr. Thakur said. It was revealed that the accused first targeted the victim’s friend and contacted her through social media. He started harassing her and they had an argument on Whatsapp after which she shared the incident with the victim. The police said that the accused then decided to take revenge from the victim and created three fake accounts in her name on Instagram and posted morphed pictures of hers. When the victim confronted him, he asked her for sexual favours, the police said. They said that the accused doesn’t have genuine profiles on Instagram or Facebook and uses social media platforms –WhatsApp, Facebook, Instagram – for talking to girls from fake profiles. The police said that he is also involved in a case filed at Faridabad Cyber police station related to another fake profile of a girl. The police said that the accused is a B.Com. graduate and has been working with an event management company for the last two years. He has targeted six women, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-held-for-creating-girls-fake-profile/article34228379.ece
03 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man found dead in vacant flat in Narela||The body of a 36-year-old man with was found inside a vacant flat in north Delhi’s Narela, the police said on Friday. The face of the deceased was burnt, they said. The deceased has been identified as Karan Kumar, who was a resident of Mahavir Vihar colony in Kanagawa, they said. After receiving information about the body on Thursday, the police reached DSIIDC flats in Bhorgarh. There were injury marks on Kumar’s neck and hands and his face was burnt to hide his identity, the officer said. Kumar’s relatives had informed the police after finding the body. A missing report had earlier been lodged at Kanjhawal police station, the police said. “Statement of the deceased’s nephew, Vicky (21), was recorded. He stated that his uncle had left the house on Wednesday to meet his brother-in-law, Panna Ram, who resides in Narela,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North) Rajeev Ranjan Singh said. When Kumar did not return home, his family membrs asked Mr. Panna whether he had met him, but he refused, the police said. Mr. Panna had sustained an injury on the leg and when his relatives persisted, he told them to search for Kumar at the DSIIDC flats, the police said. On Friday, the relatives found the body, the officer said. A case has been registered at Narela Industrial Area police station. Mr. Panna is absconding, the DCP said. Preliminary investigation revealed that there was some dispute between Kumar and Mr. Panna over money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-found-dead-in-vacant-flat-in-narela/article34228387.ece
03 April 2021||CHANDIGARH,||AAP plans stir against high power tariffs||Ahead of the Assembly elections in Punjab, due early next year, the principal Opposition party — the Aam Aadmi Party — has decided to raise the electricity rate issue. The party plans to launch a State-wide agitation from April 7. In the first phase of the month-long agitation, AAP would be staging protests in over 16,000 villages and wards across the State. ‘Give free power’ “We will launch a massive agitation from April 7 against the rising power prices and ask the Punjab government to provide free power in the State,” AAP MLA Harpal Singh Cheema, who is the Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, told The Hindu on Friday. Mr. Cheema said on account of the anti-people policies adopted by the Congress during its four years of rule, the people are suffering immensely. “We had been raising the high power tariffs and other public-centric issues in the Assembly. The government, however, is paying no need to the problems being faced by the people. Now, we will launch a mass agitation to pressurise the government to resolve these issues,” he said. Hitting out at the Congress, Mr. Cheema said the State government has failed to keep its promises made during the 2017 Assembly polls and the people have lost all faith in the government. “The Congress had promised to reduce power tariffs before the 2017 elections, but after assuming power, the government had raised power prices multiple times. The Congress had promised that power agreements made by the previous SAD-BJP government with the private companies would be reviewed and cancelled. But it had been four years since the Congress came to power, the government has not taken any step. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had said that White Paper on power prices would be brought but so far nothing has come,” he said. “The people of Punjab are buying expensive electricity and in times of inflation, the government is imposing a burden on them. The government had given free hand to the companies to rob the people and fill their coffers,” added Mr. Cheema. “Our party volunteers and workers will go door to door across the State to make people aware about higher power tariffs in Punjab in comparison to Delhi, which is ruled by AAP. We will burn copies of electricity bills as a mark of protest,” said Mr. Cheema.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-plans-stir-against-high-power-tariffs/article34228022.ece
03 April 2021||JAIPUR,||First farm-based solar power plant comes up in Rajasthan||The first farm-based solar power plant under the Prime Minister’s Kisan Urja Suraksha Evum Utthan Mahabhiyan (KUSUM) scheme has come up in Jaipur district’s Kotputli tehsil with a provision for production of 17 lakh units of electricity every year. The 1 MW project has been established on 3.50 acres of farmland in Kotputli’s Bhaloji village. The new plant is also the first of the 623 farm-based solar power projects selected by the Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation Limited (RRECL) for generating 722 MW capacity in the State under the scheme’s first phase. The project has been commissioned following a 25-year contract signed between the RRECL and farmland owner Devkaran Yadav in September 2020. Developed at a cost of Rs. 3.70 crore, the plant is expected to generate an annual income of Rs. 50 lakh for Mr. Yadav, as the discom will be purchasing electricity at the rate of Rs. 3.40 per unit. RRECL chairman Subodh Agarwal said here on Friday that the KUSUM scheme would ensure energy security for farmers, as they could generate revenue from their less productive or barren land. It would also help increase the clean green energy and generate employment in the rural areas, he said.  Renewable energy target The Congress government in the State had adopted the solar energy and the wind and hybrid energy policies in December 2019 with the plans to develop a capacity of 38,000 MW renewable energy. The capacity to be developed under the KUSUM scheme will be of the order of 2,600 MW, for which the letters of award have been issued to 623 applicants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/first-farm-based-solar-power-plant-comes-up-in-rajasthan/article34228014.ece
03 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Five members of Lawrence Bishnoi-Kala Jathedi gang held||Delhi Police has arrested five criminals of Lawrence Bishnoi-Kala Jathedi gang from the national capital, officials said on Friday. The accused have been identified as Kapil Nehra (23), Yashpal alias Sarpanch (28), Rajeev alias Raju Basai (25), Rahul Mehalawat (23), all residents of Haryana, and Gagandeep alias Guni (35), who is from Punjab, they said. “The police received a specific input regarding the movement of the accused in the national capital. Later, a police team laid a trap near Chandgi Ram Akhara red light at Ring Road on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday and apprehended them,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Manishi Chandra said. Case under Arms Act Loaded firearms and over 70 live cartridges were recovered from the possession of the accused, police said, adding that a case under Arms Act has been registered and all the accused have been arrested. The accused were wanted in several cases, including broad daylight triple and double murders, attempts to murder, extortion, encounter with police and Arms Act in Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab and Uttarakhand, police said. They had committed a series of crimes in the recent past, acting as a bridge between Lawrence Bishnoi-Kala Jathedi and another wanted gangster of Gurugram Sube Gurjar, who is carrying a reward of Rs. 7 lakh on his arrest, police said. Network expansion After escaping from the custody of Haryana Police in February 2020, gangster Sandeep alias Kala Jathedi has been working to expand his network in Delhi and adjoining States, police said. After the arrests of all major criminals of Delhi in the last one year, gangsters from Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan are trying to enter the national capital. Lawrence Bishnoi and Sube Gurjar are amongst the most dangerous once operating in areas surrounding Delhi, the DCP said. Bishnoi has been trying to make inroads into Delhi for last eight to ten months. While Bishnoi himself is in jail, his close associate Sandeep is working to expand the syndicate’s footprints in Delhi. Sandeep is closely assisted by one Kala Rana of Lawrence Bishnoi gang, suspected to be hiding in a south-east Asian country, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/five-members-of-lawrence-bishnoi-kala-jathedi-gang-held/article34228386.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Transforming Alappuzha’s warehouses||A wind of change is blowing through the historic coir factories of Alappuzha, past 100-year-old doors, halls and vaulted ceilings. The spaces that once resonated with the sounds of yarn being spun, toiling workers and political uprisings are now gearing up for a major makeover. “These were once busy spaces but with changing businesses, many sections of the factories are unused and some are in a dilapidated condition,” explains Benny Kuriakose, conservation architect. He heads the Alappuzha Heritage Project, under which factories at Coirfed, Kerala State Coir Corporation (KSCC), and New Model Co-operative Society Building (NMCSB) will be repurposed and turned into tourist spots. “Architecturally, as these spaces were full-fledged factories, they were well ventilated. By a twist of fate, when business dropped, they became places to store things,” he says, adding that while they will “conserve and design for adaptive reuse, very little new construction will take place”. A remarkable turnaround It is interesting to note that in 1975, when Aspinwall first imported power looms from Germany, the industry rejected mechanisation as it would lead to loss of jobs. Now, state-of-the-art machines are being installed in the factories to compete with cheaper Chinese-made tufted coir mats. Yet there is room for art and culture alongside coir processing and production. Factory timings and gallery hours, labour unions and tourist groups, canteen meals and cafe menus are to soon coexist within these century-old coir processing factories. The repurposing, explains Kuriakose, is part of an integrated plan (estimated to cost around Rs. 260 crore) that includes conserving the heritage of Alappuzha, also called the Venice of the East, and will include rejuvenation of its canals and construction of walkways. Unlike the gentrification of Mumbai’s textile mills that became shopping malls, this project, he says, is in sync with the history of the town. Yarn history and a cafe Naushad PM, MD of the Muziris Heritage Project, says the collaboration by different government departments — Tourism, Coir, Port — will see 21 museums take shape, of which three will be exclusively dedicated to coir. “A yarn museum will come up at the Coirfed building [formerly Darragh Smail]. The KSCC will house a coir history museum, and the NMCSB will have a Living Coir museum,” he explains. While preparations for an immersive coir experience are underway, two spaces in KSCC and NMCSB are already experimenting with art — Lokame Tharavadu, an upcoming mega show of contemporary art, will exhibit works, installations and paintings of 268 artists of Kerala. At Port Museum on the beach, the cafe will be partially alfresco to remain accessible to the public even after gallery hours. Citing the example of Admiral Hotel in Copenhagen, which was a granary before it turned to offer a new role, veteran conservation architect Ramesh Tharakan says, “Old warehouses can be retrofitted into interesting and dynamic hospitality as well as retail spaces. European cities are replete with examples of such transformation”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/transforming-alappuzhas-warehouses/article34228492.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Lured by a spectacle||As you read this, Godzilla vs. Kong is already the biggest hit across the planet, including in India, China, the US, wherever cinemas are open, really. People are flocking by the millions to watch the beloved monsters go up against each other in an epic spectacle. By the same token, medium-level films, budget and spectacle-wise, are not exactly falling by the wayside, but aren’t doing humongous box office numbers either. The debate that has been raging on for the last year, ever since Covid-19 began ravaging the world, and producers started giving their babies to OTT platforms for direct to digital premières, is about the death of small cinema. Small, intimate films are going nowhere soon and will continue to be made and consumed, but the question is whether their platforms will be restricted. The year that has passed has had a devastating effect on cinemas. The latest FICCI report reveals that in India alone, some 1,500 cinemas were forced to close over the last 12 months, leaving just 8,000 screens for a population of 1.3 billion. Though there are dedicated repertory single cinemas and chains for independent films around the world, won’t producers be tempted to recover costs in one fell swoop? Or maybe even turn a profit by selling rights to a giant global streamer, with the justification that their product is reaching some 200 countries at the same time and potentially hundreds of millions of eyeballs. From an audience point of view, in a post-Covid, vaccinated world (and that world can’t come soon enough), will they be willing to take a risk (vaccinations aren’t 100% guarantees of not getting the virus, it only makes it much milder) and go to a cinema and sit cheek-by-jowl with a potentially infected stranger to drink in an independent film, as opposed to a James Bond or a Marvel spectacle? Will the only event remaining be ‘event’ cinema? If such a scenario transpires, it’ll be a crying shame. For, however small the film, the big screen in a darkened cinema creates a powerful bond between the subject matter and the viewer. Unless you are wealthy or fortunate enough to have a home theatre, the at-home viewing experience is just not the same. I leave you with a personal experience. Along with a prominent Indian independent filmmaker I watched Cate Blanchett’s Oscar-winning performance in Blue Jasmine in a giant multiplex in Leicester Square. We were stunned by the agony Blanchett conveyed in the film. As we stumbled out into daylight, rendered speechless, the moment was somewhat ruined by a selfie seeker (for a picture with him, not me), but the effect was indelible enough for both of us to remember today, eight years down the line. I somehow doubt a small screen will provide that level of engagement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lured-by-a-spectacle/article34228494.ece
03 April 2021||GURUGRAM,||Bill on recovery of property damage comes under fire from activists||The legislation on recovery of damages to property, recently enacted by the Haryana Assembly, came under fire from activists associated with several mass movements at a State-level convention held in Rohtak on Friday. ‘The Haryana Recovery of Damages to Property During Disturbance of Public Order Bill, 2021’ was passed by the State Assembly on March 18, giving powers to the police and executive towards recovery of damages to property from protesters of an agitation. The Speakers at the convention, organised by Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), attacked the Bill calling it a “draconian” measure to stifle the right to protest. All-India Kisan Sabha Haryana vice-president Inderjit Singh put forth a resolution critical of the Act and called upon all sections of the people to raise their voice for repealing the pernicious Act whose implications were very serious for the future of democracy. The decisions taken in the convention included sending emails to the Chief Minister against the law, holding protest demonstrations and sit-ins on April 8 to mark the hurling of bombs in Central Assembly by Bhagat Singh and Batukeshwar Dutt in 1929 against similar legislations brought by Britishers and protest before the Raj Bhawan. All-India Lawyers Union president Gurmej Singh and advocates Rajender Singh and Pradeep Raparia placed a point-to-point rebuttal of the law questioning the intentions of the government behind the move as there were ample laws for damages to property under the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-property-damage-recovery-bill-comes-under-fire-from-activists/article34228384.ece
03 April 2021||Lakhimpur Kheri,||Dalit youth held captive, tortured by four in U.P.||A 22-year-old Dalit man was allegedly held captive and tortured by four persons here on the suspicion that he was having an affair with a girl of their family, police said on Friday.  Charge denied The man’s family members had claimed that an iron rod was also inserted in his rectum, but Circle Officer Pradeep Kumar Verma, who is investigating the case, denied the charge, saying the medical examination and probe so far indicate this is not true. The accused have been arrested and the victim is under treatment at the district hospital. His condition has been stated to be serious, police said. On Wednesday night, the Dalit man was mercilessly beaten up by the accused, causing injuries to his private parts, according to police. Tikonia Station House Officer Gyan Prakash Tiwari said, “On the complaint by the victim’s brother, an FIR was registered against four persons.” They have been charged under Indian Penal Code sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation), and provisions of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, he said.  ‘Suspected affair’ They had suspected that the man was having an affair with their kin, Mr. Tiwari said. “All the four accused, Bramhadeen and his three sons Bharat, Gajraj and Raju, have been arrested,” he said, adding a probe into the matter is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dalit-youth-held-captive-tortured-by-four-in-up/article34228019.ece
03 April 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Leopard skin seized, two arrested in Odisha||The Special Task Force of Odisha Crime Branch arrested two persons and seized a leopard skin on Thursday night. The skin was seized when the STF team conducted a raid at Bolagarh under Khordha district after a tip off. Two accused — Sudhir Behera and Subash Behera — who hail from Nayagarh district were arrested. “The accused persons could not produce any valid authority in support of possession of the leopard skin, for which they have been arrested. The seized leopard skin will be sent to Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, for chemical examination,” said the STF Deputy Inspector General Jai Narayan Pankaj. Mr. Pankaj said during last one year, the STF has seized as many as 12 leopard skins, six elephant tusk, two deer skin, two live pangolin and five kg of pangolin scales and arrested 24 persona.  Hub of smuggling The STF, which has launched a campaign to curb wildlife crimes, has issued a telephone number for people to intimate about such incidents. Nayagarh district appears to be the hub of leopard skin smuggling in the State. An elected representative was caught red handed while he was stripping the skin from a dead leopard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/leopard-skin-seized-two-arrested-in-odisha/article34228015.ece
03 April 2021||New Delhi,||HC grants bail to doctor accused of rape on pretext of marriage||The Delhi High Court has granted bail to a doctor, accused of raping a woman after promising her marriage, noting that it was “not a case of forceful sexual assault” and he would not be in a position to terrorise the victim or tamper with evidence. Justice Subramonium Prasad said there was nothing on record to indicate that the man had promised marriage to the woman. The court noted that there are contradictions between the initial version and the present version of the woman. “The prosecutrix is a make-up artist and is a resident of Delhi. It cannot be said that she is naive. This is not a case of forceful sexual assault...,” the High Court said, adding that whether the woman’s physical relationship was based on her free consent or not will be decided only in trial. The court noted that the evidence has been collected and the mobile phone of the man, who is a doctor working at Safdarjung Hospital here, was with the police. “In view of the above, this court finds it just and expedient to grant bail to the petitioner [doctor] in the event of arrest [in the case] registered at Hauz Khas police station for offences punishable under Sections 376 [punishment for rape] and 328 [causing hurt by means of poison with and intent to commit an offence] IPC...,” the High Court said. According to the woman, her father had suffered a heart attack in January 2019 and she took her to Safdarjung Hospital where the accused was the doctor on duty. During the course of treatment, he visited the woman’s residence and gave his profile for the purpose of marriage and asked for her profile as well, she said. The woman alleged that he later called her to meet him to “know each other more”. Once, she said, he called her at his friend’s house where she was given a soft drink after which she lost consciousness. After regaining consciousness, she said, she realised she has been raped. When she confronted the man, he told her that he had recorded a video and threatened to make it viral, the woman alleged, adding that she was later called to some hotels and raped again.  Seeking bail, the doctor’s counsel submitted that the FIR was registered January 28 this year based on the allegation that the petitioner took the woman to his friend’s flat on June 9, 2019, and raped her. However, this story has been completely given a go by and now the allegation is that the man promised marriage and established physical relationship with her, he argued, adding that no useful purpose would be served by arresting the doctor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-grants-bail-to-doctor-accused-of-rape-on-pretext-of-marriage/article34228376.ece
03 April 2021||LUCKNOW,||FIR filed against BJP leader in Ansari ambulance row||The police in Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki district registered an FIR against a woman BJP leader on Friday on charges of cheating and forgery after it surfaced that an ambulance with a number plate from the district was used to ferry jailed MLA Mukhtar Ansari from Ropar jail to a court in Mohali by the Punjab Police. The Supreme Court had last week directed the Punjab government to hand over the custody of the controversial MLA. The case was lodged against Alka Rai, who claimed in front of the media that she was the regional general secretary of the BJP’s women unit in Gorakhpur. The controversy erupted after the U.P. government alleged that the Punjab government had allowed Mr. Ansari to be escorted to court in a luxury, bullet-proof ambulance that had a number plate of Barabanki district. A probe by the U.P. Transport Department found that the address and documents provided for the registration of the ambulance in 2013 were “prima facie fraud” and forged, said Yamuna Prasad, Superintendent of Police, Barabanki. The address stated during registration was not found to be in Rafi Nagar area of Barabanki, he said. A case was lodged under Sections 419, 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC against Alka Rai, who is the owner of the Shyam Sanjeevni Hospital in Mau district, from where Mr. Ansari is an MLA. The ambulance was allegedly registered to an address linked to her hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fir-filed-against-bjp-leader-in-ansari-ambulance-row/article34228375.ece
03 April 2021||Meerut,||Girl returning from tuition gang-raped, dies by suicide||A Class 10 student died by suicide after she was allegedly abducted and gang-raped while on her way back from a tuition class, the police said on Friday. Meerut’s Rural Superintendent of Police Keshav Kumar said four youths were involved in abducting and raping the girl, and the police, on the basis of a note left by the girl, have arrested two of the accused.   Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/girl-returning-from-tuition-gang-raped-dies-by-suicide/article34228020.ece
03 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man kills live-in partner in Mangolpuri||A 25-year-old woman was allegedly killed by her live-in partner in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri. Her children were found near her body when it was discovered, the police said on Friday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) Parvinder Singh said that the woman has been identified as Jyoti alias Soni, and was a resident of Shahbad Dairy. The police said that around 10.50 a.m., they were informed about a woman’s body, which was lying on the fourth floor of a house in J-Block, Mangolpuri. When the police reached the spot, they found the body and there were visible injury marks on the head and the right side of the face. “During inquiry, it was found that she had come to the area to live on rent a few days ago. She and her husband had separated a few years ago. She was living in the area with her partner Shiva Sharma, who works as a carpenter,” Mr. Singh said. The police said that she had a fight with her partner on Thursday night during which he hit her on the head and face. She was injured and bled profusely. The accused locked the main door and fled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-kills-live-in-partner-in-mangolpuri/article34228380.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Solution to pollution||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/solution-to-pollution/article34228382.ece
03 April 2021||Agartala,||‘BJP-IPFT alliance will win tribal polls’||Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb is confident that the BJP-IPFT alliance will get absolute majority in elections to the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) slated for April 6. At a media briefing on Friday, he said people will vote for the ruling coalition to support all-round development activities in the State. “Congress or CPI(M) is nowhere, but BJP is everywhere. People who are still in different political camps should join BJP for sake of development and progress,” the Chief Minister appealed while speaking at his official residence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-ipft-alliance-will-win-tribal-polls/article34228017.ece
03 April 2021||Bareilly,||Three arrested for assault on couple in U.P.||Three persons have been arrested after a video of them allegedly beating up an unmarried couple sitting in a shop in a village here surfaced on social media, police said on Friday. Assistant Superintendent of Police Raj Kumar Agarwal said that the incident took place in Rithaura village on Wednesday. After the video surfaced on social media, the woman’s brother registered a complaint, following which three men, identified as Manoj, Pankaj and Ajay, all residents of Rithaura area, were arrested. An FIR was registered in Hafizganj police station under the IPC Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/three-arrested-for-assault-on-couple-in-up/article34228018.ece
03 April 2021||Budaun (U.P.),||Two dead after consuming spurious liquor||Two persons died, one lost his vision while several others were hospitalised after allegedly consuming spurious liquor distributed by panchayat election candidates in Tigalpur village here, police said on Friday. Three persons, including prospective candidates for village head, have been arrested, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-dead-after-consuming-spurious-liquor/article34228016.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Sufi and some ghazals||Ruhaniyat, the Sufi and mystic music festival, will be held digitally across seven cities, including Delhi. The shows curated for each city will be a combination of newly shot and archival performances. April 3. Rs. 350. 6 pm. in.bookmyshow.com. Kommunepresents Mulaqat: An Introductory Workshop on Urdu Ghazal . Learn the history ofghazalsand more from writer and lyricist Swapnil Tiwari. Some participants may even get the chance to perform at an online event. April 3, 4. Rs. 499. insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sufi-and-some-ghazals/article34228500.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Vali Vadhe online||Vali Vadhe is part of Staged@RS — Bengaluru-based Ranga Shankara’s digital programme. Based on celebrated writer Kuvempu’s Sri Ramayana Darshana , the play blends elements of Yakshagana, Kalaripayattu and the Manipuri art form. Rs. 150 at insider.in. What is the purpose of art? Find out with The Right Way by Thespo. The play has been created by Daniele Bartolini, and is “audience-specific art” (meant for one person at a time). April 3, 4. 4 pm onwards. Rs. 300 at insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/vali-vadhe-online/article34228501.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Kate’s photo project||Even as the UK takes steps to unlock, Kate Middleton’s project, Hold Still , which invited photo submissions that captured life in lockdown, has been turned into a book, Hold Still: A Portrait of Our Nation in 2020 . The book features 100 images selected by a panel of judges, including the Duchess of Cambridge and National Portrait Gallery Director Nicholas Cullinan. Meanwhile,kids can learn about alphabets, numbers and Pokemon, of course, via Pikachu Press’ new series of interactive books for children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kates-photo-project/article34228502.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||On Korean culture||As a reminder that there is more to Korean culture than K-dramas, The Korean Cultural Centre UK presents A Viewing Room. The artist film programme features new and recent video works by eight contemporary Korean artists. Themes include psychological well-being and the transition from offline to online. The works include Sound Garden by Jeamin Cha and After Life by Cha Ji Ryang. April 6 to May 31. kccuk.org.uk. Meanwhile, Minari , nominated for six Oscars, is set to be released in India on April 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/on-korean-culture/article34228503.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Delhi Art Week: As Art Dubai, held as an in-person event, comes to a close today, a new initiative, Delhi Art Week, gets underway. The city has been divided into four ‘art zones’ with exhibitions, workshops and walkthroughs from about 37 galleries. Details: delhiartweek.com. Till April 10. If pop art is more your speed, Super Nintendo World is finally a reality at Universal Studios Japan in Osaka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/instapick/article34228495.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||XXL beer paradise||Bengaluru, home to over 60 microbreweries, can add ‘world’s largest microbrewery’ to the list with the opening of Ironhill India that can accomodate 1,500 people. Eight varieties of beer are on offer, including Sinnerman Stout, at the 1.3 lakh sq ft space in the IT hub of Marathahalli.9606044623/24. In Delhi’s Saket, Altogether Experimental has a popup  today, in collaboration with Amrita Kaur. ‘Vasant’ welcomes spring through a seven-course home style meal using Ayurvedic principles.99992 88073||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/xxl-beer-paradise/article34228496.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Ruby-loaded eggs||Smash Fabelle Chocolates’ Signature Easter Egg to reveal nut clusters enrobed in milk and ruby chocolate. Buy the egg at Rs. 2,475 or mini eggs (box of 10) for Rs. 495 at ITC hotels or order online. Kiko-bā a restaurant in Delhi’s Vasant Vihar, takes heirloom recipes from homes in Eastern Asia ,and gives them a modern twist. Try the shisho butter that takes three days to make, combining ingredients like shisho leaves, Ponzo, aged rice vinegar, and French butter. Or order the Grilled Lobster (Robatta) or the Black Cod Gyoza to savour its flavour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ruby-loaded-eggs/article34228497.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Return of the watches||Watchmaking worldwide is set to be in the spotlight as the annual trade show, where leading names reveal their latest products, will soon get underway. Set to be a hybrid show this year, Watches and Wonders Geneva’s digital event is a private affair. As many as 38 prestigious brands will gather on watchesandwonders.com. April 7 to 13. This will be followed by an in-person event in Shanghai, which will host 19 brands, including first-time exhibitors Chopard, Montblanc, Rolex, Tudor and Ulysse Nardin. April 14 to 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/return-of-the-watches/article34228498.ece
03 April 2021||April 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Excelsior Pass: What’s the latest on digital vaccine passports? You know, the health certificate that will see you enjoying a concert with hundreds of people and the tourism industry sighing with relief. New York, with IBM, has rolled out the pass, which shows a person’s Covid-19 status (whether vaccinated and results of a recent test). And then follow the questions about privacy and data protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-point/article34228499.ece
