04 April 2021||New Delhi,||5 security men killed in Sukma encounter||Five security personnel were killed and more than 12 injured in an encounter with Maoists in Sukma district of Chhattisgarh on Saturday. Two of the dead were from the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). At least three Chhattisgarh police personnel are missing. The body of a woman Maoist was recovered from the site of encounter, a senior CRPF official said. One more cadre was said to have been killed. According to the official, a joint team of the Chhattisgarh Police comprising the District Reserve Guard (DRG) and the Special Task Force (STF), along with various teams of the CRPF, proceeded for a combing operation in south Bastar on Friday night. The region is said to be a Maoist stronghold. More than 2,000 security personnel from various camps are said to have joined the operation. Under attack Around Saturday noon, a 400-strong team of security forces came under attack by a People’s Liberation Guerilla Army (PLGA) platoon in the Tarrem area near the Sukma-Bijapur border. The exchange of fire lasted more than three hours. “From 4 p.m., there has been no firing, but the security forces are still there in the jungle. Till the time every personnel reaches their respective camps, we cannot say that the operation is over,” Director-General of Police, Chhattisgarh, D.M Awasthi told The Hindu . He said at least seven personnel were evacuated by helicopters as they required urgent medical attention. The deceased CRPF personnel have been identified as constable Babloo Rabha and Somaiya Mandvi. Mr. Rabha belonged to the elite Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) of the CRPF, a unit specially trained for operations in areas affected by left-wing extremism. The nearest camp of security forces is located 12 km from the encounter site, the DGP said. Another official said further clarity would emerge by Sunday morning as the area did not have adequate communication facilities. The area is a stronghold of the South Bastar divisional committee of the banned CPI(Maoist), headed by Raghu, and falls under the Jagargunda area committee, led by Papa Rao. The attack comes close on the heels of the March 23 incident when five DRG personnel were killed as Maoists blew up a bus carrying security personnel with an IED in Narayanpur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5-security-men-killed-in-sukma-encounter/article34235720.ece
04 April 2021||MEENANGADI (WAYANAD),||Answer my questions, Shah dares Pinarayi||Union Home Minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Amit Shah has once again challenged Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to answer the questions raised by him regarding the foreign currency and gold smuggling cases. Addressing an election meeting of National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidates in the district on Saturday, Mr. Shah said if the Chief Minister was the quintessential tough leader he should answer his queries before the Assembly polls. “When I had raised those questions to Mr. Vijayan, he was just showing arrogance instead of answering them,” Mr. Shah said. “Mr. Vijayan should clarify whether the main accused in the foreign currency and gold smuggling cases had worked in his office or not. He should clarify whether his government had paid the accused Rs. 3 lakh as monthly salary, and whether his former Principal Secretary had made arrangements for foreign trips along with him. The people were eager to know whether the accused was a frequent visitor of the official residence of the Chief Minister,” Mr. Shah said. Mr. Vijayan had said the government would inquire into the phone calls made from the office of the Chief Minister after the Customs had seized gold. What were the results of the inquiry, if any inquiry had been conducted, Mr. Shah asked. The United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) were birds of the same feather and successive governments of the fronts had been cheating the public for deacdes. Kerala had the highest literacy rate in the country. But the rule of both the fronts had wiped out all opportunity for development. “Both the fronts are synonyms for scams,” Mr. Shah said, adding that it was solar scam during the United Democratic Front rule and the foreign currency and gold smuggling scams during the LDF rule. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched many projects in the State, he said adding that while the 13th Financial Commission under the United Progressive Alliance government had granted Rs. 45,300 crore to Kerala, the 14th Financial Commission under the National Democratic Alliance government had granted Rs. 1,34,848 crore to the State. On Rahul Gandhi Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, MP, was a just a tourist in his Wayanad constituency, Mr. Shah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/answer-my-question-shah-dares-pinarayi/article34236052.ece
04 April 2021||Mumbai,||State records nearly 50,000 new cases for first time||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 49,447 new COVID-19 cases, its highest single-day spike, taking its total case tally to 29,53,523. A total of 277 fatalities pushed the death toll to 55,656. The active cases now stand at 4,01,172. Mumbai registered 9,108 new cases, its highest daily spike yet. With 1,84,404 new tests, the samples tested so far rose to 2,03,43,123. The recovery rate in the State stands at 84.49%, while the case fatality rate is 1.88%. Of the 277 fatalities, 132 deaths occurred in the last 48 hours. A total of 37,821 patients were discharged during the day, taking the total tally of recoveries in the State to 24,95,315, the State Health Department said. New high in Navi Mumbai Navi Mumbai crossed the 1,000 mark in daily cases, recording a spike of 1,205 cases on Saturday. The case tally has now gone up to 68,662, with 7,776 active patients. With four deaths, the toll has risen to 1,186, while 627 recoveries took the total tally to 59,700. Three more COVID Care Centres (CCCs) were reopened on Saturday, increasing the number of beds by 243 to touch 1,326. Currently, 787 beds at the eight CCCs are available. “The 700 paramedical staff who were hired last year on contract basis have been called back and more are being hired,” said Abhijit Bangar, the civic body chief. Mr. Bangar also said that malls and department stores will be fined Rs. 50,000 if found flouting norms. Further non-compliance would lead to closure for a week and later being sealed till the State government declares the end of the COVID-19 pandemic.   (With inputs from Raina Assainar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-records-nearly-50000-new-cases-for-first-time/article34236189.ece
04 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Rule on 50% occupancy in theatres deferred till April 7||Succumbing to pressure from the Kannada film industry lobby, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday relaxed the 50% occupancy rule for theatres which he had imposed just the day before across eight districts in Karnataka, including Bengaluru Urban. Shortly after lead actor Puneeth Rajkumar, whose big budget film Yuvarathnaa hit the screens only two days ago, met the Chief Minister and lobbied for relaxing the norms, the State government issued orders deferring the implementation of the rule to April 7. The order cited advanced ticket bookings as the reason for the decision. The relaxation of rules has come under criticism from other sectors like the hospitality industry where proprietors of restaurants, hotels, etc which have had to reduce occupancy rate by half, and gyms which were ordered to stop operating for the foreseeable future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rule-on-50-occupancy-in-theatres-deferred-till-april-7/article34235768.ece
04 April 2021||New Delhi,||ECI reduces campaigning ban on Assam Minister||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Saturday reduced the 48-hour ban on campaigning by BJP leader and Assam Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma to 24 hours, after taking into account his “unconditional apology” and “assurance” to adhere to the model code of conduct. The Commission had on Friday banned Mr. Sarma from campaigning till April 4 for allegedly making threatening remarks against Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) chief Hagrama Mohilary. Mr. Sarma had said that Mr. Mohilary would be sent to jail if he engaged in extremism.  In his representation to the Commission on Saturday, Mr. Sarma said his statements were not a personal attack on anyone or a party. “However, if my statements have caused inconvenience to anyone, and also, same are in violation of the norm of the model code of conduct in the eye of the Election Commission of India, I most sincerely and humbly express my unconditional regret for causing the same with an assurance that I shall be more careful and vigilant in future to follow the norm of the model code of conduct in true letter and spirit,” he wrote. The Commission wrote to Mr. Sarma saying that it had considered his representation and reduced the ban, which means that he can campaign from Saturday evening onwards. Canvassing for the third and final phase of Assam Assembly election comes to an end on Sunday evening. In his representation, Mr. Sarma had also pleaded on the grounds that he was himself a candidate in the constituency that was scheduled to go for the polls on April 6. Reducing the ban, the Commission said Mr. Sarma could be given permission to holding public meetings, processions, rallies and roadshows by the district authorities concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eci-reduces-campaigning-ban-on-assam-minister/article34236238.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||ECI reduces campaigning ban on Assam Minister Himanta||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Saturday reduced the 48-hour ban on campaigning by BJP leader and Assam Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma to 24 hours, after taking into account his “unconditional apology” and “assurance” to adhere to the model code of conduct. The Commission had on Friday banned Mr. Sarma from campaigning till April 4 for allegedly making threatening remarks against Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) chief Hagrama Mohilary. Mr. Sarma had said that Mr. Mohilary would be sent to jail if he engaged in extremism. ‘Not personal attack’ In his representation to the Commission on Saturday, Mr. Sarma said his statements were not a personal attack on anyone or a party. “However, if my statements have caused inconvenience to anyone, and also, same are in violation of the norm of the model code of conduct in the eye of the Election Commission of India, I most sincerely and humbly express my unconditional regret for causing the same with an assurance that I shall be more careful and vigilant in future to follow the norm of the model code of conduct in true letter and spirit,” he wrote. The Commission wrote to Mr. Sarma saying that it had considered his representation and reduced the ban, which means that he can campaign from Saturday evening onwards. Canvassing for the third and final phase of Assam Assembly election comes to an end on Sunday evening. In his representation, Mr. Sarma had also pleaded on the grounds that he was himself a candidate in the constituency that was scheduled to go for the polls on April 6. Reducing the ban, the Commission said Mr. Sarma could be given permission to holding public meetings, processions, rallies and roadshows by the district authorities concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eci-reduces-campaigning-ban-on-assam-minister/article34235727.ece
04 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||9 more COVID deaths in State||The State witnessed nine more deaths due to COVID-19, the highest since December 6, in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. During the same period, 1,398 new infections were reported. It was the highest single-day tally since mid-November. The cumulative tally increased to  9,05,946  and the death toll reached 7,234. Two deaths each occurred in Guntur and Nellore districts, while one death each occurred in Chittoor, Kadapa, Kurnool, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam., The recovery rate came down to 98.16% as 787 patients recovered in the past day leaving 9,417  cases active. The total recoveries was at 8,89,295.   The State continues to test only around 30,000 samples a day even as the positivity rate has been increasing by the day. In the past day, 31,260 samples were tested and their positivity rate was 4.47%, the highest in several months. The overall positivity rate of the 1.517 crore samples was at 5.97%. Five districts reported more than 150 new infections amounting to 72% of the total infections reported in the state on the last day. Guntur reported 273 new infections and was followed by Visakhapatnam (198), Chittoor (190), Krishna (178), Nellore (163), Kurnool (96), Kadapa (75), Srikakulam (51), Prakasam (48), Vizianagaram (47), Anantapur (36), East Godavari (28) and West Godavari (15). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,25,417), West Godavari (94,570), Chittoor (90,501), Guntur (78,685), Anantapur (68,545), Nellore (63,442), Prakasam (62,728), Visakhapatnam (62,274), Kurnool (61,787), Kadapa (55,977), Krishna (50,837), Srikakulam (46,847) and Vizianagaram (41,441).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nine-more-covid-deaths-in-state/article34235711.ece
04 April 2021||Ghaziabad,||Two arrested in gang rape, death of minor girl in Meerut||A teenage girl was allegedly gang-raped and poisoned in a Meerut village on Thursday while she was on her way to a tuition class. The family members took her to a private hospital where she died during treatment. The Meerut police arrested two of the four accused — Lakhan and Vikas — after an FIR was lodged by the girl’s paternal uncle under relevant sections of the IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. On Saturday morning, when the police were taking the accused to a Meerut court, Mr. Lakhan snatched the revolver of a head constable and fired at the police team. In retaliation, the Station House Officer, Sardhana, fired back at Mr. Lakhan and he was nabbed again. Rajendra Kumar Shahi, Circle Officer, Sardhana, said Mr. Lakhan had no criminal record. “He has been admitted to CHC Sardhana. Both the accused are 19-20 years old,” he added. Two other accused are still on the run. While the police said a note had been recovered from the girl’s house, family members denied it. ( Those in distress can contact Sanjivini Society for Mental Health helpline at 011-40769002; 10 a.m.-7.30 p.m. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-arrested-in-gang-rape-death-of-minor-girl-in-meerut/article34235908.ece
04 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||Health dept. braces up for more COVID patient admissions||The Telangana Health department is bracing up to admit more COVID-19 patients at government hospitals. State Health Minister Eatala Rajender has directed officials to make available five hospitals in Hyderabad to treat and quarantine COVID-19 patients in a week’s time. The occupancy of regular beds, beds with oxygen supply, and beds in ICUs is increasing. The total bed occupancy in government and private hospitals has increased by three folds from March first week. From March 1 to 9, a maximum of 1,100 beds were occupied by COVID patients. It increased to over 3,500 in the past four days, clearly indicating rising demand for COVID-19 treatment. Most of the people are opting for private hospitals. Nature Cure Hospital, Government General and Chest Hospital, Nizamia Tibbi Hospital, Ayurveda Hospital, and Sir Ronald Ross Institute of Tropical and Communicable Diseases (Fever Hospital) are the five hospitals which would be made available in seven days. This is in addition to the facilities available at Gandhi Hospital and other health facilities. Besides this, Mr Rajender said that they would resume providing COVID-19 treatment at all the hospitals where the services were provided last year. COVID wards would be arranged at headquarters of 33 districts. He has directed officials to provide doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, patient care providers, medicines, at the hospitals. The tragic situations where people ran out of money to pay for COVID treatment in private hospitals are still fresh in people’s minds. Mr Rajender has warned managements of private hospitals not to cash in on the fear of people. He has directed them to charge fees according to conditions imposed by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/health-dept-braces-for-more-admissions/article34236019.ece
04 April 2021||Chennai/NEW DELHI,||India reports 92,994 new cases, 514 deaths||As of 10 p.m. on Saturday, India reported 86,184 new COVID-19 cases, 471 new deaths and 58,523 fresh recoveries, with an active case load of 6,82,202 patients. The figures does not include data from Chhattisgarh, Assam, Jharkhand and Ladakh U.T. The data is sourced from covid19india.org, an independent aggregator of daily COVID-19 figures. States such as Maharashtra, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh have shown a steep rise in their daily COVID-19 cases and over 80% of the new cases on Saturday were reported from these seven States. Maharashtra recorded 49,447 new cases, followed by Karnataka with 4,373 and Delhi with 3,567 new cases on Saturday. India’s total active caseload has reached 6,82,202 of which Maharashtra accounts for nearly 59% cases. “In the last two months (February 3 to April 3) Maharashtra has shown a nine-fold jump — the maximum increase in the number of active cases during this period — while in percentage terms, Punjab has reported the maximum increase in active cases,” a statement released by the Health Ministry on Saturday morning said. India’s cumulative recoveries stood at 1,16,25,586 with 58,523 recoveries registered on Saturday. Giving the vaccination figures, the Ministry said the cumulative number of vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed the 7.3 crore mark currently; 7,30,54,295 vaccine doses have been administered through 11,53,614 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 a.m. on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-adds-86184-new-cases-471-deaths/article34235718.ece
04 April 2021||CHENNAI,||If need be, restrictions will be stepped up, says Chief Secretary||The COVID-19 situation is being monitored daily, and if need be, restrictions will be re-introduced, Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan said on Saturday. After a meeting with Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on the situation across the States, Mr. Ranjan said in a release that officials were monitoring compliance with the guidelines at crowded places such as markets and places of worship. He said Rs. 2.59 crore in penalty had been levied under the Public Health Act from March 16 to April 2 for violations of the guidelines. Mr. Ranjan asked those eligible to get vaccinated. As of April 2, the Chief Secretary said, the total vaccine coverage stood at 31,75,349, and as of April 3, the State had 54,78,720 doses of vaccines. He requested the public to follow the safety guidelines, including wearing of masks and physical distancing. The Centre on Friday said the situation was particularly worrying in Maharashtra, Punjab and Chhattisgarh and raised concerns about the increase in the number of cases in States including Tamil Nadu. As of April 2, 846 locations had been identified as micro-containment zones (where more than three persons are infected) and they were under strict monitoring, Mr. Ranjan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/if-need-be-restrictions-will-be-brought-back-chief-secretary/article34235814.ece
04 April 2021||GURUGRAM,||Farmer injured amid protests against Haryana CM||Two persons, including an elderly farmer, were injured in a clash between agitating farmers and the police during Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal’s visit to Rohtak on Saturday. The police, however, maintained that injuries were caused during stone-pelting by the farmers and no force was used. The farmers were protesting against the Chief Minister’s visit as part of their boycott of the BJP and its ally, the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) leaders in the State in view of the ongoing agitation against the three farm laws. Superintendent of Police, Rohtak, Rahul Sharma told The Hindu that an elderly farmer and a policeman were injured during stone-pelting by the farmers protesting against the Chief Minister’s visit. The injured farmer was provided medical aid, he added. Mr. Sharma said the protest was handled in a peaceful manner and there was no clash. “The farmers wanted to break through the barricades and enter the ground inside a university campus where the CM’s chopper was scheduled to land. In view of the protests, the CM later landed at Police Lines and went ahead with his programme in the city,” said Mr. Sharma. The protesters, however, claimed that the farmer was injured in a lathi-charge by the police. The farmers had gathered outside Baba Mastnath University campus where Chief Minister’s chopper was to land. Mr. Khattar was in the city to attend a condolence meeting following the death of the father of local Lok Sabha MP Arvind Sharma. The umbrella farmers’ organisation, Samyukat Kisan Morcha, in a press statement, condemned “unprovoked lathi-charge” on protesting farmers. “Many farmers were injured. Given the continuous anti-farmer speeches and behaviour of Haryana BJP leaders and government — the insulted and angry farmers decided to protest peacefully with black flags and gathered in large numbers at Asthal Bohar. However, the police used force against the protestors injuring several protesters,” senior SKM leader Darshan Pal said. “The farmers, enraged by the highly disparaging remarks made during farmers’ agitation by BJP leaders, had assembled to peacefully show black flags to the Chief Minister. Even women protesters were manhandled by the male cops. Some protesters have received grievous injuries,” said a statement issued by Haryana All-India Kisan Sabha vice-president Inderjit Singh. The incident comes close on the heels of a similar protest against Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala in Hisar on April 1. As harvesting of wheat is all set to commence in Punjab and Haryana, farmers are shaping up a strategy to ensure that the build-up of protesters agitating against Centre's agriculture laws at state borders surrounding Delhi doesn’t drop. The SKM held a joint meeting of farmers, farm workers, women, employees, students, youth, commission agents, teachers, university staff and other organisations at Ludhiana based Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) to devise a strategy for the agitation during the upcoming harvesting season. “More than 100 organisations took part in today’s meeting organised by PAU Teachers' Union, PAU Employees' Union and PAU Students' Union. The meeting took cognisance of the fact that when farmers and farm workers attend to wheat harvesting in their farms, the Delhi protest sites have to continue to remain strong in terms of participation. While the farmers' movement will not be weakened in any way, this meeting sought ways of strengthening the protest sites by the participation of non-farmer unions,” said Mr. Pal. Mr. Pal said all participants pledged to extend their full support in strengthening the movement. “The first meeting of "Punjab for Farmers"will be held in Jalandhar on April 7,” he said.  (With inputs from Vikas Vasudeva)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmer-injured-amid-protests-against-haryana-cm/article34235725.ece
04 April 2021||Mangaluru,||Nine persons held on theft, dacoity charges||A team of the city police, led by Assistant Commissioner of Police (North Sub Division) Mahesh Kumar, on Saturday arrested nine persons who were allegedly involved in a spate of theft, robbery, and dacoity incidents in Dakshina Kannada, Bengaluru, Udupi, Hassan, and Chikkamagaluru districts. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar gave the names of the arrested as Abdul Rauf, 24, Ramamurthy, 23, Ashraf Peradi, 27, Santhosh, 24, Naveed, 36, Ramananda N. Shetty, 48, Suman, 24, Siddique, 27, and Alikoya. Ravoof was involved in 12 cases, while Ashraf and Santosh were involved in nine cases. Ramamurthy and Alikoya were involved in eight cases each, while Siddique, Suman, and Ramanand Shetty were involved in seven cases respectively. Naveed was involved in one case, Mr. Kumar told reporters. Efforts are on to trace about 20 more persons, including four key operators, he said. The police recovered a sports utility vehicle, two hatchback cars, an autorickshaw, 11 mobile phones, four two-wheelers, an air gun, and 250 grams of gold worth Rs. 32.22 lakh. Weapons including an iron rod, machete, iron lever and a long knife, wooden logs, and packets of chilli powder were also been recovered. The arrests were made following investigation into four incidents of dacoity in Moodbidri, two in Bajpe, and one in Mulky police station limits that occurred between March 27 and March 31. Mr. Kumar said these seven crimes were similar to theft and dacoity incidents reported in Moodbidri, Karkala, Uppinangady, Arehalli (in Hassan district), Punjalkatte, and Vijayanagar (in Bengaluru) police station limits between September 2019 and December 2020. The four key operators, who hail from Dakshina Kannada, networked with persons in different parts of the State to commit the crimes and they targeted arecanut traders and also places where black money was kept in godowns and farmhouses. They took vehicles of persons known to them and changed the number plate. In some cases, they stole the vehicles and used it in the crime. There was a brief lull to their crime spree during lockdown last year as the accused found people in farmhouses and also saw more police checkposts, Mr. Kumar said. The investigation team comprised inspector Dinesh Kumar B.S., sub-inspector Sudeep M.V, head constable Mohammed Hussain, and constables Akhil Ahmed, Sujan, Santosh, Basavaraj Patil, Yashwanth Kumar, Shivaraj, Narasimha, and Pradeep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nine-persons-held-on-theft-dacoity-charges/article34236172.ece
04 April 2021||Guwahati,||Brother transferred||Hours after imposing restrictions on Assam Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, the Election Commission of India transferred his brother and Goalpara Superintendent of Police Sushanta Biswa Sarma from the district. In an official communication to the State’s Chief Electoral Officer on Friday, the Commission ordered that Mr. Sushanta be transferred “to some suitable post in State headquarters”. It named IPS officer Veera Venkata Rakesh Reddy as his replacement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/brother-transferred/article34235728.ece
04 April 2021||CHENNAI,||NHAI revises rates at 24 toll plazas in Tamil Nadu||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has revised rates at 24 toll plazas across Tamil Nadu with effect from April 1. The annual revision has led to an increase of Rs. 5-Rs. 50 in one direction at many plazas. The revision is calculated on a formula based on the annual wholesale price index. The State has 46 plazas, and the rates at the remaining plazas will be revised in September. Two plazas on the Chennai-Bengaluru Road have not had any revision, since the Madras High Court has reduced charges by 50%. R. Vangili, secretary, Tamil Nadu State Lorry Owners Federation, said truckers bore the brunt since heavy vehicles were charged high rates. “We worked despite the losses suffered and the dangers involved during the lockdown. Since there was a shortage of essentials, the government wanted us to run our vehicles and even opened toll plazas. But there is no respite for the transport industry,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nhai-revises-rates-at-24-toll-plazas-in-tamil-nadu/article34235856.ece
04 April 2021||Ghaziabad,||2 arrested for gang rape, death of minor||A teenage girl was allegedly gang-raped and poisoned in a Meerut village on Thursday while she was on her way to a tuition class. The family members took her to a private hospital where she died during treatment. The Meerut police arrested two accused — Lakhan and Vikas — after an FIR was lodged by the girl’s uncle under relevant sections of the IPC and POCSO Act, 2012.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-arrested-for-gang-rape-death-of-minor/article34236202.ece
04 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Slight relief from heatwave||The State continued to reel under hot weather due to high temperatures on Saturday. However, there was a slight relief as only a few mandals experienced severe heatwave conditions, which prevailed during the past three days. Only nine mandals in Kurnool, Nellore, Chittoor and West Godavari witnessed severe heatwave conditions while 76 mandals in Chittoor, Kadapa, Kurnool, West Godavari, Prakasam, Guntur witnessed heatwave conditions. A similar or even lesser intense weather conditions is likely to occur in the next two days. As per the report by Andhra Pradesh State Disaster Management Authority, no several heatwave conditions would prevail in the State on Sunday and Monday. Only Gudur mandal of Nellore district and Vijayapuram of Chittoor recorded a maximum temperature of more than 45 degrees Celsius. As per India Meteorological Department's inference, there was cyclonic circulation lying over Andhra Pradesh coast and neighbourhood at 2.1 km above mean sea level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/slight-relief-from-heatwave/article34235712.ece
04 April 2021||Hyderabad,||Inter practical exams postponed||The Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) has postponed the practical examinations, scheduled to start from April 7, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. In a statement here, the BIE said that practical exams were to be conducted from April 7 to 20. However, they have been postponed to be held from May 29 to June 7 after the conduct of the theory examinations. The details of practical examinations like issue of hall tickets, batches, and batch wise time table and other details will be informed later, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/inter-practical-exams-postponed/article34236244.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Safety first||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/safety-first/article34235709.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Freeze on registration for healthcare staff||No fresh registration for COVID-19 vaccination in categories of healthcare and frontline workers will be allowed with immediate effect, a senior Health Ministry official said on Saturday. An order issued by Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said Ineligible beneficiaries were taking the vaccine.page 13||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/freeze-on-registration-for-healthcare-staff/article34235765.ece
04 April 2021||MUMBAI,||Rs. 1,000 fine at Mumbai airport for violating COVID-19 norms||A fine of Rs. 1,000 will be collected from passengers violating COVID-19 safety protocol at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA), according to a directive issued by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation. The directive has already come into effect. The private airport operator said in a statement that marshals would levy fines on individuals who refuse to comply with the safety protocols. “In the event of further non-compliance, the violator will be handed over to the authorities for action,” the CSMIA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-1000-fine-at-mumbai-airport-for-violating-covid-19-norms/article34236187.ece
04 April 2021||Srinagar,||At least four militants hiding in Shopian forest: official||Security forces on Saturday launched an operation against a group of militants hiding in a forest in Shopian in south Kashmir. The operation was still on when reports last came in. An official said four or five militants were suspected to be hiding in a forest range between Shopian and Kulgam. “A search operation is on. There are specific inputs about their presence in the forest area,” he added. The official said the security forces had “established contact” with the hiding militants and were narrowing down on the area where they were believed to be hiding. It is the second major operation against militants in the past two days. Three militants were killed on Friday in Pulwama. “A firefight has started and the area remains under a cordon in Sedhau forest range at Chor Ki Gali,” an Army spokesman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gunfight-breaks-out-in-jks-shopian/article34235722.ece
04 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||13 students test positive at St. Stephen’s College||Following 13 students of St. Stephen’s College testing positive for COVID-19, the college administration has issued a notice stating that the inner perimeter of the campus will be out of bounds for everyone while the outer perimeter can be accessed after security checks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/13-students-test-positive-at-st-stephens-college/article34235910.ece
04 April 2021||New Delhi,||President Kovind’s health improving at AIIMS||President Ram Nath Kovind was on Saturday shifted from the ICU to a special room at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. His health has been improving continuously, noted a tweet issued on Saturday by the Rashtrapati Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/president-kovinds-health-improving-at-aiims/article34236204.ece
04 April 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Commission agents not middlemen: Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking continuance of the existing system of payment to farmers. He asserted that commission agents are not middlemen between farmers and procurement agencies but service providers and urged Mr. Modi to ensure that the livelihood of the farmers is not jeopardised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/commission-agents-not-middlemen-amarinder/article34236205.ece
04 April 2021||Bhubaneswar,||3 BJP MLAs hurl shoes at Odisha Assembly Speaker||Hours after shoes were hurled at the Odisha Assembly Speaker, Surjya Narayan Patro, inside the House on Saturday, three BJP legislators — Bishnu Charan Sethi, Mohan Charan Majhi and Jai Narayan Mishra — were suspended from the ongoing Budget session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-bjp-mlas-hurl-shoes-at-odisha-assembly-speaker/article34236206.ece
04 April 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai nearby||A delegation of the Maharashtra Congress on Saturday met Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and urged him to set up a coordination committee with two leaders from each of the three parties to ensure implementation of the common minimum programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-nearby/article34236186.ece
04 April 2021||Kolkata,||BJP engineering riots, charges Mamata||Accusing the BJP of engineering riots to win elections, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday urged the gathering at a rally to take a vow not to allow any split in minority votes. She targeted the Indian Secular Front, an ally of the Left and the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-engineering-riots-charges-mamata/article34236128.ece
04 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Dynastic politics of DMK, Cong. must end: Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah said the development of Tamil Nadu can happen only when the corruption and dynastic politics of the DMK and Congress are eliminated. Mr. Shah said that whatever development had happened under PM Narendra Modi’s rule across the country, must come to Tamil Nadu too. The Home Minister said this after leading a roadshow at Teynampet for the BJP’s candidate, Khushbu Sundar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dynastic-politics-of-dmk-cong-must-end-shah/article34235941.ece
04 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Nearly three-fold rise in ICU cases since March 1||Karnataka has recorded a nearly three-fold rise in the number of critical COVID-19 patients being monitored in Intensive Care Units (ICUs) at various hospitals in the past one month. From 118 on March 1, the number has shot up to 327 on Saturday. Of these, 157 are in Bengaluru Urban alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nearly-three-fold-rise-in-icu-cases-since-march-1/article34235770.ece
04 April 2021||Bengaluru,||CM defers rule on 50% occupancy in theatres||A day after imposing restrictions, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday acceded to the demands of the Kannada film industry and relaxed the 50% occupancy rule for theatres which it had initially imposed across eight districts in Karnataka, including Bengaluru Urban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-defers-rule-on-50-occupancy-in-theatres/article34235994.ece
04 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Centralisation of power with CM leading to issues||The tendency towards centralisation of powers in the hands of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and his office seems to be leading to multiple governance issues in the State. The most recent charge is only the tip of the iceberg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centralisation-of-power-with-cm-leading-to-issues/article34235995.ece
04 April 2021||SALEM,||Stalin does not have good opinion about farmers: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami said here on Saturday that DMK leader M.K.Stalin did not have a good opinion of farmers and indulged in false propaganda. Campaigning at Salem, the Chief Minister said Mr. Stalin had found a new phrase ‘fake farmer’ and wanted the DMK president to explain what he meant by that.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalin-does-not-have-good-opinion-about-farmers-cm/article34235816.ece
04 April 2021||Chennai,||T.N. records 3,446 new cases, 14 deaths||For the second day in a row, Tamil Nadu reported over 3,000 fresh cases of COVID-19 that pushed the active caseload to over 20,000 after five months. With 3,446 persons testing positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, the State’s tally rose to 8,96,226. Chennai had 1,290 cases followed by Coimbatore with 292 cases, Chengalpattu 285, Tiruvallur 201 and Tiruchi 142.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-records-3446-new-cases-14-deaths/article34235817.ece
04 April 2021||Tirunelveli,||‘Give victory for AIADMK combine’||To continue with MGR rule in Tamil Nadu and to ensure that the DMK’s dynasty remained out of power, the electorate should give a comfortable victory for the AIADMK combine led by Edappadi K Palaniswami, said Union Home Minister Amit Shah, campaigning here on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/give-victory-for-aiadmk-combine/article34236265.ece
04 April 2021||Hyderabad,||Cases in Telangana cross 1,000 mark again||Telangana crossed the 1,000 cases mark with 1,078 testing positive for COVID-19 on Friday. ICU beds occupied also crossed 1,000 and there were six deaths, recalling the figures last seen in October and November 2020. The 1,078 new cases include 283 from Greater Hyderabad, 113 from Medchal-Malkajgiri and 104 from Rangareddy. Kerala’s case graph rose further by 2,541 cases on Saturday. The test positivity rate (TPR) rose to 5.67%. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said at Kannur on Saturday that the second wave raging through neighbouring States was a warning for Kerala. Mutant variants were found in a significant percentage of samples in Maharashtra and Punjab and it was likely that with unrestricted domestic travel, these variants could reach Kerala soon. He appealed to all in the eligible age groups – 45 years plus – to get vaccinated as soon as possible. The pace of vaccination would go up once the primary health centres were also equipped to function as vaccination sites, he added. The State recorded 12 new deaths in the list of COVID fatalities on Saturday. Kannur reported three deaths, Kollam, Thrissur and Kozhikode two each, and Alappuzha, Kottayam and Ernakulam one death each. Kozhikode reported the maximum number of new cases at 568. Andhra Pradesh recorded nine more COVID-19 deaths, the highest count since December 6, on Saturday morning. New infections stood at 1,398. Two fatalities each occurred in Guntur and Nellore, and one each in Chittoor, Kadapa, Kurnool, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam districts. Even with a rising TPR, the State continued to test only around 30,000 samples a day. In the past day, 31,260 samples had a TPR of 4.47%. Guntur reported 273 new infections, Visakhapatnam (198), Chittoor (190), Krishna (178), Nellore (163) and Kurnool (96), Kadapa (75), Srikakulam (51), Prakasam (48), Vizianagaram (47), Anantapur (36), East Godavari (28) and West Godavari (15). 3,446 cases in T.N. For the second day in a row, Tamil Nadu reported over 3,000 fresh cases of COVID-19 that pushed the active caseload to over 20,000 after five months. With 3,446 persons testing positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, the State’s tally rose to 8,96,226.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada, and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cases-in-telangana-cross-1000-mark-again/article34235658.ece
04 April 2021||Kolkata,||BJP engineering riots, alleges Mamata||Accusing the BJP of engineering riots to win elections, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday urged the gathering at a rally in South 24 Parganas to take a vow not to allow any split in minority votes. Ms. Banerjee targeted the Indian Secular Front (ISF), an ally of the Left and the Congress, and said they were out to split the minority votes to help the BJP. According to the previous census, West Bengal has about 27.01% minority population, which has largely supported the Trinamool. South 24 Parganas, where Ms. Banerjee addressed several public meetings in the day though a stronghold of the ruling party, has seen the ISF fielding the most number of candidates. In all her public meetings, Ms. Banerjee accused the BJP of trying to engineer communal strife and urged people to be watchful. “If a tiger comes into your locality, it will attack both Hindus and Muslims. Both Hindus and Muslim will have to fight the tiger,” Ms. Banerjee said at a public meeting at Canning. Earlier in the day, at a public meeting at Raidighi, she said, “I am a devout Hindu who recites Chandi mantra every day before leaving home. But I believe in our tradition of giving respect to every religion.” She said she did not nominate actor Deboshree Roy from Raidighi as peope did not want her as the candidate. The Trinamool chairperson raised the issue of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, and said that if the BJP was voted to power, the party would implement the Act and the National Register of Citizens (NRC), forcing “many citizens to leave”. “They will divide West Bengal and its people. Remember how they deleted the names of 14 lakh Bengalis and 2 lakh Biharis in the updated NRC in Assam,” Ms. Banerjee said. Plea against CM The State leadership of the BJP filed a complaint against Ms. Banerjee at the office of the Chief Electoral Officer in Kolkata alleging that she has violated model code of conduct by making provocative statements. Ms. Banerjee, during a public rally at Kulpi, said why should people go to rallies of BJP leaders including Amit Shah for Rs. 500. Mr. Modi, who campaigned in the State on Saturday, said such remarks were an insult to the people of West Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-engineering-riots-charges-mamata/article34235670.ece
04 April 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra declares ‘all pass’||In view of the ongoing situation due to COVID-19, all State board students across Maharashtra from Class 1 to 8 will be promoted to the next class without any examinations, announced School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad. She said a decision regarding classes 9 and 11 will soon be taken. Ms. Gaikwad said, “Physical education in schools could not begin in educational year 2020-21 from standard 1 to 4. And for the rest of the classes from standard 5 to 8, the schools could be opened only for a short period due to the virus. Looking at the exceptional circumstances, the State government has decided to promote the students from standard 1 to 8.” The Minister said irrespective of the limitations on teachers which prevented them from physical appearance in classes, they used various online and other tools for the teaching purposes. “It is expected from the teachers to undertake comprehensive evaluation of students but the present situation has created certain hurdles. The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) will be issuing guidelines for the same,” she said. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday had warned of a possible lockdown in view of the rising number of patients. Pune district has called for a mini-lockdown. Examinations of standard 10 and 12 will however be conducted on schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-declares-all-pass/article34235678.ece
04 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Freeze on CoWIN registration for healthcare and frontline workers||No fresh registration for COVID-19 vaccination in categories of healthcare and frontline workers will be allowed with immediate effect, a senior Health Ministry official said on Saturday. The one-page order issued by Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan comes after “various inputs were received from different sources that in some of the vaccination centres, ineligible beneficiaries are being registered as healthcare and frontline workers and getting vaccinated in complete violation of the prescribed guidelines,” the Ministry said The order further states that there has been a 24% increase in healthcare workers databases in the past few days. “This issue was discussed with State representatives and experts and per recommendation of National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) no fresh registration will be allowed in these categories,” said Mr. Bhushan. Registrations of persons aged 45 years and above will continue to be permitted on CoWIN platform. 7.44 crore doses The cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered has crossed 7.44 crore on Saturday, said the Health Ministry. The provisional report till 8 p.m. put the figure at 7,44,42,267. They include 89,53,552 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 53,06,671 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 96,19,289 frontline workers (first), 40,18,526 FLWs (second), 4,57,78,875 more than 45 years old (first) and 7,65,354 for more than 45 years old (second). It said 13,00,146 vaccine doses were given till 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/freeze-on-cowin-registration-for-healthcare-and-frontline-workers/article34235705.ece
04 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Cong. protests EVM ‘manipulation’||The Central and State leaders of the Congress on Saturday staged a protest in Guwahati against the BJP’s alleged manipulation of electronic voting machines (EVMs). State Congress president Ripun Bora also wrote to the Election Commission citing another instance of EVM ‘theft’ in central Assam’s Diphu after polling officials in southern Assam’s Karimganj district were ‘caught’ carrying EVMs in the vehicle of the wife of a BJP candidate on April 1. In a letter to Assam’s Chief Electoral Officer Nitin Khade on Saturday, Mr. Bora said several EVMs were found by local people in the trunk of a luxury car “not requisitioned for election purpose” near the Hatipura polling station in Karbi Anglong district headquarters Diphu “under mysterious circumstances”. “Several EVMs were seized from a vehicle in Jamunamukh constituency [central Assam], which were being carried by government officials in the absence of any security personnel. No security personnel were present in the vehicle,” the complaint said. The party also alleged foul play in western Assam’s Kalaigaon constituency where an EVM was found missing and raised issues of EVM malfunctioning in 139 polling stations across five districts during elections on April 1. Mr. Bora’s letter also complained about suspicious individuals “seen loitering within a restricted area of the strongroom set in Dibrugarh” and urged the poll panel to “cause enquiries and take legal actions against all individuals found guilty”. An accident involving a vehicle carrying EVMs allegedly without any armed escort in southern Assam’s Silchar town drew the attention of the Congress and its ally All India United Democratic Front too. The Cachar district authorities trashed any mischief. “These were unused EVMs being brought to the strongroom from an intermediate strongroom for stock-taking,” a district official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-protests-evm-manipulation/article34235665.ece
04 April 2021||Islamabad,||No trade with India now: Imran||Prime Minister Imran Khan decided that Pakistan cannot go ahead with any trade with India under the current circumstances after holding consultations with key members of his Cabinet on importing cotton and sugar, a media report said on Saturday. The Prime Minister on Friday instructed the Ministry of Commerce and his economic team to immediately take steps to facilitate the relevant sectors, value added, apparel and sugar, by finding alternative cheap sources, the Dawn newspaper quoted sources as saying. Various proposals have been presented to the Economic Coordination Committee (ECC), which considers these suggestions from an economic and commercial point of view. After consideration by the ECC, its decisions are presented to the Cabinet for ratification and final approval, the report said. In the present case, a proposal was presented to the ECC to allow the import of cotton, cotton yarn and sugar from India keeping in view domestic requirements, it said. The ECC had decided on commercial grounds to recommend the imports for the Cabinet consideration. While the decision was not on the formal agenda of the Cabinet meeting, the issue was brought up by members and the Prime Minister instructed that the ECC’s decision be deferred and immediately reviewed, the report said. The Cabinet on Thursday rejected the proposal of the high-powered committee to import cotton from India, with Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi saying there can be no normalisation of ties until New Delhi reverses its decision to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir in 2019. Pakistan’s U-turn on Thursday came a day after the ECC, under newly appointed Finance Minister Hammad Azhar, recommended importing cotton and sugar from India, lifting a nearly two-year-long ban on its import amid tensions over the Kashmir issue. India has said it desires normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence. India has said the onus is on Pakistan to create an environment free of terror and hostility. ‘Talks and terror’ India has also told Pakistan that “talks and terror” cannot go together and has asked Islamabad to take demonstrable steps against terror groups responsible for launching various attacks on India. The ECC’s decision had raised hopes of a partial revival of Pakistan-India trade relations, which were suspended after the August 5, 2019 decision of New Delhi to revoke the special status of J&K. In May 2020, Pakistan lifted the ban on the import of medicines and raw material of essential drugs from India amid the pandemic. The revocation of the special status angered Pakistan, which downgraded diplomatic ties and expelled the High Commissioner in Islamabad. It also snapped all air and land links and suspended trade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-trade-with-india-now-imran/article34235676.ece
04 April 2021||New Delhi,||India extends condolences to Taiwan||India on Saturday conveyed condolences to Taiwan after the worst rail accident in the history of the island nation left at least 50 dead. The message triggered a series of exchanges among the officials on both sides, a rare sight in public diplomacy between the two countries that do not maintain full-fledged diplomatic ties because of objections from Beijing. “We are deeply saddened by the loss of so many lives in the railway accident in Taiwan. Our deepest condolences to the families. And our prayers for the early recovery of the injured,” said Arindam Bagchi, Official Spokesperson of India’s Ministry of External Affairs. The message drew a prompt response from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Taiwan, which in a social media message thanked the Ministry of External Affairs and said, “The government is working to ensure rescue and recovery efforts continue apace while making certain those affected receive all requisite support.” Taiwan’s Foreign Minister Joseph Wu also came on social media and thanked India “for the expression of sentiment and support”. “This genuinely friendly gesture will touch the people, and bring Taiwan and India closer in a real and lasting manner,” said Dr. Joseph Wu. The India-Taipei Association also issued a statement expressing condolences and wished a “speedy recovery to those injured in the accident”. Tunnel accident The express train with around 500 passengers crashed inside a tunnel after hitting a truck that had fallen on the track. The train was heading to the eastern city of Taitung from capital Taipei. Taiwan and India have maintained strong trade relationship over the last three decades, but they continue to maintain bilateral relation at the level of Trade Representatives because of objections from China. Both sides are however expected to intensify collaboration in the post-pandemic scenario in high-end industrial sectors as well as in the production of vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-extends-condolences-to-taiwan/article34235683.ece
04 April 2021||TIRUCHI,||Farmers hold key in battle for Tamil Nadu’s heartland||In the closely fought, high-stakes battle for the Tamil Nadu Assembly, the State’s central region with 41 Assembly seats spread over nine districts, could prove to be the political barometer. In recent elections, the party that has won the most number of constituencies here, has eventually formed the government. Having ceded much ground to its arch rival in the region in the past two Assembly elections, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam is keen on reasserting its supremacy in the agrarian heartland of the State, spread largely over the fertile Cauvery delta. DMK revival After the setback in 2011 when it won just seven seats by itself, the DMK substantially improved its performance to bag 16 seats in 2016. The party also recouped in the 2019 general election to win all the seven Lok Sabha seats from the region, after the total rout in 2014. And having put up an impressive performance in the 2019 local body polls, where it secured a majority in six district panchayat councils, the DMK is riding high on confidence. The AIADMK, however, is hoping to reap the benefits of the slew of measures announced ahead of the election by Chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswami, especially the cooperative crop loan waiver and declaration of the Cauvery delta a protected agricultural zone. Mr. Palaniswami has also consistently sought to identify himself as a humble farmer, who has risen up the ranks. Curiously, the Assembly election this time in the delta is seemingly bereft of any major issue. Even the three contentious new farm laws, despite the sporadic protests, do not seem to have become a major influencing factor here as farmers’ organisations are divided on the issue. “Despite stiff opposition from some of the organisations, the average farmer does not seem to be aware of the implications of the new laws,” V. Jeevakumar of Thanjavur says. Also, issues such as rising cultivation costs, poor returns and the impact of the pandemic on the rural economy have all been drowned in the cacophony of political wrangling. The crisis in the agriculture sector apart, the region has lagged behind in industrial growth too. A large number of steel fabrication units, all ancillaries of the public sector power major BHEL in Tiruchi, have turned sick. Yet, the ruling party believes that the pro-farmer measures of the government and the perceived “absence of anti-incumbency” would win the day. “Farmers are doubly happy and contented over the waiver of the crop loans as well as jewel loans,” says Minister for Handlooms and Textiles O.S. Manian, who is seeking re-election from Vedaranyam, famous for its salt pans. “Farmers were extended liberal credit and whenever they suffered crops losses, including in cyclone Gaja, they were compensated,” Mr. Manian contends. But the DMK dismisses the claims. “The announcements are all mere political stunts. The loan waiver has benefited only the AIADMK men and not all farmers have got their loans written off,” former Minister and DMK principal secretary K.N. Nehru said. The DMK has also been pointing to the lingering discontent over sections of farmers on the “inadequacy” of the compensation after cyclone Gaja. Besides, Mr. Manian, State Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabaskar, Tourism Minister Vellamandi N. Natarajan and AIADMK deputy coordinator R. Vaithilingam are contesting from the region. For the DMK, former Ministers Senthil Balaji and S. Reghupathy, and the prodigal son, S.K. Vetharathinam, are among the prominent contenders besides Mr. Nehru. Support from allies Though the Congress has been allotted just two seats in the region, it still commands respect across the region. The DMK alliance has been bolstered by the return of the Left parties, which have a presence in the core delta districts, and the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi. The support bases of the AIADMK’s allies — the BJP, Pattali Makkal Katchi and Tamil Maanila Congress — are restricted to certain pockets. But other factors could upset the fine calculations of the Dravidian majors. Seeman’s Naam Tamizhar Katchi, which has a sizeable following, has played spoilsport in many seats the past few polls and Kamal Haasan’s fledgling Makkal Needhi Maiam, in its quest to display its strength, could also cause a split in votes in urban segments.  Farmers are doubly happy and contented over the waiver of the crop loans as well as jewel loan O.S. Manian Minister for Handlooms and Textiles||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-hold-key-in-battle-for-tamil-nadus-heartland/article34235613.ece
04 April 2021||Kozhikode,||NDA and LDF are spreading hatred in Kerala, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said a Congress-free State was the prime agenda of both the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) to thwart the dream of a unified India led by the Indian National Congress. Addressing an election campaign of the United Democratic Front (UDF) at Koyilandy, Mr. Gandhi said both the NDA and the LDF were spreading hatred and division in society and their political opponents were at peril. “Congress workers can never spread hatred. They spread only unity. They cannot kill anyone. That is the biggest difference,” he said. Modi’s campaign Referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Congress-mukt Bharat (Congress-free India) slogan during election campaign, Mr. Gandhi said, “Mr. Modi would never say a Communist Party of India (Marxist) Mukt Bharat because he did not have any problems with that party. Both the BJP and Left parties know that the real threat to them are the united forces and they together try to divide people”. Mr. Gandhi said whatever India had gained till date were all because of the hard work of Indian citizens and the Congress that stood for fostering social harmony, peace, and tranquillity. “Now, our country is facing the biggest problem of unemployment and stagnated economy, which can be solved only through a proper plan for the future,” Mr. Gandhi said.  Country’s future Reiterating the Congress’ plan for creating more job opportunities and a strong economy, Mr. Gandhi said he wanted to stress more on the country’s future growth in his campaigns as it could take the country forward. “We never look at Karl Marx’s book for solutions. We look to you for finding solutions. We ask you for knowing your expectations,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nda-and-ldf-are-spreading-hatred-in-kerala-says-rahul/article34235639.ece
04 April 2021||Wayanad,||Answer my questions, Amit Shah dares Pinarayi Vijayan||Union Home Minister Amit Shah took part in a roadshow in Kozhikode city on Saturday evening. Mr. Shah reached the city from Wayanad district at around 6.30 p.m. and led the 1 km-long roadshow along with National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidates and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders. Hundreds of party workers waited for nearly two hours for the arrival of the NDA’s top campaigner. NDA leaders said the arrival of Mr. Shah gave new energy to their electioneering in the district. NDA candidates M.T. Ramesh, Navya Haridas and V.K. Rajeevan, contesting from Kozhikode North, Kozhikode South and Kunnamangalam constituencies, respectively, were present along with Mr. Shah in the campaign vehicle. The city was under tight security cover in view of the Union Home Minister’s visit. Police officers had a tough time controlling the crowd.   Mr. Shah once again challenged Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to answer questions raised by him regarding the foreign currency and gold smuggling cases.     Mr. Shah said Kerala had the highest literacy rate in the country, but the rule of both the United Democratic Front and the Left Democratic Front had wiped out all opportunity for development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-lost-opportunity-for-development-says-shah/article34235641.ece
04 April 2021||MYSURU,||Six of family die as man sets fire to his daughter’s house||Six persons, including three children, were burnt to death at Mugatageri village in Ponnampet police station limits of Kodagu district early on Saturday. 50-year-old is accused The police said that the accused identified as Boja, 50, a labourer, set fire to the house where his wife, daughter, grandchildren and others were asleep, around 2 a.m. The police said Boja’s wife Bebi, 40, who was fed up with the frequent fights he used to have with her in a drunken state, had come to her daughter’s house on Friday. Though she wanted to leave on Friday night, her daughter asked her to stay overnight. But Boja, who was looking for his wife, arrived at his daughter’s house late in the night. “He went to the roof of the house using a ladder, removed the tiles, poured kerosene and lit a fire,” said a police official. As the doors of the house were bolted, the victims suffered serious burns when the house caught fire. Superintendent of Police, Kodagu, Kshama Mishra said three victims, including a six-year-old child, died on the spot. Three others died at a hospital in Mysuru. Neighbours had to break into the house to rescue those who suffered serious burns. Two more persons, who suffered serious burns are undergoing treatment at K.R. Hospital in Mysuru. Team formed The police have formed a team to trace the accused. Prima facie, the provocation for the act was a “family dispute”. But, more details would emerge during the investigation, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/six-of-family-die-as-man-sets-fire-to-his-daughters-house/article34235650.ece
04 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Coal block cases: ED attaches assets||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth Rs. 73 crore in connection with two coal block cases. In the first case, Visa Power Limited had got the Fatehpur Coal Block and Fatehpur East Coal Block in 2007 allegedly by false declaration of the net worth of principal company, Vida Minmetal AG, Switzerland, and by misrepresenting the capacity of its end-use plant. Before the cancellation of the coal block allotment in September that year, over Rs. 200 crore was infused in the company. The funds were used for project development, including land purchase in Odisha and Chhattisgarh, said the agency. Based on the findings, assets worth about Rs. 72 crore have been attached. In the other one, Vini Iron & Steel Udyog Limited and others were convicted in the case pursued by the CBI for alleged irregularity in the allocation of Rajahra East Coal Block. The ED has attached Rs. 90 lakh in two fixed deposits. Assets worth Rs. 67 crore have been attached in various bank fraud cases. In the case against Pushpesh Kumar Baid and his family members, for alleged fraud of Rs. 182 crore, the agency has attached properties valued Rs. 24 crore. Based on the CBI case against M.K. Patel Exim and others, properties worth Rs. 17.86 crore have been attached and assets valued Rs. 18.60 crore have been attached in the case of Shree Ganesh Jewellery House (I) Limited. In yet another case, involving SPS Steels Rolling Mills and others — who have been accused of a fraud of Rs. 551.13 crore — the ED has issued an order for the attachment of properties worth Rs. 6.60 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/coal-block-cases-ed-attaches-assets/article34235661.ece
04 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Opposition has accepted defeat, PM says in Bodoland||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the Congress-led Mahajot or grand alliance has already accepted defeat as the people of Assam voted for the NDA in the first two phases of polls. Addressing a rally at Nagrijuli in the Bodoland Territorial Region, he also warned of a “dangerous” Mahajot strategy of supplanting Assam’s culture and indigenous identity. “I heard some people yesterday (Friday) saying something that had a double meaning. One meaning is that they have already accepted defeat, and the other is that they want to change the attire and appearance of the people in power. Nothing can be more insulting to Assam than this,” Mr. Modi said. This was apparently in reference to an alleged inflammatory statement by All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) chief Badruddin Ajmal’s son Abdur Rahim Ajmal. “Such views have exposed some people’s design to capture power five years later. I appeal to all of you to exercise your franchise for defeating the sinister designs of those people,” the Prime Minister said, asserting that the BJP-led alliance government in Assam ended decades of misrule, unrest and social friction under Congress. Mr. Modi claimed that the people of Assam sealed their preference for NDA in the first two phases of polling for ensuring peace, stability and equitable development. “They (Congress) revelled in keeping the people divided and doling out sops for their preferred vote bank in the name of secularism. But we are accused of being communal for ensuring development for all without discrimination. Don’t fall for this secularism-communalism game that has damaged the country a lot,” Mr. Modi said. The third and final phase of polling across 40 seats are scheduled on April 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/oppn-has-accepted-defeat-modi-declares-in-bodoland/article34235667.ece
04 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Assembly issues breach of privilege notice to Customs||The Assembly has reportedly issued a breach of privilege notice to the Customs (Preventive) probing the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case. The election-eve development appeared to be a tautening of the protracted tug of war between the Centre and the State over the political impartiality of the agency. The notice appeared to reinforce the Left Democratic Front's election narrative that the BJP had repeatedly used the Customs to denigrate the State government with an eye on the Assembly polls on April 6. Central to the current development was a Customs summons to Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan's additional private secretary K. Ayyappan in January. The Customs had indicated that it required Mr. Ayyapan's presence for questioning purportedly in connection with a foreign currency smuggling racket involving some of the accused in the gold smuggling case. Prior consent The Legislature Secretariat insisted that the Customs required the Speaker's prior consent to question any Assembly staff under clause 165 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business of the Legislature. The Customs reverted that the article aimed to protect legislative privilege and not shield the guilty. The agency had summoned Mr. Ayyappan to fulfil its legal mandate. The Customs also argued that it had used e-mail to serve the process to Mr. Ayyappan. The investigating agency required the Speaker's consent only if it delivered the summons physically at the Assembly complex. ‘Holding in contempt’ CPI(M) legislator Raju Abraham took strong exception to the Custom's "misinterpretation" of House rules. He said it was tantamount to holding the legislature in contempt. Moreover, the Customs, he alleged, had breached legislative privilege by leaking its communication with the Assembly to the media. Subsequently, the Ethics and Privileges Committee of the House took cognisance of Mr. Abraham's grievance. The panel has invited the Customs to present its side of the case. The Customs later served a summons to Mr. Ayyappan at his residence and also questioned him at its office in Kochi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assembly-issues-breach-of-privilege-notice-to-customs/article34236080.ece
04 April 2021||KOCHI,||Steps taken to curb cross-border voting, ECI tells HC||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Saturday informed the Kerala High Court that steps have been taken to prevent cross-border voting in the Devikulam, Udumbanchola and Peerumade constituencies. The ECI made the submission when a petition filed by E.M. Augusthy, D. Kumar and Cyriac Thomas, UDF candidates of the Udumbanchola, Devikulam and Peerumade constituencies respectively seeking to stop dual voting by persons whose names have figured in the voters’ list of both Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Counsel for the ECI further submitted that the Idukki District Collector and the District Police Chief had held a special meeting with the Theni District Collector and Theni District Police Chief and discussed about the prevention of dual voting. Special teams of the Forest Department were deployed to conduct checking in the interior parts of the forest. Besides, on the polling day, steps would be taken to utilise the CCTV surveillance system on the four checkposts to prevent such voters entering the constituencies. Police forces have been deployed on the borders and major roads for round-the-clock surveillance and prevention of unauthorised entry through border points. The ECI counsel further submitted that at a special summary revision held in the months of November and December 2020, a total of 9,636 names were removed from the categories of shifted and dead persons from the voters list in the district. Besides,1,229 shifted and dead voters were deleted during the renewal of the voters list ahead of the Assembly election. The ECI submitted that as the polls in Kerala and Tamil Nadu were scheduled on April 6, there would not be any possibility of cross-voting. The petitioners pointed out that the three constituencies from where they are contesting shared their boundary with the Bodinaykannor, Cumbum and Theni Assembly constituencies of Tamil Nadu. Large number of voters in these constituencies had registered in the electoral rolls of the bordering constituencies of Kerala. The ECI was not taking any steps to prevent the inflow of these persons with votes in two States, the petitioners alleged. The Kerala High Court disposed of the petition after recording the submission of the ECI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/steps-taken-to-curb-cross-border-voting-eci-tells-hc/article34235644.ece
04 April 2021||Guwahati,||Assam campaign: a study in contrast||The tone and pace of campaigns by the BJP and the Congress in Assam could not have been more different. While the BJP’s is a high-decibel campaign, the Congress’s canvassing barely rose above a low hum. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi has had nine public events spread over two months, while Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already addressed four public meetings in the last fortnight and is returning for another on Saturday. Before the final whistle, Home Minister Amit Shah will hold a roadshow in BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma’s constituency Jalukbari in Guwahati on Sunday. In the last 15 days, from March 14, the BJP has ensured that every second day, Mr. Modi, Mr. Shah or BJP president J.P. Nadda is present in the State. Mr. Shah alone has clocked 10 public meetings. Apart from these three leaders, the BJP has done its usual carpet bombing, bringing in U.P. CM Yogi Adityanath, Cabinet Minister Smriti Irani, former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis and former Chhattisgarh CM Raman Singh, among others. “Our campaign has worked at two levels. One was at the ground level, keeping in constant touch with our workers, and the second was having multiple public meetings across the State,” a senior BJP leader said. The Congress, on the other hand, has conducted a low-key campaign. In a stroke of bad luck, three rallies of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had to be cancelled, as she went into self-quarantine after her husband Robert Vadra tested positive for COVID-19. On March 30, Mr. Gandhi’s three programmes, including a public meeting planned in Karbi Aglong, had to be cancelled because of bad weather. Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel and Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot have been making up for their absence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-campaign-a-study-in-contrast/article34235672.ece
04 April 2021||Mumbai,||NIA court extends Vaze’s custody||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court extended suspended assistant police officer Sachin Vaze’s NIA custody till April 7 in connection with explosives found near Mukesh Ambani's residence on February 25. Mr. Vaze was arrested on March 13 by the agency and charged with sections of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. After arresting him at 11.50 p.m., the NIA’s spokesperson said he was arrested for his “role and involvement in placing explosives laden vehicle near Carmichael Road”. Counsel appearing for the NIA told the court on Saturday that they were not merely investigating cases under the UAPA but also several other cases related to him and sought an extension of his custody. The agency has till now also raided a prominent eatery in South Mumbai after getting to know that Mr. Vaze used to hold several meetings there. The NIA has seized seven vehicles including the SUV found with 20 gelatin sticks and a threat letter. The owner of the SUV, Mansukh Hiren, an auto parts dealer, was found dead. Mr. Vaze has been charged under Sections 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance), 465 (punishment for forgery), 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal, etc., with intent to commit forgery punishable otherwise), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 120 B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and Explosive Substances Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/special-nia-court-extends-vazes-custody-till-april-7/article34235682.ece
04 April 2021||New Delhi,||President Kovind’s health improves||President Ram Nath Kovind was on Saturday shifted from the intensive care unit (ICU) to a special room at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). His health has been improving continuously, noted a tweet issued on Saturday by the Rashtrapati Bhavan. It added that doctors are constantly monitoring the President’s condition and have advised him to take rest. The President underwent a planned bypass surgery at AIIMS, Delhi earlier this week and tweeted later that he was touched by messages from citizens and leaders across the country and abroad wishing him a speedy recovery. “It’s difficult to express in words my gratitude to you all,” President Kovind said in his tweet. “I’ve been recovering well after the bypass surgery, thanks to the amazing dedication of the doctors and caregivers. I’m touched by messages, from citizens and leaders from India and abroad, wishing me speedy recovery. It’s difficult to express in words my gratitude to you all!” the Rashtrapati Bhavan tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/president-kovinds-health-improves/article34235686.ece
04 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||ULFA(I) releases hostage after 3 months||The outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom (Independent), or ULFA (I), has released one of the two employees of a New Delhi-based private oil exploration firm its members had abducted from Arunachal Pradesh more than three months ago. The police in Changlang district of Arunachal Pradesh found Assam-based Pranab Kumar Gogoi from Longvi village near the India-Myanmar border. A border patrol team of the Assam Rifles had intercepted him as he was crossing over from Myanmar. “There is no trace yet of Ram Kumar, the other employee abducted with this person we located,” Superintendent of Police Mihin Gambo told The Hindu . Mr. Gogoi, 51, was engaged as a drilling superintendent at Quippo Oil and Gas Infrastructure Ltd. at the Kumchaika drilling site in Changlang district. Mr. Kumar, 35, from Bihar was the radio operator. At separate locations “We are interrogating the released person. But he has been unable to say where his colleague is, as they were being kept in separate locations for a month,” Mr. Gambo said. Members of the ULFA (I) had abducted the two employees on December 21, 2020 and had set a February 16 deadline for payment of Rs. 20 crore for their release. Outfits’ commander-in-chief Paresh Baruah later threatened to take the “ultimate step” against them after the firm declined to pay the ransom. A backlash from intellectuals and common people in Assam made the ULFA (I) tone down its death threat and set Quippo a new condition for their release — creation of 5,000 jobs for Assamese youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ulfai-releases-hostage-after-3-months/article34235687.ece
04 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||22% in fray for Phase 4 face criminal cases||A report by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) said 22% of the candidates in the fray for Phase 4 of the West Bengal Assembly election had declared pending criminal cases in their election affidavits. In its analysis of affidavits of 372 of 373 candidates from 44 constituencies, the ADR found that 17% of them had serious criminal cases. The average assets of the candidates was Rs. 92.34 lakh, while 17% of them had assets over Rs. 1 crore. The complete affidavit of one candidate was not available, ADR said, releasing its findings on Saturday. The report said 61% of the 44 BJP candidates, 73% of the 22 Communist Party of India (Marxist) nominees, 22% of the nine Congress candidates and 39% of the 44 Trinamool Congress analysed had declared criminal cases. ‘Red alert constituencies’ Out of the 44 constituencies in phase-IV, 12 constituencies were “red alert constituencies” as they had three or more candidates with pending criminal cases, ADR said. Citing the Supreme Court’s order to parties to publicise the criminal antecedents of their candidates and give reasons for choosing such candidates, the report said, “The directions of the Supreme Court have had no effect on the political parties in selection of candidates in Phase IV of the West Bengal Assembly Elections as they have again followed their old practice of giving tickets to around 22% candidates with criminal cases.” The ADR also said the numbers showed that parties had “no interest in reforming the electoral system and our democracy”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/22-in-fray-for-phase-4-face-criminal-cases/article34235611.ece
04 April 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha govt. orders night curfew in 10 districts||The Odisha government on Saturday decided to impose night curfew in 10 districts, mostly in the western region, following a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases. The night curfew will come into force from Monday. “In the interest of the general public and to prevent transmission of infection, night curfew will be in force in the districts of Sundargarh, Jharsuguda, Sambalpur, Bargarh, Balangir, Nuapada, Kalahandi, Nabarangpur, Koraput and Malkangiri from April 5 till further orders,” said Chief Secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra issuing an order. All shops, commercial establishments, offices and institutions will remain shut and movement of individuals will be prohibited between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m., except for essential activities, the order says. Collectors and Municipal Commissioners will issue orders for their respective jurisdictions such as Section 144 of CrPC, and ensure strict compliance, states the order. Collectors may impose any further restrictions or allow such activities as felt appropriate considering the local situation, said the Chief Secretary in the order. Emergency services  The government has, however, kept emergency services pertaining to health, electricity, police, fire service, water supply, telecom, railway and airport out of the purview of restrictions. Employees of IT firms and media houses have been given relaxation. Home delivery services have been allowed to function at night. Odisha has been consistently reporting more than 400 daily cases for the past two days. Ten days ago, the daily spike in COVID-19 cases was in the range of just above 100. Western Odisha districts, which share borders with Chhattisgarh, are especially vulnerable to rapid rise in infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-govt-orders-night-curfew-in-10-districts/article34235911.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Farmer injured amid protests against Khattar||L“The farmers, enraged by the highly disparaging remarks made during farmers’ agitation by BJP leaders, had assembled to peacefully show black flags to the Chief Minister. Even women protesters were manhandled by the male cops. Some protesters have received grievous injuries,” said a statement issued by Haryana All-India Kisan Sabha vice-president Inderjit Singh. Later in the evening, farmers in Jind blocked the Jind-Chandigarh road at Kandela village in protest against police action on farmers in Rohtak. “The road has been blocked for two hours, and traffic is diverted,” said Dinesh Kumar, Station House Office, Jind Sadar Police Station. Tekram Kandela, convener, Uttar Bharat Khap Panchayats, told The Hindu that the road was also blocked in protest against the attack on farmer leader Rakesh Tikait. He said the blockade would continue all through the night and next course of action would be decided in the morning. The incident comes close on the heels of a similar protest against Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala in Hisar on April 1. As harvesting of wheat is all set to commence in Punjab and Haryana, farmers are shaping up a strategy to ensure that the build-up of protesters agitating against Centre's agriculture laws at state borders surrounding Delhi doesn’t drop. The SKM held a joint meeting of farmers, farm workers, women, employees, students, youth, commission agents, teachers, university staff and other organisations at Ludhiana based Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) to devise a strategy for the agitation during the upcoming harvesting season. “More than 100 organisations took part in today’s meeting organised by PAU Teachers' Union, PAU Employees' Union and PAU Students' Union. The meeting took cognisance of the fact that when farmers and farm workers attend to wheat harvesting in their farms, the Delhi protest sites have to continue to remain strong in terms of participation. While the farmers' movement will not be weakened in any way, this meeting sought ways of strengthening the protest sites by the participation of non-farmer unions,” said Mr. Pal. Mr. Pal said all participants pledged to extend their full support in strengthening the movement. “The first meeting of ‘Punjab for Farmers’ will be held in Jalandhar on April 7,” he said.  (With inputs from Vikas Vasudeva)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmer-injured-amid-protests-against-khattar/article34235654.ece
04 April 2021||Bhubaneswar,||3 BJP MLAs hurl shoes at Odisha Assembly Speaker||Hours after shoes were hurled at Surjya Narayan Patro, Speaker of the Odisha Legislative Assembly, inside the House, three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators were on Saturday suspended from the ongoing Budget session. The suspended BJP MLAs are Deputy Leader of the Opposition Bishnu Charan Sethi, BJP chief whip Mohan Charan Majhi, and senior member Jai Narayan Mishra. Upset over the reported denial of the opportunity to present the party’s point of view, BJP MLAs had allegedly thrown shoes and dustbins at Mr. Patro. As soon as the House resumed in the afternoon, the Speaker invited Leader of the Opposition Pradipta Naik, Leader of the Congress Legislative Party Narasingha Mishra, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Bikram Keshari Arukha and the State government’s chief whip Pramila Mallick to review in his chamber the video footage for ascertaining who had thrown shoes at the Chair. After a few minutes, Mr. Patro announced the suspension of the three BJP MLAs for the violation of conduct rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-bjp-mlas-hurl-shoes-at-odisha-assembly-speaker/article34235660.ece
04 April 2021||New Delhi,||Assets worth Rs. 3 crore attached in Saradha case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached properties worth Rs. 3 crore pertaining to former Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha MP Kunal Ghosh, Trinamool Congress MP Satabdi Roy and others in connection with the Saradha Ponzi scam case, taking the value of total attachment so far to over Rs. 600 crore. According to the agency, Mr. Ghosh had worked as the group chief executive officer of the Saradha Media, while Ms. Roy was a brand ambassador of the Saradha Group. Some of the attached assets are linked to Debjani Mukherjee, a director of the Saradha Group of companies. Ms. Mukherjee was arrested along with the alleged mastermind, Sudipta Sen, from Jammu & Kashmir by a special investigation team of the Kolkata Police in April 2013, soon after the scam was unearthed. Mr. Ghosh was arrested in November 2013. The Central Bureau of Investigation later took over the Saradha cases on the Supreme Court’s directive. Last month, the CBI carried out searches on the premises of three senior officials of the Securities and Exchange Board of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assets-worth-rs-3-crore-attached-in-saradha-case/article34235663.ece
04 April 2021||Jammu,||J&K govt. pulls up education officer||The J&K administration on Saturday sought an explanation from a Zonal Education Planning Officer (ZEPO), who allegedly described a teacher sporting a beard as “a militant”, and “entered the premises of a mosque without removing shoes” during an inspection on April 1. In an official communique, Sub-District Magistrate, Surankote, Saleem Ahmad asked ZEPO Kamlesh Kumari to submit an explanation within two days, after a video of the inspection went viral online and evoked sharp reactions from netizens and religious leaders. “A video is viral on social media in which you are seen using derogatory language during a visit of the Yaseen Public School, Dundhak (Khanikhodi) on April 1. A deliberate and malicious act, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religious beliefs is not expected from a government officer/public servant. You are seen uttering, using words, etc., with deliberate intent to wound the feelings of a particular person,” the official letter reads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-govt-pulls-up-education-officer/article34235673.ece
04 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Property attached||The Enforcement Directorate attached 10 immovable properties worth Rs. 197.34 crore in connection with the Unitech Group case. These include two resorts in Gangtok and Alappuza, office premises and land parcels, owned by various entities of one Carnoustie Group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/property-attached/article34235679.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||2 arrested in gang-rape, death of minor in Meerut||A teenage girl was allegedly gang-raped and poisoned in a Meerut village on Thursday while she was on her way to a tuition class. The family members took her to a private hospital where she died during treatment. The Meerut police arrested two of the four accused — Lakhan and Vikas — after an FIR was lodged by the girl’s paternal uncle under relevant sections of the IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. Revolver snatched On Saturday morning, when the police were taking the accused to a Meerut court, Mr. Lakhan snatched the revolver of a head constable and fired at the police team. In retaliation, Station House Officer, Sardhana fired back at Mr. Lakhan and he was nabbed again. Rajendra Kumar Shahi, Circle Officer, Sardhana said Mr. Lakhan alias Abhay had no criminal record. “He has been admitted to CHC Sardhana. Both the accused are adults and are 19-20 years old,” he added. Two other accused are still on the run. While the police said a note had been recovered from the girl’s house, family members denied it. According to the FIR, the 14-year-old victim was a student of Standard X and used to attend tuition classes at the other end of the village. “She went for tuition around 3.30 p.m. and when she returned at around 5.30 p.m, she told her mother and me that Lakhan and his three friends gang-raped her and forced her to drink a poisonous substance,” the uncle said in the FIR. ( Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available at Sanjivini Society for Mental Health helpline at 011-40769002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m.-7.30 p.m. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-arrested-in-gang-rape-death-of-minor-in-meerut/article34235684.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||India adds 86,184 new cases, 471 deaths||These include 89,32,642 Health Care Workers (HCW) (first dose), 52,96,666 HCWs (second dose), 95,71,610 Front Line Workers (FLWs) (first dose) and 39,92,094 FLWs (second dose) and 4,45,77,337 (first Dose) and 6,83,946 (second dose) beneficiaries aged more than 45 years. The cumulative vaccination figure includes over 6 crore (6,30,81,589) first doses, while the second dose numbers are also nearing the one crore mark (99,72,706).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-adds-86184-new-cases-471-deaths/article34235653.ece
04 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Karnataka CM defers rule on 50% theatre occupancy||A day after imposing restrictions, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday acceded to the demands of the Kannada film industry and relaxed the 50% occupancy rule for theatres which it had initially imposed across eight districts in Karnataka, including Bengaluru Urban. After actor Puneeth Rajkumar, whose big-budget film Yuvarathnaa hit the screens only two days ago, met the Chief Minister and lobbied for relaxing the norms, the government issued orders deferring the implementation of the rule till April 7. The order mentioned advanced ticket bookings as the reason for the decision. Industry insiders, however, pointed out that this temporary extension would provide Yuvarathnaa the crucial first week collections. D.R. Jairaj, chairman, Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce, also met Mr. Yediyurappa and appealed for a reversal to full occupancy in theatres. Though the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) had recommended restrictions over a fortnight ago, they were introduced only on Friday. On March 19, Mr. Yediyurappa had tweeted that there was no proposal before the State government to impose occupancy restrictions in cinemas. “The sudden decision is the problem. We released the film on the public assurance by the Chief Minister that there was no proposal to impose occupancy restrictions. Two days later, the film was hit by exactly the same, which will kill all its prospects. If we had known earlier, we would have postponed the film’s release,” Mr. Puneeth Rajkumar said earlier in the day. Other actors support Other lead actors too rallied around Mr. Puneeth Rajkumar expressing their support. “We now have awareness. Restrictions should help us, not adversely impact our lives ...” tweeted Yash. Another lead actor, Sudeep, whose film is also slated for release over the next few weeks, took to Twitter to wish the Yuvarathnaa team. “Going back to 50% occupancy is surely a shocker to a film that just released. Respecting the government’s decision too is our duty, keeping in mind it’s for a reason,” he had said, before the government reversed its decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-cm-defers-rule-on-50-theatre-occupancy/article34235651.ece
04 April 2021||New Delhi,||Panel submits report to SC on ISRO espionage case||A high-level probe panel appointed by the Supreme Court to take erring cops to task for causing “tremendous harassment” and “immeasurable anguish” to Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) scientist Nambi Narayanan in the 1994 espionage case has submitted its report to the Supreme Court, sources said on Saturday. The SC had on September 14, 2018 appointed a three-member panel headed by its former judge D.K. Jain while directing the Kerala government to cough up Rs. 50 lakh compensation for compelling Mr. Narayanan to undergo “immense humiliation”. The scientist was arrested when the Congress was heading the government in Kerala. The panel, after investigation, submitted its report in a sealed cover to the Supreme Court recently. The CBI, in its probe, had held that the then top police officials in Kerala were responsible for Mr. Narayanan’s illegal arrest. The case also had its political fallout, with a section in the Congress targeting the then Chief Minister, the late K. Karunakaran, over the issue that eventually led to his resignation. Over a period of almost two-and-a-half years, the panel headed by Justice Jain examined the circumstances leading to Mr. Narayanan’s arrest. The case The espionage case, which had hit the headlines in 1994, pertained to allegations of transfer of certain confidential documents on India’s space programme to foreign countries by two scientists and four others, including two Maldivian women. The 79-year-old former scientist, who was given a clean chit by the CBI, maintained that the Kerala Police had “fabricated” the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-submits-report-to-sc-on-isro-espionage-case/article34235652.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||ECI reduces campaigning ban on Assam Minister||“However, if my statements have caused inconvenience to anyone, and also, same are in violation of the norm of the model code of conduct in the eye of the Election Commission of India, I most sincerely and humbly express my unconditional regret for causing the same with an assurance that I shall be more careful and vigilant in future to follow the norm of the model code of conduct in true letter and spirit,” he wrote. The Commission wrote to Mr. Sarma saying that it had considered his representation and reduced the ban, which means that he can campaign from Saturday evening onwards. Canvassing for the third and final phase of Assam Assembly election comes to an end on Sunday evening. In his representation, Mr. Sarma had also pleaded on the grounds that he was himself a candidate in the constituency that was scheduled to go for the polls on April 6. Reducing the ban, the Commission said Mr. Sarma could be given permission to holding public meetings, processions, rallies and roadshows by the district authorities concerned. In its April 2 order, the Commission said it had received a complaint from the Congress on March 30 that Mr. Sarma had on March 28 threatened to send the BPF chief to jail by “misusing” the National Investigation Agency (NIA). According to the order, Mr. Sarma had spoken of a case being handed over to the NIA and of “arms recovery cases” that would be “counted one by one after the election”. The BPF is an ally of the Congress in Assam. The Commission said it found Mr. Sarma’s statement to prima facie be in violation of the model code of conduct and therefore issued a notice to him on April 1, asking him to respond by April 2. In his response, Mr. Sarma had denied the allegations against him, which the poll panel found “not to be satisfactory”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eci-reduces-campaigning-ban-on-assam-minister/article34235655.ece
04 April 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Night curfew in 10 districts in Odisha||The Odisha government on Saturday imposed night curfew in 10 districts mostly in the western region following a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases. The night curfew will come into force from Monday. “In the interest of the general public and to prevent transmission of infection, it is directed that night curfew in the districts of Sundargarh, Jharsuguda, Sambalpur, Bargarh, Balangir, Nuapada, Kalahandi, Nabarangpur, Koraput and Malkangiri will be in force from April 5 till further orders,” said Chief Secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra. All shops, commercial establishments, offices, institutions and movement of individuals will remain closed between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m., except for essential activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/night-curfew-in-10-districts-in-odisha/article34236129.ece
04 April 2021||Ghaziabad,||2021 is year of protests, says Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait told farmers on Saturday, “2021 is the year of agitations. Keep your tractor ready with tent and edibles.” Addressing a massive kisan mahapanchayat in the Gonda area of Aligarh district, Mr. Tikait said the fact that large corporate entities had built godowns even before the three contentious farm laws were passed showed that they were in the know of things. “It seems the corporates have sneaked into the PM’s office. We have to take them out,” he said. “What we are seeing right now,” the BKU leader said, “is not a BJP government but company raj.” Tractor and Twitter Appealing to young farmers to use “both tractor and Twitter to spread the message against the farm laws”, he said the mainstream media is being censored and youngsters had to put across the pain of farmers through social media. “Land is something that is dearer to a farmer than even his son. In this region, nobody passes on ownership of land to his progeny before his death. Now companies are eyeing something that is so dear to you,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2021-is-year-of-protests-says-rakesh-tikait/article34235701.ece
04 April 2021||Ahmedabad,||BSF hands over boy who crossed IB||The BSF on Saturday said it has handed over an eight-year-old boy to Pakistani rangers, after he inadvertently crossed the international border (IB) and reached the Barmer sector. The incident took place at the security fence near the outpost of Somrar in Rajasthan on Friday, officials said. “As a goodwill gesture, the BSF on Friday handed over a Pakistani minor boy in a flag meeting with Pakistan Rangers,” the BSF said in a statement. “On April 2, Karim s/o Yamanu, age approximately eight years, had inadvertently crossed the IB, entered Indian territory and reached up to BS [border security] fence near border outpost Somrar of Barmer sector,” it said. He was spotted by alert troops who asked him to go back. Seeing men in uniform, the boy started crying. But the BSF men calmed him and gave him some eatables and water, the BSF said. The boy seemed to have lost his way as the nearest Pakistan village Somrar is about 3 km from the place, where he was spotted. “Soon, on the directions of headquarters, a flag meeting was held with Pakistan Rangers and the minor boy was handed over to them,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bsf-hands-over-boy-who-crossed-ib/article34235668.ece
04 April 2021||Kanpur,||Woman given two doses of vaccine in U.P.||In a major goof-up, an auxiliary nursing midwife (ANM) was on a phone call as she administered two shots of COVID-19 vaccine to a woman at a primary health centre at Akbarpur of Kanpur Dehat district, officials said on Saturday. As the news reached the woman’s family members, they created an uproar at the centre and later senior officials including the District Magistrate and the Chief Medical Officer were informed about the alleged negligence. The family members told presspersons that Kamlesh Kumari, 50, had gone to the Marhauli PHC on Thursday to get her first vaccine shot where ANM Archana ended up giving her two doses. District Magistrate Jitendra Pratap Singh has asked for a report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/woman-given-two-doses-of-vaccine-in-up/article34235674.ece
04 April 2021||MUMBAI,||Rs. 1,000 fine for violation of protocols||As per a Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) directive, the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) has decided to levy a fine of Rs. 1,000 on any individual found violating the mandatory COVID-19 safety protocols at the airport. It has already come into effect. The fine will be collected from individuals who refuse to comply with the safety norms such as wearing appropriate face masks and maintaining social distancing amongst others at the airport. Marshals deployed by the airport operator will levy fines on any individual who refuses to comply with the safety protocols. In the event of further non-compliance, the violator will be handed over to the authorities for further action, CSMIA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-1000-fine-for-violation-of-protocols/article34235680.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Blowing in the wind||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/blowing-in-the-wind/article34235616.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||MHA letter to Punjab on law and order||The Union Home Ministry on Saturday termed as “distorted” and “misleading” media reports linking its letter to the Punjab government on the plight of 58 “bonded labourers” rescued in the state to the farmers’ agitation and said no motive should be ascribed to a routine communication over law and order issues. The Ministry said a section of media has erroneously reported that the ministry has written the letter to Punjab levelling “grave charges” against the farmers of the State. “These news reports are misleading and present a distorted and highly editorialised opinion of a simple observation about a socioeconomic problem emerging from four sensitive border districts of Punjab over a period of two years, which has been brought to the attention of this Ministry by the concerned Central Armed Police Force,” the Home Ministry said in a statement. The Home Ministry said, “No motive can be ascribed to a letter issued by this ministry to a particular state or states as this is part of routine communication over law and order issues”. The letter clearly called for action against human trafficking, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mha-letter-to-punjab-on-law-and-order/article34235659.ece
04 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||File report on Musi river encroachments, says HC||Expressing concern over failure of the authorities in checking illegal constructions on the buffer zones of Musi river, the Telangana High Court has instructed them to file an action taken report. The direction was passed recently by a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy while hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) petition on illegal encroachments of the areas on Musi river buffer zone. Asking government counsel what the authorities were doing even as unauthorised structures were coming up on the buffer zone, the High Court bench directed the authorities concerned with the matter to furnish pictures while submitting the action-taken report. The bench of the High Court headed by the Chief Justice sought to know why the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) Commissioner, Khairatabad zonal commissioner, Rajendranagar Revenue Divisional Officer and Rajendranagar tahsildar failed to file counter affidavits despite the High Court directing them to do so within four weeks of the date of the previous hearing. Monsoon rains Observing that within next few months monsoon rains would set in, the High Court said that illegal structures would obstruct the flow of water in the city. The bench wondered if the authorities wanted to transform Musi buffer zone areas into breeding grounds for mosquitoes. The failure of the authorities to contain illegal constructions would compel one to think if they were hand in glove with the persons raising such illegal structures, the bench felt. It was surprising that the authorities had failed to control unauthorised constructions despite having the infrastructure and paraphernalia, the bench said. The Public Interest Litigation petition was filed by a resident of Kulsumpura M. Laxman, alleging that some private persons were illegally occupying Musi buffer zone area in Jiyaguda of Attapur. The High Court had earlier directed the authorities to conduct field inspection and file reports in the court. It came up for hearing three days ago. The High Court posted the matter to June 3 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/file-report-on-musi-river-encroachments-says-hc/article34236029.ece
04 April 2021||Falta/ Kultuli/ Uluberia,||‘BJP will ensure women’s safety’||Calling upon people to oust the Mamata Banerjee government, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Saturday the BJP, if voted to power in Bengal, will ensure security for all women and create job opportunities for the youth. Mr. Adityanath, who addressed two rallies during the day, also said that those who had tried to stop Durga puja and Saraswati puja will be put behind bars. “The BJP will stop all tortures perpetrated on the women of West Bengal. It will ensure that youths get employment opportunities,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-will-ensure-womens-safety/article34235608.ece
04 April 2021||Morigaon (Assam),||Minister threatens scribes, booked||Assam minister Pijush Hazarika, who allegedly threatened two journalists, has been issued a notice to appear before police and his call recordings have been sent to forensic lab for examination, officials said on Saturday. Two FIRs filed at Jagiroad police station by the scribes have been merged, and Mr. Hazarika has been booked under Sections 500 (defamation), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 341 (wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code. The Minister, who is contesting from the Jagiroad constituencyon Thursday, had allegedly threatened the two scribes for reporting about a controversial campaign speech by his wife.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-minister-booked-for-threats/article34235604.ece
04 April 2021||New Delhi,||Modi addresses 10 rallies in 3 days||Spearheading his party’s campaign in the ongoing polls to elect Assemblies in five States, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has addressed 23 rallies so far, 10 of them across four States over the last three days, including Saturday. With the BJP pulling out all the stops to oust Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee from government in West Bengal and to retain power in Assam, these two States have been the focus of Mr. Modi’s campaign. He has addressed rallies in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-addresses-10-rallies-in-3-days/article34235606.ece
04 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||EC transfers 3 police officers||The Election Commission (EC) on Saturday transferred Alipurduar Superintendent of Police, Amitabha Maiti; Deputy Commissioner of Police of Chandannagar, Hoogly Tathagata Basu; and Deputy SP of Industrial Diamond Harbour police district, Mithun De. In the order, the EC named Amit Kumar Singh to replace Mr. Maiti, Abhishek Modi to replace Mr. Basu and Shyamal Kumar Mandal to replace Mr. De. The EC said Mr. De should be “kept awaiting posting orders”, while the other two officers being transferred should not be given any election-related posting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ec-transfers-3-police-officers/article34235698.ece
04 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||41 crude bombs found in Bengal||The Election Commission (EC) on April 3 said 41 crude bombs were recovered during a raid in West Bengal’s South 24 Parganas on April 2 after police received a tip from a source. The bombs were discovered in a bush in Bhangore Assembly constituency in Baruipur police district, it said. The Assembly constituency and the two polling stations at Padmapukur were already being treated as “vulnerable” in the ongoing elections, it said. A case has been lodged and investigation ongoing, the EC said, adding that no arrests had been made so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/41-crude-bombs-found-in-bengal/article34235614.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||74.24 %||The 2016 voter turnout percentage of Tamil Nadu which will go to the polls on April 6.Palacode constituencyrecorded the highest turnout of 88.6%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/7424/article34235609.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||77.10 %||The 2016 voter turnout percentage of Kerala which will go to the polls on April 6. Manjeri constituency recorded the highest turnout of 96.3%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/7710/article34235610.ece
04 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of voter slips set to be completed in city today||The Greater Chennai Corporation has started issuing voter slips in the 16 Assembly constituencies under its jurisdiction from Friday. The exercise will be completed by Sunday evening. A senior official said voter slips had been supplied to the electoral registration officers (EROs) and the same were being distributed through the booth-level officers (BLOs) since Friday in north Chennai areas such as Thiru.Vi.Ka. Nagar and Perambur. The officials of all 200 divisions of the civic body would be involved in the distribution of 40,57,061 voter slips. Of the 16 Assembly constituencies in the city, Perambur has the highest number of voters, at 3,15,884, followed by Velachery, with 3,14,537 voters. Virugambakkam has more than 2,90,000 voters. For residents who miss the voter slips because of the house being locked or being out of station, the same would be available at the polling booth concerned. The voters can also download the voter slips from the national voters’ services portal athttps://electoralsearch.in/of the Election Commission of India (ECI). The voter slip could be downloaded through the app Voter Helpline. Those who do not have electoral photo identity cards (EPICs) can vote by producing any of the 11 documents for identity proof accepted by the ECI. The documents accepted by the ECI includes Aadhaar card, driving licence, passport, PAN card, smart card issued by RGI under NPR, MGNREGA job card, health insurance smart card issued under schemes of the Ministry of Labour, pension document with photograph, and official identity cards of MPs, MLAs, and MLCs. In the voter information, all details along with EPIC no. and the address of the polling booth for the particular voter would be available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-voter-slips-set-to-be-completed-in-city-today/article34235835.ece
04 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK and BJP in high-decibel battle for Thousand Lights seat||Thousand Lights was the most high-profile constituency in the State until recently. Even if only by virtue of the fact that AIADMK and DMK supremos had their votes here, but for a State that rotated on the axis between Poes Garden and Gopalapuram, it was very symbolic. Also, superstar Rajinikanth votes in this constituency and his presence is always significant. Residents from 16 low-income neighbourhoods and minorities have been the focus of public meetings by major parties during the campaign. Minority and Dalit votes are estimated to constitute more than 50% of the electorate. Strengthening secular values has been the focus of the speeches by all candidates, including that of the BJP. Candidates have addressed gatherings of a number of residents who have constructed houses along the banks of the Cooum. Many residents have been resettled elsewhere. But a few have demanded in situ redevelopment of slum tenements. Most candidates, including those of the DMK and the BJP, support in situ redevelopment of slums. M. Rajesh of Kothari Road, a posh neighbourhood, said better infrastructure and public transport were the main demands of the voters. Public transport “I want better transportation facilities to my workplace in Siruseri. Steps to ease traffic congestion and improve public health are needed. We want better street lights. We want clear directions about government offices online and coordination between various agencies,” said Mr. Rajesh. Parties such as the DMK and the BJP have kept the spotlight on civic infrastructure, the issues faced by minorities, Dalits, the impact of the lockdown on business, resettlement of slums and the Dravidian ethos. It has made a huge impact on social media, possibly the biggest splash in campaigns not involving prominent leaders of the parties. Even as the key candidates, Dr. Ezhilan Naganathan of the DMK and Khushbu Sundar of the BJP, kept the focus on civic issues, developments across the State during this heated political season have been the topic of discussion among voters. A number of voters, while demanding civic infrastructure projects, have stressed the need for a leadership that takes decisions keeping the welfare of the State in mind. Residents have pointed to the proposal for an elevated corridor connecting Poonamallee High Road and Anna Salai without acquiring land in areas such as Nungambakkam and T. Nagar. There has been a demand for more infrastructure projects to ease traffic congestion, better housing for the poor, solid waste management, playgrounds and better schools for the poor. Ms. Khushbu said people had received her with warmth across the constituency and hoped that it would translate into votes. Dr. Ezhilan kept the focus firmly on his contribution to public health and social service and his work in opposing the Union government’s higher education policies that had affected the students belonging to the socially backward sections in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-and-bjp-in-high-decibel-battle-for-thousand-lights-seat/article34235844.ece
04 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘We will exceed expectations’||DMK president M.K. Stalin has said Tamil Nadu people are keen on a change and the performance of the DMK-led alliance will exceed the predictions and the coalition will win all 234 seats. In an interview to The Hindu , he said people were angry because the AIADMK government had pushed the State and the people into darkness and brought shame to Tamil Nadu in the past 10 years. “They came to the conclusion long ago that they did not want a government that could not protect Tamil culture, tradition and language. I have seen many electoral battles, and I see the people’s resurgence is higher this time than what it was in the 1971 and 1996 Assembly elections. They see the DMK as a morning star,” he said. Mr. Stalin said he was able to see a wave against the AIADMK government and its allies, and they would certainly be defeated. Asked whether such a brutal majority could deny the Opposition a space and have an adverse impact on democracy, Mr. Stalin said that if people chose to prevent the entry of the AIADMK into the Assembly because it had destroyed the State’s economy, industry and finances, it would actually be an advantage for democracy. “The DMK will use the verdict to develop the State by ensuring democracy in the Assembly, honesty and transparency in government, priority to welfare schemes and employment opportunities for the youth. In the past, the DMK government, led by Kalaignar, had functioned in a similar manner and built infrastructure,” he said. To a question on prohibition not finding a place in the DMK’s manifesto, Mr. Stalin said the objective was to increase the buying capacity of women, the middle class and the poor and improve the State’s socio-economy and education. “Women have borne the brunt of the increase in the prices of petroleum products. The price of milk has increased to Rs. 43 [a litre] from Rs. 17 under the DMK government. People lost their livelihood and buying capacity during the COVID-19 pandemic. Economists say the need of the hour was to increase their buying capacity. So we have promised Rs. 1,000 for housewives and Rs. 4,000 in pandemic relief. I promised to bring down the prices of petrol and diesel by Rs. 5 and Rs. 4 [a litre] respectively and milk price by Rs. 3. I have also announced Rs. 100 in grant for every gas cylinder,” he said. Was priority accorded to Hindu temples in the manifesto as a means of retaining the Hindu votes? Mr. Stalin replied that the DMK had never been against the interest of the Hindus. Temple events “There is a false campaign against the DMK because it fights for the social justice for the majority of the Hindus. It was Kalaignar who ensured that the car of the Tiruvarur Thiyagarajaswamy Temple was run and the DMK government conducted ‘kumbhabhishekham’ at 4,724 temples at a cost of Rs. 523 crore. It also gave cycles to 10,000 temple priests. The election promises of Rs. 1,000 crore for ‘kumbhabhishekham’ and Rs. 1 lakh for pilgrimage are a continuation of the DMK’s contribution to temples,” he said. Asked about exempting Tamil Nadu from NEET, Mr. Stalin said he had already promised to adopt a resolution in the first session of the Assembly. “All efforts will be made to get the President’s assent. In the past, we have cancelled the entrance examinations and got the assent of the President and an approval from the Supreme Court,” Mr. Stalin said.  There is a false campaign against the DMK because it fights for the social justice for the majority of the Hindus||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/we-will-exceed-expectations/article34235824.ece
04 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Vanniyar quota won’t hit others’||Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami has said the decision to give 10.5% internal reservation to the Vanniyars within the 20% quota for the Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities and the grant of the generic title of Devendrakula Velalar to seven segments of the Scheduled Castes “will not affect others in any manner”. In an email response sent on Saturday to The Hindu ’s questionnaire, Mr. Palaniswami said the decisions “are only to give equitable benefit to these social groups”. He termed a “false campaign” the contention that these decisions had alienated the AIADMK from other communities. On February 26, a Bill on the internal quota was adopted by the Assembly, and then it received the assent of Governor Banwarilal Purohit. A few weeks later, both Houses of Parliament adopted a Bill that sought to put the seven segments of the Scheduled Castes under the nomenclature of Devendrakula Velalars. Confident of the victory of the AIADMK-led front in the Assembly election, Mr. Palaniswami referred to several surveys that predicted the victory of the DMK-led coalition and said that generally, opinion polls were “not foolproof”. Factors such as time, methodology and bias “distort results”. Observing that he did not attach “much credence” to the opinion polls, Mr. Palaniswami said, “We, as soldiers, work with faith and sincerity, to the end of the [electoral] battle.” ‘Overwhelming support’ Pointing out that he had been getting “overwhelming support from people”, the Chief Minister, who is contesting from Edappadi in Salem district for the sixth time, said they were “appreciative of [the] government’s efforts and performance. This government has effectively handled many crises and pushed the development [process] forward. They [the people] have full trust in me and the government”. About the exit of the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK), the Puthiya Tamilagam and the All India Samuthuva Makkal Katchi from the AIADMK-led alliance, Mr. Palaniswami said that though it was his desire that all the parties contest together, “every one of us should understand [that] the relative strength goes on changing in a dynamic political environment. But we have no regrets. We still respect them and their decision”. He said the AMMK-DMDK alliance and the presence of the Makkal Needhi Maiam-led front would not affect the prospects of his party. He called them “opportunistic formations”. Regarding his party having electoral promises identical to the DMK’s (such as an increase in the days of work under the MGNREGS, restoration of the monthly billing cycle for domestic electricity consumers and the increase in the duration of maternity leave), Mr. Palaniswami acknowledged that “some amount of overlap is inevitable”. It was “unrealistic” to expect that the manifestos of various parties should be totally different from one another. This showed that “these issues are perceived by all of us as important”. On the measures to be adopted to contain the current wave of COVID-19, the Chief Minister said the government was “working hard” to enforce wearing of masks and the use of sanitiser. “The vaccination drive is going on in full swing. I am sure that the spread will be contained. But people should also co-operate,” he added. (For the full interview, visit http://bit.ly/edappadi)  People are appreciative of government’s performance. This government has effectively handled many crises and pushed the development [process] forward||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vanniyar-quota-wont-hit-others/article34235826.ece
04 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CCB nabs 6 in Delhi for swindling Rs. 2.13 crore from senior citizen||The Anti-Bank Fraud Wing of Central Crime Branch on Saturday arrested a gang of six online scamsters operating from Delhi who swindled Rs. 2.13 crore from the wife of a former Chief Commissioner of Central Exercise. They had committed the fraud posing as representatives of an insurance who were assigned the responsibility of disbursal of residual insurance amount on her husband. “The victim was in utter shock and mentally under the control of the fraudsters on the other end. She had credited the money from her account on her own volition to the accounts which were dictated by the fraudsters for six months. Initially, there was no clue on who was involved in the fraud,” said a senior officer of Anti Bank Fraud Wing. The police said Sudha Sridharan, 68, is a resident of Mandaveli and wife of the late J. Sridharan, who was Chief Commissioner of Central Excise. In March 2019, a person called the victim on her landline posing as an officer in a life insurance company. The caller told her that Rs. 19 lakh remained to be settled towards her insurance claim following the demise of her husband. She was made to credit a few lakhs to a fictitious account mentioned by the fraudster. Later, another caller asked her to transfer funds to another account. The police officer said she went on transferring money as demanded by the fraudsters. She closed all fixed deposits and withdrew money from savings accounts — which were from retirement benefits. She even pledged her jewellery. Her daughter sensed trouble when she asked her daughter for money for the marriage of a domestic aid. Then her daughter verified and realised that her mother had been cheated. The fraudsters made Ms. Sridharan deposit Rs. 2.13 crore into various bank accounts between March and October 2019. A case was registered by the CCB. After meticulous analysis of various accounts and call detail records (CDRs), S. Prabakaran, Asst. Commissioner of Police, Anti Bank Fraud Investigation Wing, and his team camped in New Delhi for 15 days and arrested the six accused in various places in New Delhi. The arrested were identified as Aman Prasad, 30, of Uttam Nagar; Pradeep Kumar, 30, Nangloi; Manojkumar, 45, Jeevan Park; Kuber Sharma alias Prince, 30, Mahendra Park; Himanshu Tyagi, 26, Vikas Nagar; and Rampal, 31, Uttam Nagar. The accused were produced before a metropolitan magistrate in Patiala House Courts and were brought to the city after obtaining a transit warrant. They were produced before a special court for CCB cases in Egmore and remanded in judicial custody until April 16. “The fraudsters were working earlier with a call centre which dealt with calls of an insurance firm. They had created fictitious accounts and used SIM cards which were procured unauthorisedly. Further investigation is on,” said sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ccb-nabs-6-in-delhi-for-swindling-rs-213-crore-from-senior-citizen/article34235836.ece
04 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||In first quarter of 2021, PE-VC firms invest $508 million in T.N. companies||For the first quarter of 2021, Private Equity (PE) and Venture Capital (VC) firms invested $508 million in eight deals in companies based out of Tamil Nadu. During the same quarter last year, the number of deals were higher and stood at 14 and firms had invested $336 million. Among the top firms that received PE-VC funding in the State during the January-March 2021 quarter are: Five Star Business Finance ($234 million), Uniphore Software Systems ($140 million), Ally ($50 million) and Shriram EPC ($48 million), according to data provided by Venture Intelligence, a research service focused on private company financials, transactions and their valuations. “The value of deals has risen significantly, even as the number of deals (volume) has slid. This naturally has boosted the average deal size, indicating the increasing comfort of investors to back companies that are already established or ripe for scale up with large amounts of capital,” Arun Natarajan, founder of Venture Intelligence said. “The increasing interest among investors for SaaS and also fin-tech and tech savvy financial services companies, is favouring Chennai-based companies with traditional strengths in these sectors,” Mr. Natarajan added. The data provided by Venture Intelligence, shows that last year, even after the COVID-19 lockdown came into effect from March last week, companies in Tamil Nadu managed to pull in investments across 22 deals until December. In the second quarter of 2020, around $15 million came into seven deals and in the following quarter around $97 million was invested across five deals. And in the last quarter of 2020, PE-VC firms pumped in $157 million in 10 deals. In terms of angel investments, there were three deals during the January to March 2021 quarter when compared to seven deals during the same period in 2020. The three startups that received angel investments during this quarter are the ePlane Company, YAP and AgniKul Cosmos.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-first-quarter-of-2021-pe-vc-firms-invest-508-million-in-tn-companies/article34235853.ece
04 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Graft, dynastic politics of DMK, Cong. must end: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah said the development of Tamil Nadu can happen only when the corruption and dynastic politics of the DMK and Congress are eliminated. Mr. Shah said that whatever development had happened under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rule across the country, must come to Tamil Nadu too so that the dream of late Chief Ministers M.G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa could come to fruition. The Home Minister was speaking to the media after leading a roadshow at Teynampet for less than half a kilometre for the party’s Thousand Lights candidate, Khushbu Sundar. While Ms. Khushbu asked the voters to ensure the return of ‘Amma’s rule’ and to bring the development schemes of Prime Minister Modi to Tamil Nadu, Mr. Shah did not speak during the rally. “Only the BJP and AIADMK governments can safeguard fishermen, women, unemployed youth and people who believe in culture and tradition,” he told reporters after the rally. Praising Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam for taking Tamil Nadu on the path of development, he said they had worked aggressively to stop the spread of COVID-19 in the State. He appealed to the voters to bring in a double engine growth to the State by voting for the BJP-AIADMK alliance. He also appealed to the voters to ensure a massive majority for the alliance. Mr. Shah said voters of the Thousand Lights constituency need to vote for Ms. Khushbu as she would take care of the constituency and its people very well. Later, campaigning in Tirunelveli, Mr. Shah said Mr. Modi, who had become the Prime Minister after selling tea when he was a boy, and Mr. Palaniswami, the son of a poor farmer, were working hard for the welfare of the poor peasants and the downtrodden. The Congress and the DMK, on the other hand, were concerned only about their families. 4G, 3G pun Referring to Rahul Gandhi and Udhayanidhi Stalin, he said the Congress and the DMK were working for 4G and 3G, meaning fourth and third generation in the family, respectively. Mr. Stalin’s only objective was to make his son the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, he charged. “Since both the Congress and the DMK are working for the welfare of their families alone, the people of Tamil Nadu should shun these parties and back the BJP–AIADMK combine that works for the poor, farmers and the fishermen,” Mr. Shah appealed. He also came down heavily on a recent speech by Mr. Udhayanidhi on late Union Ministers Arun Jaitley and Sushma Swaraj and DMK MP A. Raja’s comments about the Chief Minister’s mother. Sub-sect issue “We, especially the Tamils, never comment about the persons, especially the women, who entered into the glory. Hence, the women of Tamil Nadu should not support the DMK in the Assembly poll as the leaders of this party talk ill of the women who are no more,” the Home Minister said. Mr. Shah said the DMK, by walking out of the Parliament session, did not support Mr. Modi’s move to categorise 7 sub-sects of Scheduled Caste as ‘Devendrakula Velalars’. The DMK-Congress combine was just witnessing the killing of Tamil fishermen on high seas and laid foundation for banning ‘jallikattu’. “After Mr. Modi became the Prime Minister, none laid hands on the Tamil fishermen and only the BJP government passed the ordinance to revoke the ban on jallikattu,” he pointed-out. The Union Minister also sought people’s support for having allocated Rs. 63,000 crore for Chennai’s Metro Rail project expansion. While the BJP’s candidate for Tirunelveli Nainar Nagenthran and AIADMK’s candidate for Nanguneri Thatchai N. Ganesa Raja shared the dais with Mr. Shah, the AIADMK’s candidates Esakki Subaya of Ambasamudram, K.J.C. Gerald of Palayamkottai and I.S. Inbadurai of Radhapuram stayed away from attending the electioneering of the BJP’s star campaigner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/graft-dynastic-politics-of-dmk-congress-must-end-amit-shah/article34235858.ece
04 April 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Kanimozhi, Jawahirullah test positive||DMK’s Member of Parliament Kanimozhi tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai on Saturday. Her condition was stable, sources said. Ms. Kanimozhi was campaigning in various parts of the State for the April 6 Assembly poll.. Manithaneya Makkal Katchi leader and the party candidate for the Papanasam constituency, M.H. Jawahirullah, too tested positive for COVID-19. He is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Tiruchi. Disclosing this to the voters of Papanasam constituency in a video clip on Friday, Mr.Jawahirullah, who is contesting in the ‘Rising Sun’ symbol of the DMK, said he had recently attended an election rally in Salem in which Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also participated. Appeals for votes Subsequently, the MMK leader said, his health condition deteriorated, and he got himself admitted to a private hospital at Tiruchi, he said. M.H. Jawahirullah urged the voters of Papanasam to elect him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanimozhi-jawahirullah-test-positive/article34235854.ece
04 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Model code hits goldsmiths hard||Many shops at Edapalayam, a hub for goldsmiths in the city, often remain closed as orders have dropped by 50% because of the model code of conduct. It may take at least two weeks after the Assembly election for the situation to become normal. With jewellers hesitating to transport jewellery and cash as the model code of conduct was in force, goldsmiths who depend on orders from jewellers have been hit hard. Goldsmiths at Edapalayam said their business was looking up after relaxations in the lockdown but the shops were kept open only for a few hours a day as there was less work. Now, orders have dropped considerably as it is difficult to carry ornaments for various processes such as polishing or for delivery because of the fear of being stopped by flying squads. D. Jayagopi, president, Park Town Gold, Silver Ornaments Workers Welfare Association, said customers were hesitating to make direct purchases owing to the fluctuation in gold price. The pandemic and the model code of conduct had severely affected the trade. “We expect the situation to ease after April 6. But it may take a couple of weeks for orders to increase,” he said. Jewellers in the city said there was a sharp decline in sales despite the prices being volatile as customers feared carrying ornaments. Several of them made only 50% of the usual business for the past few weeks. S. Santhakumar, general secretary, Madras Jewellers Association, said, “We are managing with available stock and have restricted the number of fresh orders. About 70% of the orders for gold and silver ornaments are waiting to be delivered in the city and from other cities such as Bengaluru, Mumbai and Delhi. Many don’t want to run the risk of being detained.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/model-code-hits-goldsmiths-hard/article34235831.ece
04 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Be an ambassador of democracy||Here is your chance to become an ambassador for democracy. Right to Vote, a public interest initiative by Nippon Paint and powered by  The Hindu Group, aims to create awareness on the significance of each vote. People may pledge to vote by uploading their photos and details, including name, age, gender, mobile number and email id onhttp://bit.ly/THNPRTV. Chosen persons would get a chance for their photographs to be featured in The Hindu and website and share featured posts to urge family and friends to vote. The Right to Vote campaign aims at spreading awareness among the people of why every vote is crucial for democracy. It has already received an overwhelming response from young and first-time voters. The pledge campaign closes on April 5. News 18 Tamil is the news channel partner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pledge-to-vote-today/article34235833.ece
04 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Dravidian parties justify corruption’||Makkal Needhi Maiam’s T. Nagar candidate Pala. Karuppiah on Saturday objected to opinion polls predicting a straight contest between the alliances led by the DMK and the AIADMK and slammed the two Dravidian parties and their alliance partners for justifying corruption. The MNM secured 18,272 votes in the segment that falls under the South Chennai constituency in the Lok Sabha election. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Karuppiah said it was important for the people to choose the right option instead of choosing a side that is likely to win. Criticising the incumbent AIADMK MLA, he said, “I resigned my MLA post complaining of corruption. This is what I am telling the voters. The incumbent has shown more wealth in his affidavit this time than last time. When people like Edappadi K. Palaniswami become Chief Ministers, it is no surprise that MLAs become wealthy.” Stating that there was a time when integrity, honesty and morals were pronounced in public life which produced leaders such as K. Kamaraj and C. Rajagopalachari, Mr. Karuppiah said it was important to reintroduce these traits. “We have to introduce a politics that is opposed to this trend,” he said. Asked how he hoped to reach out to upper caste voters after espousing views in support of Dravidian ideology and anti-Brahminism on a few occasions, Mr. Karuppiah said, “These views are spoken when caste differences are pronounced. I have written once that Brahmins have given three important things to India: the Ramayanam, the Mahabharatham and Rajaji. Two Brahmins who created a great impact on me are J. Krishnamurti and Rajaji. We should appreciate good things from everyone without discrimination.” He criticised the Communist parties that were aligned with the DMK. “After creating a situation where money is given to voters, the Dravidian parties are now giving money to their allies and asking them to let go of their identity. Communist parties should influence the DMK, but they are taking money from the DMK. If they are accepting corrupt money, how can they be a party of workers and the poor?” he said. Rejecting the criticism that the MNM is a vote-splitter, he asked, “If we shouldn’t split votes, we must seek money and join an alliance and support this corruption. Is that right? Or should we contest alone and try to form a government?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dravidian-parties-justifying-corruption-karuppiah/article34235839.ece
04 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Case booked against Maran, Raja, Leoni||The Cyber Crime Cell of the Central Crime Branch has booked a case against DMK MPs Dayanidhi Maran and A. Raja and propaganda secretary Dindigul I. Leoni for their alleged derogatory remarks against women during campaign. The FIR was opened following a complaint from two functionaries of the AIADMK Legal Wing to the Election Commission, and it was forwarded. They alleged the three leaders had spoken against the AIADMK and women in a derogatory manner while campaigning in the last one week. On their complaint, the police named the three leaders in their FIR for offences under Sections 153 (Wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot) and 294B (foul language in a public place) of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-booked-against-maran-raja-leoni/article34235845.ece
04 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK protests against I-T Dept.’s searches on friends, family of Ministers||The AIADMK on Saturday protested to Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora against searches by the Income Tax Department in the last one week in properties belonging to the relatives and friends of its leaders. In a letter, R.M. Babu Murugavel, the party’s spokesperson, wanted the CEC to take necessary steps for restraining the I-T Department from conducting unwanted raids or searches. The I-T Department had carried out searches in the residences, schools and colleges owned by the friends of Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan; residences of relatives of Industries Minister M.C. Sampath; the house of a staff working at a college of Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar and houses and offices of friends of Dairy Development Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-protests-against-i-t-depts-searches-on-friends-family-of-ministers/article34235867.ece
04 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CEO Sahoo announces a slew of regulations||Ahead of the April 6 Assembly election and Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha byelection, Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo on Saturday announced regulations that will be in force from 7 p.m. on April 4 until the closure of polling. Under the regulations, no one shall convene, hold or attend any public meeting or procession. No one shall display any election matter through a cinematograph, a television set or any similar apparatus, like FM radio, WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter, and through all electronic forms of communication, including SMS and Internet. No one shall propagate any election matter by holding or arranging a musical concert or a theatrical performance or any other entertainment or amusement programme. Any violation of these regulations is punishable with imprisonment for two years or a fine, or both, under Section 126 (2) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, Mr. Sahoo said in a release. All party functionaries and workers who have been brought to a constituency from outside and who are not voters thereof should leave the constituency immediately after 7 p.m. on April 4, the release said. Vehicle permits given to candidates, including star campaigners, would cease to be valid from 7 p.m. on April 4. On the day of polling, each candidate is entitled to one vehicle for his use, one for the use of his election agent and one for his workers or party workers. No candidate or his agent shall be allowed to hire or procure or use vehicles for transporting voters to and from a booth. It is a corrupt practice punishable under Section 133 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ceo-sahoo-announces-a-slew-of-regulations/article34235859.ece
04 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CITU veteran Nambirajan passes away||T.N. Nambirajan, veteran leader of Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), passed away on Saturday due to prolonged illness. He was 75. In a statement, CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan condoled the death of Nambirajan, one of the party’s district presidents in Chennai. He has played various roles in CITU at the national level. Nambirajan was Union leader at Chennai Port, MRF, Ashok Leyland, Wimco, Ennore Foundries among others and worked for the welfare of the workers, Mr. Balakrishnan noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/citu-veteran-nambirajan-passes-away/article34235870.ece
04 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Case booked against DMK leaders||The Cyber Crime Cell of Central Crime Branch has booked a case against DMK MPs Dayanidhi Maran, A. Raja and propaganda secretary Dindigul I. Leoni for their alleged derogatory remarks against women while campaigning. The FIR was opened by the police following a complaint from two functionaries of the AIADMK Legal Wing to the Election Commission of India and it was forwarded. They alleged that the three leaders were speaking against the AIADMK and women in a derogatory manner while they campaigning for the last one week. On their complaint, the police named three leaders in the FIR for offences under Sections-153 (Wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot) and 294b (foul language in a public place) of the IPC. The FIR was forwarded to the court for further action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-booked-against-three-dmk-leaders/article34235868.ece
04 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PG medical students protest||Postgraduate medical students of a number of government medical college hospitals staged a protest on Saturday to raise issues including the increase in workload and delay in disbursal of salary. Doctors from the three medical college hospitals in Chennai — Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, Government Stanley Medical College Hospital and Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital — staged a demonstration on the campus of RGGGH. Bearing the brunt The doctors said medical interns, also known as CRRIs (Compulsory Rotatory Residential Internship), in government medical college hospitals had completed the internship period and the next batch of CRRIs would be able to join only after two or three months due to COVID-19. In such a situation, PGs were bearing the brunt of increased workload, a section of them said. Based on representation from postgraduate students, many medical colleges had asked staff nurses to help doctors. “But not many are supportive. Only a few are helping us,” one of the PGs said. “Our main demand is that steps should be taken immediately to increase the total workforce for the welfare of the patients,” he said. The doctors said they were receiving salary once in two or three months.  Our main demand is that steps should be taken immediately to increase the total workforce for the welfare of the patients||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pg-medical-students-protest-salary-delay/article34235851.ece
04 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 75 lakh cash seized||Customs has seized silver and cash totalling Rs. 75 lakh during searches ahead of elections. On April 3, during “Operation Blue Eagle”, special teams conducted checks in several areas in city. The Customs officers detected Rs. 50 lakh in new currency note bundles in one case. In Mylapore, they seized 36 kg of silver estimated at Rs. 25 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-75-lakh-cash-seized/article34235852.ece
04 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 73 lakh cash seized in Kotturpuram||A flying squad team has seized Rs. 73 lakh cash from a businessman who carried it in his sports utility vehicle from Namakkal. The vehicle was intercepted by the flying squad headed by a revenue officer in the Kotturpuram police station limits on Friday night. The police said the cash was seized since the the carrier could not produce any document in support of the amount. The money was handed over to the treasury department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-73-lakh-cash-seized-in-kotturpuram/article34235837.ece
04 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Khushbu booked||Personnel of the Kodambakkam police station has booked a case against actor and BJP candidate Khushbu Sundar in Thousand Lights constituency for allegedly campaigning before a mosque in violation of poll code. The case was booked based on a complaint by an officer of an additional flying squad. No permission The complainant said while he was on duty, the actor and her supporters were seen standing before a mosque and distributing pamphlets without obtaining necessary permission from authorities. The complainant alleged that their act was contrary to the model code of conduct. On receiving the complaint, the police registered a first information report against Ms. Khushbu and her supporters under Sections 143 (Punishment for unlawful assembly) and 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/khushbu-booked-for-poll-code-violation/article34235846.ece
04 April 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Cash seized||A flying squad has seized Rs. 73 lakh carried by a businessman in his vehicle. The vehicle coming from Namakkal was intercepted in Kotturpuram police station limits on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-seized/article34235947.ece
04 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: MSMEs take safety measures||The Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) here have started taking precautions against the spread of COVID-19 among workers. Though number of cases are on the rise, there is no report of the spread of the disease so far among workers. There should be vaccination camps for workers on a large scale and industrial activity should not be disturbed. The MSMEs are just reviving and if there are restrictions again, several units will have to shut down operations, say industry sources. With the public and the workers not on guard as before, MSME unit owners fear the spread and are now insisting to workers to wear masks and use sanitisers. They are trying to improve awareness among the workers. Another spread of COVID among workers will be a big blow to industrial activity, they say. Industry sources here said the MSMEs will be hit hard if there are restrictions on movement of workers and goods. Since industrial activity is spread across the district because of the large number of MSMEs, containment areas should be restricted to buildings and not the entire street. The trade and industry here have appealed to the district administration and the civic body to restrict containment zones to buildings in which the COVID-19 affected people reside and to not extend it to entire streets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-msmes-take-safety-measures/article34235880.ece
04 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to arrest those booked for clash||The Coimbatore District Police has intensified its efforts to arrest the son of Deputy Speaker Pollachi V. Jayaraman and a few others, who were booked in connection with clashes that took place between AIADMK and DMK cadres recently at Okkilipalayam, near Pollachi. Police sources privy to the development told The Hindu on Saturday that Inspector General of Police – West Zone A. Amalraj had instructed the Superintendents of Police (SP) of eight districts through videoconferencing on Friday to arrest the accused who were absconding ahead of the Assembly election. Following this, Coimbatore district SP S. Selvanagarathinam ordered the Vadakkipalayam police to arrest Mr. Jayaraman’s son Pravin and the other accused. The case pertains to Mr. Pravin along with six others allegedly attempting to disrupt a DMK election campaign held at Okkilipalayam on March 28. The Vadakkipalayam police registered a case against eight persons including Mr. Jayaraman and Mr. Pravin under six sections of the Indian Penal Code including Sections 143 (Punishment for rioting) and 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt). A special team has been formed to arrest the accused, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-to-arrest-those-booked-for-pollachi-clash/article34235869.ece
04 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Kamal Haasan writes to fellow candidates in fray||In a display of goodwill beyond political differences, Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder and candidate for Coimbatore South Assembly constituency Kamal Haasan wrote to 10 other candidates contesting in the constituency on Saturday to convey his wishes for the upcoming election. The addressees included BJP’s candidate Vanathi Srinivasan, Congress’ Mayura S. Jayakumar, candidate from Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam R. Duraisamy and Naam Tamilar Katchi’s Abdul Wahab. “Whoever wins among us, it would mean that the people of Coimbatore South had won,” Mr. Haasan wrote in the identical letters to the candidates. “All have come here to work for the people. If the rest of those who contested could lend their shoulders to the winner, there is no doubt that it would be a great democratic culture,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-haasan-writes-to-fellow-candidates-in-fray/article34235876.ece
04 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Training for poll officials||District Collector S. Nagarajan on Saturday inspected the training programme conducted for presiding and polling officers. According to a press release, the training was held at 10 centres in the district. Separate training was held here for micro observers. Arrangements were also made for the election duty personnel to submit Form 12 and cast postal vote at the venues. As many as 156 polling stations were identified as vulnerable in the district and 318 micro observers were trained for additional focus at these stations. They were told to allow voters to cast their vote only if they had the required documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-for-poll-officials/article34235881.ece
04 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Change in campaign mode hits small businesses||Elections in the past were similar to festivals, with political parties erecting grand stages and arches, hoisting banners and flags, and organising mega public meetings. This year, the parties and the candidates have opted more for street meetings and programmes to interact directly with the voters. This change in the mode of campaigning means less than usual election business for many. Stage decorator Basha says he did not use flowers or flex banners for any of the stages that he put this year for election meetings. “Political parties used to spend minimum Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 30,000 on decorations for a stage. This year, there was no use of flowers at all.” Even the number of sound boxes kept at meetings was relatively less. There are 20 to 30 stage decorators in Coimbatore who are usually active during elections. With restrictions on spending by political parties, business was low this year for these decorators, he adds. According to Balamurugan, who rents out sound systems for public meetings and vehicle campaigns, it was just two to three meetings and lesser number of vehicles this year. “We did only two or three meetings and about 30 vehicles. Earlier, we used to provide sound systems to about 60 vehicles during elections. The number of days given to candidates for campaigning is less this year. Candidates prefer to meet and interact with the public. So they are not going in for stage meetings,” he says. J. James, who was involved in organising a public meeting in the city for elections, says that when a political party approaches the election officials for permission to organise meetings, they need to provide details of the stage size, number of sound boxes, etc. The officials calculate the expenditure based on the information and also inspect the site. With restrictions on expenditure, parties have reduced public meetings. If there is a public meeting, several small vendors will bring goods to sell at the gathering. They did not have business this year. According to an independent candidate, people like him should get more days to campaign. They cannot afford to appoint people to take care of the election expenditure and so lose time in visiting the officials for permissions and submitting details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/change-in-campaign-mode-hits-small-businesses/article34235993.ece
04 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two drown in River Bhavani||Two men were reported to have drowned in River Bhavani near Vanabadrakali Amman temple in Mettupalayam on Saturday evening. Police sources said that the deceased were identified as Ganesan (48) and Manikkam (37). While the fire service personnel retrieved the body of Ganesan late on Saturday night, the second body was washed away in the river and the search operations will continue on Sunday, according to the sources. Mettupalayam police registered a case and further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-drown-in-river-bhavani/article34235875.ece
04 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Reduce workload: PG students||Around 60 post-graduate medical students at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) staged a demonstration on Saturday demanding reduction in workload, increase in stipend, and improving basic facilities. According to a petition submitted to Dean A. Nirmala, interns who were on a Compulsory Rotatory Residential Internship (CRRI) were recently relieved, forcing the PG doctors deputed for COVID-19 duty. The petition requested hiring of more staff nurses to reduce the workload of PG doctors. While complaining that the stipends given to the PG doctors were insufficient, the students also alleged that their stipends have not been credited in the past two months. They also complained lack of adequate quarantining facilities and unavailability of adequate food. “They are asking us to arrange the food ourselves, but our stipends have not been credited yet,” a PG student said. With nearly 200 PG doctors currently taking turns for COVID-19 duty, arranging food from outside might also increase the risk of infection, he said. “We have now placed the request and we will wait till Monday. If no action is taken, we will continue our protest,” he said. Sources in the CMCH administration said that arrangements for the accommodation of the PG doctors will be arranged in a few days on the hospital premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reduce-workload-pg-students/article34235883.ece
04 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Dindigul Leoni booked||The Kuniamuthur police on Friday registered a case against DMK speaker Dindigul I. Leoni for his allegedly misogynistic remarks he made on March 23 during an election campaign. The police said that the complaint was filed at the State Election Commission by State general secretary of Indu Makkal Katchi P. Senthilkumar. Mr. Leoni was booked under section 509 (Word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code. On March 23, he was campaigning for DMK’s candidate for Thondamuthur Assembly constituency Karthikeya Sivasenapathy at Kuniamuthur, where he made the controversial remarks. 12 arrested The Variety Hall police on Friday arrested 12 persons on charges of trespassing into a polling station carrying cash and paraphernalia bearing the symbol of BJP. The police said that a flying squad from Thondamuthur constituency visited the polling station in Maranna Gowder High School at Sullivan Street based on a tip-off, where the 12 persons were present with BJP pamphlets, stickers and a party flag along with cash Rs. 46,070. The flying squad team seized the cash and other items along with six cars.The accused were later released on bail, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dindigul-leoni-booked/article34235889.ece
04 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district sees 292 cases||After five months, the total active COVID-19 cases in the Coimbatore district crossed the 2,000-mark on Saturday as 2,007 patients were reported to be under treatment in the district. The previous instance that the active cases were reported to be over 2,000 was on October 31, 2020. The daily caseload of Coimbatore district continued to see a rise as 292 new cases were reported on Saturday, taking the overall tally to 59,821 cases. The Health Department did not report any new deaths as the district’s toll remained at 694. As many as 57,120 patients have recovered in the district. A total of 148 patients were discharged from various treatment centres in the district on Saturday. Tiruppur district reported 79 new cases on Saturday, which took the overall tally to 19,544 cases. No deaths were reported as the toll remained at 226. As many as 18,851 patients have recovered and 467 were active cases in the district. On Saturday, 50 patients from Tiruppur district were discharged from various treatment centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-sees-292-cases/article34235893.ece
04 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Will never raise the cost of my idlis, says Kamalathal||A day after Mahindra Group Chairman Anand Mahindra tweeted about offering a new house-cum-workspace for M. Kamalathal, the octogenarian known for her Rs. 1 idlis here, she said that she has no plans to increase the cost of her idlis. “Till the day I die, [the idlis] will be Rs. 1 only,” she told The Hindu over phone from her residence at Vadivelampalayam near Coimbatore. Expressing happiness for Mr. Mahindra’s support, she said that she is ready to move her eatery to the new location once the construction works are over. Although her eatery is over three decades old, Ms. Kamalathal has been attracting nation-wide attention since 2019, when her eatery that offers idlis for Rs. . 1 a piece garnered wide media coverage. On Friday, Mr. Mahindra tweeted that a team from Mahindra Group had approached her on supporting her venture. “She said her priority was a new home/workspace. Grateful to the Registration Office at Thondamuthur for helping us achieve our 1st milestone by speedily registering the land (sic),” he wrote. Mahindra Lifespaces, the real estate and infrastructure development arm of the Mahindra Group, will soon begin the construction, Mr. Mahindra added. B. Jaikanth, a neighbour of Ms. Kamalathal who assisted her during the land registration, said that the process was carried out in the presence of K. M. Pugezhendhi, Chief Operating Officer at Mahindra Water Utilities, on March 29. The land is located close to her current residence at Vadivelampalayam and the construction is expected to begin in May, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-never-raise-the-cost-of-my-idlis-says-kamalathal/article34235894.ece
04 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested||The Selvapuram police on Saturday arrested a 29-year-old man on charges of sexually assaulting a mentally challenged woman and recording lewd videos on his mobile phone. The 30-year-old victim was staying in a separate room within the house, where the accused sexually assaulted her. The family members noted the suspicious movement in the room and caught the accused, following which he was handed over to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested/article34235887.ece
04 April 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||7 villages in Harur threaten to boycott poll||Residents of seven villages of a panchayat in Harur have threatened poll boycott over a poultry farm allegedly causing health hazard and environment pollution. The poultry farm in Karunkal village in Vedakattamadavu panchayat has become an election issue for people of the surrounding seven villages, who have now demanded that the authorities shut it down or be prepared for a poll boycott. The poultry spread over 100 acre has been operating in the vicinity of this village for the last 5 years. According to the locals, the farm is breeding over 5 lakh birds out of which an average of 300 birds die every day. The dead birds are set ablaze, which emanates stench filled smoke smothering the surrounding environment. Alambadi, Karungalpaadi, Moondarampatty and Puthu are among the seven villages affected by the poultry farm. Breeding site In addition, the poultry farm is posing serious health hazard by becoming a breeding site for flies that have started to infest residences, and water bodies, the locals have alleged. With only two days to go for the elections, the locals have announced a poll boycott to draw attention to their plight. They have also erected black flags lining up to the villages and atop homes, and defaced the party symbols of candidates in protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/7-villages-in-harur-threaten-to-boycott-poll/article34235983.ece
04 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||DMK, Congress believe in dynasty, not democracy, says J. P. Nadda||The DMK and the Congress believe in the politics of dynasty and not in democracy, said BJP national president J.P. Nadda at Sivagiri in Erode district on Saturday. Campaigning for the party’s Modakkurichi constituency candidate C. Saraswathi, Mr. Nadda said that while national development was taking place under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Tamil Nadu was marching ahead under the AIADMK rule. “The DMK and the Congress are parties of dynastic value. They believe in the politics of dynasty,” he said and added that both the parties were rejected by the people twice. He said the DMK stood for “dynasty, money and katta panchayat”, and added that time had come to reject it. Mr. Nadda further said the DMK-Congress combine was known for 2G, 3G and 4G meaning two generations of corruption of the Maran family, three generations of the corrupt Stalin family and four generations of corruption of the Congress-Gandhi family. The DMK was losing the poll and its patience, Mr. Nadda said, terming the statements made by DMK senior leaders against women and Dalits as shameful. “This is the frustration from them when not in power. If they come to power, how will they look at women and Dalits? This has to be understood,” he said. The DMK failed miserably to fulfil the regional aspirations as the Congress betrayed the sentiments of the people of Tamil Nadu by banning jallikattu. “DMK kept mum and did not say anything,” he said and added that the BJP-led government understood the people and brought in the ordinance that enabled jallikattu to continue. The BJP president said that after Mr. Modi came to power, shooting of Tamil fishermen had stopped and he was the first Prime Minister to visit Jaffna. “He not only visited the bombarded houses, but also reconstructed them and gave the ownership to the Tamil minorities in the island nation,” he said. Tamil was one of the oldest languages and Mr. Modi took the language globally. At the U.N. General Assembly, the highest political platform of the world, Mr. Modi recited the lines of Tamil poet Kaniyan Pungundranar. “We can understand how rich the culture of Tamil has been, and what great message Tamil Nadu gave to the whole world,” he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-chief-says-dmk-and-congress-believe-in-dynasty-not-democracy/article34235866.ece
04 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Officials raid private school||Following complaints that cash meant for distribution to voters was kept at a private school in Anthiyur, officials of the Income Tax Department and members of flying squad raided the school on Saturday. The school is located at Thoppur on Anthiyur – Athani road and belongs to AIADMK functionaries. The officials received complaints that cash was kept at the school and was being taken to various places for distribution. IT officials and members of the flying squad raided the school from 7 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. during which no cash was seized. The warden and faculties were also questioned. Local people said Minister for School Education K.A. Sengottaiyan on Friday visited the school during his campaign and took rest for some time. However, news spread that cash was stacked in the school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-raid-private-school/article34235986.ece
04 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Pensioners asked to submit life certificate||Members of Tamil Nadu Construction and Manual Workers, who are receiving pension, are asked to submit life certificates for 2021-22 by April 30. A release from S. Gayathiri, Assistant Commissioner of Labour (Social Protection Scheme), said pensioners, who were yet to submit the certificate, should submit it along with mobile number, copy of bank pass book and other documents to the office on Chennimalai Road, Govt. ITI (rear side). Ph: 0424-2275591 and 2275592.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pensioners-asked-to-submit-life-certificate/article34235987.ece
04 April 2021||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Four of the five constituencies in Karaikal region witness tough battle||Four out of the five constituencies in the Karaikal region are witnessing a tough battle, with candidates, after completing several rounds of door-to-door campaigns, now engaged in last minute electioneering before campaigning comes to an end on Sunday ahead of the April 6 election. The presence of former legislators in the constituencies of Thirunallar and Neravy T.R. Pattinam as Independents has made the contest triangular, while in the remaining constituencies of Karaikal North, Nedungadu and Karaikal South the battle remains two sided. The most interesting contest is in Thirunallar, where former Minister R. Kamalakannan from the Congress faces businessman turned politician Rajasekharan Sivaprakasam, who is contesting on a BJP ticket. P.R. Siva, a former minister in AINRC government, is also in fray as an Independent after his party decided to allot the seat to the BJP in the National Democratic Alliance. In Neravy T.R. Pattinam, the fight is between two new entrants and a former legislator. M. Nahathyagarajan of the DMK and S. Manoharan of the BJP (both joined their respective parties a few days before the elections) are locked in a fight with Independent Geeta Anandan, who won the seat in the 2016 Assembly polls on a DMK ticket. Interestingly, people in the constituency point out that what is most fascinating is that the contest is between three DMK-loyal families as the BJP candidate S Manoharan’s father V.M.C. Sivakumar was a DMK legislator. The battle in the two constituencies is intense, and at least in Thirunallar, the pattern of minority and SC voting could largely determine the outcome. While in Karaikal North, the contest is primarily between PCC chief A.V. Subramanian and sitting legislator and AINRC nominee Thirumurugan, the battle in the reserved constituency of Nedungadu is between sitting legislator Chandraprinka on an AINRC ticket against former legislator Marimuthu, who is fighting on a Congress ticket. The exposure of sitting legislator and AIADMK nominee K.A.U. Assana to the novel coronavirus has brought down the intensity of electioneering and campaigning in Karaikal South, where he will be facing former Minister A.M.H. Nazeem of the DMK. In the 2016 Assembly polls, the AINRC pocketed two seats, while the Congress, DMK and AIADMK won one each.  The presence of former legislators in the constituencies of Thirunallar and Neravy T.R. Pattinam as Independents has made the contest triangular||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tough-fight-in-four-seats-in-karaikal/article34235949.ece
04 April 2021||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||PCC chief confident of victory||Exuding confidence that the Congress would retain power in Puducherry, PCC chief and party candidate for Karaikal North A.V. Subramanian said people were silently waiting for another opportunity to show their unhappiness with the Bharatiya Janata Party in the April 6 Assembly poll for having created obstacles to the previous Congress government. “The voters showed their anger in the Lok Sabha polls by ensuring the victory of the Congress candidate by a record margin. Our opponents say our government was non-performing, but we won all the three byelections held during the last five years. Our government was toppled just before the elections. So, the anger against the BJP is more,” he told The Hindu while taking a break from campaigning. The All India N.R. Congress and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, who have aligned with the BJP, were aware of the sentiments against the Centre, he said. “Have you seen AINRC chief campaigning for the BJP candidates or the AINRC and the AIADMK candidates using the BJP symbol or flag in their constituencies. Whereas, the Congress-DMK-VCK and CPI leaders have held joint campaigns and our campaign vehicles have the party symbols and flags of alliance partners.” the PCC chief said. People of the Union Territory were literate and politically conscious enough to understand the BJP’s plan to capture a small territory like Puducherry, and they will teach them a lesson, the PCC chief said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pcc-chief-confident-of-victory/article34236236.ece
04 April 2021||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Only a huge victory will thwart BJP’s designs’||Only when the DMK-Congress combine emerges victorious in over 180 seats will the BJP would not attempt any back door entry methods to usurp victory, said senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram here on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, he said BJP leaders had been criss-crossing Tamil Nadu campaigning for their candidates. The Prime Minister, the Home Minister, the Defence Minister and UP Chief Minister were all doing the rounds. However, after they left, there was a kind of lawlessness experienced here. After Yogi Adityanath visited Coimbatore, there were law and order issues. Similarly, after Mr Modi left, there were Income Tax raids on the premises of DMK functionaries and their families. The BJP, Mr. Chidambaram said, would indulge in such acts and attempt to create a ruckus. “Why were the raids aimed only at the DMK. Why didn’t the tax sleuths conduct similar raids on the premises of AIADMK or BJP functionaries in Tamil Nadu, when there were allegations against many of the Ministers,” he asked. The Congress had witnessed so many elections in the past that it took the victory and defeat on equal terms. Whereas it was not the case with the BJP, he charged and added that the recent attempts to topple a democratically-elected government showed that it would indulge in usurping victory through dubious means. Hence, the electorate in Tamil Nadu should not only give an absolute majority, but ensure that the DMK-Congress combine won over 180 seats. He also appealed to the voters to neglect the AIADMK in Tamil Nadu as even a small victory would mean the BJP would sneak into the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-a-huge-victory-will-thwart-bjps-designs-chidambaram/article34235971.ece
04 April 2021||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu received more funds only after BJP came to power, says Nadda||Only after the BJP came to power in Centre, States like Tamil Nadu received more funds and projects, said the party’s national president J.P. Nadda here on Saturday. Speaking at an election rally here, seeking support for the party candidate H. Raja, he said that be it railways or four-lane road projects, building infrastructural facilities for ports, the Centre gave its approval without delay. Only in the last five to seven years, Tamil Nadu had been witnessing robust growth on the industrial and economic front. The defence corridor programme was not only innovative, but would also get indigenous products for the Indian Army. The Congress brought a bad image to the government because of corruption and maladministration. “I challenge the opposition parties to find a single corruption case against the Centre or the Prime Minister,” he said. The country was heading for a new high on many spheres. The Union budget focussed on agriculture and women empowerment. The combination of AIADMK and the BJP would only bring in more such welfare and development schemes to the State, Mr. Nadda said. The country was safe in the hands of Mr. Modi and for continuing the good works, the AIADMK should be given a thumping majority in the Assembly election. The DMK, he charged, was anti-people which was the reason why it could not come to power since 2011. The anti-Hindu sentiments had caused ripples among the DMK that the party president M.K. Stalin suddenly turned soft and was moving with ‘Vel’ (spear) after the BJP took it against the Karuppar Kootam, which criticised the kandashasti kavacham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-received-more-funds-only-after-bjp-came-to-power-says-nadda/article34236164.ece
04 April 2021||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure 180 plus seats for DMK-Congress combine’||Only when the DMK-led alliance emerges victorious in over 180 seats, the BJP will not attempt any backdoor methods, said senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram here on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, he said the BJP leaders criss-crossed Tamil Nadu campaigning for their candidates. However, after they left, there was trouble in the State. After Yogi Adityanath visited Coimbatore, there were law and order issues. Similarly, after Mr. Modi left, there were Income Tax raids on the premises of the DMK functionaries and their families. The BJP, Mr. Chidambaram said, would indulge in such acts and attempt to create a ruckus. “Why were the raids aimed only at the DMK? Why didn’t the tax sleuths conduct similar operations on the premises of AIADMK or the BJP leaders, when there were allegations against many of the Ministers?” he asked. The Congress received victory and defeat on equal terms. Whereas it was not the case with the BJP, he said. The recent attempts to topple a democratically elected government showed that it would indulge in stealing the victory through backdoor methods, Mr. Chidambaram charged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-180-plus-seats-for-dmk-led-front/article34235860.ece
04 April 2021||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Incentive for students||In an attempt to involve college students in improving polling percentage, Valluvar College of Science and Management has announced cash rewards for its students who take up voter sensitisation initiatives in their localities. Students must sensitise voters in their places of residence where their names are in the electoral rolls. The top three prize winners will be given cash rewards of Rs. 10,000, Rs. .5,000 and Rs. .2,500 on the basis of the number of votes cast in their areas, K. Senguttuvan, chairman of the institution, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/incentive-for-students/article34236170.ece
04 April 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Randomisation of personnel for poll duty completed||A total of 1,071 police personnel will be stationed in the 1,071 polling stations on the polling day on April 6. The randomisation of duty for police personnel for the six Assembly constituencies was carried out at the Collectorate. The randomisation of duty for police personnel for the Assembly constituencies of Uthangarai, Bargur, Krishnagiri, Vepanahalli, Hosur and Thally was completed in the presence of Collector and District Election Officer V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy and general observers P.D. Palsan (Uthangarai and Bargur), and Partha Sarthi Sen Sharma (Krishnagiri and Vepanahalli) and police observer Sunil Bhaskar and Superintendent of Police Bandi Gangadar. The randomisation of police duty envisions 168 police personnel for the 168 polling stations in Uthangarai constituency; 161 police personnel Bargur constituency; 142 personnel for Krishnagiri constituency; 221 personnel for Vepanahalli constituency; 160 personnel for Hosur constituency; and 219 police personnel Thally constituency.  Dharmapuri A total of 3,700 police personnel will be deployed for polling duty in the district, which includes deployment in the polling stations and centres. Randomisation of poll duty was carried out under the aegis of Collector and District Election Officer S.P. Karthika and police general observer Chakkirala Sambasiva Rao at the Collectorate for 1,817 polling booths in 870 polling centres here. Superintendent of Police Pravesh Kumar was present.  Erode In Erode district, randomisation of 13,160 polling personnel, who will be involved in the polls in the eight Assembly constituencies, was held at the Collectorate on Saturday. The process was completed in the presence of Collector and District Election Officer C. Kathiravan and general observers Atonu Chatterjee (Erode West), Manish Agarwal (Modakkurichi and Perundurai), Prashant Kumar Mishra (Bhavani and Anthiyur, Narbu Wangdi Bhuttia (Gobichettipalayam and Bhavanisagar) and other officials. Mr. Kathiravan said there were 2,741 polling stations, including 126 polling stations in hill areas. Also, 523 ancillary polling stations were established in all the constituencies in the district. A total of 13,160 polling personnel were posted for duty in all the polling stations and 335 micro-observers would monitor the polling on April 6. Training for the personnel were held on March 18, 27 and April 3 and they had to report to duty on April 5. After receiving the orders, the personnel had to reach their respective polling stations at the earliest, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/randomisation-of-personnel-for-poll-duty-completed/article34235981.ece
04 April 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||No cakewalk for AIADMK in Palacodde this time||Palacodde is predominantly into farming, with sugarcane and tomato being the primary crops alongside paddy, coconuts, and flowers. With a farm-based economy, the process-side lags and the lack of affiliated agro-based industries are the main concerns for the cultivators here. A cold storage facility for tomatoes remains to see fruition here. The constituency is also drought prone. Poor rainfall and the resultant drought axed cane production that Palacodde Sugar Cooperative Mill did not take up crushing this year for want of cane. Palacodde has long demanded irrigation schemes linking from Ennekolputhur (Krishnagiri) to Thumballahalli dam; Aliyaalam dam to Tulchetti lake; and Jathalavau channel extension to Pullikarai – to tackle the drought. Ennekolputur project was hastily hatched up in an election year and notification was issued only recently. Minister for Higher Education K.P. Anbalagan has had winning streak, holding the constituency for four straight terms since 2001. If anti-incumbency is a challenge, his run is equally dogged by the drought of Palacodde and the inability to deliver the promised irrigation schemes. The drought is seen as a result of the AIADMK government’s failure to implement the irrigation schemes and the Minister is seen as the face of that failure, since the irrigation schemes were part of his poll promise in 2016. Kongu Vellalar community that is second only to the Vanniyars in population in the constituency has been hit hard by the drought as land holders. In addition, there is resentment of under-representation amid Kongu Vellalars for not receiving candidature even in the neighbouring constituency of Paapireddypatti, where they are a sizeable population. The blame for it has been laid on Mr. Anbalagan, who is said to have pushed for Vanniyar candidate in all, but one reserved constituency. The vote bank is led by Vanniyars by over a lakh population (48.30%), followed by Kongu Vellalars (15.50%), Adidravidars (13.80%), Muslims (4.80%), Chettiars (5.20%) and others. The AIADMK has relied on the Vanniyar votes of the AIADMK and the PMK. But, the community’s votes are split with the DMK too. In addition, there is also degree of distrust amid the PMK supporters over the defeat of their leader Anbumani Ramadoss in the Lok Sabha elections, allegedly caused by the lackadaisical participation of the AIADMK. The DMK has fielded P.K. Murugan, an office-bearer in its lawyer’s wing for the second time after his loss in 2016. A Vellalar Gownder, Mr. Murugan is riding high on “sympathy” wave that he is well expected to garner the community votes in full. He is also expecting to garner the votes of the Muslims and the Adi Dravidars, with neither community expected to go with the AIADMK. An essentially two-cornered contest, Palacodde is no cakewalk for the high-profile incumbent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-cakewalk-for-aiadmk-in-palacodde-this-time/article34235978.ece
04 April 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Over 8,900 postal ballots issued in Krishnagiri||A total of 8,945 postal ballots have been issued for officials involved in polling duty in the district. According to the administration, of the total postal ballots, 1,920 postal votes have been cast so far. Besides, 2,148 postal ballots applied through Form 12 have been sent to other districts for polling personnel. The postal ballots can be cast and sent to ensure that it reaches by May 2, on the counting day. Postal ballots may be continued to be cast even after April 6. A total of 11,032 officials have been deployed for poll duty for the six constituencies in Krishnagiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-8900-postal-ballots-issued-in-krishnagiri/article34235979.ece
04 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC Bench restrains State govt. from allotting industrial plots||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has granted an interim injunction restraining the State from going ahead with the allotment of industrial and commercial plots in SIDCO Industrial Estate at Kappalur in Madurai district. The court was hearing a batch of petitions challenging the allotment on the ground that the procedure was non-transparent. The petitioners complained there was political interference in the allotment process. They sought a direction to declare the action of Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development Corporation in allotting plots to applications at the industrial estate on outright sale basis dehors the procedure of allotment of plots, as illegal. Applications were called for the allotment of 42 industrial plots and one commercial plot in the industrial estate. After the process of the application as part of the procedure, the interview call was made. The petitioners said that interview calls were made at short notice. The progress in the selection process was to be done by a lot method if more applications were received than the vacant plots. No such procedure of allotment by the lot method was followed, the petitioners complained. They said that the order of allotment was made even as the interviews with the process of screening by the screening committee was to be completed so as to declare the screened and eligible candidates. Only then the draw of lots would come into play, they said. Even when the interviews were not completed and scrutiny of applications made by the screening committee, passing of the allotment order was not sustainable and was nothing but a gross violation of natural justice, the petitioners said, complaining of the allotment process. The petitioners sought an interim injunction restraining the State from confirming allocation and handing over the possession of the plots in the SIDCO Industrial Estate in Kappalur pending disposal of the petition. Taking into account the submissions that there were certain irregularities in the lot system, Justice G.R. Swaminathan granted an interim injunction. The lot system leaves a lot to be desired, the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-bench-restrains-state-govt-from-allotting-industrial-plots/article34236166.ece
04 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Officials get ready to contain COVID-19 cases in Madurai||The Health department officials are planning to strictly enforce containment of streets which have three or more COVID-19 positive cases, in the wake of a sharp rise in the positive cases recorded in the city. While the COVID-19 positive cases are increasing for the past few days, the Madurai district recorded 66 new COVID-19 positive cases on Saturday. The active cases in the city were at 429. Deputy Director of Health Services K.V. Arjun Kumar said that according to a recent communication from the Public Health Department, any street which have three or more COVID-19 positive cases are identified as containment streets. In such streets, three positive cases can be from a single residence or from multiple houses, he added. "Currently, we have identified such containment streets across the district. However, strict barricading and restriction in the movement of people from these streets will be enforced after obtaining the approval of the District Collector. The enforcement measures will be implemented after the elections with the support of revenue and police officials," said Dr. Arjun Kumar. As on Saturday, 13 containment streets have been identified in Madurai district - 2 in rural areas and 11 within Corporation limits, he added. Currently, COVID-19 positive persons and their contacts are instructed not to leave their houses and to be under home isolation. The area is also completely disinfected. With the assembly elections fast approaching, it was essential that people strictly follow safety precautions like wearing facemasks, frequently washing hands and maintaining adequate distance from each other. COVID-19 positive persons who are under home isolation can cast their vote on April 6 after 6 p.m. by wearing a PPE kit that will be available in all the polling booths, said Dr. Arjun Kumar. District Collector T. Anbalagan emphasised that the public must strictly follow COVID-19 safety precautions. He said that the people must avoid crowded places. Those with any symptoms must voluntarily get themselves tested at UPHCs, PHCs and other government hospitals. Those who fail to wear facemasks at public places will have to pay a fine of Rs. 200, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-get-ready-to-contain-covid-19-cases-in-madurai/article34235966.ece
04 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Chamber condemns hike in toll fees||Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry has condemned the Central government’s decision to increase the National Highways toll fee without any prior notice. The toll fee has been additionally increased, and it has come as a shock to the people, the Chamber said. In a press statement issued on Saturday, Tamil Nadu Chamber President N. Jegatheesan said that the existing toll fee itself was already high. As it is the general public, trade and industry were suffering from the abnormal prices of petrol and diesel. Under these circumstances, the additional increase of toll fee increased the financial burden of the people, he said. The Chamber said that the main function of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) was to connect and improve all the states by road. They have a responsibility to build quality roads to promote not only passenger traffic but also essential goods traffic. But existing roads are not properly maintained by NHAI. The trade and industry have been hit hard by such toll fee hikes and prices of all essential commodities and consumer goods have risen sharply, affecting all walks of life. In the past, roads were built, and toll fees were collected for a particular period. It was then dedicated to the general public for their usage at free of cost. The Chamber appeals to the Central government that toll fees have to be collected for a particular period for the roads laid and thereafter government should take necessary steps to remove the toll plazas, the Chamber said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chamber-condemns-hike-in-toll-fees/article34236162.ece
04 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||New set of judges for HC Bench||A new set of judges will preside over court proceedings at the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court from April 7. Justice T. S. Sivagnanam will be the administrative judge for the High Court Bench for the next three months. A Division Bench of Justices T. S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi will hear public interest litigation petitions and writ appeals from the year 2018. A Division Bench of Justices K. Kalyanasundaram and B. Pugalendhi will hear habeas corpus petitions, all criminal appeals, other criminal cases and writ appeals up to the year 2017. The other judges deputed to the High Court Bench for the three months are Justice V. M. Velumani, Justice J. Nisha Banu, Justice G. R. Swaminathan, Justice P. D. Audikesavalu, Justice R. Tharani, Justice T. Krishnavalli, Justice N. Anand Venkatesh, Justice G. Chandrasekharan, Justice A. A. Nakkiran, Justice G. Ilangovan, Justice Sathi Kumar Sukumara Kurup and Justice K. Murali Shankar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-set-of-judges/article34235944.ece
04 April 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||DMK putting up tough fight to stop Thangamani’s win||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam is throwing a tough fight in a bid to play spoilsport and prevent the hat-trick victory dream of Minister for Electricity P. Thangamani from the Kumarapalayam Assembly segment. Mr. Thangamani is highlighting the various development works he has brought for the district and his works as Minister in a bid to return to the Assembly. Mr. Thangamani is hoping to achieve a hat-trick in this elections as well. The constituency was formed following delimitation in 2011 and Mr. Thangamani has represented the constituency during both terms. Mr. Thangamani claims that the present government has made the State power surplus and power cut-free in stark contrast to the previous DMK regime during which there was severe power cuts. However, DMK is countering the claim that the State has not increased native power production but only procuring power from private players and other States. The Opposition is also raising corruption charges against the Minister highlighting the corruption charges levelled by Arappor Iyaakam to the tune of Rs. 1 lakh crore. Mr. Thangamani during his tenure has brought a law college and medical college hospital to the district, long-standing demands of the region. The State government also highlights fulfilling farmers’ demand of providing 24-hour three phase power supply for farm pumps. He also holds portfolio of prohibition and protests against setting up of TASMAC outlets in violation of norms, might result in women voters shunning the AIADMK nominee. Weaving and textile industries form the major occupation in the constituency. Labourers in different industries form the major vote base here. Lack of hike in wages and non-payment of bonus for weavers are major issues among weavers here. Weavers’ association complain that the Minister did not make interventions for ensuring that their wage demands are met. Ashokan, Weavers Association district secretary said that most of the weavers are living in rented houses. GST and demonetisation have severely affected the sector. The weavers complained that hike in yarn prices and lack of measures to promote the traditional industry are the major demands of the weavers and they lament that the Minister has not made necessary intervention in such issues. In fact in Western Tamil Nadu, the DMK is focussing keenly on making the Chief Minister, Speaker and Deputy Speaker and seven Ministers bite the dust. So, the party will focus more on Kumarapalayam, say DMK cadre. A common effluent treatment plant to handle effluents from dyeing units here is another major issue. Untreated effluents from dyeing units are being released to Cauvery river leading to pollution of the major water source of the State and it also affects underground water sources. Almost one lakh persons are involved in weaving industry here. Sugarcane farmers in the region are yet to receive payment dues. While the DMK has fielded M. Venkatachalam in the constituency, K.R. Sivasubramaniyan is contesting in DMDK ticket and K. Kamaraj, a district functionary of MNM, is contesting in party ticket. M. Venkatachalam was once the president of Agraharam panchayat and a familiar face in the constituency. K.S. Moorthy, the DMK in-charge for the region and incumbent Senthamangalam legislator, said that the Minister has failed to fulfil poll promises. Anti-incumbency factor is all set to favour the DMK nominee, he added. There is a long unending list of unkept promises, which the electorate are aware of and it would make them go for a change. For a constituency, that has returned a Minister twice, the growth or development is so poor, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tough-fight-for-minister-in-kumarapalayam/article34235878.ece
04 April 2021||P. SudhakarTIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||This Minister is on a sticky wicket in Sankarankoil||The Sankarankoil (Reserved) constituency in Tenkasi district, which is the bastion of the ruling AIADMK, is all set to witness an interesting contest this time as this backward segment continues to remain a constituency neglected by successive MLAs who went on to become ministers. Though the district has five reservoirs - Gadana, Ramanadhi, Karuppanadhi, Gundar and Adavinainar - only the southern parts of the district get the ‘green cover’ with the water being released from these dams while Sankarankoil, situated on the northern side of the district is a rain-shadow region, is even struggling to get regular supply of drinking water. Consequently, rain-fed crops such as maize and cotton are being cultivated with well water. Floriculture is also carried out here. If the damaged Shenbhagavalli Amman check dam, situated deep inside the Western Ghats west of Vasudevanallur and within the geographical boundary of Kerala, is reconstructed, the water getting diverted towards this region can irrigate lands in even Virudhunagar district. Unfortunately, no step has been taken by successive State governments for several decades and this region continues to be dry and the people have to run from pillar to post for drinking water during summer. The constituency houses over 55,000 each of Thevar and Scheduled Caste voters and 30,000 each of Mudaliyar, Yadhava and Naicker voters. Fielding sitting MLA and Minister for Adi Dravida Welfare V.M. Rajalakshmi again in Sankarankoil segment, the ruling AIADMK is hopeful of retaining its bastion. However, the DMK is hopeful of wresting the stronghold by fielding a novice, Raja, as the Opposition party firmly believes that a rookie is enough to trounce a “non-performing minister,” as being tagged by the locals. Sankarankoil municipality, requiring 85 lakh litres of water a day, gets 55 lakh litres of water a day from TWAD Board. However, gross mismanagement in drinking water supply forces the residents to wait for more than a week to get drinking water. “When our party’s town secretary submitted a petition to the municipal authorities to take steps to supply drinking water at least thrice a week, he was threatened by the politicians. Even I got a call from the close relative of Ms. Rajalakshmi to be silent. But our fight for the people continues,” says T.M. Rajendran, Tirunelveli rural district secretary of MDMK. Drinking water supply to areas like Melaneelithanallur, Thevarkulam and adjoining areas is still worse. When the 15,000-odd weavers were fighting for better wages, and the powerloom owners and the workers were protesting against the 15% GST and the unprecedented rise in yarn price, Ms. Rajalakshmi did nothing to end the indefinite strike. The agitation against the GST continued for more than 20 days. However, the minister remained a mute spectator even as 15,000 families relying on weaving were starving, charges N. Manickam, treasurer of the CITU. “When ‘kadalaimittaai’ (groundnut candy) makers faced the GST issue, Minister for Information and Kovilpatti MLA Kadambur C. Raju took their representatives for a meeting with the officials and an amiable solution was arrived at. However, Ms. Rajalakshmi took no step to end the protest though she represents Sankarankoil, the land of power looms,” says Mr. Manickam. He also charged that the minister did not take any steps for establishing perfume factory in Sankarankoil, one of the poll promises, where floriculture is a major industry, as in Thovaalai. Sand mining issue The seizure of a tractor, owned by the minister’s close relatives, after it was used for illicit sand mining, its forcible release from the taluk office and subsequent registration of case by the police has become a poll issue and is being used for electioneering in Sankarankoil against Ms. Rajalakshmi. The voters also complain that the minister did not take steps for easing traffic congestion in Sankarankoil by operationalising the 15-year-old new bus stand which is crumbling due to disuse. The people’s anger against the minister reflected during her campaign, as Ms. Rajalakshmi was not allowed to even enter most of the hamlets in Melaneelithanallur union. To make things worse, the voters from Thevar community, who are vehemently opposing 10.50% reservation given to Vanniyars even before the caste-based census is completed and demanding reservation in education and employment for them also, have made it clear that Ms. Rajalakshmi’s entry, defying their decision, would trigger unpleasant incidents. The government hospital in Sankarankoil from where more than 80% of the cases are referred to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital should be upgraded with better investigation and treatment facilities, the residents say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/this-minister-is-on-a-sticky-wicket-in-sankarankoil/article34236267.ece
04 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Campaigning set for final flourish today||After a slow but steady build-up, the campaigning for the April 6 Assembly election is heading for a final, frenetic flourish as political rallies wound up their voter outreach on the penultimate day on Saturday. The campaigning will conclude at 7 p.m. on Sunday when prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Cr.PC take effect. The silent period will be in force under the model code of conduct till 7 a.m. on April 7. There is no bar on door-to-door campaigning. Over the past weeks, the Puducherry airspace has hosted an unprecedented number of choppers and chartered planes as several national leaders of the BJP — the list topped by Prime Minister Narendra Modi — have visited the city to campaign for the NDA alliance with the AINRC, AIADMK and the PMK. Among the BJP heavyweights to visit the city were Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkarai and Fisheries Minister Giriraj Singh. Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal and Nirmal Kumar Surana, BJP in-charge for the Union Territory, have been camping in the city for the last few months. Also among the celebrity campaigners was Kamal Haasan, founder of the Makkal Needhi Maiam, who did a road-show for the 22 MNM candidates in the fray. The campaign of the Congress-led Secular Democratic Progressive Alliance has been largely spearheaded by former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy and V. Vaithilingam, MP, while DMK president M.K. Stalin, former Union Minister Veerappa Moily, leader of the opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and Sanjay Dutt, AICC leader, have added heft to the SDPA campaign. At campaign stops across the city, Mr. Narayanasamy’s rhetoric has targeted both the BJP and the AINRC blaming the NDA parties for colluding to bring down the Congress government. The constant obstructions to governance, securing Statehood, opposing NEET, scrapping of free rice scheme (by former Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi) and the NDA threat to Puducherry’s identity are among the issues being raked up on the campaign trail. Polarising politics In Oussudu, while seeking votes for S. Karthikeyan, Mr. Narayanasamy urged electors to reject the polarising politics of the BJP, while in Muthialpet where the Congress has fielded Senthil Kumaran, he said the Centre’s new legislation in the Parliament gave total veto power to the Lt. Governor in Delhi over the elected Chief Minister. The Congress-led front is also highlighting the anti-poor and pro-privatisation policies of the BJP. Campaigning for Nettapakkam candidate V. Vizeaveny on Friday, former Minister M. Kandasamy said the candidate who had stood steadfast with the Congress at a time when the BJP was weaning away legislators can be counted to remain loyal to voters. S. Gopal, DMK, candidate in Orleanpet, is focusing on the lack of adequate assistance from the BJP-ruled Centre when two cyclones wrought damage in Puducherry. He also raised concerns over the consequences on religious minorities from the NRC-CAA project of the BJP. The BJP candidates are reiterating Mr. Modi’s development formula for turning Puducherry into a BEST (Business, Education, Spirituality and Tourism) hub. BJP leaders such as former Minister A. Namassivayam in Mannadipet have focused on slamming the ineptness of the previous Congress government and urging voters to choose the NDA to take Puducherry into the league of BJP-ruled States that are on a fast track to development. Former Chief Minister N. Rangasamy, who began his tour of constituencies from Thattanchavady, one of the two seats apart from Yanam that he is contesting, has been attacking the Congress for an empty cupboard of achievements and for wasting five years fighting the Lieutenant Governor and the Centre. Addressing a campaign rally for party candidate K. Lakshminarayanan in the Raj Bhavan constituency, Mr. Narayanasamy blamed the Congress for lacking the political will to improve the lives of the people. K. Lakshminarayanan, who is facing off with former Minister S.P. Sivakumar (DMK) said there was a groundswell of support for the AINRC as the people were yearning for change and aspired for growth of development of the Union Territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-campaign-set-for-final-flourish/article34236079.ece
04 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Modi ignored the Statehood issue: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday said the Congress-DMK alliance would strive to secure full Statehood for Puducherry if voted to power, even as he criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not making any reference to what was the most important aspiration of the people of the Union Territory. Campaigning for candidates of the Congress, DMK, VCK and the CPI, all in the Secular Democratic Progressive Alliance for the April 6 polls, Mr. Stalin noted that Mr. Modi had been to Puducherry twice to address election meetings of the NDA but not once did he make any reference to the Statehood demand. The Prime Minister had also not committed to the demand for waiver of legacy loans totalling Rs. 8,600 crore due from the Union Territory to the Centre, Mr. Stalin said. He accused the BJP-governed Centre of constantly interfering with the Narayanasamy government. Referring to Mr. Modi’s remark during a rally in Dharapuram that the Congress-DMK had an “anti-women mindset”, Mr. Stalin sought to know whether the Prime Minister was even aware of the Pollachi sexual abuse case that emerged under the AIADMK’s rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/modi-ignored-the-statehood-issue-stalin/article34236235.ece
04 April 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Freebies have made people lazy, says Sarath Kumar||Both the Dravidian parties were trying to make the people lazy with their populist freebie schemes, while the Makkal Needhi Maiam-led alliance has promised free laptops and Wi-fi to upgrade quality of education of students, said All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi founder Sarath Kumar. Campaigning for MNM candidate for Rajapalayam Assembly constituency Vivekanandan here on Saturday, Mr. Sarath Kumar said the freebies had made the people lazy. “They are not going for jobs and agriculture sector is facing labour shortage,” he said. Mr. Sarath Kumar said that rural areas will be provided with all the facilities of urban areas. Similarly, Information Technology companies would be brought to rural areas. “The youths can work in IT companies in local areas and also take care of their farms. This will also protect farming activities from extinction,” he added. Mr. Vivekanandan promised to set up a cold storage facility for mangoes in Rajapalayam and its surroundings. He also promised to introduce heli-ambulance services in Rajapalayam for rushing accident victims to hospitals in places like Madurai and Tirunelveli to save their lives. Thoothukudi Earlier, campaigning in Thoothukudi, he said that coming together of like-minded people and parties headed by Makkal Neethi Maiam would surely give good governance with more meaning to all sections in the society. Campaigning for their candidate Sundar, he said that the Dravidian parties had ruined the State over the last 50 years through non-productive programmes and projects. Election after election, these parties indulged in bribing voters. The MNM and its allies had doable programmes, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/freebies-have-made-people-lazy-says-sarath-kumar/article34235974.ece
04 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Stalin does not have good opinion about farmers: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami said here on Saturday that DMK leader M.K.Stalin did not have a good opinion of farmers and indulged in false propaganda. Campaigning at Salem, the Chief Minister said Mr. Stalin had found a new phrase ‘fake farmer’ and wanted the DMK president to explain what he meant by that. He alleged that former DMK leader Karunanidhi became the Chief Minister after Anna’s death through tricks. Even when Karunanidhi was ill, he did not hand over the party leadership to Mr. Stalin. Stalin not trusted Stalin was not trusted by his father himself, Mr. Palaniswami said and asked the DMK leader, “Then how will people trust you?” He came for campaigns like a film star. “He thinks he is MGR, but only MGR can be MGR,” said Mr. Palaniswami. While Mr. Stalin was trying to gain fame in the name of his father, the AIADMK leaders were making a mark through hard work. Mr. Palaniswami said that he and Mr. Stalin became legislators in 1989, but the DMK president obtained several positions after that. If he had served those positions properly, he could have helped people in several ways, the AIADMK co-coordinator said. Criticising the ‘Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin’ programme, he asked why it was not conducted while Mr. Stalin was the Deputy Chief Minister or Local Administration Minister. “Stalin meets people only during election, but I have toured the State seven or eight times ever since I became the Chief Minister,” he said. NEET introduction Mr. Palaniswami said NEET was introduced during Congress-DMK regime and former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa tried to stop it. “However, we were forced to implement it due to a court order,” he said. On the implementation of 7.5% internal reservation for government school students, Mr. Palaniswami said Mr. Stalin was spreading lies that NEET was affecting poor students, but it was the AIADMK government which had rescued such poor students. Burial controversy Campaigning at Edappadi, he said: “While Mr. Stalin says I am incapable, I have run the government efficiently for four years.” He said his government did not deny land to lay Karunanidhi to rest. The government had to follow certain procedures which were followed by Karunanidhi himself while burial space was sought for former Chief Minister Kamaraj on Marina. He said Karunanidhi had denied the space saying that Kamarajar was not a sitting Chief Minister. The government offered two acres of land worth Rs. 150 crore in Guindy to lay Karunandhi to rest, but Mr. Stalin was not ready to accept it. IT raid  Talking about ;the recent raids at the residence of Mr. Stalin’s daughter, the Chief Minister said searches were conducted based on a tip-off. “Is Stalin’s daughter ward of an emperor. Raids have been conducted at residences of AIADMK Ministers and cadres as well. In a democratic country, anyone could be checked,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-does-not-have-good-opinion-about-farmers-cm/article34235864.ece
04 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||1.96 lakh people receive COVID-19 vaccination in Salem||As many as 1.96 lakh people have received COVID-19 vaccination in the district. According to health officials, vaccination for COVID-19 is being carried out at 281 centres in the district including government and private facilities and both Covishield and Covaxin are administered. Until Friday, 1,79,068 people have received Covishield, including 18,481 persons who have received the second dose. As many as 17,546 have received Covaxin and 247 persons have received the second dose. Health officials said that on an average, 6,000 persons were vaccinated on a day in the district and they had intensified vaccination as part of COVID-19 containment measures. With allowing vaccination for persons aged 45 years and above, the number of beneficiaries was expected to increase in upcoming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/196-lakh-people-receive-covid-19-vaccination-in-salem/article34235988.ece
04 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Campaign should end by 7 p.m.: Collector||Collector S.A. Raman said in a release that intelligence mechanism had been strengthened in the district to prevent distribution of cash to voters. Mr. Raman said campaign by political parties and candidates should end by 7 p.m. on Sunday, 48 hours ahead of polling. Persons outside the constituency should leave the constituency and candidates must not use community halls for canvassing votes. In the 11 Assembly constituencies, 9 flying squads, 108 Static Surveillance Teams and 13 Video Surveillance Teams had been deployed for round-the-clock surveillance, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campaign-should-end-by-7-pm-collector/article34235989.ece
04 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 protective gear dispatched to constituencies||The district administration has sent COVID-19 protective gear to be used on polling day to all the constituencies here. As per the instructions from the Election Commission of India, the district administration received gloves, PPE kits, thermal scanners, masks and other protective gear for distribution to polling personnel and the public for use during polling on April 6. As many as 4,280 polling booths will be set up in the 11 Assembly constituencies in the district. According to a release, the district received 4,494 thermal scanners, 29,532 hand sanitiser bottles of 500 ml, 47,080 face shields, 2,82,480 masks for polling personnel, 1,28,400 masks for voters, 1,41,240 single use rubber gloves and 43,61,962 disposable polythene hand gloves for voters. PPE kits for patients The district also received 56,496 PPE kits for use by COVID-19 patients while voting. Collector S.A. Raman advised the public to wear masks while visiting booths on polling day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-protective-gear-dispatched-to-constituencies/article34235990.ece
04 April 2021||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||‘Slighted’ by Minister, former MLA to support Congress candidate||Former Communist Party of India MLA V. Ponnupandi, who joined AIADMK in 2016, has decided to support the Congress candidate for Srivilliputtur Assembly constituency, P.S.W. Madhava Rao, as he was neglected by the party’s Virudhunagar West district unit secretary K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji. Mr. Ponnupandi, who represented Srivilliputtur Assembly constituency between 2011-2016, complained that not only him, but also several former MLAs of the AIADMK have been ignored by the district secretary. Mr. Ponnupandi said that only because of the deliberate neglect by Mr. Bhalaji, who is also the Minister for Dairy Development, former MLAs K.K. Sivasamy, Balagangadaran and sitting MLA M.S.R. Rajavarman had left the party. Similarly, the political experience of other former MLAs M. Chandra, Gopalasamy, M. Chandraprabha, T. Inbatamilan were not utilised for the party during the election. “Election is like a marriage in the family in which all the family members should be involved. If any one of the family members is ignored, it is not good for the family,” he said. He charged that Mr. Rajenthra Bhalaji did not like people with experience so that they do not get prominence. “Complaints given to party high command has not evoked any response,” he said. It was Mr. Rajenthra Bhalaji who had brought Mr. Ponnupandi to AIADMK in 2016. Mr. Ponnupandi said that he would canvass votes among his supporters for the Congress candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/slighted-by-minister-former-mla-to-support-congress-candidate/article34235964.ece
04 April 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Cash meant for distribution to voters seized||In the last two to three days, the flying squad personnel, poll observers and the Income Tax authorities have been engaged in a series of seizures of cash allegedly meant for distribution by AIADMK functionaries to voters in Bodi and Andipatti Assembly Constituencies . A flying squad team intercepted an AIADMK functionary Chittaranjan, former councillor of Thirumalapuram, when he was distributing money to voters. The team, it is said, seized Rs. 1.50 lakh from him. In Bodi On Saturday, the officials conducted a search operation on the premises of Amma Peravai functionary Kurinji Mani in Bodi. As the premises was situated close to the election office of the Bodi AIADMK candidate O. Panneerselvam, there was an uneasy calm in the vicinity. Amid tight security and watchful eyes of the senior officers, the search went on for about three hours, officials said. During the day, the surveillance squad intercepted a vehicle at Kothapatti village in Andipatti Assembly Constituency and seized Rs. 28,000. The Rajadhani police have registered a case against AIADMK candidate Logirajan, his brother Gubendran, AIADMK cadre Prabhu and drivers Balamurugan and Pandi. A senior official at the Collectorate said that in the last two days alone at least in 10 locations raids were conducted and in a major seizure, Rs. 2.17 crore was recovered from the premises of one Amaresan. Dindigul In a related development, in the neighbouring Dindigul district, the surveillance team intercepted a vehicle at Manakattur bus stand near Natham Assembly Constituency and seized Rs. 8.71 lakh from a person identified as Selvakumar, 29, of Vadamadurai. The officials, it is said, informed the person to produce supporting documents for the cash and deposited the seized money with the office of Tahsildar in Natham. The District Election Officers have in a press release appealed to the public to share information about any specific movement of persons with the control room and be assured of prompt action. The political parties and their candidates also were instructed about the model code of conduct at a meeting, the press release has added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-seize-cash-meant-for-distribution-to-voters/article34235963.ece
04 April 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Robust admissions in two new govt. schools||At a time when panchayat union elementary schools are struggling to stem decline in enrolment, positive signs have emerged from two new primary schools started this year in Musiri educational district. The schools started in Amayapuram and Manalmedu have enrolled 40 students each, Chief Educational Officer R. Arivazhagan said. New schools, according to the policy note 2020 of School Education Department, are sanctioned based on the annual school mapping exercise to ensure that children in unserved habitations have safe access to school in the context of the Tamil Nadu RTE rules, 2011. The scientific tool - GIS (Geographical information System) Mapping - is also the basis for upgrading primary schools into middle schools, middle schools into high schools, and high schools into higher secondary schools. Accordingly, the Middle School in Karuthakodangipatti in Manapparai educational district was upgraded into Government High School. Existing teachers, fulfilling eligibility conditions, were absorbed and a Headmaster was posted to the school, the CEO said. Likewise, the Government High School at Vadakku Sithambur in Musiri educational district was upgraded as higher secondary school. A few proposals for upgrade of schools in rural parts have been received this year,Availability of sufficient land, remittance of public contribution, population of Adi Dravida community, and adequacy of buildings are among factors the government considers for upgrade of government schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/robust-admissions-in-two-new-govt-schools/article34235942.ece
04 April 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||After job cuts during lockdown, engg. colleges now face faculty shortage||Having eased out a critical strength of teachers during the lockdown, several self-financed engineering colleges are said to be facing difficulties in conducting academic activities. Many colleges have the required mass of students, a majority consisting of first-generation graduates and those admitted under SC quota, along with considerable cash flow accruing from government scholarships for these categories of students, but do not have teachers in the proportion specified by All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), it is learnt. Downsizing of faculty in the self-financed colleges began even earlier, during 2018-19, when AICTE reduced student-teacher ratio to 1:20 from 1:15. But, the teacher-student ratio has been altered further to the detriment of quality of education due to retrenchment over the last year, according to a college administrator who requested anonymity. A good number of colleges, sources said, have not complied with the circular issued last November by AICTE for submission of compliance of deficiencies pertaining to infrastructure and faculty. Now that PAN card and Aadhaar numbers of all job-goers have been linked, there is no scope for colleges to inflate the number of faculty for the purpose of ‘eye-wash’ compliance with AICTE norms, the administrator said. According to existing teachers who are being paid only 50% to 60% of their salaries, their workload in the online system of teaching has remained the same. Some feel that it is unreasonable on the part of managements to continue paying only partial salaries even after receiving the fee in full, and enjoying the benefit of almost nil recurring expenditure. In the first place, first-generation graduates and those admitted under SC quota, based on average marks, will be the worst sufferers in the absence of quality teachers. And, the truncated strength of teachers will only complicate matters for sustaining the conduct of online classes, former Director of National Institute of Technology-Tiruchi M. Chidambaram said. For infusing quality through online classes, Anna University could think on lines of putting in place a mechanism whereby its well-qualified faculty reach out to the students virtually across the State. The utility of teachers in the colleges could be optimised through engaging them for evaluating assignments and conducting tutorials for the students requiring minute monitoring of academic progress, Mr Chidambaram said, emphasising that a closed book exam after the lockdown at least for the core subjects was an absolute necessity since employers will otherwise have no way to determine the skill-level of students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-job-cuts-during-lockdown-engg-colleges-now-face-faculty-shortage/article34236264.ece
04 April 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Surge in cases continues||As many as 460 persons tested positive in central region on Saturday. Tiruchi had the maximum number of fresh cases with 142 patients hailing from Tiruchi and 138 from Thanjavur. A senior citizen succumbed to the virus in Thanjavur in the region. An 83-year-old man with a history of hypertension and diabetes succumbed to the viral infection in Thanjavur. Of the 142 fresh cases in Tiruchi, more than half hailed from city corporation limits including Tiruverumbur and most were asymptomatic, officials said. Mobile fever camps have been pressed into action in the city, while in rural parts PHCs have increased testing. Antenatal mothers, patients with fever symptoms and patients with pre-existing ailments are being monitored and tested, senior health officials said. Tiruvarur too has been reporting a marked spike over the last few days and 73 persons tested positive on Saturday. Nagapattinam added 63 more patients and Karur 18. Pudukkottai reported 15 fresh cases and Ariyalur nine. Perambalur district reported two fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surge-in-cases-continues/article34235953.ece
04 April 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Ensure continuation of ‘MGR rule’ in State, says Amit Shah||To continue with MGR rule in Tamil Nadu and to ensure that the DMK’s dynasty remained out of power, the electorate should give a comfortable victory for the AIADMK combine led by Edappadi K Palaniswami, said Union Home Minister Amit Shah, campaigning here on Saturday. Mr. Shah said Narendra Modi, who had become the Prime Minister after selling tea when he was a boy, and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, son of a poor farmer, were working overtime for the welfare of poor peasants and the downtrodden while the Congress and its electoral ally DMK in Tamil Nadu were concerned only about their families as these parties were worried about the continuation of their family rule so as to safeguard their prosperity. “While the Congress is working for its 4G - fourth generation of Rahul Gandhi after Jawaharlal Nehru, Indra Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi, the DMK is tirelessly working for providing firm foundation for its 3G - third generation of Udhayanidhi Stalin after M. Karunanidhi and M.K. Stalin. Mr. Stalin’s only objective was to make his son the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, he charged. Since both the Congress and the BJP are working for the welfare of their families alone, the people of Tamil Nadu should shun these parties and back the BJP -AIADMK combine that works for the uplift of the poor, farmers and the fishermen,” Mr. Shah appealed. He also came down heavily on a recent speech by Mr. Udhayanidhi on late Union Ministers Arun Jaitley and Sushma Swaraj and DMK MP A. Raja’s distasteful observations about the late mother of Chief Minister. “We, especially the Tamils, never comment about the persons, especially the women, who entered into the glory. Hence, the women of Tamil Nadu should not support the DMK in the Assembly polls as the leaders of this party talk ill of women who are no more,” the Home Minister said. Mr. Shah said the DMK, by walking out from the Parliament session, did not support Mr. Modi’s move to categorize seven sub-sects of Scheduled Castes as ‘Devendrakula Velalar’ and the DMK – Congress combine was just witnessing the killing of Tamil fishermen on high seas and laid foundation for banning ‘jallikattu’ (taming of the bull). “After Mr. Modi became the Prime Minister, none laid hands on the Tamil fishermen and only the BJP government passed the ordinance to revoke the ban on ‘jallikattu,’” he said. The Union Minister also sought the Tamil’s support for having allocated Rs. 63,000 crore for Chennai’s metro rail project expansion. While the BJP’s candidate for Tirunelveli Nainar Nagenthran and AIADMK’s candidate for Nanguneri Thatchai N. Ganesa Raja shared the dais with Mr. Amit Shah, the AIADMK’s candidates Esakki Subaya of Ambasamudram, K.J.C. Gerald of Palayamkottai and I.S. Inbadurai of Radhapuram stayed away from attending the electioneering of the BJP’s star campaigner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-continuation-of-mgr-rule-in-state-says-amit-shah/article34235969.ece
04 April 2021||Tirupathur,TAMIL NADU||Case filed against TNCC minority wing president||The Tirupathur police have registered a case against J. Aslam Basha, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee Minority Wing president, and AIADMK local unit secretary Sadhasivam on charges of violating the model code of conduct by canvassing for votes in front of a mosque. According to the police, Mr. Basha was canvassing for votes for DMK-Congress alliance candidate N. Mohammed Nayeem in front of the Khaderpet mosque at Vaniyambadi on Friday, and Mr. Sadashivam was campaigning for AIADMK candidate G. Senthil Kumar. “Permission has to be sought for door-to-door campaigning if more than five persons are involved in canvassing. However, on both sides, there were more people and they refused to cooperate when the police asked them to leave. So, we have registered FIRs against both of them, based on a complaint from the Village Administrative Officer,” a police officer said. Meanwhile, Mr. Basha alleged that Mr. Sadhasivam and Vaniyambadi sub-inspector Manjunathan created nuisance and used abusive language against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-registered/article34235992.ece
04 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Will win with a margin of 50,000 votes in Dharapuram’||BJP State president L. Murugan, who is contesting at Dharapuram (Reserved) constituency as the candidate of the AIADMK front, claimed on Saturday that his victory in the upcoming Assembly election has been confirmed with a victory margin of 50,000 votes. Speaking to reporters after releasing the BJP’s manifesto for the Dharapuram (Reserved) constituency, he said that despite his hometown being at Paramathi Velur in Namakkal district, he chose to contest in Dharapuram to uplift its people. Denying criticisms made by the Opposition leaders that he is an outsider to Dharapuram, Mr. Murugan questioned that why DMK president M.K. Stalin is contesting from Kolathur constituency instead of his hometown in Tiruvarur district. Regarding the recent remarks made by BJP State vice-president and Aravakurichi candidate K. Annamalai against the DMK’s candidate for Karur Senthil Balaji, he claimed that it was Mr. Balaji who first threatened and intimidated Mr. Annamalai. The BJP's manifesto for Dharapuram (Reserved) constituency listed various assurances to improve the infrastructure, for uplifting farmers and Scheduled Caste community in the region, water management, education and welfare of the differently abled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-win-with-a-margin-of-50000-votes-in-dharapuram/article34235886.ece
04 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Preventive steps ramped up in Tiruppur||With the recent reporting of 30 COVID-19 cases from a garment company in Perumanallur, the Tiruppur district administration has ramped up preventive measures such as increased testing and vaccination. According to the Health Department officials, the swab samples of the employees were lifted earlier in the week after an employee experienced COVID-19 symptoms. The test results that returned on Thursday showed that 30 employees in total have contracted the virus, following which the garment company was ordered to be closed for disinfection. While over 500 swab samples were lifted, no more new cases were reported from the company in Perumanallur, the officials claimed. The employees, who tested positive, were hospitalised and their condition was stable as of Saturday, the health officials said. Meanwhile, five members of a family, including a couple, were reported to have tested positive for COVID-19 at Ammapalayam in Avinashi on Saturday and were undergoing treatment at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital. To ensure early detection of cases, the Health Department has been lifting about 1,600 swab samples per day in the district, which will soon be increased to 2,500 samples per day. On the other hand, efforts to ramp up the vaccination drive in the district are also under way, a senior official said. Disinfection of public places and strict monitoring of containment zones are also being done, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/preventive-steps-ramped-up-in-tiruppur/article34235884.ece
04 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Liquor, cash seized near Tiruppur||A flying squad team seized over 2,000 bottles of liquor illegally hoarded at a residence within Avinashi (Reserved) Assembly constituency in Tiruppur district on Saturday. Police sources said that based on a tip-off, the suad searched the residence of K. Murugesan at Pandampalayam near Cheyur. The officials found 2,051 liquor bottles that were allegedly stocked up to be distributed among voters. The bottles were handed over to the Cheyur police, who registered a case against Murugesan and another person A. Iyyappan and arrested the duo, according to the sources. Meanwhile, another flying squad seized cash of Rs. 3.6 lakh during a vehicle check in Perumanallur within Tiruppur North constituency late on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/liquor-cash-seized-near-tiruppur/article34235888.ece
04 April 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Iron bridge over Moyar River in Theppakadu to be replaced||An iron girder bridge that runs over Moyar River and due to its narrow width has succeeded in keeping heavy vehicle traffic passing through the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) to a minimum is to be replaced. The bridge, located in front of the Theppakadu Reception Centre, was said to be weak, and needed to be replaced for the last nine years, said officials from the State Highways Department. However, as a wider bridge would have required the approval of the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF), a decision was taken to replace the existing one with a structure of the same proportion, the officials said. Conservationists have for years opposed widening the bridge as the current width, measuring a little over 4 metres, ensures that heavy vehicles from Gudalur, Kerala and Karnataka are not able to pass through the section and into the core area of the tiger reserve between Theppakadu and Masinagudi. This meant that vehicles travelling to Gudalur and Karnataka from Udhagamandalam too do not usually pass through the tiger reserve, but are forced to taking the longer route via Gudalur. When contacted, Field Director of MTR, K.K. Kaushal, said permission had been granted by the Chief Wildlife Warden on condition that the bridge should not exceed the current dimensions. “As there is no transfer of land taking place, the permission from the MoEF is not required,” he said. Forest Department officials said discussions were held with the Divisional Engineer of the State Highways Department A.S. Viswanathan to come up with a plan to find a detour bypassing the bridge during its construction. “An existing path in the area will be paved and traffic will be diverted till the work on the bridge is completed. The highways has handed over Rs. 25 lakh to the Forest Department for the work to be completed,” an official said. The entire project is estimated to cost Rs. 2 crore, officials said. The stretch of the Moyar where the bridge is to be rebuilt is famous for sightings of marsh crocodiles and smooth-coated otters. Mr. Kaushal said all efforts would be taken to ensure that the development works would not have an impact on the riverine ecosystem of the tiger reserve.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iron-bridge-over-moyar-river-in-theppakadu-to-be-replaced/article34235891.ece
04 April 2021||VEDARANYAM,TAMIL NADU||BJP, AIADMK not on same page on Enayam Port project: Stalin||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami were not on the same page on establishing a port at Enayam in Kanniyakumari district, said DMK president M.K. Stalin here on Saturday. They were indulging in acts of deception, he charged and promised that a government under his leadership would never permit the project. The DMK president said that while the Prime Minister had referred to the project as economic panacea for fishermen at Kanniyakumari on Friday, the AIADMK government was against it, despite the Centre pushing for its implementation through an official communication. The DMK had taken cognisance of the opposition of Christian community leaders to the project, Mr. Stalin said. Attacks on fishermen The attacks on Indian fishermen (by the Sri Lankan Navy) had increased over the last seven years, he said. The Prime Minister was not bothered about the deaths of fishermen and confiscation of boats, the DMK leader added. Textiles Minister O.S. Manian had made matters worse for the fishermen by encouraging them to go beyond the International Maritime Border Line, Mr. Stalin alleged. The AIADMK government had not cared to implement the project envisioned by late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa to develop the Nagapattinam port into an all-weather, deep-water, direct berthing green-field facility, Mr. Stalin said. Mr. Stalin promised fishermen that their community would be treated as coastal Scheduled Tribes. The party would prevail upon the Centre to establish a fishermen welfare commission at the national level. The monthly assistance for fisher families during the fishing ban period would be increased to Rs. 8,000. They would also be given Rs. 6,000 per month during rainy season. The AIADMK government had siphoned off enormous money from the huge allocations made for implementing ‘kudimaramathu’ scheme and for distributing flood relief to the farmers, he charged.  Somersaults won’t do In Chennai, Mr. Stalin said no matter how many somersaults Mr. Modi and Mr. Amit Shah did during their campaigns, the BJP would not be successful in Tamil Nadu. The DMK leader accused the AIADMK-BJP combine of trying to stoke communal tensions in the State. “This is Dravidian soil. No matter how many somersaults Modi and Amit Shah do, you can’t enter Tamil Nadu. The BJP is not going to win for sure. You should ensure that even one AIADMK MLA does not win,” he said. Campaigning in Shozhinganallur, Maduravoyal, Velachery, Virugambakkam, T. Nagar and Thousand Lights, Mr. Stalin hit out at the BJP for a series of raids on the party’s cadre. “You are raiding just at the time of election. When the election is on April 6, you are raiding on April 2 or April 3. It is an Income Tax raid. What is the hurry. Do you think that we will be afraid and hide in one corner? We have faced MISA itself. You cannot frighten us and try to win the election,” he said. Mr. Stalin said the DMK alliance had to be elected to power if Tamil Nadu’s self respect, dignity, were to be restored and the State’s rights retrieved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-aiadmk-are-not-on-same-page-on-enayam-port-project-says-dmk-chief/article34235862.ece
04 April 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||3,446 new COVID-19 cases, 14 deaths in Tamil Nadu||For the second day in a row, Tamil Nadu reported over 3,000 fresh cases of COVID-19 that pushed the active caseload to over 20,000 after five months. With 3,446 persons testing positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, the State’s tally rose to 8,96,226. Over 70% of the fresh cases came from seven districts of Chennai, Coimbatore, Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur, Tiruchi, Kancheepuram and Thanjavur. Chennai leads the table with 1,290 cases followed by Coimbatore with 292 cases, Chengalpattu 285, Tiruvallur 201, Tiruchi 142, Kancheepuram 141, and Thanjavur 138 cases. There were 79 cases in Tiruppur, 75 in Cuddalore, 73 in Tiruvarur, 66 in Madurai, 63 in Nagapattinam and 62 in Salem. Among those who tested positive on Saturday were 17 returnees. The State’s active caseload stood at 20,204. November 1, 2020 was the last time when the State had over 20,000 active cases. Of these, 7,713 patients were under treatment in Chennai, followed by 2,064 patients in Chengalpattu and 2,007 patients in Coimbatore. Another 14 persons died of the infection in the State, taking the toll to 12,764. Chennai reported eight deaths, while two persons died in Chengalpattu and one each in Kancheepuram, Madurai, Thanjavur and Tiruvallur. This included a 47-year-old woman from Madurai with coronary artery disease, diabetes and rheumatic heart disease. She was admitted to a private hospital on April 1 with complaints of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for five days and died the next day due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Six persons were aged in their 60s. Another 1,834 persons, including 730 in Chennai, were discharged. Till date, 8,63,258 persons were discharged.  The State received additional doses of Covishield and Covaxin on Saturday. According to officials of the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, 11.02 lakh doses of Covishield and 2.14 lakh doses of Covaxin were supplied to the State. Another 65,783 people were vaccinated on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3446-new-covid-19-cases-14-deaths/article34235850.ece
04 April 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||32 new cases in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 21,601 with 32 new cases reported on April 3. In Ranipet district, 24 new cases were reported while in Tirupattur district 23 new cases were reported on Saturday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 37 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 19,763.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/32-new-cases-in-vellore/article34236234.ece
04 April 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Alert officials about cash distribution||District Election Officer R. Kannan has asked people to alert officials about cash distribution and hoarding of cash. Complaints on violation of model code of conduct can be sent with video clippings through c-Vigil App of the Election Commission. Action would be taken within 100 minutes on receipt of the complaint, he said.The complaints can also be lodged with the general and expenditure observers: General Observers Rajapalayam and Srivilliputtur: Devendra Kumar Singh Kushwaha (94899 34617); Sattur and Sivakasi: Prabhanshu Kumar Srivastav (94899 34618); Virudhunagar and Aruppukottai: Binita Pecu (94899 34619); and Tiruchuli: Surendra Prasad Singh (94899 34620)  Expenditure Observers     Rajapalayam and Srivilliputtur: Vinay Kumar Arya (94899 34621); Sattur: N. Mohammed Ali (94899 34622); Sivakasi and Virudhunagar: Lovish Shelly (94899 34623); and Aruppukottai and Tiruchuli: Narasingh Kumar Khalkho (94899 34624)    Police Observer For seven constituencies in Virudhunagar district: Bhajani Ram Meena (94899 34625). People can also lodge their complaints round-the-clock by calling the election control room on 1800 425 2166 or 04562 252100. The details of the complainant would be kept confidential. Meanwhile, randomisation of polling staff to appoint Presiding Officer, Polling officers 1, 2 and 3 for 2,370 polling station was carried out on Saturday. A total of 257 have been identified as critical booths. Election micro-observers would be appointed to 186 polling locations. The orders for presiding officer and polling officers would be issued on April 5, one day ahead of the polling day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alert-officials-about-cash-distribution/article34235967.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 49 new cases||Erode district reported 49 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the district’s tally to 15,474. While 26 persons were discharged, 236 persons continue to be under treatment. As many as 62 positive cases were reported in Salem of which 54 were indigenous. Eight patients returned from Chennai, Karur and Namakkal. In Namakkal, 27 cases were reported, six patients returned from Patna, Rajasthan, Coimbatore, Salem and Krishnagiri. After five months, the total active COVID-19 cases in the Coimbatore district crossed the 2,000-mark on Saturday as 2,007 patients were reported to be under treatment in the district. The previous instance that the active cases were reported to be over 2,000 was on October 31, 2020. The daily caseload of Coimbatore district continued to see a rise as 292 new cases were reported on Saturday, taking the overall tally to 59,821 cases. No deaths were reported and the toll remained at 694. As many as 57,120 patients have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-49-new-cases/article34235985.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Campaigning reaches feverish pitch in Tiruchi district||On the penultimate day of the campaign for the Assembly elections, candidates of various political parties on Saturday were engaged in hectic last minute electioneering to woo voters. Candidates of recognised and registered political parties, who began their campaign shortly after nomination by their parties, hit the streets with their supporters and cadre. They visited residential colonies, apartments, urban slums, villages and hamlets and met voters. Some candidates also met influential personalities, caste and religious leaders and heads to muster support. While Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami campaigned for nine AIADMK candidates at Marakkadai on Wednesday, DMK president M.K. Stalin canvassed votes for party candidates in Srirangam a few days ago. Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Hassan, Tamil Maanila Congress president G.K. Vasan, AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran also campaigned in Tiruchi a few days ago. In addition to them, a host of star campaigners too visited the districts and neighbouring areas to collect votes. With just a few hours left for campaigning, the candidates indulged in last-minute campaign on Saturday. Travelling on open jeeps, they covered left-out areas in their constituencies. Tourism Minister N. Natarajan, AIADMK candidate of Tiruchi (East) constituency, campaigned at Subramaniapuram. He said that he had completed all wards except a few points in four. He would visit the left-out areas by Sunday afternoon. People, who had benefited directly and indirectly during the last 10 years of AIADMK rule, would support the party again in the coming election. “I foresee bright chances for my victory. The manifesto of the AIADMK has reached voters well. I will win by a comfortable margin,” Mr. Natarajan said. Former Minister and DMK candidate of Tiruchi (West) constituency K.N. Nehru, who had completed the tour of his constituency, visited Anna Nagar and canvassed votes with people visiting Uzhavar Sandhai to buy vegetables and fruits. He then left for Manapparai. AIADMK candidate of Tiruvermbur constituency P. Kumar and DMK candidate Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi visited various left-out areas in the constituency on Saturday. Meanwhile, election officials intensified vehicle checks at different places to check transportation of unaccounted cash and gifts meant for distribution to the voters. Collector S. Divyadharshini checked the functioning of flying squads and static surveillance teams at various places in the district. She also visited a few polling stations in Tiruchi (West) and Tiruchi (East) constituencies to collect first-hand information about arrangements being made for polling on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campaigning-reaches-feverish-pitch-in-tiruchi-district/article34235946.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 infrastructure scaled up, testing increased||The district administration has begun work to revive the COVID Care Centre at Bharathidasan University’s Khajamalai campus a day after a sharp increase in the number of positive cases. Health officials have also been instructed to scale up sample testing for the viral infection. Tiruchi, which was reporting less that 50 cases only a couple of days ago, has begun recording double the number since Saturday. Health and civic officials have been pressed into action to help contain the spread. The COVID care centre is being readied due to increase in number of cases. “Many of the patients are asymptomatic, and a COVID care centre, like the one we had last year is necessary,”. Ram Ganesh, Deputy Director of Health Services, told The Hindu . The BDU campus in Khajamalai has been sanitised, cleaned and prepared for the purpose and will be functional by Sunday. A separate medical team and arrangements for beds and nutritious food for patients are on stand by. The district is defining a ‘cluster’ in a locality as one with more than three cases in close proximity. “This will help us keep a check on the spread. Containment zones will be created in houses and in apartments, if needed,” he said. The Health Secretary and Chief Secretary have also instructed authorities to increase testing. As many as 4,000 samples are being lifted every day across the district. “In Tiruchi Corporation limit alone, we are taking 1,000 samples. Along with samples from primary healthcare centres and mobile fever camps, we are able to identify the source of the infection,” S. Sivasubramanian, Corporation Commissioner, said. With the Central government instructing COVID-19 vaccine session sites to work on weekends and government holidays, health officials hope the vaccination drive will pick up pace. “We have been inoculating up to 5,000 people a day and expect it to increase over the next few weeks,” Mr. Ram Ganesh said. A fresh supply of both Covishield and Covaxin is also under way from Chennai,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-infrastructure-scaled-up-testing-increased/article34235951.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Karur Collector warns trouble mongers||Violence, in any form, will not be tolerated and stern action will be taken against those resorting to such acts, Collector and District Election Officer Prashant M. Wadnere has said. “We are closely monitoring the campaign of political parties in Karur and other three constituencies in the district. All arrangements have been made to ensure free and fair polling. Stern action will be taken against those trying to disturb the polling process and create trouble,” Mr. Wadnere said. He told The Hindu that 116 cases had been registered in the district since enforcement of the model code of conduct. Several areas in the district were political and expensive sensitive areas. Hence, special teams formed to track the movements of the political parties had been asked to step up vigil. “We get inputs on distribution of cash to voters. But, some of them are vague. However, we do not leave any input unattended and verify each and every complaint or input,” Mr. Wadnere said. According to him, Sunday and Monday were crucial. Bank transactions and abnormal increase in sale of liquor were being monitored. The teams would keep enhanced vigil on all aspects of electioneering. Out of 124 polling stations, 114 were sensitive and nine critical. Five teams of Central Industrial Security Force had been deployed in various places. Police were ready for any eventualities. Accompanied by Superintendent of Police Shashank Sai, Mr. Wadnere visited various sensitive polling stations in the district to check the arrangements being made to conduct the polling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karur-collector-warns-trouble-mongers/article34235950.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Building confidence||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/building-confidence/article34236169.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Young boy and the sea||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/young-boy-and-the-sea/article34236269.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Perennial trouble||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/perennial-trouble/article34236273.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Incentive for students||In an attempt to involve college students in improving polling percentage, Valluvar College of Science and Management has announced cash rewards for its students who take up voter sensitisation initiatives in their localities. Students must sensitise voters in their places of residence where their names are in the electoral rolls. The top three prize winners will be given cash rewards of Rs. 10,000, Rs. .5,000 and Rs. .2,500 on the basis of the number of votes cast in their areas, K. Senguttuvan, chairman of the institution, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/incentive-for-students/article34235956.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||tongue in cheek||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tongue-in-cheek/article34235829.ece
04 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nearly three-fold rise in ICU cases since March 1||Karnataka has recorded a nearly three-fold rise in the number of critical COVID-19 patients being monitored in Intensive Care Units (ICUs) at various hospitals in the past one month. From 118 on March 1, the number has shot up to 327 on Saturday. Of these, 157 are in Bengaluru Urban alone, followed by 32 in Kalaburagi and 24 in Mysuru. However, 10 districts still have zero ICU admissions. Although hospitals say there is no ICU bed shortage as of now, experts believe it is important to watch out so that the situation seen in September-October last year, when ICU admissions rose to over 900, does not recur. That situation was mainly because many patients who were in home isolation turned up at hospitals after they developed serious complications. Since mid-November, there was a significant fall in the number of ICU patients. In the last week of November,critical cases fell to under 300, and subsequently dropped to as low as 118 on March 1. Now, in a month’s time, cases have shot up again. Doctors say the rise in ICU cases is proportionate to the increasing number of overall positive cases. State Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra, who heads Karnataka’s Critical Care Support Unit (CCSU), attributed the rise in ICU patients to late reporting and self-medication. “People should not ignore any symptoms,” he said. Anoop Amarnath, member of the CCSU and head of the Department of Geriatric Medicine at Manipal Hospitals, said it was worrying that nearly 30% of the ICU patients were those who had got their first dose of vaccination. “This is mainly because people develop a sense of security and feel they are protected as they have been vaccinated. But it is very important people do not let their guard down even after taking the jab,” the doctor said. Evaluation vital The first choice for most patients is home isolation on the pretext that they are asymptomatic. “However, it is not just symptoms but vital markers such as D-dimer, Ferritin, LDH, IL6, and high-resolution chest CT that will help in assessing disease severity. Doctors can decide if a patient needs hospitalisation based on these markers,” Dr. Amarnath said. Haleema Yezdani, a general physician who has been regularly tele-triaging and tele-treating COVID-19 patients through the Emergency Response Team and Project StepOne groups that offer free service to people in getting beds and treatment, said numerous mutations were going undiagnosed as people were going for home isolation instead of hospitalisation. “People are landing up in hospitals only after they develop complications. I recently had a 50-year-old female patient who was on oxygen and still reluctant to get hospitalised. We are back to the same stage that we faced during September-October,” she said.  People are landing up in hospitals only after they develop complications. We are back to the same stage that we faced during September-October Haleema Yezdani, general physician||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nearly-three-fold-rise-in-icu-cases-since-march-1/article34235793.ece
04 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Centralisation of power with CM leading to governance issues||The tendency towards centralisation of powers in the hands of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and his office seems to be leading to multiple governance issues in the State. The most recent charge by senior Minister K.S. Eshwarappa against the Chief Minister’s “interference” and “authoritarianism” is only the tip of the iceberg. There have been complaints about the absence of a “consensual approach” leading to centralisation of powers around Mr. Yediyurappa and the CMO. This has caused discontent among a section of Ministers and legislators as their voices are being ignored in the decision-making process. This issue came up during the recently-concluded Budget session as well. K.M. Shivalinge Gowda, JD(S) MLA, said there were strong centralising tendencies in the Budget presented by the Chief Minister for 2021-22. His criticism stemmed from the fact that the Budget did not allocate money department wise. Instead, it allocated money under seven heads/themes, leaving discretionary powers to the Finance Department headed by Mr. Yediyurappa to allocate funds department-wise later. Transfer of officials Another blatant instance is seen in the transfer of officials. In last month’s notification, it had been made clear that the Chief Minister’s nod is mandatory to order transfer of officials in 2021. The department heads have to move files through the Chief Minister and get approval for the transfers. This reduced the power of Ministers of the respective departments. The Chief Minister’s decision to retain Bengaluru Development portfolio has further enabled concentration of powers. Owing to this, Ministers of Bengaluru have apparently lost considerable autonomy in their functioning. This has forced some Ministers to make regular trips to the CM’s official residence to get work done, it is learnt. In fact, on several issues, the Ministers’ constant refrain in recent days has been that a “a final decision would be taken after consultation with the CM”, be it health, conducting classes during the pandemic, or general matters relating to administration of BDA or BBMP. The CM’s hands have been further strengthened by postponement of elections to the BBMP and appointment of administrator to the civic body, said sources.  Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has repeatedly said that B.Y. Vijayendra, son of the Chief Minister, has been acting as the “de factoCM” and accused him of interfering in the administration. One of the strongest critics on this front has been the ruling BJP’s MLA Basavanagouda Patil Yatnal, who has been blaming the CM and his family for alleged discrimination in allocation of funds and has predicted change of guard more than once. While the loyalists argue that the Chief Minister has discretionary powers in the administration since he is heading the government and led the party to electoral victories, the Opposition and some within his party blame Mr. Yediyurappa and his family and absence of consultative leadership for administrative problems and several embarrassing “U-turns” in decisions. Commenting on these developments, P.S. Jayaramu, retired professor of political science, Bangalore University, observed: “Centralisation of powers with the Chief Minister is unfortunately part of our governance tradition... But it is also a fact that both leaders from Shivamogga [Mr. Eshwarappa and Mr. Yediyurappa] have ego issues to sort out.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centralisation-of-power-with-cm-leading-to-governance-issues/article34235800.ece
04 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gym owners and hoteliers demand relief packages||Hoteliers and gym owners have resigned themselves to the inevitable fallout of the government’s restrictions in the wake of the second wave of COVID-19. A complete closure of gyms and 50% occupancy in hotels will hit businesses hard, and both industries have demanded a relief package from the State government. Owners argued that they are one of the most severely hit sectors but are yet to get any relief from the government. Chandrashekhar Hebbar, president, Karnataka Regional Hotels and Restaurants Association, while acknowledging the inevitability of restrictions on occupancy, said that unless the government provided a relief package this time around, the sector would find it difficult to cope. “We are not asking for cash payouts. We demand exemption of deposit charges by electricity supply companies and property tax for last year and this year for hoteliers. The Central government must relax certain norms and provide some cash withdrawal benefits for labourers from PF and ESI funds,” he said. Gym owners say they are worse off, and have appealed for relaxation of norms so that they can operate at 50% capacity like hotels and restaurants. “Of the 10,000-plus gyms that were operating in the State before the pandemic, more than 3,000 have been permanently closed. We are back to square one this year. The government has failed to recognise this sector which has thousands of fitness coaches. We demand the government help us with a relief package. We also appeal to landlords to collect only 50% of the rent for the period when gyms are shut down,” said A.V. Ravi, president, Karnataka Gym Owners’ Association. People working as fitness trainers and swimming coaches in apartments have also been hit with the new guidelines calling for residential complexes to close club halls, gyms, pools, and other common facilities. “We saw this coming and some apartments had already shut down common areas. The rest did so on Friday,” said Srikanth Narasimhan, co-founder Bengaluru Apartments Federation. The city’s civic body had recently claimed that nearly 60% of Bengaluru’s caseload was coming from apartments.  We demand exemption of deposit charges by electricity supply companies and property tax for last year and this year for hoteliers. Chandrashekhar Hebbar,president, Karnataka Regional Hotels and Restaurants Association   Of the 10,000-plus gyms that were operating in the State before the pandemic, more than 3,000 have been permanently closed. The government has failed to recognise this sector. A.V. Ravi,president, Karnataka Gym Owners’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gym-owners-and-hoteliers-demand-relief-packages/article34235786.ece
04 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. service: Relief for medical students||In a relief to a section of postgraduate medical students, the High Court of Karnataka has said that the Karnataka Compulsory Service Training by Candidates Completed Medical CoursesAct, 2012, is applicable only to students who joined postgraduate medical degree/diploma courses from the academic year 2018-19 onwards. The compulsory public service is not applicable to those admitted to PG medical degree/diploma courses during the academic years 2016-17 and 2017-18 as they were not made aware of the implementation of the Act, which came into force in July 2017, and no bonds as per its provisions were executed by those students.  Students’ petition Justice R. Devdas passed the order on March 30 while allowing a batch of petitions filed by Sadhwini M.H. and 514 other students who had joined PG medical degree/diploma courses in 2016-17 and 2017-18. The petitioners, who were graduating from various institutions, had questioned the government’s July 23, 2020, notice to them to report to the Director of Medical Education for posting as per the provisions of the Act. The court noted that the government had started providing details of the one-year compulsory government training service through the information bulletin of the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) only from the academic year 2018-19. The government had contended that the law came into force when it was notified in the official gazette and ignorance of the law was not an excuse for the students merely because the condition was not mentioned on the information bulletin through the KEA at the time of their admission. The High Court had, in 2019, upheld the constitutional validity of the Act. Knowledge of the law However, the court pointed out that students from across the country and overseas, who seek admission to medical institutions in Karnataka, may not have knowledge of the local laws, which is not the case when it comes to other provisions of law/regulations of the Medical Council of India and the University Grants Commission, which are common throughout the country. “Publication on the information bulletin also satisfies the dictum that ‘the aggrieved must be apprised’, which is the constitutional creed flowing from the postulates of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. The publication of information along with the prescribed form is more of a practical requirement than a legal compulsion,” the court held. The court found that the government started providing details of the new Act on the KEA’s information bulletin as students had to make their choice. The law stipulates compulsory service of one year in government primary health centres or hospitals in rural areas, in government hospitals in urban areas, and government district hospitals after the completion of MBBS, PG courses, and super-speciality courses, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-service-relief-for-medical-students/article34235791.ece
04 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Easter Sunday as per COVID-19 guidelines||The Archdiocese of Bangalore has announced that the city’s churches will be kept open for people to come in and pray on Easter Sunday. The Archdiocese also said the Easter Sunday Mass will be held subject to strict COVID-19 guidelines issued by the State government, wherever possible. “We will increase the number of services as there is a restriction on the congregation,” said Kantharaj, spokesperson for the Archdiocese. Meanwhile, other churches such as Bethel AG Church, Hebbal, are planning to hold a drive-in Easter service as well as stream the service online. Introduced last June during the first wave of COVID-19, the Worship on Wheels initiative allows car owners to use the empty parking lot in the church premises to attend services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/easter-sunday-as-per-covid-19-guidelines/article34235785.ece
04 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Senior citizen mowed down||An 85-year-old pedestrian was mowed down by a motorcyclist at Wilson Garden on Saturday morning. The bike rider had reportedly borrowed an old sports bike from an associate for a test ride. The pedestrian, Subramani C., a resident of Mission Road and owner of Mani Driving school, died on the spot. A senior police officer said the incident occurred around 7.30 a.m. when Mr. Subramani was taking a morning walk. “The motorcyclist, identified as Maazj Ahmed, had taken the bike for a test ride and was speeding. He lost control of the bike and hit the senior citizen who was crossing the road. On impact, Ahmed fell from the bike and sustained multiple injuries,” said a police officer. Ahmed, 33 and a resident of Jayanagar T Block, is being treated at a private hospital and the police are waiting to question him. The Wilson Garden police have registered a case of negligent driving.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/senior-citizen-mowed-down/article34235787.ece
04 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 4,373 new cases, 19 fatalities||Karnataka on Saturday reported 4,373 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 10,10,602. Of these, 3,002 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone. With 19 deaths, the toll rose to 12,610. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,959 persons were discharged on the day, taking the total recoveries to 9,61,359. Of the remaining 36,614 active patients, 327 were being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 3.53%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.43%. As many as 1,23,830 tests were conducted in a 24-hour period, including 1,22,733 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 2,17,69,721. Vaccination As many as 21,51,436 senior citizens have been vaccinated in the State since March 1, when the second phase of vaccination was rolled out. This apart, 8,80,896 persons above the age of 45 have been vaccinated. On Saturday, 80,217 senior citizens and 1,11,537 people above 45 took the jab till 8 p.m. The State has vaccinated 42,97,867 people so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-4373-new-cases-19-fatalities/article34235794.ece
04 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SIT summons Jarkiholi||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the CD scandal has issued a notice to former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi to appear for questioning on Monday after he failed to turn up on Friday, citing ill health. The team also questioned the woman, who had filed a complaint against the BJP leader, for more than four hours. “She was questioned over the missing persons case her parents had filed. She has been asked to come back on Monday,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sit-summons-jarkiholi/article34235802.ece
04 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two arrested, drugs seized||The anti-narcotics wing of the Central Crime Branch police caught two youth on Friday for allegedly selling synthetic drugs from the parking lot of a private hospital on K.R. Road. The police seized ecstasy pills and LSD blots worth Rs. 10 lakh, as well as two mobile phones and Rs. 8,000 in cash from the duo. The accused have been identified as Zaden Saud, 23, from Jayanagar 7th Block, and his associate Nagaraj Rao, 22, from Banashankari 2nd Stage. They allegedly confessed to purchasing the drugs from their contacts, Anooj and Harshavardhan, the police said. Efforts were on to track down their contacts, said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-drugs-seized/article34235788.ece
04 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Institute closed for violating norms||The BBMP on Saturday halted operations of a training institute in Rajajinagar 3rd Block until further notice for alleged violation of COVID-19 norms. Health officer Manjula, who conducted an inspection, found classes being taken at the QSpider software training institute, with COVID-19-related protocols such as social distancing and mask wearing being violated, said the civic body in a press release. Three students without masks were fined Rs. 750 in all. All 40 members, including staff, were made to undergo RT-PCR test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/institute-closed-for-violating-norms/article34235782.ece
04 April 2021||Benglauru,KARNATAKA||Make distinction between recreational and competitive swimming, govt. urged||Swimmers, including Tokyo Olympics hopeful Srihari Nataraj, are upset that their sport has become a soft target when it comes to COVID-19 restrictions. The Swimming Federation of India (SFI) has repeatedly appealed to the government to make a distinction between recreational and competitive swimming. Public pools with lax COVID-19 safety guidelines could be a concern, but competitive swimming training — guarded by strict rules and oversight — poses no threat, the SFI explained. “There is no distinction being made between recreational and competitive swimming. Athletes who are currently training should be allowed to continue,” veteran swimming coach and Dronacharya Award winner Nihar Ameen said. Fortunately, the national camp for elite swimmers concluded at the Padukone-Dravid Center for Sports Excellence on March 22. However, a few international swimmers such as Nataraj and Kenisha Gupta had continued to train in the city. The closure of pools also affects national- and State-level swimmers who were looking forward to finally getting their feet wet in official championships. Swimming was among the last sports to restart after restrictions imposed during the national lockdown were eased last year. A second big hurdle came on Friday when the Karnataka government decided to close pools after a spike in COVID-19 cases. For now, no restrictions have been placed on the conduct of other sports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/make-distinction-between-recreational-and-competitive-swimming-govt-urged/article34235789.ece
04 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘No question of BSY resigning’||Terming his letter to the Governor an “administrative matter”, RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa has said there was no question of B.S. Yediyurappa resigning as Chief Minister. Reacting to Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah’s statement on the issue, he said during an interaction with media persons in Shivamogga on Saturday, that Mr. Siddaramaiah was in a hurry to become Chief Minister and that would not happen. The letter, he said, would not make any impact on the bypolls. The party had its base at the booth level and workers had already reached every voter in the constituencies going to polls, he argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-question-of-bsy-resigning/article34235796.ece
04 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Fresh cases||As many as 63 fresh cases of COVID-19 and three deaths due to the infection were reported in Hassan on Saturday. Among the fresh cases, four are said to be students. With that, the total number of cases in the district increased to 29,698. As many as 548 people are undergoing treatment and 28,675 have recovered. With the three more deaths reported on the day, the total number of deaths in the district increased to 475.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fresh-cases/article34236192.ece
04 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 rules to be implemented more strictly in Dharwad: DC||With Dharwad recording an increase in COVID-19 cases in the last fortnight, the Deputy Commissioner of the district said steps would be taken for stricter implementation of COVID-19 protocol. Speaking to mediapersons in Dharwad on Saturday after reviewing the situation, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil said that a strict vigil would be kept on adherence to COVID-19 protocol. Several teams had been formed to ensure that face mask wearing and physical distancing was maintained. Shops that violate Standard Operating Procedure (SoP) will be locked till April 20 as per the Disaster Management Act, 2020, he said. Mr. Patil said that considering the second wave, there was a need for everyone to be a Corona warrior, exercise utmost caution and sensitise others. As holidays had been declared for government hostels till April 20, parents had been asked to take them home after getting them tested, he said. “All mass religious rituals have been prohibited. Car festivals inviting large gatherings too have been banned. HDMC has been directed to keep a strict vigil on apartments and direct the owners to close the swimming pools, gymnasiums and club houses”, he said. He also clarified that no permission would be granted for protests till April 20. Government and private buses should limit the passengers to 50% and see that physical distancing was maintained, he said issuing a warning that buses which exceeded the number of passengers would be seized. Mr. Patil clarified that as Dharwad was one among the eight districts with high positivity rate, only 50% seat occupancy should be allowed in cinema halls, hotels, bars and restaurants and pubs. “If any person is seen entering hotels, bars and restaurants without a mask, the respective hotel or restaurant will be sealed immediately till April 20,” he said. Special teams would monitor activities at APMC yard and the rural people coming here to sell their produce would be allowed only on adherence to COVID-19 guidelines, he said.  1.21 lakh inoculated He said that so far 1.21 lakh people in the district had received the vaccine and steps were being taken to step up the inoculation. Earlier at the review meeting, Police Commissioner Labu Ram, Superintendent of Police P. Krishnakant, Municipal Commissioner Suresh Itnal and others took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-rules-to-be-implemented-more-strictly-in-dharwad-dc/article34236000.ece
04 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Attack on BKU leader Tikait condemned||Various organisations condemned the attack on Rakesh Tikait, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader, in Rajasthan. In Dharwad, members of some groups staged protests and demanded immediate action. Convenor of Raita Hitarakshana Parivar P.H. Neeralakeri termed it ‘an attack on democracy’. In a release he said that pointing out the government’s mistakes and protesting against anti-people policies was the right of every Indian citizen. However the attack on Mr. Tikait allegedly by goons of BJP was highly condemnable and the development indicated the Centre’s scorn towards the democratic set up, he said demanding a comprehensive inquiry. All those involved should be brought to book immediately and steps should be taken to prevent recurrence of such attacks on Opposition leaders, he has said. Staging a demonstration in front of Ambedkar’s statue in Dharwad, members of Mahadayigagi Mahavedike led by M. Saleem Sanganmulla, Sharief Amminabhavi and others demanded immediate action. Holding placards which said ‘Mai Rakesh Tikait Hu, Aa Mujhe Goli Maro’, they said they were with all the farmers in Delhi seeking repeal of the farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/attack-on-bku-leader-tikait-condemned/article34235999.ece
04 April 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||‘Eshwarappa’s letter shows internal democracy in the BJP’||Dismissing the possibility of his party’s internal clashes, those between Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Rural Development Minister K.S. Eshwarappa, adversely impacting the imminent byelections in the State, BJP State unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel said that all was well in the party after he had talked to everyone who expressed a difference of opinion. “BJP has a good internal democracy as well as a grievance redressal system. Its leaders, right from local unit to national president, are democratically elected. If the differences of opinion crop up, we have a system for addressing and resolving them. Congress neither has the internal democracy nor does it have the conflict resolution system. Just a kind of smoke is found in our party, but in Congress is already burning [with internal conflicts]. Siddaramaiah says that he would be the next Chief Minister and D.K. Shivakumar says he would be the next Chief Minister,” Mr. Kateel said. He also made it clear that there would be no need to form a coordination committee to avoid the public expression of dissent. Mr. Kateel was addressing mediapersons in Kalaburagi on Saturday. He, along with Housing Minister V. Somanna and BJP SC Morcha State president Chaluvadi Narayanswamy, arrived on a special flight from Mangaluru to take part in the Basavakalyan byelection campaign. He was received by BJP SC Morcha State vice-president Ambaraya Ashtagi in Kalaburagi Airport.  CD scandal To a question on the sex CD scandal involving former Minister and BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi, Mr. Kateel said that his government had formed SIT [Special Investigation Team] to probe the case and he would not comment anything as the probe was under way. “We have complete faith in the SIT. Once the investigation is completed, action would be taken as per the law,” he said. On the revolt being posed, the BJP leaders after they were denied the party ticket to contest the Basavakalyan byelection, Mr. Kateel said, “Just wait for two more days and see. Chanakya Somanna is the party in-charge for Basavakalyan byelection and he would come to Bengaluru after the victory of BJP candidate”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eshwarappas-letter-shows-internal-democracy-in-the-bjp/article34235998.ece
04 April 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Will the long struggle for water get any attention this time around?||The 12-year-old struggle of many villages in poll-bound Maski constituency to get water from Narayanpur Right Bank Canal (NRBC) is gathering momentum yet again ahead of the bypolls. The project envisages the construction of a new canal, 5A, from NRBC to irrigate around 77,000 hectares of rain-fed fields, between Tungabhadra and Krishna rivers in Raichur and Koppal districts. If implemented, the project is expected to benefit 108 villages in the Krishna-Tungabhadra doab. Of the intended beneficiary villages, 58 fall in Maski Assembly constituency that is going to polls on April 17. Turning down the people’s demand for NRBC 5A for various reasons, including lack of technical feasibility, the government came up with the Nandawadagi Lift Irrigation Project, which envisaged lifting backwater from Basavasagara Reservoir (Narayanpur dam) built across the Krishna on the Raichur-Yadgir border and pumping it through pipelines for drip irrigation. The people, however, are keen on NRBC 5A. They argue that large-scale drip irrigation projects have failed to deliver and are not cost effective. “These 108 villages between the rivers Krishna and Tungabhadra are deprived of irrigation facilities even sitting at the mid of doab between Krishna and Tungabhadra. The implementation of the NRBC 5A project will provide sufficient water for flood irrigation and raise the groundwater table to trigger more agriculture activities,” said Venkatesh Patel, a farmer from Vatagal. The farmers formed the NRBC 5A Canal Horata Samiti a few years ago and have been staging an indefinite protest demonstration on the premises of Haadi Basaveshwara Temple in Pamanakallur on a rotation basis. To mount more pressure on the government, the people in four gram panchayats – Vatagal, Ameengada, Pamanakallur, and Ankushdoddi – boycotted the recent gram panchayat elections. The agitating farmers were unhappy with BJP candidate Pratap Gowda Patil, MLA since 2008, for opposing the project ever since they started the demand 12 years ago. They allege that he was protecting the interests of powerful contractors who had bagged the Nandawadagi Lift Irrigation Project work. “We know that money and liquor might influence people in the elections. However, we have decided to push ahead with our protest, which is a genuine issue,” said Basavarajappa Gouda Haravapur, president of the samiti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-the-long-struggle-for-water-get-any-attention-this-time-around/article34235798.ece
04 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kateel terms Congress ‘anti-Dalit’||In his bid to attract B.R. Ambedkar followers, especially Dalits, BJP State unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel said that Congress was collapsing in the country because of its sin of defeating Ambedkar in an election and not providing space for his funeral in Delhi. Addressing an election rally at Shantiniketan Grounds in byelection-bound Basavakalyan, Bidar district, on Saturday, in which some Dalit leaders joined BJP, Mr. Kateel attacked Congress which he termed ‘anti-Dalit’. Win guaranteed “The Congress is attempting to project BJP an anti-Dalit party. The fact, however, is that Congress itself is anti-Dalit. We, the BJP, have made a Dalit the President of India. Siddaramaiah rose to power with strong support from Dalits, minorities and backward communities. But, he forgot them after assuming power as the Chief Minister. BJP became stronger in Basavakalyan with the joining of the Dalit leaders and cadres and the victory of the party candidate, Sharanu Salagar, is guaranteed,” he said. Countering the allegations against the BJP that it was attempting to change the constitution and end the caste-based reservations, Chaluvadi Narayanaswamy, the State president of BJP SC Morcha, claimed that the saffron party never thought along those lines. Ravindra Gaikwad, a Dalit leader who quit Congress and joined BJP along with office-bearers of 115 branches of Dalit Panthers, justified his decision by stating that the Congress has no longer had pro-Dalit concerns after the demise of B. Narayana Rao, the Congress MLA from Basavakalyan whose death necessitated the byelection. Bidar district in-charge Minister Prabhu Chauhan, Bidar Lok Sabha member Bhagwanth Khuba, BJP SC Morcha State Vice-President Ambaraya Ashtagi, Dalit leader Ravi Navadgekar, legislators Basavaraj Mattimud, Sunil Valyapure, party leaders Baburao Chinchansur, Shailendra Beldale and others were present.  We, the BJP, have made a Dalit the President of India. Siddaramaiah rose to power with strong support from Dalits, minorities and backward communities. But, he forgot them after assuming power as the Chief Minister. BJP became stronger in Basavakalyan with the joining of the Dalit leaders and cadres and the victory of the party candidate, Sharanu Salagar is guaranteed. Nalin Kumar Kateel BJP State unit president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kateel-terms-congress-anti-dalit/article34236004.ece
04 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||No haircut for Prabhu Chavan till he apologises: Hairdressers||Hairdressers have demanded that Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chavan apologise for his derogatory remark against their profession. Honorary president of the Savita Samaj Ambareesh Mangalgi, addressing presspersons in Kalaburagi on Saturday, termed the statement ‘shameful’. “We will not give Mr. Chavan a haircut or shave until he tenders an apology to our community publicly,” he added. Mr. Chavan, while speaking at a byelection campaign in Basavakalyan on March 30, attacked Hadapad community leader Veeranna Hadapad who is contesting as an Independent in the bypolls. He had said [Delhi mein bhi sarkar humara hai, aur Karnataka mein bhi humara sarkar hai, Dusre log jeet gaye to kya dhadi banayenge ya shaving banayenge] “When BJP is in power at both State and the Centre, what is the use of winning the elections as an Independent candidate, he should just give a haircut or shaving”. Mr. Mangalgi said that the Minister has made an insulting statement towards the barber’s community. Hairdressers across Bidar district and Bengaluru held a meeting and decided not to give Mr. Chavan a haircut or shave until he apologised to them publicly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-haircut-for-prabhu-chavan-till-he-apologises-hairdressers/article34236002.ece
04 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Private school sealed after 19 test positive||A private school in Kalaburagi city was sealed until further orders after 19 students tested positive for COVID-19 here on Friday. District Health and Family Welfare officer Rajashekar Mali told The Hindu told that throat swab samples of the students, all girsl, who were showing symptoms, were collected randomly last week. As many as 19 tested positive in the report which came on Friday. All the students are in classes IX and X. The students have been admitted to Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS). Swab samples of 505 people including students and teachers in were collected. The parents are under home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-school-sealed-after-19-test-positive/article34236006.ece
04 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||A bid to protect the shore from erosion||Nearly a kilometre-long sand wall, 10 inshore berms (groyens), and two offshore reefs have come up along the Someshwara-Batapady beachfront to protect the shore from erosion. The works are being undertaken by the Ports and Inland Water Transport Department under the sustainable coastal protection and management investment project being funded by the Asian Development Bank (ADB). The project involves protection of the seashore from Ullal to Batapady and is divided into two areas —Ullal to Someshwara and Someshwara to Batapady. Programme’s Joint Project Director Gopal Naik told The Hindu the results were already visible on the Ullal stretch while sand deposits were being witnessed on the Someshwara-Batapady stretch too. Some visible results should be available before the onset of monsoon on the Batapady stretch, he said. While the offshore reefs and beach nourishment were being undertaken at a cost of Rs. 109 crore, the inshore berms are being undertaken at a cost of Rs. 26 crore. Sand removed from the Gurupura (Phalguni)-Netravathi estuary was brought and dumped along the beach between Uchchila and Batapady forming a massive wall as a part of beach nourishment. On the other hand, construction of two offshore reefs, about 600 m from the shore too, was completed. Concrete tetrapods were placed at their peripheries for protection of the reefs. At the same time, 10 inshore berms, each 70 m long, too were built from Uchchila to Batapady, Mr. Naik said. Both the reefs and the berms are expected to break the velocity of the waves hitting the shore thereby reducing the damage and helping sand deposit on the beach, he noted. While a local resident Batapady Abdullah had expressed doubts as to whether the sand wall would withstand the waves, Mr. Naik said it was natural for some quantity of sand getting displaced. However, the overall impact of the reefs, berms, and sand walls would help sand deposit along the coast helping beach rejuvenation, he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-bid-to-protect-the-shore-from-erosion/article34236177.ece
04 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Incidents of moral policing: Bajrang Dal trying to build a case for ‘love jihad’ law?||The Mangaluru police say that recent incidents of ‘moral policing’ reported in Dakshina Kannada are attempts by Bajrang Dal activists to re-establish themselves and build a case for legislation on love jihad. What seems to be giving it extra push is the upcoming elections in neighbouring Kerala, say political activists. On Thursday night, a 23-year-old man was assaulted and stabbed allegedly by a group of Bajrang Dal activists at Mangaluru after he was found to be travelling with a woman classmate in a bus bound for Bengaluru. The police have so far arrested four Bajrang Dal activists in the case. They are now searching for persons who informed the activists of the couple travelling in the private bus. Past cases On March 31, Bajrang Dal activists had allegedly questioned a boy for travelling with a girl from another community in a bus from Udupi to Mangaluru. However, no complaint was filed because there was no assault. On March 29, there was an attempted attack on a woman and a man travelling in a private bus by 40 Bajrang Dal activists, who were waiting for the bus near Moodbidri. The arrival of the police on time prevented this. In a similar incident in the first week of March, a group of activists made a couple get out of a Bengaluru-bound bus at Bantwal. Again, the situation did not escalate because of police intervention. Three persons were arrested by Belthangady police in February for sending messages to few girls against moving with their classmates from different communities. A police officer involved in the investigation of Pumpwell incident said that there appears a definite plan by the Bajrang Dal activists to assert themselves in the region. Another senior police officer, who has worked for a long time in Dakshina Kannada, said the activists are trying to build a case of law on Love Jihad. He said they are widely circulating information about their actions on social media. At a press conference on Friday, Bajrang Dal Pranta Sanchalak Sunil K. claimed ‘Love Jihad’ was happening in an organised way and their activists are trying to prevent it. Kerala campaign Democratic Youth Federation of India State president Muneer Katipalla said photos and videos of vigilante acts of Bajrang Dal in Dakshina Kannada were being circulated in neighbouring Kasaragod where so-called ‘Love Jihad’ is among the issues taken up in the campaign by the BJP ahead of the polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/incidents-of-moral-policing-bajrang-dal-trying-to-build-a-case-for-love-jihad-law/article34235774.ece
04 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||40-year-old clocks 1 lakh km on cycle in seven years||Having taken to riding to overcome obesity seven years ago, 40-year-old engineer-turned-builder Anil Shet has now clocked 1 lakh km on the cycle. Mr. Shet completed this feat recently when he rode along with fellow cyclists to Tannirbhavi from Mangaluru and back. The rides were recorded on fitness App Strava. The story began on February 15, 2014, when he took to cycling to fight obesity, blood pressure etc. Recalling his initial days, Mr. Shet said on the evening of his first day ride, he had a fever. But determined to continue, he took up the cycle next morning. Within 10 days, he rode for 50 km and from then there was no looking back. Having reduced his weight from 100 kg in 2014 to below 70 kg, Mr. Shet said after realising the benefits of cycling within a year, he has rigorously been encouraging others to take it up. He has been part of Mangalore Cycling Club (MACC) as well and spreading awareness. He has religiously been riding every morning, rain or shine, with very few exceptions. Besides immense health benefits, riding also soothes one’s mind, says Mr Shet, talking about what has kept him going for seven years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/40-year-old-clocks-1-lakh-km-on-cycle-in-seven-years/article34236182.ece
04 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Three found smuggling gold at city airport||Customs sleuths on Saturday arrested Mohammed Ashif, 28, of Ullal on the charge of smuggling 1.9 kg gold at Mangaluru International Airport. The officers checked Ashif soon after he landed at the airport from Dubai. He had concealed the gold in a specially designed inner garment, jeans, and knee pads. The gold was worth Rs. 92,27,590, the sleuths said. The operation was led by Deputy Commissioner Avinash Kiran Rongali and it comprised Superintendents Srikanth and Satish and Inspector Praful. Another team of sleuths booked two persons on the charge of smuggling 576 grams of gold, worth Rs. 26.43 lakh, at the airport early on Friday. The sleuths gave the names of the accused as Abdul Salam Maniparambu and Mohammad Ashraf from Kasaragod of Kerala. The sleuths said Maniparambu had arrived from Sharjah and Ashraf came from Dubai. One person had concealed the gold in his clothes, while the other had concealed a gold chain in his shoes. This operation was led by Deputy Commissioner Praveen Kandi and it comprised Superintendent Rakesh, C.M, Meena, and Ashish Verma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-found-smuggling-gold-at-city-airport/article34236180.ece
04 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Fond farewell for University College professor||University College, Mangaluru, recently bid farewell to H. Pattabhirama Somayaji, who had been the professor of English at the college for almost two decades. Mangalore University Political Science Associate Professor Dayananda Naik hailed Mr. Somayaji as an English scholar who could take students to a different world. He was also a scholar in Kannada. “He received negative comments with a smile and always maintained a space between personal ideology and the profession.” PG Department of Economics coordinator Jayavanth Nayak said Mr. Somayaji was an intellectual link with the college. Commerce Department Head and former principal M.A. Uday Kumar said Mr. Somayaji loved his profession and was ready to freely discuss any issue. Head of the Journalism department K.R. Shani praised his simplicity, intellectual ability, and hard work. Head of the English department N.K. Rajalakshmi said Mr. Somayaji still has a hunger for knowledge and he developed it among students. Mr. Somayaji recalled his mentor, Jnanapith awardee U.R. Ananthamurthy. He defended his tough stand on various issues and added, “Differences are common, but human relations remain the same.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fond-farewell-for-university-college-professor/article34236179.ece
04 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Special train||Railways has reintroduced the Gandhidham-Nagercoil-Gandhidham weekly express as a special train from April 27. During the non-monsoon period, Train No. 06336 Nagercoil-Gandhidham Express special leaves Nagercoil at 2.45 p.m. from April 27 to June 8 to reach Gandhidham at noon on the third day. Train No. 06335 Gandhidhar-Nagercoil Express special leaves Gandhidham at 10.45 a.m. every Friday from April 30 to June 4 to reach Nagercoil at 6.30 am the third day. There is no change timings of Nagercoil-Gandhidham special during monsoon, from June 15 till further advice. Gandhidham-Nagerocil special however arrives Nagercoil at 9.40 a,m, instead of 6.30 a,m, from June 11 onwards. The train will halt at Mangaluru Junction, Surathkal, Udupi, Kundapur, Byndoor, Murdeshwar, Kumta, and Karwar in Karnataka. It will have one AC 2-tier, three AC 3-tier, 10 sleeper, two second sitting, one pantry car, and two generator car coaches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/special-train/article34236178.ece
04 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Use of plastic carry bags banned||The use of plastic carry bags will be banned across Mysuru district with effect from April 5 in a bid to make the district “plastic free’’ and comply with the Plastic Waste Management Rules 2016. The district administration will also reach out to nearly 7.35 lakh households and distribute cloth bags of 5 kg capacity so as to dissuade them from the use of plastic bags. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri told media persons here on Saturday that these bags will also be distributed to vendors and also at major temples and be made available at a subsidised rate. The cloth bags are being prepared by the women’s self-help groups and Karnataka State Handloom Development Corporation and will be distributed to all households free of cost. In all, it is planned to distribute nearly 16 lakh cloth bags and this is expected to eliminate the use of plastic carry bags and reduce plastic waste and pollution. While there are 2.2 lakh households in the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) limits, about 4.4 lakh cloth bags will be distributed by the authorities. The number of households in the 9 town panchayats across the district has been pegged at 2.89 lakh and about 5.78 lakh cloth bags will be distributed. In rural areas, there are 4.45 lakh households spread across 8 taluks and the authorities plan to distribute 8.91 lakh cloth bags to provide the public an alternative to plastic carry bags. The business community and the vendors will also be directed to shift to the use of cloth bags.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/use-of-plastic-carry-bags-banned/article34236200.ece
04 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Gym owners up in arms against govt. over closure orders||Gym owners in Mysuru are up in arms against the State government over its orders to close gyms as part of the efforts to contain transmission of COVID-19. The Mysuru Gym and Fitness Centres Owners’ Association, which convened a press conference here on Saturday, has appealed to the government to either exempt gyms from the order or at least modify it to permit up to 50 per cent of patrons in each batch. President of the Association Harsha said the government’s ‘sudden’ orders had come as a shock to not only the gym owners, but also trainers and fitness enthusiasts who work out in the gyms. He recalled that the gyms had remained closed for about six months last year due to COVID-19. After permission was given for reopening about seven months ago, there has been no case of COVID-19 from any fitness centres, which have been taking all precautions including sanitising the premises and equipment after each batch, he claimed. “When theatres, pubs, bars, clubs and restaurants have been permitted to serve 50 per cent of the seating capacity, why has the government discriminated against gyms?”, he asked. President of Karnataka Gym Owners Association A.V. Ravi, who was also present on the occasion, said an appeal will be made to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. He said the Advisory Committee to the State Government on COVID-19 had been misinformed about the role of gyms and hoped the government will consider the plea. Sreejit, owner of Live In Fitness Centre in Mysuru, said the gym owners, who had already taken a big financial hit due to the extended closure last year, will find it difficult to survive if another closure is forced upon them.“How can we pay the trainers, rent and electricity charges for the premises?”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gym-owners-up-in-arms-against-govt-over-closure-orders/article34236196.ece
04 April 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tourist ban in Kodagu||In a bid to contain the spread of COVID-19, the Kodagu district administration has banned the entry of tourists and the general public to places of tourist importance. An order issued by Deputy Commissioner Charulatha Somal on Saturday prohibited the entry of tourists until April 20. Kodagu is blessed with many tourist destinations, and many visitors, including those from Kerala, usually throng the sites. Ms. Somal said any violation of her order was punishable under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020. The number of COVID-19 cases in Kodagu has been surging, especially in areas borderingKerala. The district administration has taken this decision seeing the possibility of a rise in tourist footfall with a series of holidays in the coming days. With this, Kodagu has become the first district in the current COVID-19 wave to ban tourist entry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tourist-ban-in-kodagu/article34235795.ece
04 April 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Two withdraw nominations||As the last day for withdrawal of nominations filed for the byelection in Maski Assembly constituency drew closer, two independent candidates withdrew nomination on Saturday. Independent candidates T. Chakravarthy and Siddalingappa withdrew nominations. After this, eight candidates - Pratapgowda Patil (BJP), Basanagowda Turvihal (Congress), Obaleshappa (Karnataka Rashtra Samiti), Deepika. S, Srinivas Nayak, Amaresh, Eshappa and Basanagowda (all Independents) are in the final election battle. The last date to file nominations was March 30 while April 3 was the last date for withdrawal of nomination for the bypoll on April 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-withdraw-nominations/article34236005.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Film City project set to gain traction, at last||The long-delayed Film City project that was finally retained in Mysuru has gained traction as the Commissioner of Information and Public Relations, P.S. Harsha, on Saturday asked the KIADB officials to prepare an action plan for providing basic infrastructure to the proposed facility such as water supply for taking up necessary works. Mr. Harsha, who inspected the land identified for establishing the project at Himmavu near here on Saturday, said the land was most suited for the purpose. Nanjangud Tahsildar Mohana Kumari, who was present, told the Commissioner that the 110-acre government land identified for the project has to be formally transferred to the Department of Information and Public Relations from the KIADB. She apprised the Commissioner about the land records and other matters pertaining to the project. The Commissioner told the tahsildar to attend the meeting convened by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in Bengaluru on April 7 in connection with the project and give details about the process initiated for transferring the land for taking up the works. The Film City is a mega project as nearly 5,000 can work at a time once the facility is established. Artistes, technicians, workers and others can work in one facility for film making. The Commissioner said the work has to be taken up taking the support from all departments. The project would also help develop tourism in the region and the facility has to be conceptualised taking all factors, including tourism development, into consideration. On the construction and maintenance of the proposed facility, Mr. Harsha said a district-level implementation committee has to be constituted and told his department officials here to discuss with the district administration on the members, including the elected representatives, VIPs and officials, to be accommodated in the committee. The Commissioner’s visit gains significance as Minister for Information and Public Relations C.C. Patil had said recently that the government will soon be starting work on establishing the facility. The announcement had raised a lot of hopes among the stakeholders of the tourism industry as the project would develop tourism in and around Mysuru. In fact, when there was hectic lobbying for shifting the project to Ramanagaram and Bengaluru, the stakeholders had launched a signature campaign and tried to bring pressure through the local elected representatives for retaining the project in Mysuru. , keeping in view the benefits the tourism industry would gain from the project. The idea of developing a Film City is not recent as it was proposed over four decades ago when the Kannada film industry had already made its name nationally. According to the Department of Information and Public Relations, the efforts to set up the film city had begun in 1972.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/film-city-project-set-to-gain-traction-at-last/article34236194.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||3 lakh people above 45 years to get COVID jab within 45 days||The COVID-19 vaccination drive targeted at people above 45 years of age in the city and across the district will be intensified in the ongoing battle against the pandemic so as to cover the population group within the next 30 to 45 days. Private hospitals in different wards of the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) limits have been identified and a team of doctors and nurses will be deputed to each facility to provide the jab to the population group free of cost. This will help ramp up the coverage so as to inoculate nearly 3 lakh peoplein the city over the next few weeks. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri told mediapersons here on Saturday that the drive will commence from Sunday and as against the vaccination being administered 4 days a week, directives have been issued to administer the vaccines on all days of the week during April so as to increase the coverage. Ms.Sindhuri said the level of vaccine hesitancy had considerably reduced and people were opting for it in bigger numbers. The vaccination drive also comes in the backdrop of a surge in COVID-19 cases in the district and city in particular which has attained the dubious distinction of the highest positivity rate of 1.9 against the State average of 1.7. Ms. Sindhuri said in the district the highest number of cases were from Mysuru city and it was being attributed to the floating population. But there are no clusters. In places of tourist interest such as the zoo or the palace there are info kiosks and though tourists are advised to bring RT-PCR negative report it is not mandatory and cannot be enforced, according to the Deputy Commissioner. She also said that the primary and secondary contacts of those who have tested positive were reluctant to get themselves tested. This could have a bearing on the community health and hence the onus was on them to volunteer for testing, said Ms. Sindhuri. However, the system of contact tracing and enforcing isolation or quarantining the primary and secondary contacts was on, she added. The district administration has also analyszed the age group of the patients testing positive and a majority of them are below 45 years of age. Of the nearly 170 plus cases reported in Mysuru by Saturday noon, almost 144 was from the city underlining the complacency that has crept into the people, according to the Deputy Commissioner. The number of RT-PCR tests being carried out too has increased from about 4000 per day during September-October when the cases were at their highest in Mysuru, to 6,000 plus tests in the present times and hence the number of positive cases being detected was also increasing, said Ms. Sindhuri. She said there are no restrictions on movement or lockdown but for the fresh guidelines issued by the government. The rural hinterland too is part of the current drive and the vaccination will also be administered at the 13 sub-centres of the Department of Health and Family Welfare where there are mid-level health workers. There is no scarcity of vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-lakh-people-above-45-years-to-get-covid-jab-within-45-days/article34236198.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Arun Singh to broker peace between CM and KSE||Arun Singh, in-charge of BJP affairs in the State, is scheduled to arrive in the city on April 8 to broker peace between Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa, who has complained against the Chief Minister to the Governor. While Mr. Eshwarappa has stuck to his guns, the Chief Minister, who has remained silent on the issue till date, is reportedly very upset with his former close associate. ‘Creating hurdles’ The Chief Minister’s camp has been firing salvos at the Minister claiming it was Mr. Eshwarappa who was creating hurdles for party MLAs, prompting them to complain to the Chief Minister who only acted on such complaints. Party sources said the high command has tasked Mr. Singh to broker peace in the party and the Cabinet. “Relations between former close associates Mr. Yediyurappa and Mr. Eshwarappa has significantly broken down to the extent that they do not talk to each other, except when it is inevitable. The problem must have been solved long back, but was allowed to fester,” said a senior party strategist. Meanwhile, BJP State unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel insisted that BJP has a good internal democracy as well as grievance redressal system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/arun-singh-to-broker-peace-between-cm-and-kse/article34235801.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Making themselves heard||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/making-themselves-heard/article34235781.ece
04 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Pulsating contest on the cards in Mavelikara||With only hours left for the open campaigning for the Assembly polls to draw to a close, a pulsating contest is on cards in the Mavelikara constituency (SC reserved) where a communist and two former communists are fighting each other for supremacy. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has fielded M.S. Arun Kumar, a young face of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) {CPI(M)}, to retain and complete a hat-trick of victories in the constituency. He is up against two former CPI (M) members- United Democratic Front candidate K.K. Shaju of the Congress and National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidate K. Sanju of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The constituency has supported communists, socialists and congress in the elections since it came into being in 1957. In the last six elections, the constituency sided with the UDF four times (1991, 1996, 2001 and 2006). However, following the delimitation it leaned towards the LDF in 2011 and 2016. R. Rajesh of the CPI(M) emerged victorious on both occasions with comfortable margins. Compared to his two main rivals, LDF candidate Mr. Kumar, who is hoping to carry the Left mantle forward, had a head start in the campaigning front. He is banking on the development initiatives of the LDF government and good works carried out in the last 10 years by Mr. Rajesh in the constituency. While Mr. Kumar is contesting to the State Assembly for the first time, his main opponent UDF candidate Mr. Shaju is considered a seasoned politician. Shaju started his political career in the CPI(M) and later joined the Janadhipathya Samrakshana Samithi (JSS)-led by K.R. Gouri. He later moved to the Congress. Mr. Shaju, who was elected twice to the Assembly from Pandalam in 2001 and 2006 on the JSS ticket, is banking on the anti-incumbency factor to wrest the Mavelikara seat. NDA candidate Sanju quit the CPI(M) and joined the saffron party just before the announcement of his candidature. The NDA’s good performance in the 2020 local body polls gives him the confidence of a fine show. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the UDF had gained upper hand in the Assembly segment with a lead of 969 votes. In last year’s local body polls, the LDF romped to victory in six grama panchayats in the constituency. The UDF rules the Mavelikara municipality and one grama panchayat. The BJP-led NDA has elected members in all grama panchayats and the municipality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pulsating-contest-on-the-cards-in-mavelikara/article34236145.ece
04 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Pact signed with Adani this year: Chennithala||Continuing his tirade against the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government over its purchase of power from the Adani group, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Saturday said the government was misleading the people of the State. Addressing reporters in Haripad, Mr. Chennithala said apart from purchasing power from Adani Green Energy through a deal signed with the Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI), the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) this year entered into a separate direct agreement with the Adani group to buy electricity in April and May 2021. No details The Leader of the Opposition, other than furnishing a copy of the minutes of KSEB’s full-time director board meeting held on February 15, did not divulge further details on the fresh charges. He alleged that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had directly intervened to facilitate the agreements. Mr. Chennithala alleged that the Chief Minister was helping Adani for political and monetary benefits. “The government decided to buy power at a higher rate of Rs. 2.82 per unit to help Adani while expecting the Centre to derail ongoing investigations against the Chief Minister and government by Central agencies. Adani is acting as a bridge between Pinarayi Vijayan and Prime Minister Narendra Modi.” CM’s reply In response to the allegation, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan challenged Mr. Chennithala to release details of the new contract. “The KSEB had signed an agreement with the SECI, a Central government institution. The KSEB is not under obligation to check where they buy power from. The chairman had made it clear,” he said in Kannur, adding that the Leader of the Opposition was lying blatantly. Meanwhile, Mr. Chennithala refuted the claims of Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac that the government was leaving office with a surplus of Rs. 5,000 crore in the treasury. ( With input from Kannur bureau )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pact-signed-with-adani-this-year-chennithala/article34236110.ece
04 April 2021||G. AnandThiruvananthapuram,KERALA||All fronts hope to make it big in crucial battleground||South Kerala seems to be at the epicentre of a bitterly contested Assembly election. As the State gets closer to voting on April 6, the race appears to remain close in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Pathanamthitta districts. Several constituencies in the region are closely fought ideological battlefronts for the three opposing fronts led by the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)], Congress, and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Sabarimala holds sway Topping the list, arguably, is Kazhakuttam. Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran is locked in a fierce fight with Sobha Surendran of the BJP. Central to their conflict is the sensitive issue of equal right for women to worship at the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple. The two had found themselves at the opposite ends of the ideological spectrum when the Supreme Court allowed women, irrespective of their age, to worship at the temple. Ms. Surendran was at the forefront of the agitation against the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government’s decision to enact the verdict in 2018. The BJP has invested heavily in Ms. Surendran. A law to defend Ayyappa devotees’ faith is the flagship of the BJP’s manifesto for Kerala. The Congress has fielded S.S. Lal, a public health expert. Thiruvananthapuram district has a history of being partial to the LDF. The ruling front won 10 of the 14 Assembly segments in 2016. It also wrested Vattiyurkavu from the United Democratic Front (UDF) in the 2019 byelection. The LDF had fared modestly well in the local body elections in 2020. Nemom is an equally critical fighting ground. O. Rajagopal of the BJP is the incumbent legislator. BJP veteran Kummanam Rajasekharan is jousting K. Muraleedharan, MP, of the Congress and V. Sivankutty of the CPI(M) to retain Mr. Rajagopal’s mantle. Congress’s prestige is at stake in Nemom. It had drawn flak for “aiding” Mr. Rajagopal’s win in 2016. Moreover, the party has committed Mr. Muraleedharan to the fight as its standard-bearer. In both Nemom and Thiruvananthapuram, Muslim and Christian voters could make a difference between triumph and disaster for the coalitions. BJP’s hope Another big fight is brewing in the Konni constituency in Pathanamthitta. BJP State president K. Surendran hopes to gatecrash into the Assembly by banking on the rising acceptance of the BJP among Hindus in the home ground of the Sabarimala faith. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had campaigned for Mr. Surendran in Konni, underscoring the importance the BJP attached to the constituency. The party viewed the segment as a powerful springboard for Hindutva politics in Kerala. It has also sensed a political opportunity in the Nair Service Society’s (NSS) antipathy to the LDF on the Sabarimala issue. Various Christian denominations also have a decisive say in the outcome. The BJP feels that ‘love jihad’, UDF’s alleged truck with the Jamaat-e-Islami and concern about the rise of global Islamism had caused Christians to gravitate towards its brand of nationalistic politics in South Kerala. The LDF feels that Jacobites and Marthomites are likely to vote for them given the factional row in the Malankara Church. Fishers have the say In Kundara in Kollam, Congress reckons that a win for its candidate P.C. Vishnunath against Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma would validate the party’s campaign against the government’s alleged move to allow foreign trawlers to raid the high seas preserved for traditional fishers. The LDF had struggled to fend off the accusation that seemed to have resonated strongly among the coastal community. Moreover, the Latin Catholic Church had given voice to the fishers’ disquiet about the controversial scheme. Traditional fishers were a crucial demographic in Kollam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-fronts-hope-to-make-it-big-in-crucial-battleground/article34236100.ece
04 April 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki could see some intense fights||Both the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) are going all out to pocket the five constituencies in Idukki district — Thodupuzha, Udumbanchola, Idukki, Peerumade, and Devikulam. Presently, the LDF has four seats, with Thodupuzha, won by P.J. Joseph, being the sole consolation for the UDF. Mr. Joseph, who represented the Kerala Congress (M) in 2016, won with the highest margin of 45,587 in the State. The party split, with the Jose K. Mani faction shifting to the LDF camp. Mr. Joseph is contesting under the banner of the Kerala Congress and his main rival is KC(M)’s K.I. Antony. P. Shyamraj of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is also hopeful as the municipal area has a strong presence of BJP supporters. The result of a direct fight between the Kerala Congress factions is keenly awaited in Thodupuzha, where Mr. Joseph has won in nine of the 10 elections he contested. In the last Lok Sabha and local body elections, the UDF had a clear majority in Thodupuzha. In Udumbanchola, sitting MLA and Electricity Minister M.M. Mani of the CPI (M) has E.M. Augusty of the Congress as the main opponent. Santhosh Madhavan is the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidate. Twenty-five years ago, Mr. Mani was defeated in the segment by Mr. Augusty. In the last election, Mr. Mani won by a margin of 1,109 votes against Senapathy Venu of the Congress. Trade union leaders Like Udumbanchola, Peerumade has a large population of estate workers. E.S. Bijimol of the Communist Party of India (CPI), who represented the constituency for three consecutive terms, had a narrow victory margin of 314 votes against Cyriac Thomas of the Congress last time. Mr. Thomas is now pitted against Vazhoor Soman of the CPI. The BJP has fielded Sreenagari Rajan here. The contest is Peerumade is among trade union leaders. Devikulam, the only reserved constituency in the district, will see a fight between two newcomers — A. Raja in the LDF camp versus the UDF’s A. Kumar. Mr. Raja is the DYFI State committee member and Mr. Kumar, a block president of the Congress. For the past three terms, S. Rajendran of the CPI(M) represented the constituency. The nomination of the AIADMK candidate, a constituent of the NDA, was rejected, prompting the coalition to support Ganeshan, an Independent. He is now the NDA nominee. The UDF won with a considerable margin in the Lok Sabha and local body elections here. Idukki, like Thodupuzha, will see a direct fight between the two Kerala Congress parties — Roshy Augustine of the KC(M) and K. Francis George of the KC. Sangeetha Viswanathan is contesting in the NDA ticket. Upper hand Though the Idukki constituency is considered a Congress seat, in the last local body elections, the LDF had an upper hand. The UDF had maintained its lead in the Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idukki-constituencies-could-see-some-intense-fights/article34236048.ece
04 April 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Eravikulam park opened for visitors||After remaining closed for two months of calving season of Nilgiri tahr, the Eravikulam National Park (ENP) is now open for visitors. Around a thousand people visited the park on April 1, the day of reopening. Officials of the ENP said that around 80 new births of tahr had been reported and a final count would be taken next week. Visitors are allowed entry from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. by adhering to the COVID-19 protocol. Last year, 111 births were reported. The total number of Nilgiri tahr in the ENP, its natural habitat, is around 800. For over a decade their population has almost been stagnant as they fall easy prey to leopard, wild dog, and other carnivorous animals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eravikulam-park-opened-for-visitors/article34236064.ece
04 April 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||LDF will close BJP’s account in State: CM||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) opened its account in the State with Congress support. But the Left Democratic Front would close that account this election, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Addressing the media in Kannur on Saturday, Mr. Vijayan said the BJP was in no position to grow in Kerala. The State stood apart from others, as it was yet to succumb to communalism. Hence, attempts by the BJP to set base here by segregating people had never succeeded. The secular forces in Kerala had always been vigilant against such attempts, with the Left being in the forefront, he added. “Any move by the RSS for a communal divide has not been successful in Kerala, which is a stronghold of secularism,” Mr. Vijayan said. ‘Not much help’ The Sangh Parivar had always tried to belittle the State. He recalled that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had compared Kerala to Somalia in the last Assembly elections. When the State faced devastating floods, the Central forces came to help, but soon sent a bill for their services. The Centre even demanded money for the rice provided to the State. Countries that came forward to help Kerala were not allowed to do so. “Meanwhile, our own army..the fishermen, were engaged in selfless service and didn't take a single penny we offered,” he said. Many hurdles to State The Union government had an obligation to cooperate in matters of development, but Kerala faced hurdles in every phase. Those who tried to put up hurdles were now giving lengthy speeches on development and promising big changes, he said. “Those who tried to sabotage the survival and growth of the State in the last five years are now delivering speeches on development. This amounts to mocking the people of Kerala,” he said. The Congress and the BJP were like twin brothers. The Congress was paving way for the Central agencies to attack Kerala. ‘Bhai-bhai’ game Mr. Vijayan said the Congress had won elections in many States and then gifted them to the BJP. Such a plan would not work in Kerala, since people here understood the ‘bhai-bhai’ game of the Congress and the BJP. Mr. Vijayan alleged that the national leaders of the Congress and the BJP, including the Prime Minister, were attempting to create a distorted image of Kerala. His remarks came a day after Mr. Modi said at a poll rally in Thiruvanthapuram that there was a “total hartal on governance” in Kerala.  (Inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-will-close-bjps-account-in-state-cm/article34236105.ece
04 April 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||‘People of Kerala victims of violence, corruption’||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said that corruption, violence, and minority appeasement are the hallmarks of both Congress and Communist parties in Kerala. The people of Kerala are victims of violence perpetrated by the Left and corruption of the Congress, Ms. Sitharaman alleged. She was participating in the campaign for NDA candidate C. Sadanandan Master in Koothuparamba on Saturday. “The daily life of people here is challenging. Some self-proclaimed leaders following Leftist ideology come to us and say that federalism is under threat,” she said. “Ever since Marxism was imported to India, Leftists have been threatening and intimidating people with false propaganda. They are silencing people with violence,” she added. Taking a dig at the Congress, she said the party had no respect for women. But the Centre is committed to women’s security. The divorce law was introduced to protect women, she pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/people-of-kerala-victims-of-violence-corruption/article34236050.ece
04 April 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Sudhakaran raises questions over Adani’s Kannur visit||Congress leader K. Sudhakaran has demanded an inquiry into the whereabouts of Gautam Adani who arrived by a chartered flight at 7 a.m. on Friday and stayed till late night in Kannur. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, he said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was also in Kannur when Mr. Adani visited the district. “Why did he come? Who did he see? Central agencies should investigate,” Mr. Sudhakaran said. The Congress leader said the Chief Minister was moving away from his own party and those allied with him were beginning to respond with sarcastic statements. The Chief Minister had sidelined those along with him in the party. “Where is Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, P. Jayarajan and E.P. Jayarajan,” he asked. In order to remove P. Jayarajan, a norm was set that those contesting parliamentary elections should not be considered for the Assembly polls, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sudhakaran-raises-questions-over-adanis-kannur-visit/article34236106.ece
04 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||The battle for Piravom is evenly poised||The quaint agrarian setting can be a deceptive pointer to an intense electoral battle brewing in the Piravom constituency straddling Ernakulam and Kottayam districts. In the closing hours of the public campaign in a conventional three-cornered contest, candidates of major fronts exuded confidence falling back on their own political theories to substantiate their perceived upper hand. Fervent campaigning Having completed his constituency tour, two-time MLA and current incumbent Anoop Jacob on Saturday was busy plugging the gaps in his campaign by dropping in at shops at Kanjiramattom which he had given a miss earlier for want of time. His campaign is focused on the development of the constituency and his perceived accessibility as a people’s representative. “The Church dispute between the Jacobite and Orthodox factions will hardly affect my prospects, as I have struck personal relations across the board. Besides, the UDF has always worked towards an amicable settlement of the dispute, including the hitherto most practical solution suggested by the Oommen Chandy government in 2011,” said Mr. Jacob. The UDF camp is also buoyed by what it perceives as divisions within the LDF over the selection of the candidate and the fractious relations between the CPI(M) and the Kerala Congress (M) workers as reflected in the recent row between the two sides at Pala in Kottayam. Sindhumol Jacob, the LDF candidate from the Kerala Congress (M), however, claimed to have weathered the initial outbursts within the party over her candidature and regarded it as a long-forgotten chapter. Tearing into Mr. Jacob’s development claims, Sindhumol Jacob, a CPI(M)-backed block panchayat member from Uzhavoor in Kottayam, said the development witnessed in the rest of the State, whether in terms of projects funded by the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) or BMBC quality roads, seemed to have eluded Piravom. Water shortage “Drinking water shortage is rampant across the constituency with the decades-old sole water treatment plant at Kakkad being largely neglected both in terms of maintenance and capacity enhancement. I have a vision for 2025 bringing the fruit of development in Kochi to Piravom,” she said. NDA candidate M. Ashish has made his presence felt with road shows, including one attended by Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, and family meetings. “By fielding Jacobite candidates, the other two fronts have reduced it to a constituency reserved for one Church faction, leaving the other furious. This has also consolidated the votes of the majority community. We are confident of tapping into that discontent to poll over 30,000 votes this time,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/battle-for-piravom-is-evenly-poised/article34236087.ece
04 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||New socio-religious churn reshapes political contours||The Catholic Church’s unprecedented censure of interfaith marriage with Muslims, the riotous quarrel between the Orthodox and Jacobite factions of the Malankara Church, the crossing over of the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K. Mani to the Left Democratic Front (LDF), the turbulences within the Congress and the absence of top Left leaders in the poll fray have all turned the fight for central Kerala into an unpredictable, fascinating and critical one. The region comprising Kottayam, Alappuzha, Idukki, Ernakulam and Thrissur has 50 Assembly segments, of which 31 are held by the LDF. It had done well in Alappuzha and Thrissur districts in the 2016 Assembly polls, while the United Democratic Front (UDF) made hay in Kottayam. The LDF retained Chengannur but lost Aroor in the subsequent bypoll. The socio-political churn in the last five years, however, has altered the affinities capable of redrawing the political contours of the region straddling the high ranges and the coast. BJP influence The BJP wields influence in some pockets and has been able to increase its vote share. It tried to leverage the ‘love jihad’ bogey raised by the Church and held meetings with Church groupings hoping to create a goodwill for electoral returns. But the recent attack on Sacred Heart nuns in Uttar Pradesh seems to have arrested its advance. Perhaps, one of the most interesting fights in the region is unfolding in Thrissur, where the LDF had secured 12 of the 13 seats in 2016. Having won Wadakkancherry by the State’s lowest margin of 43 seats then, Congress leader Anil Akkara is trying to cash in on the controversy surrounding the LIFE Mission project. But the LDF has an equally dynamic candidate in Xavier Chittilappilly, whose name had come up in the 2016 elections too. While a three-cornered fight is expected in Thrissur, with the LDF holding an edge, the absence of a BJP candidate has made the election to Guruvayur worth a watch. This is where the LDF is accusing the BJP of having a tacit pact with the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML). In Ernakulam, where the UDF secured nine of the 14 seats last time, the Anna Kitex-sponsored Twenty20 has muddied the battle for Kunnathunad, while it is expected to play a spoiler at Muvattupuzha in the same way the V4Kochi is set to do in the coastal Kochi seat. Jacobites’ stance The Jacobite Syrian Christian Church decision to maintain an equal distance with all fronts though it “remembers with gratitude” the Ordinance passed by the State government to restore their burial in churches forfeited to the Orthodox faction could mean the laity would vote for candidates from the community regardless of their political affiliation. With no LDF heavyweights in the fray, Alappuzha is witnessing a close fight in all segments, other than Mavelikara and Haripad. How the electorate will respond to the controversy related to deep-sea fishing will swing the verdict in the coastal constituencies, while Orthodox votes may prove critical in Chengannur. In Kottayam, a UDF stronghold, the LDF harbours high hopes with the support of the KC(M). The increase in support price of rubber has been received well in the plantation belt. The toughest fight is in Pala where former LDF ally Mani C. Kappan is flaunting the work done by the LDF government as he takes on KC(M) leader Jose K. Mani. Poonjar, from where maverick Independent legislator P.C. George is seeking the mandate again, is in focus for the apparent consolidation of Muslim votes against him. In Idukki, the fight is evenly poised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-socio-religious-churn-reshapes-political-contours/article34236103.ece
04 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||More needs to be done for differently abled, say voters||While the State has made a start with regard to measures taken to assist differently abled people, there is still a long way to go, say voters. Attempts have been made to improve accessibility on roads, but this really needs to be worked upon, says Tiffany Brar, a 32-year-old visually impaired social activist and founder of Jyothirgamaya, a non-profit organisation that works towards empowering visually challenged persons. “Pension for people with disabilities, a sum of Rs. 1,500, is not realistic for anyone these days. It should be increased to at least a nominal amount of Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 5,000,” says Ms. Brar, a resident of Thiruvananthapuram. Rajeev Palluruthy, secretary of the All Kerala Wheelchair Rights Federation, also raises the issue of pensions. “A specific pension for people with disabilities would help, particularly for people who might be completely bedridden,” he says. Ms. Brar says the government and the bureaucracy tend to make things more difficult than they need to be. “There is this whole rigmarole you need to go through when you are applying for something. Not only people with disabilities, but women in vulnerable circumstances should also be taken into consideration, and government processes should be made easier,” she says. The new government should consider audio system in buses and trains to announce the arrival of stops, and a specific helpline for women with disabilities, to address the issue of domestic violence, she adds. Voting has increasingly become accessible for differently abled persons. EVMs have serial numbers embossed in Braille and 50,000 Braille ballot papers are distributed across polling stations. Mr. Rajeev also points out that allowing postal votes for differently abled people is a long-standing demand that has finally been met. But much is left to be done. “Self-employment and education for differently abled people need to be prioritised, and reservation of seats in the government will help people with disabilities raise their own issues,” says Mr. Rajeev. Implementing the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, entirely should be the focus, he adds. Unni Maxx, a 46-year-old graphic designer, points to beaches and theatres that are not accessible to people with disabilities. “There is a ramp at the Alappuzha beach, supposedly set up to make the beach accessible, but the sea isn’t even visible from there,” says Mr. Maxx, who is the secretary of Thanal Paraplegic Patients Welfare Society.  A specific pension amount for people with disabilities would help, particularly for people who might be completely bedridden Rajeev Palluruthy All Kerala Wheelchair Rights Federation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-needs-to-be-done-for-differently-abled-say-voters/article34236095.ece
04 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Garbage to be cleared up at Vathuruthy||The Kochi Corporation will immediately clear piles of garbage lying along the road near the Vathuruthy railway crossing and on the way to Kundannoor from Vathuruthy, and will take strict action against anybody found dumping garbage in the area, said a release from Mayor M. Anilkumar. Cameras to be placed Piles of waste lying on the side of the road leading to Kundannoor will be cleared up on Sunday. The corporation has decided to install cameras at the site to take action against those found dumping garbage, and the help of the police has been sought for it. The civic administration plans to beautify the sides of the road with flowering plants, in collaboration with the Cochin Port Trust. As a consequence of dumping of garbage, the Venduruthy canal, which had been cleaned once, has returned to a polluted state. Mr. Anilkumar visited the site on Saturday along with health standing committee chairperson T.K. Ashraf, Tibin Devassy, councillor representing Vathuruthy, and officials of the Navy and health wing of the corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/garbage-to-be-cleared-up-at-vathuruthy/article34236093.ece
04 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Will Twenty20’s ‘subsidy politics’ succeed?||Will a localised appeal built on providing essentials at highly subsidised prices and a revamped housing project at Kizhakkambalam, which launched the Anna Kitex-backed Twenty20 to power four panchayats in Ernakulam district, be enough to see it through in the Assembly elections? The outfit is contesting from eight constituencies where squad work is done by scores of women, men, and children transported to these areas by bus from Kizhakkambalam. Some like Sangeetha Madhu, who works with and campaigns for Twenty20, believe that the outfit’s victory in any constituency would mean that the “people of that area have won the lottery.” “Sir [Sabu Jacob, businessman and chairman of Twenty20] means well,” says the resident of God’s Villa at Njaralloor, Kizhakkambalam, where 38 houses of a colony saw a makeover after Twenty20 won a majority in the Kizhakkambalam panchayat in 2015. “We were living in crumbling houses and relying on three public taps and two wells for water. Twenty20 had promised the people here that our homes would be rebuilt. After this new colony was inaugurated in 2018, our lifestyles have changed. There is no water scarcity now, and we have good homes,” Ms. Madhu says. She also raises the benefit of groceries and other essentials at subsidised prices at a supermarket run by Twenty20. A 52-year-old who owns a grocery shop at Kizhakkambalam, who asked not to be identified, echoes Sangeetha’s views. “They [Twenty20] have made good roads. Essentials are cheap, and there is no waste of public money,” he says. Exclusionary welfare Ratheesh, an autorickshaw driver and resident of Kizhakkambalam, does not agree. “Only people with membership card can shop at the supermarket. Is that how a body that supposedly works for the welfare of the people should work?” he asks. Asma Aliyar, panchayat member representing the Chelakulam ward in Kizhakkambalam, calls the card a mark of loyalty. “If you have the card, you are expected to obey them. Fraternising with people or even relatives of other political parties can mean that the membership card will be cancelled,” alleges Ms. Aliyar, the only non-Twenty20 member in the panchayat that has 19 seats. UDF-backed candidates had won from the Chelakulam ward in 2015 and 2020, denying the outfit a victory in the ward where its garment unit is located. Ms. Aliyar alleges that Twenty20’s failure to win Chelakulam points to the persistent environmental pollution that the unit has been accused of causing for long. A shop owner at Aikaranad, on condition of anonymity, says while the panchayat has been promised a supermarket similar to the one existing at Kizhakkambalam, there has been no word about it since the local body polls. There are others who think the votes polled by the outfit, however meagre, will be crucial in swinging the outcome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/will-twenty20s-subsidy-politics-succeed/article34236088.ece
04 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||First Water Metro ferry to be handed to KMRL by month-end||The first of the twenty-three 100-passenger-capacity ferries that have been envisaged under the first phase of the Rs. 747-crore Water Metro project was launched at the Cochin Shipyard on Thursday. The vessel’s underwater works are over, while the remaining works will be completed before delivering it to Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) by month-end. The construction of the other vessels is progressing at Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL), said a press release by the metro agency. The vessel built at the small ship building facility of the shipyard was lifted using cradles and cranes and placed on the trolley system. This was then moved to the quay side, before being placed in water using a gantry crane in the presence of Alkesh Kumar Sarma, Managing Director, KMRL; Madhu S. Nair, CMD, Cochin Shipyard, and officials of the two agencies. Ferry terminals IIM-Kozhikode had submitted a report to KMRL on the fare structure of the ferries over a month ago. The fares have not been finalised. The State government will have to take a call on the fare structure. The first ferry will operate commercial services in the Vyttila-Kakkanad corridor. Much of the work on Vyttila and Kakkanad ferry terminals is over, while land acquisition for the Eroor terminal en route is in the final stage. KMRL is, in the meantime, hunting for land to house a solar farm like the one at the Cochin International Airport, as part of its efforts to make Water Metro a carbon-neutral project. Solar panels will for now be installed on ferry terminal buildings and atop floating pontoons from where commuters will board / disembark the ferries, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-water-metro-ferry-to-be-handed-to-kmrl-by-month-end/article34236092.ece
04 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Renewed interest in Arnos Pathiri’s poem||The Holy Week and Easter celebrations by Christians this season have seen a renewed interest in Puthen Pana , a composition by Arnos Pathiri, who is popular for his poetic compositions in Malayalam. Johann Ernst Hanxleden, the German Jesuit priest better known as Arnos Pathiri, arrived in Kerala from Gujarat in 1701. The lexicographer and grammarian became a scholar in Sanskrit and Malayalam before authoring Puthen Pana . Antony Puthur, who has been doing research on the composition’s recital, says there has been considerable interest in the composition of late. ‘Present situation’ The interest in reciting the poem, which recounts the pain of Mary on the death of her son Jesus, had been earlier ebbing. However, “the present circumstances” have revived an interest and Mr. Puthur has been taking classes on the historic and linguistic importance of its recital. According to Mr. Puthur, the composition marked a major landmark for the Malayalam language. “Arnos Pathiri mastered Malayalam in 20 years, and also composed poems that have stood the test of time,” he says. Felix Pulloodan of the Joint Christian Council says there is an effort by different groups of people, including those involved in folklore research, to revive the work. In churches John Britto, a Chavittunatakam artiste from Fort Kochi, says that perhaps one reason for the growing interest is the restrictions imposed on places of worship since the COVID-19 pandemic. As a youngster, Mr. Britto was witness to devout recitals of Puthen Pana in many parish churches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/renewed-interest-in-arnos-pathiris-poem/article34236075.ece
04 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||UDF in cahoots with BJP, says Vijayaraghavan||Left Democratic Front (LDF) convenor A. Vijayaraghavan said here on Saturday that the UDF and the BJP were engaged in a vilification campaign against the State government and were staunchly working to see that the LDF did not come back to power. Addressing the media here, Mr. Vijayaraghavan alleged that both the UDF and the BJP were engaged in a conspiracy against the LDF. The LDF has promised better infrastructure and future growth. “The Chief Minister has put forward an agenda for the future which is steeped in secularism and development. But the UDF and the BJP are against it,” he said. He added that the UDF had an understanding with the BJP on various issues, including Sabarimala. However, people have seen through the game, and the LDF will be voted back to power with a huge majority, he asserted. Mr. Vijayaraghavan played down the controversy over the description of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan as ‘captain’. He said Mr. Vijayan was the Chief Minister of Kerala and leader of the CPI(M). The LDF convener alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had campaigned in Kerala without addressing pressing issues in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-in-cahoots-with-bjp-vijayaraghavan/article34236053.ece
04 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Polling to be webcast in 46% of Aroor booths: ECI||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Saturday informed the High Court that webcasting of the polling process has been arranged in 46% of the booths in the Aroor constituency to check double voting and other electoral malpractices. The court made the submission when a writ petition filed by Shanimol Usman, the UDF candidate in the segment, seeking a directive to webcast polling process in 39 booths with multiple entries, came up for hearing. Justice N. Nagaresh directed the ECI to consider whether the booths identified by the petitioner figured on the list of 46% booths. If not, the ECI should consider the feasibility of webcasting or videographing the process in such polling booths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/polling-to-be-webcast-in-46-of-aroor-booths-eci/article34236065.ece
04 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Gun, bullets found at mall||Anxiety prevailed at LuLu Mall here on Saturday afternoon after a pistol loaded with five rounds was recovered from a trolley from near the parking lot. Security guards who went to fetch the trolleys left behind by visitors noticed a bag, and on checking it, they found the arm and ammunition. They alerted the Kalamassery police who took possession of the ammunition with a note in Malayalam. “The pistol was found to be very old and not functional, while the rounds seemingly live were also found to be in a rusted state. Real rounds do not get rusted. We will send them for ballistic checks for verifying whether they are live or not. It seems to be a case of abandonment to get rid of the stuff,” said C.H. Nagaraju, District Police Chief (Kochi City). The CCTV footage traced the package to an old man who seems to have come by a car specifically to drop the package. The police have tracked the registration number of the car and are on its trail. A spokesperson of LuLu Group said the note received along with the package referred to the history of the pistol dating back to 1965 and claimed that it was used in the Indo-Pak war. It also mentioned the names of some community and political leaders to share the package with.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gun-bullets-found-at-kochi-mall/article34236060.ece
04 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||268 new cases in Ernakulam||In Ernakulam, 268 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday, taking the active caseload of the district to 2,355. Edathala recorded 12 new cases and Kadavanthra 11. Kaloor and Thrikkakara recorded 10 cases each, while Keezhmad, Thripunithura, and North Paravur recorded nine each. No new cases were reported among health workers. A total of 176 people tested negative on the day. As many as 12,714 people remain in quarantine, and 5,411 samples were collected for testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/268-new-cases-in-ernakulam/article34236094.ece
04 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Twenty20 is B team of Pinarayi’||UDF candidate from Thrikkakara P.T. Thomas has accused Twenty20 of being the ‘B’ team of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. He urged people to see through the unholy nexus between Mr. Vijayan and the Twenty20 chairman, who is also the owner of the corporate that backs the apolitical outfit. He was speaking at the Press Club here on Saturday. Mr. Thomas alleged that the company proprietor had arranged for the fund raising meet in New York where Mr. Vijayan had gone for medical treatment. He demanded that the State government come clean on whether the company owner had been entrusted with mobilising funds and how much had been raised till now. He alleged that attempts were being made to buy votes. Mr. Thomas sought an inquiry into the companies that had allegedly mobilised funds for the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/twenty20-is-b-team-of-pinarayi/article34236082.ece
04 April 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||A do-or-die battle for RSP in Eravipuram||In the last 50 years, Eravipuram has seen only two non-RSP representatives, the last one being sitting MLA M. Naushad. The 2016 Assembly polls was the first one after the party switched sides severing its ties with the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the electoral outcome had been a shocker. The RSP lost all its bastions in Kollam and had no representation for the first time in the State Assembly. To reclaim the fortress and bury the embarrassment, the UDF has fielded former minister and veteran RSP leader Babu Divakaran in the segment. The three-time MLA is expected to reverse the damage and secure a resounding victory for the party in Eravipuram. A constituency where cashew workers and fishers are a decisive force, the Assembly segment includes 23 divisions of Kollam Corporation and Mayyanad panchayat. M. Naushad, the first CPI(M) candidate to claim the seat, says Kerala has seen incredible development in last five years. He points out it was achieved while battling natural calamities and COVID-19, something that surprised even the governments of developed nations. “A volley of welfare schemes were introduced and all other Indian States have been observing it. And the LDF government did it without any support from the Centre,” he says. Both he and his rivals have been focusing on the cashew workers in the segment and Mr. Naushad says the LDF government could provide a ray of hope to the crisis-hit sector. Mr. Divakaran, who has represented Kollam constituency before, is no stranger to the voters of Eravipuram. He banks on the strong influence the RSP has in the region and the legacy left behind by his father and RSP leader T.K. Divakaran. Since he is fully aware of the fact that the verdict will be very crucial for the future of his party, the candidate is pulling out all stops to wrest the seat. “The cashew labourers have several grievances and reopening the factories will be a priority of the UDF,” he says. The NDA has fielded Renjith Ravindran of the BDJS and the candidate feels voters want a change since the constituency lacks many basic amenities. He points out the drinking water shortage in coastal belt among other problems while seeking voter's support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-do-or-die-battle-for-rsp-in-eravipuram/article34236152.ece
04 April 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Basketball coaching camp in Kollam||The Kollam District Basketball Association and Quilon Athletic Club are conducting a summer coaching camp at the QAC basketball court. Both boys and girls can attend the camp that concludes on May 30. For details, contact 0474-2745303 or 9895185187.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/basketball-coaching-camp-in-kollam/article34236153.ece
04 April 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||IHRD courses||The IHRD Karthikappally has invited application for software development, career orientation, Python programming, Tally and Malayalam computing short-term courses starting on April 15. Other courses offered include UGC NET (Commerce, Management and Computer Science), PSC and UPSC coaching. For details contact 04792485370, 04792485852, 8547005018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ihrd-courses/article34236154.ece
04 April 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||All set for election in Kottayam, Pathanamthitta||As many as 15.93 lakh voters will cast their votes across the 2,403 polling stations across the nine assembly segments in Kottayam district on April 6. According to District Collector M.Anjana all arrangements are in place to ensure a smooth conduct of the election process. As many as 11,464 officials including those on standby mode have been deployed on election duty. The distribution of EVMs and related materials will begin at the respective distribution centres by 8 a.m on Monday. Alongside the polling materials, the PPE kits and other medical gear for the polling officials as well as the voters too will be distributed from these centres. In line with a direction by the Central Election Commission, the proceedings in the polling stations will be held in strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocol. 842 extra booths As the maximum number of voters at a polling station has been fixed at 1,000, the authorities have set up an additional 842 polling booths across the district this time. Separate queues will be set up for male, female and differently abled voters. Volunteers will be deployed in the booths to ensure adherence to the COVID-19 guidelines. In Pathanamthitta, as many as 10.54 lakh people will be exercising their franchise across the five assembly segments. With 2.37 lakh voters, Aramula has the highest number while Ranni, with 1.93 lakh, accounts for the smallest electorate. As many as 7,420 polling officials will be deployed on duty across the 1,530 polling stations in the district. A total of 25 model polling stations and five women-friendly stations too have been set up. Eight booths have been classified as critical while seven others are marked as vulnerable. Web-casting facility will be implemented in as many as 716 polling stations. Meanwhile, 19,765 out of the 20,677 people who qualified for postal ballot in the district have cast their votes in the district. The district police, meanwhile, has deployed 107 patrol teams across the district on polling duty. besides 22 teams for maintaining law and order. Ten teams have been deployed across sensitive booths while 22 striking forces will be based out of the respective police station limits. A total of 1,992 officials including 214 CRPF officials will be deployed to ensure security on polling day.  (With inputs from our Pathanamthitta bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-set-for-election-in-kottayam-pathanamthitta/article34236141.ece
04 April 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam to represent Kerala in IEVP||In a rare honour for Kottayam, the district will represent Kerala in the International Virtual Election Visitors Programme 2021 (IEVP), organised by the Election Commission of India (ECI) for foreign election management bodies or organisations to give an overview of the election process in India. Through the IEVP programme, polling proceedings will be telecast live in 26 countries online on April 6. According to District Collector M. Anjana, Kottayam will be allotted 15 minutes in the programme that will be held on the polling day from 3 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. It will also showcase the proceedings in selected districts of Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, and Puducherry where the elections are being held on the same day. State’s presentation “The presentation of each State will focus on different areas relating to the election process. Kerala will present details on how it will ensure COVID-19 protocol in the electioneering process,” Ms. Anjana said. As part of it, the District Collector will go live briefing about the polling proceedings to be held in booths 74 and 75 at the CMS College High School, Kottayam . Bhandari Yadav, General Election Observer for the Kottayam Assembly constituency, too will be present during the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-to-represent-kerala-in-ievp/article34236101.ece
04 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||It is a neck-and-neck race to wrest Balussery||After attending a wedding, Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate in Balussery, Sachin Dev, was getting ready for a roadshow at Poonoor on Friday afternoon. “Weddings are where we get to meet a large number of voters. In this last leg of campaigning, it is one of the best ways to reach out to them,” said Mr. Dev. He moved so quickly, renewing acquaintance with the voters at Poonoor market, that his fellow party workers were struggling to catch up with him. Mr. Dev is banking on the image of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] at the State-level as well as the developmental activities carried out by sitting MLA Purushan Kadalundy to aid his victory. However, his opponents have alleged that the LDF had been unsuccessful in handling the needs of the constituency, where it had a strong hold for the last 35 years. There are 146 Scheduled Caste colonies in Balussery constituency. Despite being an SC reservation constituency for the last 10 years, the colonies had barely been acknowledged, said Libin Bhaskar, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate, who is leaving no stone unturned to reach out to voters. He was on a marathon visit to the colonies across the constituency over the last few days. On Friday, he visited about five colonies before taking part in a roadshow at Balussery in the evening. Mr. Bhaskar, an active worker of the SC Morcha, seemed to be a familiar face in most of the colonies. “Many of these colonies are yet to get proper drinking water facilities and electricity,” he said. Family meets are the prominent campaign hubs of Dharmajan Bolgatty, the United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate. The actor’s fans throng such meetings that he attends on a daily basis. On Friday, he was running from one meet to the other, interacting with families. It is a neck-and-neck race in Balussery as witnessed on Friday afternoon, when all three candidates conducted roadshows in the constituency, with barely an hour’s gap of each other.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/it-is-a-neck-and-neck-race-to-wrest-balussery/article34236058.ece
04 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Barring strongholds, it’s a see-saw battle in most seats||Election battles in the six northern districts are as adrenaline-fuelled as in other parts of the State, but no other region perhaps has as many constituencies witnessing run-of-the-mill electioneering as these. It cannot be otherwise as political allegiance generally matters in the region. While the Left Democratic Front and the United Democratic Front are principal rivals, the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance is feared to serve as spoilers in many places. Barring the strongholds of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Indian Union Muslim League, most of the constituencies in this region are up for grabs. In 2016, the then ruling UDF took a beating winning only 23 of the 60 seats in the region. The BJP hopes to spring a surprise in Palakkad and Manjeswaram, two of the four seats where it stood second in 2016, the others being Kasaragod and Malampuzha. Candidature of technocrat E. Sreedharan and BJP State chief K. Surendran has turned the poll in Palakkad and Manjeswaram into a fierce three-cornered battle. No smooth sail It is not easy sail for the Congress’ young incumbents Shafi Parambil and V.T. Balram in Palakkad and Thrithala respectively, two hotspots in Palakkad district. The LDF is also facing an uphill battle in its strongholds such as Shoranur, Ottappalam, Malampuzha, Tharoor, Nemmara, and Alathur. The BJP may eat into the UDF-LDF vote base in the district where the LDF won nine and UDF three seats in 2016. The party though is a minor player in three of the five constituencies in Kasaragod. Thrikkarippur, Kanhangad and Uduma are traditionally LDF strong turfs. Manjeswaram is the cynosure for poll watchers. Consolidation of anti-BJP votes supposedly worked against Mr. Surendran in 2016 when he lost the seat by a wafer-thin margin. CM in the fray In Kannur, election outcomes have always been on predicted lines in at least six constituencies, all CPI(M) citadels, including Dharmadom and Mattannur where Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Health Minister K.K. Shylaja respectively are contesting. In the remaining five seats, both the UDF and LDF are fighting a hard battle. The LDF hopes to cash in on local discontent in the district Congress in Irikkur and Peravur and on charges of amassing disproportionate assets against IUML incumbent K.M. Shaji in Azhikode. It is a tight contest in majority of the 13 constituencies in Kozhikode. In Kozhikode North, which was wrested by the CPI(M) from the Congress in 2006, the LDF has a real battle on hand to retain it as CPI(M)’s septuagenarian nominee Thottathil Raveendran is pitted against 26-year-old K.M. Abijith, Kerala Students Union State president. The presence of BJP State general secretary M.T. Ramesh has made the battle a triangular contest. IUML’s woman nominee Both the fronts go all out in Kozhikode South, the IUML’s sitting seat where the party has fielded a woman candidate – Noorbina Rasheed – after 25 years and in Vadakara where K.K. Rema, widow of slain Revolutionary Marxist Party leader T.P. Chandrasekharan, is contesting as UDF-backed candidate. Koduvally, where IUML’s M.K. Muneer is contesting, and Kunnamangalam are witnessing close race with the UDF pulling out all the stops to wrest them back from the LDF. It will be nothing less than a miracle if the LDF can breach the IUML bastions in Malappuram having 16 constituencies. Like Kunnamangalam and Koduvally in Kozhikode, Nilambur, Tanur, and Thavanur in Malappuram are success stories of the LDF’s poll strategy of fielding dissidents from the rival parties, some of whom have deep pockets. Uncertain Prospects are uncertain for both the LDF and the UDF in these constituencies as also in Perinthalmanna, Kondotty and Wandoor where the LDF pursues the same strategy. None of the three constituencies in Wayanad is a piece of cake for the LDF and UDF candidates. In Sulthan Bathery, the LDF has fielded dissident Congress leader and former Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee secretary M.S. Viswanathan to take on incumbent I.C. Balakrishnan of the Congress. Former Minister in Oommen Chandy Cabinet P.K. Jayalakshmi and Loktantrik Janata Dal leader M.V. Shreyams Kumar, now in the LDF, are contesting in Manathavady and Kalpetta respectively. Both lost in 2016 in the same seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/barring-strongholds-its-a-see-saw-battle-in-most-segments/article34236098.ece
04 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||e-auto drivers face ire over easy norms||With opposition from traditional autorickshaw drivers and lack of field support from authorities, owners of nearly 160 electric-autorickshaws are struggling to operate near taxi stands, bus stands, and other boarding points. The fear of job loss is prompting fuel-based autorickshaw drivers to unleash attacks on e-rickshaw drivers and isolate them. Anywhere in city As e-vehicles are allowed to conduct service anywhere in the city without special permits, traditional drivers’ unions claim that this has affected their income. “The stand-off has peaked as neither the police nor the Motor Vehicles Department authorities have intervened. Many e-rickshaw drivers are being manhandled these days with the silent support of diesel and petrol autorickshaw drivers’ unions,” says Binesh, who recently purchased an e-rickshaw. This atmosphere of insecurity is discouraging passengers from utilising e-rickshaw services, he says  Reason for protest The uncertainty has also dissuaded many drivers from purchasing e-rickshaws and make use of the relaxed norms. Many who have bought the vehicles are now limiting their service area, fearing backlash. At the same time, leaders of traditional autorickshaw drivers’ unions reiterate that they are not against the entry of e-vehicles to the city. They say that the main reason for the protests is the “loose service rules” set for e-vehicles, disregarding the concerns of the majority. They argue that the taxi service rules cannot be relaxed for the protection of a particular segment alone. Equal opportunities “What we seek is a fair permit system for e-autorickshaws. It is not fair to impose these regulations only for the fuel vehicles,” says a diesel autorickshaw driver. He argues that the lack of a permit system for a particular segment alone will upset the traditional system, which had ensured equal livelihood opportunities for all in the sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-auto-drivers-face-ire-over-easy-norms/article34236069.ece
04 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Greens submit manifesto to political parties for river protection||Environmental organisations in Kerala working for the protection of rivers have submitted a manifesto for river protection to all political parties contesting in the polls. One of their major demands is to protect river banks from encroachments. The manifesto, which was submitted a few weeks ago, points out the need to measure all sources of water, including rivers and ponds, however small they are, and their banks and to clear encroachments. The minimum distance of any construction activity from rivers should be strictly followed. River banks should be freely accessible to the public, and they should not be sanctioned for private parties at any cost, the manifesto said. Construction work Construction work shall not be allowed on river banks. Instead, shore forests shall be preserved, and environment-friendly methods for the protection of river banks shall be adopted. Besides, levelling of paddy fields and wet lands should be checked, and construction activity on such plots should be stopped. The manifesto urges political parties to prioritise agriculture, irrigation, drinking water, and environment. Projects should be formed for them, involving the next generation, so that they too get the benefits. School syllabus School syllabus should be revised giving more importance to environmental studies. Activities involving students such as afforestation and water conservation should be implemented. The manifesto bats for proper implementation of the Madhav Gadgil report for the protection of Western Ghats. Mining At present, mining cannot be done within 50 metres of rivers. This limit should be increased to 100 metres. If anyone has already procured licence for mining within 100 metres of any river, the government should take it back, the manifesto added. Also, sand mining should not be allowed in rivers. The sand brought in by rivers during floods will be taken back by them gradually. There is not need of human intervention in it. The argument of the sand mining lobby that heaps of sand will lead to floods is childish and unscientific, it said. The manifesto also suggested cancellation of the Kerala Minor Mineral Concession Rules and enact new ones in consultation with environmental scientists to put an end to anarchy in the mining sector. 44 organisations The manifesto was discussed and prepared under the aegis of 44 organisations across the State. The response of political parties to the manifesto was, however, not very positive. While some did not pay heed to the demands, some agreed to hold discussions, but did not follow up, the organisations said.  River banks should be freely accessible to the public, and they should not be sanctioned for private parties at any cost, says the manifesto||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/greens-submit-manifesto-to-political-parties-for-river-protection/article34236061.ece
04 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Police order reprobe into 16-year-old’s death||District Police Chief (Kozhikode rural) A. Srinivas has ordered a thorough reinvestigation into the death of a 16-year-old student at Narikkatteri in Nadapuram last year. The reinvestigation was ordered after the police found a video clip in which the victim was reportedly being tortured by his elder brother. Earlier, the incident was registered as a case of unnatural death by the local police under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). It was on May 17, 2020 that the body of K. Abdul Azeez was found hanging inside his house. The case was handed over to the District Crime Branch after a local action committee alleged foul play and said it distrusted the local police investigation report. However, the Crime Branch was reportedly failing to find anything suspicious in connection with the death, citing forensic and post-mortem reports. The latest video clip accessed by the police from social media reportedly showed the boy being choked by his elder brother. However, the police could not confirm whether it resulted in the boy’s death. As part of the probe, the brother, who was working abroad at present, would be summoned, they said. The death of the boy took place while he was preparing for the last three SSLC exams. According to his teachers at MIM Higher Secondary School, Perode, he was a bright student with a good track record.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-order-re-probe-into-16-year-olds-death/article34236059.ece
04 April 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Malappuram Lok Sabha byelection goes unnoticed amid Assembly poll din||The byelection for the Malappuram Lok Sabha constituency is nearly drowned in the din of the Assembly election taking place simultaneously in the State. Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, who resigned from the Lok Sabha to contest the Assembly from Vengara, is the common target of the Left Democratic Front (LDF), the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), and the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) in Malappuram. LDF’s V.P. Sanu, NDA’s A.P. Abdullakutty, and SDPI’s Taslim Rehmani are together in blaming Mr. Kunhalikutty for bringing about “an unwanted byelection” in Malappuram. IUML’s M.P. Abdussamad Samadani, well known among Malayalis for his crowd-pulling oratory, is the United Democratic Front candidate in Malappuram. Simultaneous campaign The Lok Sabha candidates of Malappuram are quite often seen electioneering with the Assembly candidates of their respective parties and fronts. When there are two candidates in a rally, the focus of importance often falls on the Assembly candidate. “It’s not because of the candidate’s personality or grandeur, but because of the keen interest that people have for the Assembly election,” said Abdul Kareem, a UDF campaigner in Malappuram. The candidates have almost completed their final rounds of canvassing by focussing on roadshows, corner meetings and family and social meetings. Each canvassing method has its advantages. In spite of the massive vote share that the IUML enjoys in Malappuram, rival candidates are putting up a brave front with the intention of reaching out to maximum voters and thus to reduce the IUML lead. This will be the fifth election in Malappuram since the Lok Sabha constituency was formed in 2009. IUML’s late president E. Ahamed had won from Malappuram in 2009 and 2014 by 1.15 lakh and 1.94 lakh votes respectively. In a byelection held in 2017 following Ahamed’s death, Mr. Kunhalikutty was elected by 1.71 lakh votes. In the general election of 2019, which saw a UDF sweep across the State, Mr. Kunhalikutty was again elected by a historic margin of 2.6 lakh votes. Mr. Samadani’s opponents such as Mr. Sanu, Mr. Abdullakutty and Mr. Rehmani are eyeing to bring down that lead. Addressing separate rallies, they said nothing would be impossible in elections. The IUML’s historic Manjeri debacle, in which T.K. Hamza had trounced K.P.A. Majeed in 2004, was being raised as a model of inspiration for them. But the IUML appears comfortable with its solid party votes in Malappuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malappuram-lok-sabha-byelection-goes-unnoticed-amid-assembly-poll-din/article34236115.ece
04 April 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||No redemption for Kadakampally: Nirmala||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has lashed out at the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government, saying that even women devotees were attacked in the name of Sabarimala. Addressing a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) election rally at Cherpulassery, near here, on Saturday, Ms. Sitharaman said Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran would not get redemption even after 600 years of tapasya (penance). Mr. Surendran had worked against the faithful on the Sabarimala issue. Ms. Sitharaman said that devotees would not forgive the LDF government for using lathis against them. She said Kerala had become a State with the largest debt, and unemployment had peaked. She made fun of the government for declaring a Crime Branch investigation against Central agencies. According to her, the government turned against Central agencies such as the Enforcement Directorate (ED) soon after several names, including that of the Chief Minister, came out in gold and currency smuggling cases. She made fun of the government for declaring a Crime Branch investigation against the ED, saying that it was like Satan running after Durga. BJP candidate in Shoranur Sandeep Warrier addressed the rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-redemption-for-kadakampally-nirmala/article34236117.ece
04 April 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Development issues to be the main focus in Ranni||Right from the beginning, electioneering in Ranni has been under the long shadow of the high-profile contest taking place in the neighbouring seat Konni, where the National Democratic Alliance looks to emerge as a strong third alternative on the back of the Sabarimala protests. But in an election where Sabarimala once again becomes the overarching issue of the region, the focus should always have been more on Ranni. For, it is in this assembly segment where the Sabarimala temple is actually located. The battle for the seat here, however, still appears a straight fight between the two conventional fronts—the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF). Riding high over its performance in the recent local body elections, the NDA too hopes on putting up a good show this time at the polls. Though a red citadel represented by the CPI(M) since 1996 , the Left Democratic Front has fielded the Kerala Congress (M) leader Pramod Narayanan from the seat this time. Overcomes inertia The abrupt allotment of the seat to the latest partner raised a few eyebrows initially but the coalition has successfully overcome the inertia within its fold through systematic campaigning. Development remains the key poll plank of the coalition here, as elsewhere in the district while it has also come out with a people's manifesto to address concerns raised by the voters. The UDF, on the other hand, regards the election as its best chance to wrest the seat and has entrusted Rinku Cherian, son of the former legislator M.C.Cherian, with the task. A popular face across the region, the young Congress leader has brought in the much-needed enthusiasm within the UDF while the entry of Rahul Gandhi to the campaign scene in the final phase has added to its confidence. Sabarimala key point Though Sabarimala remains to be a key point of discussion, the UDF has put developmental imbalances and the administrative lapses of the LDF government in its priority list for electioneering. The margin of 7,824 votes that it gained in the assembly segment during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections too has raised the coalition’s expectations over the seat this time. Meanwhile, the lack of experience will not be a hindrance for the NDA that has fielded Bharath Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) State vice-president K.Padmakumar from the seat once again. The coalition, which enjoys a strong support base here, has obviously picked Sabarimala, Love Jihad and the welfare schemes rolled out by the Narendra Modi government as the central pillars of its campaign. In local bodies Of the 12 local bodies in the assembly segment, the NDA also holds power in one panchayat while it also possesses a handful of seats across the remaining local bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/development-issues-to-be-the-main-focus-in-ranni/article34236140.ece
04 April 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||LDF candidate injured in accident||Veena George, the Left Democratic Front candidate in Aranmula, sustained minor injuries after the car in which she was travelling collided with another vehicle on Saturday. The accident occurred on the Anjakkala ring road in the morning when Ms. George was on her way to attend an election-related programme. She was rushed to a nearby hospital. Following the accident, all her programmes scheduled for the day were cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-candidate-injured-in-accident/article34236146.ece
04 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Development, water make it a livelihood battle||Attingal gifted a win by a wide margin for the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the last Assembly elections, yet the shifting fortunes in the various polls since then have led to the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the National Democratic Front (NDA) fancy their chances. This is clearly evident in the spirited campaigning put up by the three main fronts over the past few days. CPI(M) candidate O.S. Ambika spent the early part of Saturday meeting people in a few colonies near Kilimanoor. The lone woman candidate of the LDF in the district, the 54-year old CPI(M) Attingal area committee member is a familiar face in some parts of the constituency, having served as the president of Mudakkal grama panchayat and now in her second term as the president of the Chirayinkeezh block panchayat. "Development is the main campaign issue for us, with the LDF government's achievements in the health, education and social welfare sectors creating a positive impact. We could sense this in the people’s response during the campaigning. The fight here is between the LDF and the UDF," Ms. Ambika tells The Hindu . Just like in the previous election, the UDF has given the seat to its ally Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP), which has fielded A. Sreedharan, who was earlier with the CPI. Mr. Sreedharan likes to project himself more as a social activist than as a politician, mentioning his interventions in various public issues. Litany of complaints On Saturday, he chose to focus on the Attingal municipality area, which had witnessed an erosion in UDF votes in the recent local body elections. "In the receptions over the past few days, I have been listening to complaints from various sections. Scarcity of drinking water is a major issue. After the UDF won the Attingal Lok Sabha constituency, there is a general impression that we need a UDF MLA as well to seamlessly implement developmental activities," says Mr. Sreedharan, an office-bearer of the Sidhanar Mahasabha. The NDA candidate P. Sudheer, the incumbent state general secretary of the BJP, had made his way up through the party's youth organisations and was also the former State president of the BJP SC/ST morcha. On the penultimate day of campaigning, he led a roadshow in Vakkom panchayat. "The LDF and the UDF have won from this constituency several times, but development never reached any where. It is one of the most backward constituencies in this region. Attingal and Kilimanoor, the two major towns here, are in a state of neglect. So are the colonies. We are also raising Sabarimala as a key issue, as a CPI(M) win would lead to further violation of traditions at the temple," says Mr. Sudheer. Point of discussion In the seat reserved for Scheduled Castes, the issues faced by the people living in the around 200 SC/ST colonies spread out across the constituency is a key point of discussion this elections. The work on the Attingal bypass, which took off last year after a long delay, is also something the three fronts would like to add to their accounts. While the LDF government points to the efforts for land acquisition taken by the LDF-led Attingal municipality and the State government, the UDF credits Adoor Prakash MP for his interventions, and the BJP gives credit to the Centre for speeding up the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/development-water-make-it-a-livelihood-battle/article34236258.ece
04 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||2,541 new cases in State, TPR at 5.67%||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph continues to climb steadily with the State reporting 2,541 new cases on Saturday when 44,779 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s cumulative case burden ever since the pandemic began rose to 11,32,431 cases. The test positivity rate (TPR) is also rising and registered 5.67% on Saturday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said at Kannur on Saturday that the second wave of COVID-19 raging through neighbouring States was a warning for Kerala too. Mutant variants were found in a significant percentage of virus samples in Maharashtra and Punjab and it was highly likely that with unrestricted domestic travel, these variants could soon reach Kerala. He appealed to all in the eligible age groups — 45-plus — to get vaccinated. . The rise in new cases and the test positivity rate reflected on the State’s active case pool, which had gone up to 27,274 cases. On the day, 1,660 recoveries were reported. Twelve recent deaths were added to the official list of COVID-19 fatalities, taking the toll to 4,658. Kozhikode reported the maximum number of new cases at 568, followed by Ernakulam 268, Kannur 264, Kollam 215, Thrissur 201, Malappuiram 191, Thiruvananthapuram 180, Kasaragod 131, Kottayam 126, Palakkad 115, Alappuzha 81, Wayanad 77, Pathanamthitta 72 and Idukki 52.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2541-new-cases-in-state-tpr-at-567/article34236071.ece
04 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||P. Jayarajan’s ‘captain’ remark triggers debate||A Facebook post by CPI(M) leader P. Jayarajan seemed to have stoked a debate on whether the party is in the grip of a personality cult centred on Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Mr. Jayarajan stated that only the party deserved the honorific title "captain". His remark accrued a measure of news value on Saturday because the title had arguably become a euphemism for Mr. Vijayan of late. The Chief Minister, however, made light of it at a press conference in Kannur, saying that people bestowed labels, and it was normal. ‘All are comrades’ Mr. Jayarajan said Mr. Vijayan's popularity had upset the United Democratic Front and certain sections of the media. Communists stood shoulder to shoulder with the people. Hence, the masses feted communists by singing ballads about them or tattooed their names. However, communists would not fall for idolisation, he added. Quoting CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, Mr. Jayaran posted: "In this party, all are comrades.” Mr. Jayarajan himself was a magnet for lionisation by adoring party members. A social media group called "P J Army" had campaigned for his candidature in the Assembly elections. Hoardings and cut-outs featuring his larger-than-life images had appeared in Kannur when the CPI(M) grappled with candidate selection. Soon, Mr. Jayarajan distanced himself from the publicity blitz. Different view A Congress insider viewed the development differently. He said Industries Minister E. P. Jayarajan's vow to quit electoral politics and Mr. Jayarajan's recent averment might indicate a new alignment against Mr. Vijayan in the CPI(M). He also said Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac had indicated that he would take a sabbatical from party work for pursuing academics. Meanwhile, CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said Mr. Vijayan was the LDF's campaign leader. He was captaining the poll campaign. CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran said communists were comrades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/p-jayarajans-captain-remark-triggers-debate/article34236107.ece
04 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Chandy accused of violating poll code||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] on Saturday accused former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy of violating the Election Commission of India (ECI)’s ban on bike rallies 72 hours prior to the poll day. CPI(M) district secretary Anavoor Nagappan submitted complaints to the Chief Electoral Officer and the District Collector demanding Mr. Chandy be booked for ‘leading a bike rally organised by the UDF in the Neyyattinkara Assembly constituency’ on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chandy-accused-of-violating-poll-code/article34236066.ece
04 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Easter greetings||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has greeted the people on Easter eve. “May the festivity of Easter brighten our minds with hope and compassion and inspire us to seek joy in serving the weak and the needy in a spirit of love and oneness,” he said. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Easter represented hope for mankind beyond the dark clouds of sorrow. He hoped Easter would keep the spark of humanity. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala hoped Easter would bring peace and happiness to all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/easter-greetings/article34236067.ece
04 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||NQAS certification for 7 more public hospitals||Seven more public health institutions in the State have won the coveted National Quality Assurance Standards (NQAS) certification. The new hospitals winning the NQAS certification are Guruvayoor urban PHC, Thrissur; Kinasseri urban PHC, Kozhikode; Veliyam family health centre, Kollam; Thripunithura urban PHC, Ernakulam; Mullasseri community health centre, Thrissur; Mangalassery urban PHC, Malappuram and Eravipuram urban PHC, Malappuram. With this, a total of 108 government health institutions in the State have been raised to national quality standards. The State now has the largest number of NQAS-certified urban PHCs – 23 – in the country. Also, the top 12 NQAS-certified PHCs in the country also belong to Kerala. 6,500 checkpoints NQAS certification is a long process of district-level, State-level and national assessment, with over 6,500 checkpoints in various categories, such as service provision, patient rights, inputs, supportive services, clinical services, infection control, quality management and outcomes. The certification is valid for three years. Hospitals securing NQAS certification get cash incentives as well, with PHCs receiving Rs. 2 lakh each, while other institutions get Rs. 10,000 per bed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nqas-certification-for-7-more-hospitals/article34236073.ece
04 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police step up vigil on last day of campaigning||Following the Election Commission of India (ECI)’s ban on ‘kottikalasham’ (or ‘kalashakottu’), the police in the capital district have geared up to prevent any attempt to organise the customary finale on Sunday. The event, which typically involves party workers engaging in noisy revelry to mark the culmination of a high-voltage campaign, has been prohibited in view of the COVID-19 surge. Station house officers of the city police held meetings with political leaders on Saturday to solicit their cooperation towards the restrictions. While surveillance will be undertaken by the local police units, additional deployment will be made from the Armed Police Battalions wherever there is a possibility of crowding, official sources said. The police have cautioned political parties against gathering in public places in violation of the ECI order that could result in the offenders being charged under the provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, as well as the norms laid down by the ECI. The measures assumed significance in light of the violations witnessed in the run-up to the local body elections when ‘kottikalashams’ were held at several places in spite of a similar preventive order. Strike forces The entire election machinery, comprising nearly 2,000 police persons and Central Armed Police Forces personnel, will be mobilised in the city on Sunday. Strike forces will be stationed at strategic locations. Besides, around five vehicles of law and order and group patrol teams will be constantly on the move. With control room vehicles also deployed in various parts of the city, the police expect to bring down the response time to attend to exigencies to as short as two minutes. The tight security measures have been instrumental in reining in political clashes in the State capital The deft handling of the tensions that had prevailed after NDA’s candidate Sobha Surendran’s campaign was allegedly obstructed in Kazhakuttam prevented a confrontation between the BJP and the CPI(M) workers in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vigil-stepped-up-on-last-day-of-campaigning/article34236147.ece
04 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Procedures followed: KSEB||Proper procedures were followed in purchasing short-term power for meeting the 2021 summer demand, the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) said on Saturday. The KSEB came out with the clarification following an allegation that it had signed a contract with the Adani group for direct purchase of electricity for meeting the summer demand. As part of guaranteeing power supply during the summer months, the KSEB had invited competitive tenders for 100 MW round-the-clock (RTC) power and another 100 MW between 2 p.m. and 12 midnight through the Discovery of Efficient Electricity Price (DEEP) e-bidding portal, an initiative of the Union Power Ministry. In such e-tenders, direct negotiations with the power suppliers are not possible, the KSEB notes. The details of the tender floated by the KSEB are visible to all suppliers who have registered on the DEEP portal. Additionally, the details were also published on the KSEB website and in two English newspapers, the power utility said. The KSEB had received 11 bids. The Adani group and GMR Trading Company won the bid for 50 MW each for the 100-MW RTC power sought by the KSEB at Rs. 3.04 per unit. For the supply of 100 MW power between 2 p.m. and 12 midnight, the bids were won by GMR Trading Company (50 MW) and PTC India (50 MW) at Rs. 3.40 per unit. The rates were acceptable as Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat had, at the time, obtained RTC power at rates ranging from Rs. 3.27 per unit to Rs. 3.69 per unit. The KSEB adhered to Central government norms in completing the tender procedures for purchasing short-term power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/procedures-followed-kseb/article34236109.ece
04 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One held for murdering auto driver||The Vizhinjam police have arrested the alleged culprit behind the murder of an autorickshaw driver recently. The accused has been identified as Aji (48) of Mavuvila in Venganoor. He was nabbed in connection with the fatal attack on one Shiji from Mavila in Vizhinjam on April 1. According to the police, the incident is believed to be linked to a long-running feud between the duo ever since the victim had complained to the police about alleged casteist remarks made by the accused. Aji had also been accused of inconveniencing Shiji in parking his vehicle close to his house. On the night of the murder, the accused allegedly waylaid the victim, who was travelling on a motorcycle with a relative, by blocking the road using bricks. He purportedly stabbed Shiji on his neck before fleeing the area. The victim, who was rushed to a hospital, later succumbed to the grievous injury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-for-murdering-auto-driver/article34236253.ece
04 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||COVID-19: 180 fresh cases||The district recorded 180 fresh COVID-19 cases and 130 recoveries on Saturday, as the number of active cases stood at 2,376. While 1,395 people were placed under quarantine during the last 24 hours, 1,229 others were permitted to conclude quarantine after completing the mandated period without exhibiting any symptoms. Presently, 16,936 people are undergoing quarantine in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-180-fresh-cases/article34236254.ece
04 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Joshi urges ECI to step in||Union Minister Pralhad Joshi on Saturday urged the Election Commission of India (ECI) to prevent what he termed “widespread rigging” of the postal ballot in Kerala by polling officials loyal to the CPI(M). Mr. Joshi, in charge of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) election campaign in Kerala, asked the commission to put impartial officials in charge of the distribution and collection of the postal ballot. The distribution of the ballot and welfare pension was being carried out simultaneously to influence voters, he alleged.  Accusing Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala of acting against national interest by transferring electoral roll data to a “foreign agency”, Mr. Joshi said his party would file a complaint with the ECI in this regard. “The Opposition leader has passed on the entire voters’ list to the foreign agency, which is a serious thing,” he said. The BJP would expand in Kerala in terms of vote share and seats. The Congress-led United Democratic Front was “sinking” in Kerala and the BJP would become the “most credible alternative”. “I appeal to the people to go for the most credible alternative, which is the BJP,” he said. Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s questions to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan remained unanswered. Mr. Shah had posed the questions to Mr. Vijayan during his visit to Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/joshi-urges-eci-to-step-in/article34236108.ece
04 April 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||It’s quite a prestige issue to win Wadakkanchery||The open campaign vehicle of Xavier Chittilappilly, the LDF candidate of Wadakkanchery, is moving through the narrow canal road of Thiruthiparambu, a quaint village. Suddenly an elderly woman waves him down. She runs back to her compound, plucks a handful of red ‘jambu’ fruit, and hands them over to Mr. Chittilappilly with her blessings. At Parlikkad, a small but vibrant crowd is waiting for him. “I have been with you for the last three decades. We worked together, supported each other. But if you elect me, I can serve you better,” he tells them. V.S. Sujeesh, a college student, gives him a present — a portrait of Mr. Chittilappilly painted by him. Mr. Chittilappilly, who has completed the second round of campaigning, seldom discusses politics at the meetings. As a campaign coordinator of party MLAs in the region, he is well-versed with electioneering. “How can you expect people to vote for the UDF, which has openly declared its intention to stop major initiatives of the LDF such as the LIFE Mission?” he asks. At Sarithapuram, Anil Akkara, MLA, the UDF candidate, is on the door-to-door campaign. He looks visibly relaxed as each house is familiar for him. A seasoned politician, who systematically developed his career from the panchayat to district panchayat and then to the Assembly, he says people in the constituency know how the LDF “cheated them in the name of LIFE Mission.” The Livelihood Inclusion and Financial Empowerment (LIFE) Mission has been the key election word in Wadakkanchery. Ever since Mr. Akkara had raised corruption charges against the project, he has been at loggerheads with the LDF. It is a prestige issue for both fronts. ‘Aim is a medical hub’ The LDF has termed the allegation baseless, accusing the UDF of putting up hurdles to the housing project for the poor. Criticising both, the NDA asks why Mr. Akkara kept quiet earlier and raked up the controversy just before the election. “The LDF has been exposed before the people. The court itself termed the project ‘intelligent corruption,’” says Mr. Akkara. “A main goal I had set in my last term was to develop the Government Medical College, Thrissur, as the Health University campus. An order has been issued, but it remains on paper. We have to make it happen. I want to develop Thrissur as a medical hub in the country. It will not only benefit the patients, but he students too,” said the incumbent MLA. For start-ups Ullas Babu, the NDA candidate, says creating an environment conducive for start-ups will be his primary goal. “Our educated youth are left at the mercy of employers in other States. Coming down heavily at Industries Minister A.C. Moideen, he says, “Look at Viruppakka Spinning Mill, situated close to his house. He couldn’t even develop it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-quite-a-prestige-issue-to-win-wadakkanchery/article34236263.ece
04 April 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Journalist passes away||Jeo Sunny, a senior reporter with the Thrissur-based TCV news Channel, died here on Saturday following cardiac arrest. He was 43. Short films Jeo Sunny, who has done many documentaries and short films, was in the preparation of a feature film. Death came just before the District Collector was to announce an award instituted by the District Health Department for his short film Life is beautiful . Much appreciated was his short film Ek din ka sultan about Chathunniyasan, a veteran Pulikkali artist. He has written a book Poorathinte Katha . He is survived by wife, two children, and mother. His body will be placed for colleagues to pay homage at Thrissur Press Club on Sunday and will be laid to rest at St. Sebastian’s Church, Neelikkunu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/journalist-passes-away/article34236046.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In one voice||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-one-voice/article34236090.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Keeping date with culture||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keeping-date-with-culture/article34236232.ece
04 April 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||A contrast in vaccination process||A 103-year-old woman, Bulle Rangamma, from Krushnamreddy Palli on Anantapur outskirts had walked to the COVID-19 vaccination centre set up in the village upper primary school on Friday to take the jab but in contrast, just a few kilometres away in the city, Anantapur MP Talari Rangaiah (50), less than half her age, along with his wife were given the first dose at their own house. The MP has asked people to come forward without fear and take the jab at a centre located close to them as there were 193 COVID Vaccination Centres (CVCs) all over the district, but the general public has not taken the news of the MP getting vaccinated at his own house lightly. “When the Prime Minister and the Chief Minister could go to the vaccination centre, why was the MP given preferential treatment?” many ask. Karnataka Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil had taken the COVID-19 vaccine at his residence on March 2 and on March 26 the Taluk Health Officer of Hirekerur in Haveri district was suspended from government service pending inquiry for dereliction of duty by going to the Minister’s house. When contacted, District Immunisation Officer Kataru Gangadhar Reddy said that no preferential treatment was allowed to any class of people in the vaccination process. “District Collector Gandham Chandrudu too had come to the vaccination centre to get the first jab,” he said. Bulle Rangamma, who lost her husband 50 years ago, still earns her livelihood by working and has no comorbidities and takes no medicines regularly. When The Hindu visited her on Saturday at her house, she was hale and hearty and enjoying with family members a day after taking the jab. She does not have any side effects except for a slight reeling sensation. She was thankful to ‘Jagan Babu’ for giving her pension and rice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-contrast-in-vaccination-process/article34236214.ece
04 April 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||A record feat by Guntakal rail division||Guntakal Division of South Central Railway handled a record-breaking interchange of freight trains per day in February, achieving an average of 207 trains a day. On April 2, the division achieved a record-breaking interchange of 245 freight trains, which is the highest ever by any division of the SCR. Even with such a high rate of interchange, the speed of the freight trains was maintained at 50 kmph, which is also a record in itself, said Divisional Railway Manager Alok Tiwari, in a press release here on Saturday. Operationally, Guntakal Division has 11 interchange points it shares with the Southern Railways, South Western Railways, Central Railways and with other divisions of the SCR.  Cement cluster The division is also the country’s most important cement cluster, as cement and clinker from the division are loaded to destinations in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, etc. “This was possible with the help and coordination of all departments involved in the movement of freight trains such as traffic, traction, mechanical and engineering,” Mr. Alok Tiwari said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-record-feat-by-guntakal-rail-division/article34236227.ece
04 April 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arrangements in place for polls||All arrangements have been made for the smooth conduct of elections to MPTCs and ZPTCs in the district, said District Collector Vivek Yadav. Elections to 46 ZPTC posts and 579 MPTC posts would be held on April 8, repolling, if any, on April 9 and counting of votes would take place on April 10. Mr. Vivek Yadav said that with the declaration of election notification by the State Election Commissioner, the model code of conduct is in place. He said that training classes for Polling Officers and Assistant Polling Officers would be held on April 5. The arrangements for counting of votes have been made with a separate table for every MPTC. All the polling personnel should wear a mask, use sanitiser frequently and take COVID-19 vaccine.  Election Observer P. Lakshmi Narasimham said that police and revenue personnel should work in close coordination to ensure a peaceful poll. Superintendents of Police R.N Ammireddy (Guntur Urban) and Vishal Gunni (Guntur Rural) were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arrangements-in-place-for-polls/article34236276.ece
04 April 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lucky escape for bus passengers||At least 15 passengers had a miraculous escape on Saturday when an APSRTC airconditioned bus, in which they were travelling, caught fire a few minutes after leaving the Kakinada bus station in East Godavari district. Kakinada RTC Depot Manager P. Bhaskara Rao said the engine of the bus caught the fire due to short circuit. Engine block gutted The entire engine block was gutted in the mishap. All the passengers travelling in the Kakinada-Vijayawada bus and the driver are safe as they got off the vehicle immediately after the engine caught fire, Mr. Rao said. The Disaster Response and Fire Services personnel swung into action and doused the fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lucky-escape-for-bus-passengers/article34235645.ece
04 April 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Control room set up for MPTC, ZPTC elections||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Saturday opened a control room to address grievances and complaints pertaining to violation of the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) of the ZPTC/MPTC elections at the Collectorate here. In an official release, Mr. Muralidhar has asked the public to lodge such complaints through phone numbers - 81061-49123 or 81007-21345- or one can write to mccmptczptc21 @gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/control-room-set-up-for-mptc-zptc-elections/article34236239.ece
04 April 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Student jumps into canal||A 21-year-old student allegedly committed suicide by jumping into the K.C. Canal on April 1. Sai Kumar, a second year degree student, was walking with his friends along the canal when he jumped into it. He was washed away even before someone could save him. His body was fished out on Friday night. According to the police, the student reportedly had backlogs from the first year and wrote the second-year examinations recently, but reportedly did not fare well. The post-mortem was conducted on Saturday and the body handed over to the parents, the police said. There is always someone to talk to: dial 100 or 112, over WhatsApp 7777877722.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/student-jumps-into-canal/article34235729.ece
04 April 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||In ‘chai pe charcha’, Panabaka blames govts. for price rise||Former Union Minister Panabaka Lakshmi has adopted novel ways to draw the attention of the voters during her campaign for the Tirupati Lok Sabha byelection at Manubolu village in Nellore district, which comprises four Assembly segments of Sarvepalli, Gudur, Sullurpet and Venkatagiri. The TDP candidate herself prepared tea and distributed it among a group of voters, and picked up a conversation with them as to how they were able to manage their household expenses. She also prepared hot ‘mirapakaya bajji’, the most popular snack in these parts, and tried to drive home the point that the “ruling BJP at the Centre and the YSRCP in the State made the lives of the common people miserable.” As she served piping hot tea, the assembled gathering replied that they were finding it difficult to make ends meet in the wake of skyrocketing prices of not only petrol and diesel but also edible oil. The former Union Minister of State for Petroleum and Natural Gas told them that the BJP-led government at the Centre and the YSRCP government in the State were competing with each other in imposing heavy dose of taxes on fuel. “This approach is responsible for the increase in prices of all essential commodities,” Ms. Lakshmi reasoned. Ms. Lakshmi was accompanied by former Minister Somireddy Chandramohan Reddy during the campaign. Fuel should be brought under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime it they were to be available for a reasonable price, she said during an interaction with a group of bus passengers, who had opted to take the public transport instead of their motorcycles of late. The gathering nodded their heads in approval, and also referred to the cooking gas going out of their reach now. “The subsidy borne by the government has been phased out by the BJP-led government at the Centre,” Ms. Lakshmi said, and recalled that she, as a Union Minister, had tried her best to ensure provision of cooking gas to all the BPL women with the Centre bearing huge subsidy. The aim was to put an end to the respiratory diseases associated with using fire wood for cooking. ‘Privatisation spree’ Picking holes in the BJP government’s privatisation policy, Ms. Lakshmi said the reservation enjoyed by the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes would become irrelevant as the “indiscriminate PSU privatisation spree” was only to benefit the corporate firms. She said the TDP had constituted committees at the booth level to allay the fears of the voters, who were being threatened allegedly by the village / ward volunteers that they would lose the benefits of welfare schemes if they did not vote for the ruling party. The Election Commission should create a conducive atmosphere at the grassroots for the people to vote without fear or favour. “By resorting to intimidation, the YSRCP could win the recent local body elections,” she alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-chai-pe-charcha-panabaka-blames-govts-for-price-rise/article34236218.ece
04 April 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dalit outfits call for united struggle to stop privatisation of PSUs||Dalit outfits of all political hues on Saturday decided to stage a united struggle to stop privatisation of public sector units(PSUs) and expressed concern over the “suicidal” economic policies of the BJP-led government at the Centre, which made the quota regime irrelevant. The leaders at a roundtable organised by the Dalita Hakula Porata Samiti(DHPS) feared that if the privatisation spree continues, those from the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities would lose their jobs. Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee(APCC) vice-president Sripathy Prakasam said it was time that all sections of people in the State come forward to step up stir to stop the privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP). He said many more struggles would be followed to highlight the impact of the Union government’s decision to privatise all public sector units including banks, railways, airways, insurance firms, container corporation. ‘Do-or-die struggle’ SC/ST Gazetted Officers Association president P. Seenaiah called for a “do-or-die struggle” to retain the system of reservation, which they perceived was under threat. Dalita Mahasabha State president Vijeyendra Bahujan said it was only after nationalisation of banks that those below the poverty line got soft loans. Privatisation of banks would push these vulnerable sections of people back into the trap of private money lenders, he feared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dalit-outfits-call-for-united-struggle-to-stop-privatisation-of-psus/article34235733.ece
04 April 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Word-of-mouth publicity brings more people to session sites||Swarnalatha, a 57-year-old school teacher, was initially apprehensive of taking the vaccine shot. She feared that she might suffer from adverse reactions. Her worries, however, dissipated after nothing of that sort happened. Ms. Swarnalatha then shared her positive experience with her colleagues, who followed suit. Voluntary vaccination As opposed to the initial days of the vaccination programme, when health officials had to use their persuasive skills to bring people to the session sites, now a word-of-mouth publicity by those who took the jab is getting the job done. It has even led to an increase in the number of people going for vaccination, as per reports. “More people are coming on their own to the session sites going by the experiences narrated by those who have taken the vaccine,” said Prakasam District Medical and Health Officer P. Ratnavalli overseeing the inoculation drive across 119 session sites, including 11 urban civic bodies, on Saturday. On Saturday, as many as 10,000 persons took the jab in Prakasam, the highest since the drive was launched on January 16. With this, 1.97 lakh people have been vaccinated against COVID in the district, according to health officials in Ongole. Active cases jump to 1,228 Meanwhile, the district reported 48 new cases and three deaths in the last 24 hours. Active cases in South Coastal Andhra jumped to 1,228 with 211 persons testing positive for the disease in the region, including 163 in SPSR Nellore district alone. Focus on urban civic bodies In neighbouring SPSR Nellore district, a special drive has been taken up with focus on urban civic bodies. “As many as 7,696 persons have been vaccinated till late in the evening,” said DMHO S.Rajyalakshmi. The district health administration has geared up to vaccinate up to 30,000 persons every day as more and more people are expected to throng the session sites in the coming weeks in the wake of surge in new cases in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/word-of-mouth-publicity-brings-more-people-to-session-sites/article34235731.ece
04 April 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||No arjitha sevas for devotees for now||The TTD has decided to postpone its decision to allow devotees to take part in various arjitha sevas performed inside the temple of Lord Venkateswara here. The TTD board during its last sitting in February had resolved to allow the devotees for arjitha sevas from April 14. The TTD’s latest decision has been taken in view of the spike in COVID-19 cases across the country. The resumption of sevas will be informed to devotees in advance once normalcy is restored, the TTD said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arjitha-sevas-on-hold/article34235646.ece
04 April 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||All retired priests to be back into TTD’s fold||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Friday issued orders restoring the positions of all retired archakas (priests) as held by them prior to their retirement in 2018. The judgment The orders are considered a sequel to the judgment pronounced by the A.P. High Court in December 2018 while dealing with a writ petition filed by the archakas. Speculations  Following the orders, speculations are rife that the orders will pave way for A.V. Ramana Deekshitulu to regain his lost position as the chief priest of the hill temple. It was in May 2018 that the TTD board unanimously passed a resolution retiring all the archakas who had attained the age of 65. Subsequently, several senior priests, including Ramana Deekshitulu, Narasimha Deekshitulu, Srinivasa Murthy Deekshitulu and Narayana Deekshitulu, belonging to erstwhile mirasidar families were forced to retire. To avoid any kind of controversy, TTD had then appointed four archakas from the same families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-retired-priests-to-be-back-into-ttds-fold/article34236038.ece
04 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Confront me, but spare the people, Pawan Kalyan tells YSRCP leaders||Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan has raised the “fear factor” among the people of the State, accusing the government of unleashing a reign of terror in various forms. Addressing an impressive public meeting after a thunderous roadshow here on Saturday, Mr. Pawan Kalyan accused the State of trying to infuse a sense of fear among the people to “continue its loot.” Viveka murder He also recalled the “sluggish probe” into the gruesome murder of former MP Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy, who is the paternal uncle of the Chief Minister, to show the “poor law and order situation” in the State. Appealing to the people to raise their voice against the “oppressive government,” Mr. Pawan Kalyan said it was time for the voters to show their might. “Fight back. You can break the shackles,” he said, amid a rousing cheer from the people. Accusing the government of backing “goonda and faction” elements in the Rayalaseema region, the JSP president lashed out at the YSRCP for “reducing the home of Sri Krishna Devaraya, Uyyalawada Narasimha Reddy, Annamacharya and Veerabrahmendra Swamy into a land of violent and ruffian elements.” On the spate of attacks by people owing allegiance to the YSRCP, he dared the ruling party leaders to confront him, but spare the common man. “Pawan Kalyan is ready for a direct confrontation with you, leave the people,” he said, and added that the State would witness a change in a new direction in the coming days. Explaining why the JSP had decided to give up its claim on the Tirupati seat in favour of the BJP, Mr. Pawan Kalyan said the Jana Sena had the conviction that only a national party could take forward development projects and, at the same time, tackle burning issues such as felling of redsanders trees in the Seshachalam forest, conversion attempts, sacrilege of idols etc. The BJP-JSP candidate, K. Ratna Prabha, tied a ‘rakhi’ to Mr. Pawan Kalyan and called him her “brother,” who would ensure her victory in the byelection. State co-in-charge Sunil Deodhar cheered up the audience by invoking Mr. Pawan Kalyan’s film titles such as ‘Vakeelsaab’ and ‘Gabbar Singh’. ‘Fake cases’ JSP political advisory committee (PAC) chief Nadendla Manohar flayed the ruling party for filing fake cases against Jana Sainiks. BJP State president Somu Veerraju spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/confront-me-but-spare-the-people-pawan-kalyan-tells-ysrcp-leaders/article34235648.ece
04 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘BJP, YSRCP cheated people on SCS’||TDP State president K. Atchannaidu has accused the YSRCP government and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy of cheating the people on the Special Category Status (SCS) issue. Participating in an election campaign along with former MLA M. Sugunamma, at Bommagunta here on Saturday, Mr. Atchannaidu said the YSRCP government had let the people down after promising to fight with the Centre on SCS issue. “With 22 members in Parliament, the YSRCP has not done anything to get SCS. The TDP MPs are doing everyday possible. It is time for the people to understand the need to strengthen the hands of the TDP in Parliament,” he added. He wondered how the BJP could promise SCS to Puducherry while denying the same to Andhra Pradesh. He also flayed the State for doing nothing to tame the skyrocketing prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-ysrcp-cheated-people-on-scs/article34236220.ece
04 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Spell out stand on Viveka murder probe’||Congress Working Committee (CWC) member and Tirupati Lok Sabha candidate Chinta Mohan on Satruday demanded that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy reveal his stand on the murder of his uncle and former Member of Parliament Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy. Dr. Mohan’s demand came a day after the former MP’s daughter Y.S. Sunitha met CBI officials in New Delhi and expressed doubts before the media. Speaking to the media during his election campaign, Dr. Mohan recalled Ms. Sunitha’s apprehensions on the inordinate delay in the probe. He also appealed to the Prime Minister to pay attention to the case. Hours before JSP chief Pawan Kalyan’s roadshow from M.R. Palle junction to Sankarambadi Sundarachari circle, Dr. Mohan planned his campaign in the same stretch. Dr. Mohan said he would consider Mr. Pawan Kalyan a serious contender only if he raised the shelved Dugarajapatnam port and Mannavaram plant issues with the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spell-out-stand-on-viveka-murder-probe/article34236216.ece
04 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Electric scrap destroyed in Gunadala sub-station fire||A fire broke out in the 33kV Town Feeder (electric sub-station) at Gunadala around noon on Saturday. Scrap and plastic material was gutted in the accident. District Fire Officer (DFO) M. Srinivas Reddy said plastic meter covers, electric scrap and grass in the sub-station were gutted. On receiving information, three fire tenders from Autonagar and Vijayawada rushed to the spot and extinguished flames. Reason not yet known The reason for the fire was not yet known immediately. Nobody was injured, the DFO said. In a press release, Vidyut Soudha (Transmission Corporation of AP) officials said the minor fire accident occurred due to shortcircuit caused by birds, and the damage was estimated at Rs. 30,000. The departmental officers acted swiftly and minimised the loss, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/electric-scrap-destroyed-in-gunadala-sub-station-fire/article34235736.ece
04 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stolen lorry with 580 bags of rice recovered in W.G. dist.||The Samisragudem police arrested four persons who allegedly drove away a rice-laden lorry parked at the Food Corporation of India (FCI) godown, located at Kata Koteswaram village in the West Godavari district on March 17. Disclosing this to the newsmen here on Saturday, Kovvur Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) B. Srinath said special teams had been formed with Nidadavole, Chagallu and Samisragudem police to detect the case. On a tip-off, a team arrested M. Satyanarayana, M. Raju, K. Anand Babu and Ch. Madhu Babu, natives of West Godavari district, at a rice mill on the outskirts of Samisragudem village on Saturday. Police recovered the lorry, 580 rice bags, Rs. 3.80 lakh cash, all valued about Rs.22.82 lakh, the DSP said. The accused would be produced in Nidadavole court, Mr. Srinath said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stolen-lorry-with-580-bags-of-rice-recovered/article34235737.ece
04 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teacher suspended for ‘misbehaving’ with student||A teacher in the Gutala Zilla Parishad High School, in Polavaram mandal of West Godavari district, was suspended on charges of behaving inappropriately with a student. Following a complaint from the parents, the Polavaram police took the mathematics teacher into custody, for allegedly misbehaving with a sixth standard student. The school headmaster submitted a report on the charges against the teacher. Based on the preliminary inquiry report, the teacher was placed under suspension on Saturday, said West Godavari District Education Officer C.V. Renuka. Probe ordered A detailed investigation has been ordered into the alleged misbehaviour of the teacher. “We will record the statements from other students on the behaviour of the teacher,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teacher-suspended-for-misbehaving-with-student/article34235738.ece
04 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP questions Jagan’s silence on Viveka murder case||Telugu Desam Party general secretary and polit bureau member Varla Ramaiah on Saturday said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy not reacting to the plea made by Sunitha, the daughter of his uncle Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy, on the delay in the investigation into her father’s murder, indicated that something was amiss. At a press conference, Mr. Ramaiah said Ms. Sunitha had held a press meet in nEW Delhi questioning the delay in bringing the culprits of her father’s murder to book. Alleging what he called the ‘palace secret of Pulivendula on March 15 of 2019’, the TDP leader said if busted, it would topple the Jagan government in the State. He claimed Ms. Sunitha’s questions were clearly pointed at the Chief Minister. Boycott of polls Mr. Ramaiah alleged that the ruling party leaders, in connivance with the police, were resorting to indiscriminate rigging in polls. “What is the purpose of participating in such a farcical exercise?” he asked. He said both media and people of this State know that the ruling party leaders used pressure tactics to have their way in the recent elections. Nominations The Opposition party leaders were not allowed to file nominations, they were threatened and attacked, he alleged. Pointing to the high number of ‘unanimous elections’, Mr. Ramaiah alleged that they were all forced ones. He said using brute force, the YSR Congress Party had reduced the election process to mere farce and the TDP did not want to be part of it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-questions-jagans-silence-on-viveka-murder-case/article34236225.ece
04 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Don’t yield to pressure, Lokesh tells sarpanches||TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh on Saturday asked the newly-elected sarpanches not to yield to the pressure tactics of the ruling party, and instead work fearlessly with dedication. In a statement, Mr. Lokesh said the sarpanches and ward members had earned their posts by fighting elections against all odds and, therefore, should work without any fear or prejudice. Extended his greetings to the sarpanches and ward members who took the oath of office, he said the victory secured after facing threats by the ruling party leaders and cadres was precious, and they should protect the sanctity of their posts. ‘Fight against G.O. 2’ He said the sarpanches should continue their fight against the G.O. No. 2 that was brought “illegally by the YSRCP government to negate their powers and responsibilities.” “There is no need for anybody to succumb to the threats of the ruling party leaders. The 73rd and the 74th amendments to the Constitution give immense powers to the sarpanches to develop the local bodies,” he said. Mr. Lokesh said the sarpanches should focus on optimum utilisation of Central funds that would directly come to the panchayats without the role of any intermediaries. “The Constitution has guaranteed these powers. The Chief Minister has no faith in the local self-government, which reflects in the G.O. 2,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-yield-to-pressure-lokesh-tells-sarpanches/article34236223.ece
04 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panel to develop State into global IT hub||The government has constituted a Consultative Committee for Information Technology and Electronics Industry (CCITEI) for implementation of various policies and specific issues related to IT, ITeS, Electronics and Start-Up companies. A G.O. issued to this effect said the committee would strive to develop the State into an innovation society of global repute, with a focus on enhancing the quality of life of its citizens, through high-quality education and healthcare, increased productivity in industry and its allied activities, creation of employment by promoting Electronics and IT. The government would soon announce its investment promotion policy for the IT and Electronics System Design & Manufacturing (ESDM) industry. Incentives These policies may spell out certain incentives and also place certain responsibilities on the industry. What was CCITI in the past has been renamed and re-constituted as CCITEI to ensure speedy realisation of the goals to be set in the policy and to facilitate coordination between various functionaries of the government on the one hand and the representatives of the Industry on the other. Members The committee comprises the Principal Secretary, IT and Electronics and Communications Department, as its Chairman, the Joint Director, IT Promotions, as Convener and 15 members representing various other allied departments. The committee will grant various incentives and land allotments available in the State’s IT and Electronics policies within the stipulated period to the industry after examining their applications. It will resolve the problems arising in the implementation of the policies and prescribe the procedures and issue guidelines for effective implementation of the policies. The CCITEI will be authorised to recommend, approve, reject or defer any application for incentives or land allotment at its sole discretion, but the it will have to process the old incentive applications as per the earlier policies until the new policies and guidelines are issued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panel-to-develop-state-into-global-it-hub/article34236226.ece
04 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||DSP, RDO visit counting centres||Eluru Deputy Superintendent of Police O. Dileep Kiran and Revenue Divisional Officer P. Rachana visited the strong rooms and the counting centres of ZPTC elections at C.R. Reddy Engineering College, in Eluru on Saturday. The police and the revenue officials enquired about the security and the facilities for the counting staff at the counting centres in the college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dsp-rdo-visit-counting-centres/article34235735.ece
04 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SRM-AP faculty awarded research projects||Two of the faculty members of SRM University-AP have been awarded research grants by the National Supercomputing Mission (NSM), supported by the Department of Science and Technology (DST). Grant received In a statement on Saturday, the university authorities said the duo, Ranjit Thapa, Professor of Physics, and Mahesh Kumar Ravva, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, have received the first year grants of Rs. 28 lakh and Rs. 19.92 lakh respectively to work on their projects. Prof. Thapa’s project titled ‘Catalysts for CO2 Reduction to C2 Product: Descriptor to Database’, is about searching the best catalyst to convert CO2 into useful product and thus solve the problem of climate change due to large-scale production of CO2, through different sources. Prof. Thapa believes that metal nano catalyst on support materials can solve the problem and increase the efficiency of CO2. The task is to find the suitable composition, shape and size of metal nanoparticle (MNP) on an appropriate surface for the catalytic reactions. Mr. Ravva’s project aims at understanding the critical factors that influence the performance of organic solar cells. Using the supercomputer, his research group will model the electronic process that occurs during solar cell operation. The outcome of this project will guide experimentalists to develop organic solar cells with higher efficiency. Organic solar cells are flexible, lightweight and low-cost and have many exciting applications in wearable electronic devices, smart windows etc. The university Vice-Chancellor V.S. Rao and Pro Vice-Chancellor D. Narayana Rao said the institution would provide the necessary support and facilities to carry out the research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srm-ap-faculty-awarded-research-projects/article34236277.ece
04 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VPT grosses up 69.84 million tonnes in 2020-21||The Visakhapatnam Port Trust grossed up 69.84 million tonnes for the fiscal 2020-21, which is about 4% less than that of the previous year’s 72.72 million tonnes. Of the 69.84 MT, about 38.73 MT were imports and 30.08 MT were export cargoes. The remaining was under transhipment, as year the closed. Addressing the annual press conference here on Saturday, the Chairman of VPT, K. Rama Mohana Rao, said that despite COVID-19 pandemic hitting the all-round trade, the port was able to come close to its target and was successful in keeping its third position among major ports intact for the second successive year. This was also the third highest annual cargo throughput achieved by VPT since its inception. Speaking to The Hindu about the shortfall of 4% over the previous year, he said that due to the Union government’s policy of discouraging import of steam coal to encourage local mines, the steam coal import had dropped by about 27% and thermal coal imports dropped by 15%. “In 2019-20, we imported about 9.27 MT of steam coal and 0.82 MT of thermal coal, but this year it dropped to 5.07 MT and 0.70 MT, respectively,” said Mr. Rama Mohana Rao. But we could make up the shortfall by increasing exports of iron ore, pellets and other iron products by 31% and other cargoes such as rice, sugar and maize by 22%. According to him, though the drop at other major ports was over 7%, in VPT it was around 4%, which he attributed to aggressive marketing. He also said that the average waiting time of a ship was brought down to 1.15 hours from 1.22 hours in the previous year. VPT also grossed up an operating surplus of Rs. 698 crore and net surplus before tax of Rs. 306 crore. The draft at the berths has been increased to accommodate bigger vessels and even permissible length of the vessels has been increased in a few berths and at the container terminal. “We also signed about 27 MoUs worth around Rs. 28,875 crore and ongoing projects are on schedule,” he said. Sagarmala project Speaking about projects under Sagarmala, he said that a grade separator worth Rs. 60 crore has already been installed and a flyover from Seahorse Junction to Naval Dockyard worth Rs. 250 crores has been finalised. This apart, a four-lane road from VCTPL to Convent Junction with a project cost of around Rs. 160 crore and converting the existing four-lane from Convent Junction to Sheelanagar to eight-lane, worth Rs. 40 crore, were part of the project. This apart, modernisation of WQ 7 and 8 and EQ 7, at a cost of Rs. 450 crore is part of VPT’s modernisation plan. The berths will be modernised in PPP mode on BOT basis and negotiations are on, said Mr. Rama Mohana Rao. The Chairman pointed out that VPT aims to increase the throughput by 10 MT in 2021-22 by focussing on other cargoes and containers. “We propose to increase the container movement from 5 lakh TEU per annum to 10 lakh and with the expansion of HPCL the crude imports are expected to go up from 8 MT to 15. Pollution To check pollution, VPT is investing about Rs. 40 crore on covered sheds and the target is to cover at least 90% of the loading and the unloading facility. It intends to plant about 1 lakh saplings and trees in the port area and set up mechanised cleaning and spraying system, in the cargo hold areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vpt-grosses-up-6984-million-tonnes-in-2020-21/article34236229.ece
04 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain, gale batter city||Heavy rains accompanied by high-speed gales lashed the city, on Saturday night. Wind speed reached to such a level that the residents remembered the destruction caused by extremely severe cyclonic storm Hudhud that hit the city in October 2014. Heavy rain brought the city to a standstill for about 40 minutes, as people on the road had to run for the nearest shelter and drivers were forced to stop their vehicles on the side of the road. A few avenues trees were uprooted and hoardings were blown off. APEPDCL lines snapped at a few places and the discom had to switch off power to avoid any untoward incidents. At a few areas, there were issues with mobile network. Both GVMC and APEPDCL emergency teams rushed out to assess the damage. “It is too early to assess damage, as it was sudden and we have to cover the affected areas,” said a senior officer from the Discom. A few low-lying areas were flooded, but the water receded quickly. The rain and gale were for a brief period, but they were heavy and that is why some areas, including Beach Road, got flooded. Sudden gales, accompanied by sharp showers, also brought down the mercury levels in the city and gave relief to the citizens, who have been bearing the sweltering summer heat during the past few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-rain-gale-batter-city/article34236290.ece
04 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spike in COVID cases continues||The Visakhapatnam district reported 198 new COVID-19 infections, in the last 24 hours as on Saturday morning. The district has reported the second highest day tally after Guntur (273) in the last 24 hours, according to the State bulletin. Consecutively for the fifth day, the day tally has crossed the 150-mark. The average number of cases being reported every day, since the last one week is about 170. Meanwhile, for the third day in a row, the district reported a death, taking the death toll to 549 by Saturday morning. The number of active cases has crossed the 1,500-mark, after almost five months and stands at 1,542. As many as 108 persons recovered in the last 24 hours taking the total recoveries to 60,785. Refuting the rumours that four of a family in Paderu tested positive on Saturday, District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) P. Suryanarayana said that the department has not received any information. “There are no cases from the Agency area. Even in the rural parts, a few cases were reported from some semi-urban places like Munagapaka, Tumpala in Anakapalle and Atchutapuram. However, the situation is under control. Almost all the cases are reported only from the city,” the DMHO said. Fine imposed The city police have imposed fines amounting to Rs. 50.55 lakh against as many as 31,248 persons for not wearing masks at public places here. The police have started a special drive from March 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spike-in-covid-cases-continues/article34236285.ece
04 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||House burgled, gold, cash stolen||Unidentified miscreants broke into a locked house and fled away with valuables at Sai Nagar in Kasimkota mandal in the district. The incident came to light after the inmates of the house lodged a complaint with the police on Saturday. According to the police, the inmates of the house had gone to Kakinada on March 26 and returned on Saturday morning. They found that their house was burgled. According to the complainants, 13.5 tolas of gold ornaments and Rs. 3 lakh were stolen. The CLUES team visited the spot. The police registered a a case and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/house-burgled-gold-cash-stolen/article34236283.ece
04 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector promises to address problems of steel plant displaced||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has assured to address the issue of rehabilitation cards of a few persons who were displaced during the setting up of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, here on Saturday. Addressing the affected persons, he said that he will take up the issue with the Chairman and Managing Director of the VSP. “We shall discuss with the CMD to find out the present status and how many people are yet to get the R-cards and employment and see that justice is done to them,” Mr. Vinay Chand said. He said that two villages have some issues pertaining to rehabilitation package and this also will be taken up with CMD and the authorities concerned in the State government. “On continuation of the Special Deputy Collector (VSP), he said that VSP had requested to wind up the post, but after consideration, we have decided to ask them for extension,” he said. “The post was created as a special unit to oversee the entire resettlement and rehabilitation (RR) process and since still some things are yet to be settled, we have asked for an extension. Based on their response, we shall take the appropriate step,” said the District Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-promises-to-address-problems-of-steel-plant-displaced/article34236288.ece
04 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cruise terminal project awaits CRZ panel nod||The much talked of cruise terminal project in the city is awaiting clearance from the State government’s CRZ committee. Once it is approved, it will go to the MoEF for approval and once cleared, the construction of the project will begin, said Chairman of VPT K. Rama Mohana Rao. Speaking to The Hindu here on Saturday, he said that the cost of the project is being shared equally by the Ministry of Tourism and Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways. The total cost of the project is around Rs. 1.3 crore and once the clearances are obtained it will be completed in about 18 months, he said. If things fall in place, the project is likely to be completed by the end of 2022, as out of the sanctioned Rs. 103 crore already about Rs. 70 crore has been released. Giving details of the project, he said that the berth will be near the Vedanta berth and will be having a draft of at least 6.5 metre to 8.5 metre, to accommodate cruise ships varying from 50,000 gross tonnage to 1 lakh GT or Panamax size. The berth will be about 330 mt long with a beam of 28 to 36 mt and will have sufficient space to accommodate cruise liners carrying around 2,000 to 2,500 passengers. According to Mr. Rama Mohana Rao, in India only a few ports such as Kochi and Goa have cruise terminals and once it comes up in Visakhapatnam, the tourism potential would grow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cruise-terminal-project-awaits-crz-panel-nod/article34236241.ece
04 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Conduct ZPTC, MPTC polls without any hitches’||District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that Mandal Parishad Development Officers (MPDOs), Tehsildars, Mandal Special Officers and returning officers should team up and coordinate with one another and conduct the MPTC and ZPTC elections without any irregularities. He was speaking to the polling staff in a training programme organised ahead of the elections at VMRDA Children’s Arena here on Saturday. Mr. Vinay Chand said that the polling will be held from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m on April 8. On April 10, counting should begin at 8 a.m. Briefing about the arrangements, he instructed the officials to arrange CCTV cameras inside counting halls and outside strongrooms. The Collector had asked them to study the rules and regulations and take up the duties with responsibility. He said that Special Officers were appointed for the smooth conduct of the elections and address issues on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/conduct-zptc-mptc-polls-without-any-hitches/article34236282.ece
04 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 100 cr. sanctioned for modernisation of fishing harbour: VPT chief||The proposed modernisation of the fishing harbour is on course and the Union government has already sanctioned Rs. 100 crore for it. The Union government has also assured to scale up the sanction to Rs. 150 crore, if the modernisation proves profitable to the fishing community and value is added to the existing facility, said Visakhapatnam Port Trust Chairman K. Rama Mohana Rao. Speaking to The Hindu here on Saturday, he said that the idea is to develop the fishing community and the focus is on giving the right infrastructure that would develop them. Apart from taking up repairs at the existing harbour, as part of the project the VPT would modernise the loading and the unloading facility, construct an auction hall for fish sale, develop a finger jetty if possible, a resting hall with all facilities for the crew and set up proper drainage and water facility. But the important part will be to develop a state-of-the-art cold storage facility with a fish processing centre. The VPT Chairman said that efforts are on to check the feasibility of building a floating jetty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-100-cr-sanctioned-for-modernisation-of-fishing-harbour-vpt-chief/article34236293.ece
04 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMRDA Commissioner inspects NAD flyover works||Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) Commissioner P. Koteswara Rao inspected the ongoing works at the NAD flyover here on Saturday. He directed the officials to arrange glow-sigh boards at the flyover immediately to prevent accidents. The Commissioner asked the officials to take up beautification works, including mural arts. He later inspected the ongoing road works of VMRDA at Sontyam village. Chief Engineer K. Rammohan Rao and a few others accompanied him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vmrda-commissioner-inspects-nad-flyover-works/article34236287.ece
04 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police aid for kin of deceased former Maoist||The district police extended financial support to family members of a surrendered Maoist, who died due to health issues, in Visakhapatnam district on Saturday. S. Rajababu, a resident of Kommangi panchayat, Chintapalle mandal, was a former Maoist. He had been leading a peaceful life with family working at a checkpost at Rajam village in Butchayyapea mandal. After suffering from some health problems, Rajababu died while undergoing treatment at KGH on April 2. SP B. Krishna Rao sent Rs. 20,000 to the bereaved family. Chintapalle CI T. Srinu handed over the money to the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-aid-for-kin-of-deceased-former-maoist/article34236292.ece
04 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Speed up land acquisition works, officials told||Principal Secretary (Roads & Buildings) M.T. Krishna Babu conducted a review meet on land acquisition relating to roads in the district here on Saturday. He asked officials to speed up acquisition works and instructed the Deputy Collectors to identify boundaries of those lands which were already acquired.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/speed-up-land-acquisition-works-officials-told/article34236286.ece
04 April 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make Vizianagaram COVID-free: MLA||Vizianagaram MLA Kolagatla Veerabhadra Swamy on Saturday urged people aged above 45 to take the COVID vaccine shot immediately to protect themselves from severe complications in the event of their contracting the infection. After flagging off a rally organised by ‘Forum for Better Vizianagaram’ and several other charitable organisations, Mr. Veerabhadra Swamy urged people to make Vizianagaram COVID-free, and to raise awareness on the importance of following protocols diligently, as it is the only way to curb the spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/make-vizianagaram-covid-free-mla/article34236240.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||All excited!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-excited/article34236280.ece
04 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State crosses 1,000 COVID mark again||Telangana crossed the 1,000 COVID-19 cases mark with 1,078 people testing positive on Friday. Over 1,000 cases were last detected on November 18, last year. Along with the cases, the number of ICU beds occupied by COVID patients also crossed 1,000. The number of fatalities due to the virus also shot up. While five persons died on Thursday, the highest on a single day since November 19, 2020, six patients died on Friday. The last time six patients died was 150 days ago, on November 8. ICU bed occupancy The number of ICU beds occupied by COVID patients is considered an important parameter to understand the severity of the pandemic. The ICU beds’ occupancy was only around 350-370 from March 1-14, and gradually increased thereafter to 1,081 on Friday. Over 1,000 ICU beds were last occupied on October fourth week. Patients with severe COVID symptoms who opted private hospitals are more than the occupancy in government hospitals. Of the 1,081 ICU beds occupied on Friday, 256 were at government hospitals and 825 at private hospitals. The new 1,078 cases include 283 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 113 from Medchal-Malkajgiri and 104 from Rangareddy. While there were 75 cases from Nizamabad, 46 from Sangareddy, 40 each from Nirmal and Jagtial, 33 from Nalgonda, 34 from Karimnagar, 27 from Warangal Urban, and 25 from Adilabad, the lowest of one case is from Mulugu, and two from Kumaram Bheem Asifabad. From March 2, 2020, to April 2 this year, 1,03,29,954 samples were examined and 3,10,819 have recovered. Of the total cases, 6,900 were active cases, 3,02,207 have recovered, and 1,712 died. The active cases have increased from around 1,900-2,000 on a day from February to March 14, to 6,900 on Friday, which is an increase of around 250%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-crosses-1000-covid-mark-again/article34236018.ece
04 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AI to aid cotton ryots in 2,800 villages||Farmers in 2,800 villages across six districts in Telangana who raise cotton crop during the next kharif (vanakalam) season would have the help of information technology to predict the bollworm and other devastating pest infestations and take immediate measures to prevent crop damage to a large extent and improve income along wit the quality of the produce. All this, deployment of traps and lures along with a mobile application developed by Wadhwani AI, would be provided free of cost to farmers as part of an agreement between the Agriculture Department and Wadhwani Institute for Artificial Intelligence (Wadhwani AI). While the Wadhwani AI would provide their solution (mobile app) free of cost to the State, the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology would procure and deploy the traps and lures free of cost. According to Principal Secretary (Agriculture) B. Janardhan Reddy, the Wadhwani AI already has MoU existing with the Department of IT, Electronics & Communication (ITEC) to facilitate AI-based solutions and with Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) to help with agri science research, monitoring and deployment. ‘Third largest crop’ “Cotton is the third largest crop cultivated in India after paddy and wheat with 75% of it grown by small landholding farmers who struggle with uncertainty in yield and income. One of the critical challenges they face is the inability to manage pests despite heavy use of pesticides”, Mr. Reddy said. Wadhwani AI has developed an AI solution that would equip smallholder cotton farmers with the scientific knowledge of an agriculture expert with the help of a simple smart phone. The solution, delivered via the mobile app, would provide real-time localised advisory and surveillance. It would enable farmers to detect pest infestations early and take correct and immediate action to avoid crop damage and would improve their income with improved quality of produce. “The solution is based on the scientific concept of action thresholds and is able to predict pink and American bollworm infestation with an accuracy of over 90%,” the Principal Secretary, who is also officiating as the Agriculture Commissioner, said. In 2020 kharif, the solution was deployed by 700 lead farmers and 17,000 cascade farmers in Telangana, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Gujarat through agricultural programmes managed by top better cotton initiative partners. The Wadhwani AI worked in 150 villages in Adilabad and Rangareddy districts collectively with 7,000 cascade farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ai-to-aid-cotton-farmers-in-2800-villages/article34235773.ece
04 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Amrabad incident assumes political colour||The incident of alleged attack on tribals by the Forest Department personnel in Amrabad Tiger Reserve is assuming political significance in view of the by-elections to Nagarjunasagar constituency. With considerable tribal population in the constituency and the BJP candidate P. Ravi Kumar Naik representing the Banjara/Lambada tribe, it is no wonder that BJP leader Vijayashanti spewed fire against the State government for the “attack”. CPI State secretary Chada Venkat Reddy too jumped the bandwagon, and condemned the “attack on Chenchus”, and spoke for their right to collect forest produce. However, contrary to Mr. Venkat Reddy’s assertion, the tribals alleging attack by forest officials belonged to Banjara community and not Chenchu. The incident is perceived as having strength enough to unite the entire community against the ruling party. According to tribals’ version making rounds, the forest officials accosted a group of Banjara men and women venturing into the forest for collection of Mahua flower, and thrashed them severely. Four tribals who were reportedly injured in the attack, were admitted in the hospital, and an enquiry has been ordered into the incident. Meanwhile, Forest Department officials have unofficially released two video clips, the first of which showed women from the tribal group being questioned by the foresters. The second clip is that of a large group of tribals attacking forest officials and staff. As per the Forest Divisional Officer, Amrabad, Rohith Gopidi, on the intervening night between March 26 and 27, four members of the Quick Response Team and a driver, led by a section officer, went deep inside the forest after receiving a report about fire at about 1 a.m. “They found close to 30 persons, men and women, camping inside for the past two days, as per their own admission. The surroundings were totally burnt in an effort to collect Mahua. Our staff rounded them up and brought them to the base camp, during which three men escaped and ran downhill,” Mr.Rohith narrated. The three men too were later brought to the base camp, and it was revealed that they were from Chenchu Palugu Tanda of Achhampet mandal, 40 kilometres from the camp location. Meanwhile, alerted by news of their people being in foresters’ custody, a large group of persons reportedly arrived at the base camp, armed with sticks. As soon as the Quick Response Team arrived, they beat the officials and forest watchers mercilessly, Mr.Rohith said. The officials came to know of the incident very late, as the forest section officer who was from the Chenchu tribe was shocked by the incident, and reportedly switched off his mobile phone. “They were not local tribals, and staying in deep forest at that hour could prove to be very dangerous, as the area is frequented by tigers and bears. We have increased vigilance after a recent incident wherein three tribals died in the fire they created for collection of Nannari roots,” Mr.Rohith said. Death of the three Chenchu tribesmen earlier in March created no political furore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/amrabad-incident-assumes-political-colour/article34236040.ece
04 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Monitoring of power load goes up||As the consumption of energy is rising along with temperature this summer, power utilities have stepped up monitoring of load conditions in their installations as part of ensuring uninterrupted supply to all categories of consumers. Instructions have been issued to field officers for continuous monitoring of load on power transformers (in the sub-stations), 33 KV feeders and to maintain at least 2% rolling stock of distribution transformers and, mobile distribution transformers, which are deployed as makeshift arrangement till the damaged/burnt (stationary) DTRs are replaced, and fire extinguishers to handle any electrical emergency. Peak load of 13,688 megawatt (MW) on the transmission system in the State to date was clocked on March 26 and the highest consumption of energy at 282.73 million units (MU) was recorded on April 2. According to officials, the peak load on the system was below 13,000 MW only on three days in March and the daily consumption of energy was between 259.36 MU and 281.46 MU during the month. Chairman and Managing Director of Southern Discom G. Raghuma Reddy instructed engineers at all levels in the utility to monitor supply position from their respective sub-stations during peak hours up to 9 pm every day till the completion of summer. He stated that the maximum power consumption in Greater Hyderabad was 49.56 MU on June 2, 2014, and 119.6 MU in Southern Discom on April 3, 2014. The highest consumption in the discom areas was 180.5 MU on March 26 this year and in Greater Hyderabad it was 73.84 MU on May 29, 2019. The consumption was expected to cross 80 MU and 185 MU in Greater Hyderabad and Southern Discom, respectively. In a video conference held with all chief general managers and superintending engineers of the discom along with Director (Operations) J. Srinivasa Reddy, the CMD stated that 56 power transformers, 1,725 DTRs and 11 sub-stations of 33/11 KV capacity were added to the distribution system to meet additional demand this season. Maintenance works such as power evacuation at 75 feeders of 33 KV capacity, interlinking of 24 feeders of the same capacity, refurbishment of breakers, clearing of tree branches obstructing the power lines and load balancing of power transformers were also completed. In case of any power supply/voltage problems, consumers may lodge complaints on phone numbers 1912/100, TSSPDCL website and mobile app, Twitter and Facebook.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/monitoring-of-power-installations-goes-up/article34236027.ece
04 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Jana’s win in Sagar bypoll a historic need: Congress||Congress campaigning in Nagarjunasagar on Saturday revolved around how important it was for the State and its future to ensure the election of Mr. Jana Reddy and the death of Sunil Naik, who passed away after attempting suicide in protest against delayed issue of job notifications. Senior leaders, including party candidate K. Jana Reddy; TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, former ministers Shabbir Ali and Damodar Reddy and former Youth Congress president Anil Kumar Yadav were among those who addressed meetings at a few places. Mr. Uttam Reddy said Mr. Jana Reddy’s win was a historic need for the State to keep the TRS leadership in check apart from acknowledging the contribution of Mr. Jana Reddy to the constituency and the State. He was addressing a public meeting in Thummadam village of Nidamanoor mandal on Saturday. The leaders also recalled the crucial role played by Jana Reddy in the formation of Telangana. They said Jana Reddy had been offered the post of Chief Minister in undivided Andhra Pradesh but he had not only refused the offer but also pressured the Congress-led UPA government to grant statehood for Telangana. He was instrumental in the formation of the Joint Action Committee and kept it non-political so as to involve all sections of society in the statehood agitation. “Without Jana Reddy's role, we cannot imagine JAC or even the formation of Telangana,” they said. Former Minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir accused Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of ruining the lives and careers of lakhs of jobless youngsters in the State. The suicide of unemployed youth Sunil Naik was due to the wrong policies of the TRS government, he said, adding that the government had pushed jobless youth into depression, some of them forced to resort to the extreme step. He said Congress president and UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi had granted statehood for Telangana as she wanted to stop the youth from taking their own lives. However, he said, CM KCR had encroached upon all the resources of Telangana and started treating the State as his personal 'jagir'. The former minister said it was laughable that leaders like Home Minister Mahmood Ali, who had never contested or won a councillor election, were questioning Jana Reddy on development. “It is not a joke to get re-elected from a constituency for seven terms.” Mr Shabbir Ali said the TRS Ministers and leaders campaigning in Nagarjunasagar by-elections should not ask questions, but they should come with answers like the deadline by which the TRS government would fill all 1.91 lakh vacancies in government departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/janas-win-in-sagar-bypoll-a-historic-need-congress/article34236034.ece
04 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Burglar arrested, gold and silver worth Rs. 32L recovered||The sleuths of the Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (South Zone) along with Siddipet police apprehended a notorious house burglar on Saturday. Md. Saddam Ali alias Imran committed the offences in Siddipet, Guntur and Warangal commissionerates. Police recovered 61.7 tolas of gold ornaments and 1.10 kg silver ornaments worth Rs. 32 lakh from his possession. The 23-year-old accused is a native of Boduppal and was involved in 53 burglaries in Telangana. He along with his associate Pothu Raju alias Raju from Malkajgiri started committing the offences at Malkajgiri and were sent to jail in 2015. But, even after being released, he continued to commit the crime, police said on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/burglar-held-gold-silver-worth-rs-32l-recovered/article34236021.ece
04 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Prepare draft plan to develop ULBs in RR, Medchal: CS||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has asked officials of municipal administration to prepare the status of municipalities and corporations in Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri districts for their integrated development as instructed by the Chief Minister. He sought the status of the municipalities in the two districts in terms of their infrastructure and amenities such as drinking water, sewage, roads, dumping yards, integrated veg and non-veg markets, power supply infrastructure, police stations and others. In a teleconference held with heads of departments on Saturday, he told them to prepare requirements keeping in view the future growth in all the 29 municipalities falling in the two districts. He asked them to keep focus on developing infrastructure like roads, drinking water, drainage, sewerage, nalas, lakes, parks, basthi dawakhanas, vaikunta dhamams, construction of integrated veg and non-veg markets and other basic amenities, while preparing the plan. He told Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri Collectors to identify government lands, buildings for taking up infrastructure. He asked the Police Commissioners of Cyberabad and Rachakonda to prepare an action plan for establishing new police stations keeping in view the growth in future. Principal Secretary (MA&UD) Arvind Kumar , Managing Director of HMWSSB M. Dana Kishore, Secretary (Health) S.A.M. Rizvi, Commissioner and Director of MA&UD N. Satyanarayana, Collectors Shweta Mohanty (Hyderabad) and D. Amoy Kumar (Rangareddy), CMD of Souther Discom G. Raghuma Reddy, Commissioners of Police V. C. Sajjanar (Cyberabad) and Mahesh M. Bhagwat (Rachakonda) participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/prepare-draft-plan-for-ulbs/article34236028.ece
04 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR on inauguration spree in Sircilla||Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao went on an inauguration spree in Mustabad and Yellareddypet mandals of Sircilla district on Saturday, travelling to half a dozen villages. He inaugurated 65 double bedroom houses constructed at a cost of Rs. 3.27 crore and a petrol bunk set up by a primary agriculture cooperative society at Mohinikunta village, farmers’ platforms (Rytu Vedika) at Maddikunta, Cheekodu, Mustabad and Avunuru and gram panchayat office at Cheekodu village. He also inaugurated a community hall and a crematorium at Haridasnagar in Yellareddy mandal. Addressing public meetings, Mr. Rao said the previous Congress government had spent only Rs. 75,000 for construction of houses for the poor. But, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) spent Rs. 5 lakh on each double bedroom house with the aim to provide a decent living for beneficiaries. He recalled that neither development nor extension of welfare programmes for the poor did not stop anywhere in the State due to financial crisis on account of COVID 19. Zilla parishad chairperson N. Aruna, Telangana State Cooperative Apex Bank chairman K. Ravinder Rao and Sircilla District Collector D. Krishna Bhaskar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-on-inauguration-spree/article34236030.ece
04 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Be ready, says Eatala||The rising number of COVID cases has made the Health department resume regular meetings to review the threat from the infectious disease and chart plans for containment and treatment. Health Minister Eatala Rajender held another round of review meetings on Saturday to take stock of the situation. 108 ambulances Apart from a few new measures, some crucial steps that were implemented last year during the pandemic were reactivated such as providing space for isolation at municipality isolation centres in all districts, and allotting 32 ‘108 ambulances’ to GHMC limits to shift patients to hospitals. Doctors and health teams would be available round-the-clock at isolation centres to monitor the health of patients. Mr. Rajender said that these centres would be opened soon. Also, the call centre that provided suggestions to COVID patients under home isolation would be reactivated. Contact tracing The Health department would adopt a new method to trace the contacts of COVID-19 patients. They would use a mobile application through which an SMS would be sent to the contacts of a person who tested positive, urging them to undergo a test. However, it was not clear on how the department would get the phone number of the contacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/be-ready-says-eatala/article34236020.ece
04 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Amazon ordered to make refund, pay compensation to consumer||A consumer, who ordered a mixer-grinder online through Amazon.in but did not receive it, was in for a relief after a district consumer commission directed the e-commerce platform to refund the cost of the home appliance, and pay a compensation of Rs. 10,000. The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Hyderabad -II was dealing with a complaint filed by Dilip Kumar Das (50), a resident of B.S. Makta in Somajiguda. The opposite party was The Manager, Amazon, Brigade Gateway in Bengaluru. The complainant stated that he had ordered the home appliance priced at Rs. 3,499 on September 7, 2019, and messages received stated that it was scheduled to be delivered on September 12, 2019. The cost of the home appliance was converted to 12 monthly instalments. The complainant stated that the mixer-grinder was not delivered after which lodged a complaint with the company. On September 24, 2019, he wrote an e-mail to Amazon.in, claiming that the home appliance was delivered to another person, and demanded that it be sent to his address at the earliest. For their part, the opposite parties denied all allegations. They maintained that the home appliance was delivered to the complainant and it was confirmed when an investigation team deputed by them visited Mr Das’s house. They also denied receiving the e-mail. Taking the evidence and arguments placed on record, the commission bench comprising president Vakkanti Narasimha Rao and member P.V.T.R. Jawahar Babu noted that while the opposite parties in their written version stated that the item was delivered, they did not file ‘any proof to that effect’. Further, the opposite parties did not file a report of the investigation, or evidence from the investigation, the commission observed. “In this case, the opposite party did not file any evidence to show that the item was delivered to the complainant. In the absence of any such proof, the grievance of the complainant cannot be thrown out,” the commission stated. While ordering a refund of the mixer-grinder, the commission directed that compensation of Rs. 10,000 and costs of Rs. 5,000 be paid. The time for compliance was set at 45 days.  The opposite party did not file any evidence to show that the item was delivered to the complainant. In the absence of any such proof, the grievance of the complainant cannot be thrown out. District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Hyderabad -II||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/amazon-ordered-to-make-refund-pay-compensation-to-consumer/article34235775.ece
04 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||2,049 tipplers caught in Hyderabad in March||Hyderabad traffic police booked 2,049 tippler drivers in March alone in their effort to ensure road safety by holding frequent drunk driving checks. Police said that 1,917 chargesheets were filed against those caught and were produced in 3rd and 4th Metropolitan Magistrate Courts, Nampally, and the courts awarded imprisonment to 58 persons. A fine of Rs. 1,99,56,300 was imposed on the remaining 1,859 persons, caught driving under the influence of alcohol. “All the violators sentenced for imprisonment were sent to Chanchalguda jail and the remaining 132 will be produced in court after filing chargesheets against them,” Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Anil Kumar said. Persons convicted of drunken driving and other traffic violations might face difficulties in getting government jobs, passport and visa clearance, he said. “The violators were counselled at TTI, Goshamahal and Begumpet. The drive against drunken driving and other violations will continue for the safety of commuters,” Mr. Kumar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2049-tipplers-caught-in-hyderabad-in-march/article34236246.ece
04 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Youth held for cheating in the name of actor||Cyberabad Cyber Crimes police on Saturday arrested a youngster for allegedly cheating a person by uploading his phone number on Twitter as the FXTD advisor of Sonu Sood Corporation offering financial help to the needy. Ashish Kumar Singh (23) defrauded the complainant for Rs. 60,000 in the guise of processing, and registration fees. On March 3, the complainant approached police stating that when he came to know that actor Sonu Sood was helping the poor, he searched for the actor’s corporation number on Google and found a number. The caller identified himself as Pankaj Singh Bhadauria and the victim asked him for a financial help of Rs. 10,000. “The fraudster asked for his personal details and assured help. After a few days, he was informed that Mr. Sood inquired about his family and agreed to give Rs. 50,000. The caller asked him to pay Rs. 8,300 for registration,” police said. Later, the accused informed the person that the financial aid was increased to Rs. 3.60 lakh and asked him to pay for various formalities. “Believing the fraudster, the victim paid Rs. 60,000 before he realised that he was cheated,” police added. Based on his complaint, Ashish of Muzaffarpur, Bihar, was arrested and remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-held-for-duping-in-actors-name/article34236022.ece
04 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Six airstrips in State mooted||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday brought to the notice of Civil Aviation Secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola the decision of the State government to set up six airstrips at Mamnoor in Warangal district, Basantnagar in Peddapalli district, Adilabad town, Palvancha in Kothagudem district, Jakranpalli in Nizamabad district and Devarakadra in Mahabubnagar. Mr. Kharola paid a courtesy call on Mr. Rao at his camp office. Mr. Rao requested Mr. Kharola to take steps to expedite the process. The latter promised to make efforts for the same, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/six-airstrips-mooted-in-state/article34236031.ece
04 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||41 remain in fray||After the withdrawal of nominations ended on Saturday for the Nagarjunasagar bypoll, 41 candidates remained in the fray with 19 candidates withdrawing their nominations out of the total 72 who filed. The election will be held on April 17 with Congress candidate and seven-time MLA, K. Jana Reddy, TRS candidate Nomula Bhagat and BJP candidate Ravi Kumar Naik testing their luck. The TRS is desperate to retain the seat to further strengthen its political control over the State while the opposition parties are leaving no stone unturned. The entry of Mr. Jana Reddy has made the contest interesting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/41-in-fray/article34236035.ece
04 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Numismatist has Easter coins in plenty||We have heard of Easter eggs and Easter bunnies but Easter coins? Coins shaped like eggs and encrusted with semi-precious stones? Well. “The tiny country of Niue issued the egg-shaped coins. I acquired them when I visited Singapore in 2018. I have a collection of 25,000 coins. When I am fed up with some coins, I auction them off,” M. Damodhar Rao, a coin collector who has a hoard that ranges from Chalukya period to Akbar’s reign to a coin issued during the reign of Mohammed Quli Qutb Shah of Golconda. The egg-shaped coins embossed with ‘Imperial Faberge Eggs’ and the design of the jewelled creations by Peter Carl Faberge have enamel paint as well as encrusted stones. Eggs have a symbolic connection to regeneration among many civilisations and a symbol for rebirth in Christianity. “I am auctioning them valuing them according to semi-precious stone encrusted in them,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/numismatist-has-easter-coins-in-plenty/article34236037.ece
04 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJYM activists try to gatecrash into Collectorates||BJYM activists tried to gatecrash into Collectorates in several districts to highlight the suicide by unemployed youth B. Sunil Naik and the failure of government to issue job notifications. The scenes were witnessed at Hyderabad and Warnagal Collectorates while the protesters almost succeeded in Sircilla. The police had a tough time in controlling the mobs. Normalcy was restored at the complexes only after the police arrested them. The BJYM activists reached the venues with BJP flags and entered into a scuffle with police when their attempts to force their way failed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjym-activists-try-to-gatecrash-collectorates/article34236032.ece
04 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||two held for tyres theft||Two persons, involved in stealing alloy wheels and tyres, were arrested by LB Nagar police on Saturday. Police recovered 47 tyres and Rs. 2 lakh cash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-held-for-tyres-theft/article34236247.ece
04 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Minor among 7 held for realtor’s murder||Seven persons, including a minor from Vattepally, were arrested by Mailardevpally police on Saturday in connection with the daylight murder of a 50-year-old realtor on Thursday. The accused are Yaseen Khan, Md. Adnan, Abdul Ali, Md. Mahaboob, MD Saddam, and Md. Shoaib. Asad Khan, who was accused of killing his daughter’s father-in-law Amjad Khan in 2018 at Shastripuram, was hacked to death by the latter’s younger son and his associates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minor-among-7-held-for-realtors-murder/article34236023.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Corona times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/corona-times/article34236251.ece
04 April 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||CAG picks holes in Odisha drug distribution scheme||The Comptroller and Auditor General of India hauled up the Odisha government over reported mismanagement of Niramaya — a much vaunted free medicines distribution scheme. The Odisha State Medical Corporation Limited (OSMCL), a nodal agency for implementation of Niramaya Scheme in the State, failed in timely procurement and supply of drugs, equipment and instrument to health institutions as per indent, says the General and Social Sector report of CAG. The report was tabled in the State Assembly on Saturday. The CAG finds that the procurement process was riddled with systemic flaws and numerous instances of non-adherence to the procurement policy, consequently impacting availability of drugs and equipment. “There was stock out of essential drugs in hospitals leading to out-of-pocket expenditure by the patients. Monitoring of inventory management through e-Niramaya software application was ineffective leading to shortage of drugs in health institutions and expiry of drugs as well,” it says. Problems in supply “Government was unsuccessful in providing an unbroken supply of essential drugs to the patients in public health institutions as per its own prescribed Essential Drug List. Government’s mandate to provide all prescribed drugs to patients free of cost in public health institutions remained largely unfulfilled,” it sums up. The Naveen Patnaik Government has been boasting of its Niramaya scheme which is implemented since May 1, 2015. According to report, audit noticed that 349 kinds of drugs valued Rs. 4.18 crore had expired during April 2017 to May 2019. These expired drugs were lying in 39 warehouses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cag-picks-holes-in-odisha-drug-distribution-scheme/article34235934.ece
04 April 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Commission agents not middlemen: Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking continuance of the existing system of payment to farmers till a consensus can be reached on the issue of Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT). Asserting that commission agents (arhtiyas) are not middlemen between the farmers and procurement agencies, but are service providers, the Chief Minister urged Mr. Modi to ensure that the livelihood of the farmers and all others involved in the smooth procurement of food grains is not jeorpardised. Promises to PM In a letter to the Prime Minister, Mr. Singh sought a meeting to apprise him of the concerns of various stakeholders about changing the existing payment system “before the situation gets out of hand.” On behalf of the Government of Punjab, he assured Mr. Modi of his complete support towards evolving a consensus amongst the stakeholders for long-term durable reforms. “While I fully endorse the views that as a society and as nation we have to continuously evolve and reform, and as the political leadership of the world’s largest democracy, we have to continuously think of improving, but I strongly believe that reforms are most successful and sustainable if carried out through a consultative process with all stakeholders, ensuring ownership of all,” said the Chief Minister. He sought the Prime Minister’s involvement in the matter with a request to advise the Department of Food and Public Distribution and the Union Ministry of Finance, to initiate discussions and consultations with the stakeholders including the farmers, farm workers and the arhtiyas to evolve a mutually acceptable system through consensus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/commission-agents-not-middlemen-amarinder/article34235936.ece
04 April 2021||Ghaziabad,||Use Twitter and tractor to spread protest message, says BKU leader||At a Kisan Mahapanchayat in Aligarh’s Gonda, Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait addressed the crowd and said: “2021 is the year of stir. Keep your tractors ready with tent and edibles.” He appealed to the young farmers to use “tractor and Twitter to spread the message against the farm laws”. He told the youth to use social media as “the mainstream media is being censored”. ‘Snatch your land’ He told them that there was a plan to “snatch your land”. He said, “Land is something that is dearer to a farmer than even his son. In this region, nobody passes on ownership of land to his progeny before his death. Now, companies are eyeing something that is so dear to you.” Mr. Tikait said the way corporates built godowns before the bills were passed showed that they were in the know of things. “It seems the corporates have sneaked into the PM’s office. We have to take them out,” he said. “What we are seeing right now,” Mr. Tikait said, “is not a BJP government but company raaj.” He said big retail companies would drive small shopkeepers and rural weekly markets out of business. Mr. Tikait said it would take a year to “cure” the government. “The farmer knows how to tame a wild bull.” By this winter, he hopes, the government would “regain its senses”. Responding to the attack on his convoy in the Alwar district on Friday, Mr. Tikait said they would not be scared by such attempts by the “goons of the ruling party”. He said the BKU general secretary Yudhvir Singh was picked up by the Gujarat Police when he was addressing the media. “Is it the Gujarat model? I am going to Gujarat tonight as the State is in cudgels. We have to set it free,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/use-twitter-and-tractor-to-spread-protest-message-says-bku-leader/article34235939.ece
04 April 2021||Jaipur,||Centre praises Rajasthan’s achievements in ration card scheme||The Centre praised the achievements of Rajasthan in the implementation of the “one nation, one ration card” scheme to enable migrant workers and their families to access the benefits of the public distribution system (PDS) from anywhere. Rajasthan is the 12th State to successfully undertake the reform. Food Secy visits State Union Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey, who was on a visit to the State over the weekend, observed the process for biometric authentication and transparency in the distribution of ration under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). Mr. Pandey held discussions with the State government officials on the arrangements for procurement of wheat in the rabi marketing season 2021-22. Chief Secretary Niranjan Arya apprised Mr. Pandey of the initiatives launched for the supply of foodgrains under the PDS and various inspections undertaken in the field every Saturday during the last three months. The demand for making the process for procurement of wheat offline in the current season was reiterated before the Food Secretary. ‘All implemented’ State Food & Civil Supplies Secretary Naveen Jain said all the announcements made in the budget for the welfare of ration dealers had been implemented and steps taken for strengthening the NFSA. Mr. Pandey suggested that the State government construct more warehouses for storing the foodgrains and ensure optimum utilisation of the resources provided by the Centre to protect the interests of farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/centre-praises-rajasthans-achievements-in-ration-card-scheme/article34235937.ece
04 April 2021||Mumbai,||CM: all oxygen supply may be diverted for medical use||With Maharashtra recording over half of the daily COVID-19 cases in India, the State government is considering diverting all industrial use oxygen supply for medical use, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Saturday. In an online interaction with newspaper owners, editors and distributors, Mr. Thackeray said a decision on imposing stringent measures to tackle the pandemic would be taken soon but did not confirm if there would be a Statewide lockdown. With the demand for oxygen surging, the State Public Health Department had last month directed oxygen manufacturers to divert 80% of their stocks for medical use and retain the rest 20% for industrial purposes. Mr. Thackeray said the State government is considering diverting even that 20% for medical use, because of the surge in cases and the “alarming” situation in the State. The daily demand for oxygen in Maharashtra has touched 700 metric tonnes against the State’s production capacity of over 1,200 metric tonnes, an official said. A notification stating 80% of capping for medical use was issued on Tuesday. It said that the rule would apply to all of Maharashtra and stay in force till June 30. Mr. Thackeray said the State government is increasing testing and also not keeping “even a single positive” case under wraps. The government is also considering steps like opening e-ICUs and increased use of telemedicine in these trying times, the CM said. “If there comes a time when someone’s livelihood has to be snatched, there is bound to be anguish. But if there is a dilemma on whether to save a life or a job, then it is important to give priority to life,” Mr. Thackeray said. “We have been telling people since last one year. I feel that if all people, be it private offices or shops, had implemented our directives of staggered duty hours, then maybe the situation would not have reached such an alarming level,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cm-all-oxygen-supply-may-be-diverted-for-medical-use/article34235900.ece
04 April 2021||Mumbai,||High Court grants anticipatory bail to man accused of rape||The Bombay High Court recently granted pre-arrest bail to a man accused of raping a married woman for 10 years after she submitted an affidavit stating that the investigating officer had made her add charges of rape against the man. The court said the circumstances were disturbing and directed the Commissioner of Police to conduct an inquiry into the episode. A single-judge Bench of Justice S.V. Sarang was hearing an anticipatory bail plea filed by Sachin alias Tanaji Mahadeo Maykude. The FIR filed by the woman herself stated that Mr. Maykude had been her neighbour when she was residing with her husband and children. The FIR categorically said that Mr. Maykude committed forcible sexual intercourse amounting to rape without her consent. She alleged that he threatened to harm her children and hence, she succumbed to the force. Mr. Maykude also blackmailed her by saying that he had her photographs in his cell phone, the FIR said. On March 7, 2020, she was allegedly raped again and then told her husband, after which an FIR was registered. The advocate appearing for Mr. Maykude said the complainant (the woman) and the accused (the man) had been in a consensual relationship for the last 10 years. The woman also submitted an affidavit before the HC that said she had some personal disputes with Mr. Maykude and the FIR had been wrongly registered. She said, “I had explained to the investigating officer about quarrels but the investigating officer added section (rape) which was not alleged by me against Mr. Maykude.” She added that there had been some miscommunication that led to the FIR. The court took the photographs attached to the application, and the affidavit of the woman, and said, “There possibly was a consensual relationship. The woman in her affidavit has categorically stated that she has no complaint against Mr. Maykude. It would not be justified to deny anticipatory bail to him. Therefore, I am inclined to grant that order in his favour.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/high-court-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-man-accused-of-rape/article34235902.ece
04 April 2021||Mumbai,||Congress delegation meets Uddhav, discusses political situation in State||A delegation of the Maharashtra Congress on Saturday met Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and urged him to set up a coordination committee with two leaders from each of the three parties — Shiv Sena, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) — to ensure implementation of the common minimum programme (CMP) decided while forming the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. Congress ministers from the State Cabinet held a review meeting chaired by party in-charge H.K. Patil on Friday where from the government’s performance in Maharashtra to sensitive political issues were discussed. Several ministers raised objections to Sena leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut’s comments on making NCP chief Sharad Pawar head of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA). While the party had openly slammed Mr. Raut, ministers at the review meeting demanded that the party’s discontent be conveyed to Mr. Thackeray. Mr. Patil, along with State Congress president Nana Patole, Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat, and Public Works Department Minister Ashok Chavan met Mr. Thackeray where these issues were discussed. A source familiar with the meeting said that a discussion on the State’s political situation was held where Mr. Patil conveyed to the CM the party’s discontent over the comments by Sena leaders on internal matters of the Congress as well as the UPA, especially Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Among other grievances, the party raised the issue of non-availability of funds to the departments of Congress ministers. “Lack of funds is a major problem faced by our ministers and many believe that their demands are being sidelined. We did take up this issue with Mr. Thackeray,” the source said. According to the source, the Congress also raised the issue of CMP and the need to periodically review its implementation. “It was decided that a coordination committee to review the CMP would be formed. Two leaders from each of the three parties will be part of it,” the leader said. Earlier, Mr. Patole came down on Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis asking him to provide details on the financial aid given to the State by the Centre. He was replying to Mr. Fadnavis’s remarks about how relief packages were given in different countries and comparing Maharashtra with them. “Mr. Fadnavis is talking about how foreign countries are giving relief packages to their people. What has Prime Minister Narendra Modi done for Maharashtra? The State is not even getting its rightful share of GST compensation from the Centre. He should first ask questions to his bosses in Delhi and then point finger at the State leadership,” Mr. Patole said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/congress-delegation-meets-uddhav-discusses-political-situation-in-state/article34235898.ece
04 April 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Work begins on dog park in Navi Mumbai||Work on the first-ever dog park in Navi Mumbai commenced on Friday. The park will be in an area of around 870 square metre within the existing 10,000 square feet Veer Savarkar Udyan at Sector 8 in Vashi. Four years ago, after many pet parents had put forward a demand before the corporator of Ward 64, Vashi, Divya Gaikwad, for an exclusive place for their furry children to walk around, Ms. Gaikwad presented a proposal before the then Municipal Commissioner, N. Ramaswamy. “All the pet parents have welcomed this move and are eagerly waiting for it to start functioning. Navi Mumbai lacked a space for its pets. There is an increasing trend of adopting dogs and this was the need of the hour. It would be an ideal place for families to come with their pet dogs,” Ms. Gaikwad said. The park is expected to have a separate entry and exit gate along with 15 play equipment of different sizes to suit all breeds. The equipment would include hurdles, balancing beam and stepping paws along with a water station for pets and seating area for pet owners. “Poop bins have also been proposed in order to ensure that the park is never soiled,” Ms. Gaikwad added. The cost of the park has been estimated at around Rs. 26 lakh and is expected to be completed in three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/work-begins-on-dog-park-in-navi-mumbai/article34235901.ece
04 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Homeless face long wait for jab||At a west Delhi night shelter run by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), caretaker Mohammed Jasin is facing two problems. In absence of any age proof of the homeless, he has to write down names of people eligible for COVID vaccination just by looking at them. He also has to field questions by eligible recipients about when they will get the jab. “I have a list of 14 eligible people but only three of them have an Aadhaar card. I drew the list just by looking at them. If they looked around 50 years of age or above, I wrote down their names and age. But even those who don’t have the identity proof deserve to get vaccinated,” said 24-year-old Mr. Jasin, a caretaker at the Raja Garden night shelter. The list of eligible recipients was drawn up over two weeks ago and the caretakers were informed by their supervisors that doctors would visit the centre to inoculate the residents. They are still awaiting any action or further communication from the authorities. Some wary of vaccine Another challenge faced by the caretakers is convincing the residents that the “vaccination is safe”. Paramjeet Kaur, 60, and her husband Vinod Kumar, 70, have been staying at the shelter for the last three months. They had left their rented Shahpura house after a fight with their son and daughter-in-law. Mr. Kumar used to drive an autorickshaw but had to stop due to old age. Both of them have age proof but while Mr. Kumar is willing to get vaccinated, his wife is scared. “Cases are rising and I am scared to step out of the shelter. Also, I am healthy, and I do not need vaccination. My immunity is not good, what if something happens to me?” she said. “If the government is providing vaccinations, then we must get the shot. There is nothing to be scared of. If everyone gets the shot, we will too,” said Mr. Kumar. In the men’s section of the shelter, 60-year-old Rajan Singh, who is blind, said he has been living in the shelter for the last 11 years while his family is in Punjab. “I don’t mind getting the vaccine if everybody gets it but how will I reach the hospital?” he said. Fifty-five-year-old Arjun Singh, who has trouble walking, echoed the same problem.   At a Tilak Nagar night shelter, 67-year-old Amarjeet Rana from Chandigarh said he has been at the facility for a year due to personal reasons. Speaking in fluent English, Mr. Rana, who cannot see due to retina dysfunction, said he was informed by caretakers that a team of doctors will visit them, but no one has come so far. “A doctor visits here twice a week. This week too, the doctor held a session to tell us that we should get vaccinated, but did not tell us how,” he said. Caretaker of the shelter, Deepak Kumar, said he too had made a list of over 20 people who were eligible for vaccination, and had submitted it to his supervisor on March 17. He has also not heard back from the authorities.  Many here are also unaware of the vaccine. Soni, 45, and her daughter Mangli, 12, who had no idea about the vaccination, said: “I don’t know about any vaccine. I just pray that I don’t get infected.” She stays at the shelter with her three daughters. Centre for Holistic Development’s Executive Director Sunil Kumar Aledia said the NGO has been working towards vaccinating the homeless in the city. He added that their teams are finding the absence of age and identity proof to be a hurdle. “It has also been observed that some people living in night shelters are going for vaccination. But lack of post-vaccination care is a cause of concern with regard to consumption of drugs and liquor, and inadequate nutritious food,” he said. Long list Mr. Aledia said the CHD has drawn up a list of 1,500 people who are now eligible to get the jab. The organisation has also written to District Magistrates to look into the matter. DUSIB member Bipin Rai said vaccination of eligible night shelter residents is likely to happen in the next 15 days. “They will be taken to hospitals for the vaccination,” he added.  I have a list of 14 eligible people but only three of them have an Aadhaar card. I drew the list just by looking at them. If they looked around 50 years of age or above, I wrote down their names and age. But even those who don’t have the identity proof deserve to get vaccinated Mohammed Jasin  Caretaker, Raja Garden night shelter||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/homeless-face-long-wait-for-jab/article34235926.ece
04 April 2021||New Delhi,||Over 3,500 cases for second day, positivity rises to 4.5%||The surge in COVID-19 cases continued in the national capital with 3,567 new infections being reported in the last 24 hours. The case tally stands at 6,72,381, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. This is the second consecutive day when over 3,500 cases have been reported. There were 3,594 new cases on Friday. The test positivity rate jumped to 4.48% on Saturday, up from 4.11% on Friday. It was less than 1% for over a month but started increasing last month. Ten deaths were also reported in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 11,060. Of the total cases, 6,48,674 people have recovered and there are 12,647 active cases — up from 11,994 a day before. Over 6,500 in isolation A total of 79,617 tests, including 57,296 RT-PCR tests, were done in a single day, the bulletin said. The number of people under home isolation rose to 6,569 from 6,106 a day ago. The containment zones rose to 2,618 from 2,338 on Friday, it said. After a peak in November, the number of cases had gradually decreased. COVID-19 cases were falling in early 2021 and on January 16, the number of new cases had dropped to 94. It gradually increased to 200 on February 24 and has been rising since then. A total of 80,797 beneficiaries took the COVID-19 vaccination in the city till 6 p.m. on Saturday, said a Delhi government spokesperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/over-3500-cases-for-second-day-positivity-rises-to-45/article34235930.ece
04 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Labourer held for killing kin over money dispute||A 57-year-old labourer was arrested for allegedly killing his brother-in-law over a monetary dispute in Outer North Delhi’s Narela, the police said on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North) Rajeev Ranjan Singh said the accused has been identified as Panna Ram, a resident of Narela. The police said that on Thursday, the body of one Karan Kumar, 36, with his face burnt was found inside a flat in Narela. There were injury marks on his neck and hands. “During investigation, the police arrested Panna from Bawana industrial area on Friday,” Mr. Singh said. The police said it was revealed that after the death of Ram’s wife, he married another woman. But his brother-in-law Karan was insisting he register his property in the name of his nephew Vikas. Borrowed Rs. 29,000 The accused had also borrowed Rs. 29,000 from the deceased and was unable to repay it, the police said, adding that Karan used to insult the accused in front of his family members and relatives, following which he planned to kill Karan. He bought an axe and burnt his face to hide the identity, said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/labourer-held-for-killing-kin-over-money-dispute/article34235921.ece
04 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||13 students test positive at St. Stephen’s College||Following 13 students of St. Stephen’s College testing positive for COVID-19, the college administration has issued a notice stating that the inner perimeter of the campus will be out of bounds for everyone while the outer perimeter can be accessed after relevant security checks. “Faculty scheduled to come to college may defer it till a notification informs them of an improvement in condition,” read the notice. Field trip Earlier, college governing body member Nandita Narain had written to principal John Varghese raising questions over reports of students testing positive. Ms. Narain had also raised questions over a college trip that took place in March. “Why was this trip organised by the college officials in the times of COVID-19 pandemic? Was the trip authorised by the principal? Was the consent of the parents of the students taken? Was permission of Delhi University and State government taken for organising such a trip in pandemic times?” Ms. Narain had asked in her letter to Mr. Varghese. In his reply, Mr. Varghese confirmed that 13 students had tested positive for the virus and that the trip had been authorised by him following consent from the parents. “As for the other questions, I shall answer them when I have a little more time to spare... the Dean’s Office is aware of the situation and necessary steps have already been taken in consultation with medical and civic authorities,” the reply read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/13-students-test-positive-at-st-stephens-college/article34235933.ece
04 April 2021||New Delhi,||BJP team visits vaccination centres||Concerned about the surge in COVID cases in the Capital, BJP MP Anil Jain, who has been appointed National Observer for the ongoing vaccination drive across the country, visited several immunisation centres in the city on Saturday. Accompanied by Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri and other senior leaders, the party delegation visited vaccination centres under the BJP-run civic bodies in Tughlaqabad, Badarpur, Mehrauli and Daryaganj. Dr. Jain talked to health workers and beneficiaries to identify shortcomings, and expressed satisfaction at the arrangements. “The way more people are coming out now for vaccination shows that the people have full trust in Indian-made vaccinations. Though increasing cases are a matter of concern, one need not worry as our hospitals are fully prepared,” he said. Mr. Gupta blamed the “lackluster attitude” of the Aam Aadmi Party government for the rise in daily cases of COVID-19. “It is time for Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to take all possible measures to contain the spread,” said the senior BJP leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-team-visits-vaccination-centres/article34235927.ece
04 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Inquiry into allegations of custodial beating||An inquiry is being conducted by the Vigilance Branch of the Outer North Delhi district after a resident alleged he was mercilessly beaten in police custody at Shahbad Dairy police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/inquiry-into-allegations-of-custodial-beating/article34235931.ece
04 April 2021||New Delhi,||6 women among 20 held for flouting COVID norms||Delhi police on Saturday arrested 20 persons, including six women, for allegedly violating COVID-19 guidelines at a hookah bar in Paschim Vihar. Five hookahs have also been seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/6-women-among-20-held-for-flouting-covid-norms/article34235932.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||In the line of fire||When Carrie Lam was in 2017 appointed as Hong Kong’s fourth Chief Executive — and the first woman to lead China’s Special Administrative Region (SAR) — her appointment by Beijing was greeted mostly with optimism. Ms. Lam, who was sworn in by President Xi Jinping a month before she turned 60, had over decades of working in Hong Kong’s bureaucracy garnered the reputation of a hard-working, effective and capable bureaucrat. Hong Kong’s civil servants often like to quip that the SAR, as Asia’s financial centre, may not make anything, but it makes things happen. Ms. Lam embodied that spirit. She acknowledged at her swearing-in that Hong Kong was “suffering from quite a serious divisiveness” and said her “priority will be to heal the divide”. Little would she have imagined that four years on, not only does that divide remain as far as ever, but Ms. Lam leaves behind a controversial legacy that many in Hong Kong say has permanently redefined what it means to be the Chief Executive (CE) of the SAR. Ms. Lam triggered the unprecedented protest movement in 2019 that brought millions to the streets, by proposing a controversial extradition Bill that would allow suspects to be repatriated to the mainland. The protests against the Bills led to broader calls for democracy and for universal suffrage. Hong Kong’s residents only vote for half of their 70 legislators, with the rest nominated by pro-Beijing bodies. The CE is also not voted for, but chosen by a Beijing-backed Election Committee. Ms. Lam subsequently wholeheartedly backed Beijing’s crushing response to the protests, starting with a new national security law in 2020 and unprecedented changes to Hong Kong’s electoral system announced on March 30 that have drastically cut the share of democratically elected representatives. The number of elected legislators has been cut to 20 while the Legislative Council has been expanded to 90, thus ensuring a permanent majority for Beijing-nominated politicians and all but ending the pro-democracy movement. Rise to the top Born in British-ruled Hong Kong in 1957, Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngor graduated from St. Francis' Canossian College, according to her biography on China Vitae, and then entered Hong Kong University to study Social Science. According to a Reuters profile, Ms. Lam is the daughter of a Shanghai immigrant and a Hong Kong mother with no formal education, and grew up in a small apartment in Wanchai where “her bunk bed doubled as a desk; she used to stand on the lower tier and rest her schoolbooks on top.” A top-ranking student, she joined the British government’s civil service in 1980, and rose to become Chief Secretary under her predecessor, Leung Chun-ying. When appointed in 2017 by the Beijing-supported Election Committee, Ms. Lam was, in one sense, an expected choice, having proven her credentials as a capable bureaucrat. Yet she would soon find, despite her long experience, her government facing Hong Kong’s biggest crisis since the handover, one that she triggered. Protest Movement The inherent tensions of the job of Hong Kong’s CE, caught between the demands of the people of Hong Kong and Beijing’s expectations, came to a head in 2019, when the extradition Bill triggered mass protests. Martin Lee, a leading pro-democracy politician and barrister who is known as Hong Kong’s “father of democracy” and was convicted last week for organising an unauthorised protest march in 2019, told The Hindu in 2019 that the political crisis was both systemic and of Ms. Lam’s own making. How Ms. Lam became so beholden to Beijing, even as it drastically changed the contours of “one country, two systems”, puzzled Mr. Lee and other politicians who had known her for decades as a playing-by-the-book bureaucrat. “Through the protests in 2019, did we ever see Carrie Lam defend Hong Kong’s system?” he said. “She should have been defending the Basic Law and Hong Kong’s high degree of autonomy, but instead she was happily sitting with Beijing. The Basic Law requires the CE to be answerable to both Hong Kong and Beijing. But is that possible when she has this job because Beijing gave the job to her? That is a system that was always doomed to fail without democracy and without people voting for their leader.” That Mr. Lee has now been convicted and is awaiting a prison sentence underlines the dramatic change in Hong Kong’s politics during Ms. Lam’s tenure. Indeed, Ms. Lam will be remembered for presiding over the biggest changes to the “one country, two systems” model that has governed Hong Kong since 1997, guaranteeing a high degree of autonomy and a range of freedoms that distinguished the SAR from the mainland. In line with the model, the position of the CE was often described as being “one servant to two masters”, with the office answerable not only to the people of Hong Kong and its Legislative Council, but also to Beijing, which nominated the CE, a post created after the handover in 1997 to replace the position of Governor under British rule. This inherent tension has always made Hong Kong’s top job somewhat of a poisoned chalice, leaving every successive occupant dealing with a widening chasm with growing calls for genuine democracy from young Hongkongers on the one hand, and a decreasing tolerance for accommodating them in Beijing on the other. Ms. Lam, in one sense, resolved this tension, making it clear that there is, after all, only one master.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/in-the-line-of-fire/article34235626.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||A political game of chicken||If Madhav Kumar Nepal goes on to lead a new political outfit, after a vertical split of the Communist Party of Nepal-Unified Marxist-Leninist (UML), as reported in The Hindu on March 31, it would mark the end of a long journey with the party that he was associated as a general secretary for a decade and a half and as a single-term Prime Minister of Nepal. The circumstances leading to this decision were not atypical of Nepal’s polity or the vicissitudes of communist party politics, but Mr. Nepal would certainly be leaving the UML with his rival and current Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli in a much stronger position than he had expected after the Supreme Court on February 23 had overturned Mr. Oli’s decision to dissolve Parliament. In a quirk of fate, the Supreme Court followed that decision with another one on March 7 that de-recognised the unified Nepal Communist Party (NCP) and reverted it to its two composite units before merger — the Oli-led UML and the Communist Party-Maoist Centre (led by Pushpa Kumar Dahal). In the unified NCP, Mr. Oli’s supporters included former Maoist leaders such as Ram Bahadur Thapa, while the dissident wing included Mr. Dahal, Mr. Nepal and former UML general secretary and ex-Prime Minister Jhalanath Khanal. When Mr. Oli had unilaterally dissolved Parliament and sought fresh elections, the Dahal-Nepal faction led protests. The NCP was split vertically with the Dahal-Nepal faction retaining an edge in the restored Parliament, even as this divide carried over to the provinces where the NCP was in power. But the revocation of the party name by the Supreme Court changed the equations. Mr. Nepal and Mr. Khanal were back in the UML, while Mr. Dahal had to revert to reconstituting the smaller Maoist Centre. As things stand, reports indicate that the Nepal-Khanal faction has the support of more than half of the UML’s Central Committee, but less than 40% of the parliamentary members — the magic figure that will allow Mr. Nepal to split the party as per the Political Parties Act, 2017. Mr. Oli’s prestige might have diminished after the Supreme Court’s chastening, but his power seems to have substantially restored in the UML, allowing him to include former Maoist leaders such as Mr. Thapa in the party over the dissidence of Mr. Nepal and others. If Mr. Nepal goes ahead and splits the party, irrespective of the consequences (such as losing his Parliament seat), Mr. Oli will still find it difficult to gain the support to form a majority government and that is what seems to lead to a protracted game of chicken between him and Mr. Nepal. Ever since his All Nepal Communist Revolutionary Coordination Committee (Marxist-Leninist) merged into the Communist Party of Nepal (Marxist-Leninist) in 1978, Mr. Nepal has held a senior position in both the merged outfit and later, the consolidated UML. Democratic transition The UML was led by Madan Bhandari during the period of transition into a multi-party democracy. Mr. Bhandari and Mr. Nepal played a significant role in changing the ideological position of the party in accepting “people’s multi-party democracy” that abandoned the idea of a communist vanguard to promote a democratic multi-party system. Following Mr. Bhandari’s death in a jeep accident in 1993, Mr. Nepal took a prominent role in the UML and steered the party through a long period of moderation of its ideology and adoption of flexible political positions — which included being in coalition governments with royalist parties such as the Rashtriya Prajatantra Party. After a gruesome civil war led to the emergence of the Maoists as a major political force, and following the usurping of power by the monarchy, Mr. Nepal was among the key leaders who forged first the seven-party alliance, including the Nepali Congress, the UML and others, and followed it with the eight-party alliance with the Maoists on board. This ultimately led to the downfall of the monarchy and the first Constituent Assembly (CA) elections in 2008. But Mr. Nepal, along with other senior leaders such as Mr. Oli, suffered humiliating defeats as the UML emerged as the third largest party after the Maoists and the Nepali Congress. Mr. Nepal had to resign his post and was nominated to the CA after this loss, but skilfully emerged as the Prime Minister in 2009 after being supported by the Nepali Congress in a bid to prevent the Maoists from getting back to power. Mr. Nepal and Mr. Khanal enjoyed small stints as Prime Ministers during the first iteration of the CA that ended in a deadlock following the inability of the parties to agree on the issue of federal state restructuring. Mr. Oli’s strident opposition to the demands of the plain dwelling Madhesis for a more thoroughgoing federalism and his recourse to Nepali jingoism against what was perceived as Indian interference in the Constitution making process allowed him to gain primacy as a face of status quoist forces in the UML, which emerged as second largest party in the second CA elections in 2013 behind the Nepali Congress. Mr. Oli went on to further consolidate his leadership of the UML and the turn of events following the merger of the UML with the Maoist-Centre brought Mr. Nepal and Mr. Khanal closer to the former Maoists. If the Nepal-Khanal faction creates a new party taking on Mr. Dahal, it remains to be seen how it will differentiate itself ideologically from Mr. Oli’s outfit. But if his history is any clue, it won’t be a surprise if Mr. Nepal manages yet another unity of disparate forces for power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/a-political-game-of-chicken/article34235629.ece
04 April 2021||Hong Kong,||Hong Kong to vet candidates’ past||Candidates for public office in Hong Kong will have their entire history vetted, its top justice official said on Saturday, after China announced a radical overhaul to ensure only “patriots” run the city. Beijing imposed sweeping changes on Hong Kong’s electoral system on Tuesday, the latest step in an ongoing crackdown on the city’s democracy movement after massive and often violent protests. The latest amendments to the Basic Law, Hong Kong’s mini Constitution, have ensured that a majority of lawmakers will be selected by a reliably pro-Beijing committee, and every candidate will be vetted by national security officers. Hong Kong’s Justice Secretary Teresa Cheng told public broadcaster RTHK that the committee will consider “all the materials related to the candidates”, including anything that is “suspected to have affected their loyalty and allegiance”. Ms. Cheng said there was no restriction on what could be reviewed. “We can’t completely limit ourselves and say we will only review things from the last three to five years, as we have to review everything in context... Maybe something he or she mentioned 10 years ago connects with what they said yesterday.” Electoral changes China’s leaders have moved decisively to tighten their control of Hong Kong, dismantling the city’s limited democratic pillars after protests broke out in 2019. They imposed a national security law last year that outlawed much dissent. Dozens of campaigners have been prosecuted or jailed since, smothering protests in a city that had enjoyed greater political freedoms than the authoritarian mainland under the “One Country, Two Systems” arrangement. Chinese authorities have trumpeted the electoral reform as the second of a “combination of punches” to quell unrest, after the sweeping national security law. When residents are allowed to vote in limited local elections, they tend to do so overwhelmingly for pro-democracy candidates, something that has rattled authoritarian Beijing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kong-to-vet-candidates-past/article34235627.ece
04 April 2021||Washington,||Biden lifts Trump’s sanctions on international court officials||President Joe Biden on Friday lifted sanctions that Donald Trump had imposed on two top officials of the International Criminal Court (ICC), undoing one of the past administration’s more aggressive moves targeting international institutions and officials. Secretary of State Antony Blinken in a statement stressed that the U.S. still strongly disagreed with some actions by the court. “We believe, however, that our concerns about these cases would be better addressed” through diplomacy “rather than through the imposition of sanctions,” Mr. Blinken wrote. The U.S. sanctions had targeted ICC chief prosecutor Fatou Bensouda and the court’s head of jurisdiction, Phakiso Mochochoko, for pressing ahead with investigations into the U.S. and its allies, notably Israel, for alleged war crimes. Two sets of sanctions were imposed, the first being a travel ban on Ms. Bensouda in March 2019, and then 18 months later a freeze on any assets she and Mr. Mochochoko may have in the U.S. or U.S. jurisdictions. The second round also made giving the pair “material support” a potentially sanctionable offence. The Trump administration was openly hostile to the tribunal for pursuing prosecutions of Americans for actions in Afghanistan and Israelis for actions against the Palestinians. Both sets of sanctions had been roundly denounced by the ICC. The removal of the sanctions was the latest signal that the Biden administration is intent on returning to the multilateral fold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-lifts-trumps-sanctions-on-international-court-officials/article34235636.ece
04 April 2021||Washington,||Blinken speaks with Pearl’s family, assures them of justice||Secretary of State Antony Blinken has spoken with the family of slain American journalist Daniel Pearl. Mr. Pearl, the 38-year-old South Asia bureau chief for The Wall Street Journal , was abducted and beheaded while he was in Pakistan investigating a story in 2002 on the links between the ISI and al-Qaeda. “Blinken spoke with members of the family of Daniel Pearl and their representatives today to assure them that the U.S. government remains committed to pursuing justice and accountability for those involved in Daniel’s kidnapping and murder,” State Department Spokesperson Ned Price said on Friday. Last week, Pakistan’s Supreme Court criticised the prosecution for its failure to prove the guilt of British-born al-Qaeda terrorist Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh, the main accused. The Sindh High Court on April 2, 2020 commuted the death sentence of Sheikh to seven years. The Supreme Court on January 28 ordered authorities to release the accused while issuing a split order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/blinken-speaks-with-pearls-family-assures-them-of-justice/article34235632.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Mummies’ parade||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/mummies-parade/article34235700.ece
04 April 2021||Yangon,||Rebel groups back protests, slam junta||Ten of Myanmar’s major rebel groups threw their support behind the anti-coup movement on Saturday, fanning fears that a broader conflict could erupt in a country plagued by infighting. On Saturday, 10 rebel groups met virtually to discuss the situation, condemning the junta’s use of live ammunition on protesters. “The leaders of the military council must be held accountable,” said Gen. Yawd Serk, leader of rebel group the Restoration Council of Shan State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/rebel-groups-back-protests-slam-junta/article34235630.ece
04 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Individual loans continued to improve last quarter: HDFC||Mortgage lender HDFC Ltd. on Saturday said the company’s individual loan business continued to exhibit improvement in the January-March quarter and loans worth Rs. 7,503 crore were assigned to its banking subsidiary. “The individual loan business continued to see strong improvements during the quarter ended March 31. Buy-back option “During the quarter, pursuant to the buy-back option embedded in the home-loan arrangement between the Corporation and HDFC Bank, the Corporation assigned loans to the bank amounting to Rs. 7,503 crore,” HDFC said in a regulatory filing. In the year-earlier quarter, such loans assigned to HDFC Bank stood at Rs. 5,479 crore. The individual loans sold in the preceding 12 months (April-March) amounted to Rs. 18,980 crore (previous year Rs. 24,127 crore), the Corporation said in the filing. Besides, the Corporation’s gross income from dividend for the March quarter was Rs. 110 crore as against Rs. 2 crore in the year-earlier quarter. There was no sale of investments in subsidiary/associate companies during January-March, as also in the year-earlier period, it added.  The Corporation’s gross income from dividend for the March quarter was Rs. 110 crore as against Rs. 2 crore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/individual-loans-continued-to-improve-last-quarter-hdfc/article34235598.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Pandemic will hasten 5G deployment: Cisco India chief||The pandemic has inarguably created an incentive for fast-forwarding 5G deployment, Sameer Garde , president, Cisco India and SAARC, said in an interview . Excerpts: When do you expect the buzz around 5G roll-out to return to 2019 levels? The pandemic has accelerated the low-touch economy manifold and we believe 5G will further accelerate its adoption. Towards this, we are building the Internet of the future based on silicon, optics and software, called Silicon One. This programmable networking chip is designed to improve performance, bandwidth, power efficiency, scalability and flexibility. We have globally committed $5 billion (India will receive a part of it) in funding to help build 5G networks over the next three years. Presently, we have more than 125 active engagements with global customers on 5G.  What will be Cisco’s differentiation in the cloud play? As companies look to growth and recovery in the next normal, they are rapidly turning to the cloud to enable new business models and hybrid work culture. Here, they are looking at a hybrid cloud strategy to bring the best of both worlds: the innovation, speed, and scale of the public cloud and the security, compliance, and performance, of the private cloud. Helping customers migrate to hybrid cloud and manage their multi-cloud environment to get more from their applications and data is the driving force behind Cisco’s cloud strategy.  Some analysts feel Cisco is a sales/marketing-heavy enterprise and it compromised on R&D? Cisco of today is at the centre of our customers’ strategy and no longer viewed just as an enabler of those strategies. We have taken what was considered threats to our business, for example like Cloud, SDN (software-defined networking), software and subscription services and turned them into growth opportunities. All of this is a result of our commitment to R&D and to bring the best, most-relevant innovation in simpler, more easily-consumable ways. Cisco invests over $6 billion annually in R&D and is rebalancing investments to focus on areas like cloud-delivered security and collaboration solutions, multi-cloud, 5G and Wi-Fi 6 (6th generation WiFi), 400-GHz, optical networking, next-generation silicon, AI, and more. These will help us position well for the future. I am proud to share that India R&D is significantly helping Cisco transform its core businesses toward a software model and enabling customers across the globe to simplify their digital transformation and help them make better business decisions based on insights. What has been Cisco’s contribution so far towards Digital India programme? We are closely aligned with the Digital India programme and have been working on various initiatives across States and Central-government agencies. Also, over 95% of the top 1,000 companies in India and over 25,000 small and medium businesses are using Cisco’s technology to digitise for the future and inspire new possibilities. Can you tell us about your Networking Academy programme? Under the programme, Cisco is developing digital talent to meet the growing demand for a skilled workforce in cybersecurity and other deep-technology expertise. We have already trained five lakh learners in India in the last 18 months.  India R&D is significantly helping Cisco transform its core businesses towards a software model||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pandemic-will-hasten-5g-deployment-cisco-india-chief/article34235593.ece
04 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Boost testing, vaccinate those aged 18-45: FICCI urges govt.||Industry body FICCI has urged the government to ramp up COVID-19 testing across States and open up vaccination for the age group 18-45 years, while assuring it of the complete support of the industry in fighting the pandemic. “We are currently testing about 11 lakh samples a day, while we had reached the level of testing 15 lakh samples a day in January,” FICCI president Uday Shankar said in a letter to the Union Health & Family Welfare Minister Harsh Vardhan. “Further, there is capacity of performing much more tests with 2,440 labs in the country operational for COVID-19 testing, including more than 1,200 from the private sector,” he wrote. Tap private sector The States may be advised to utilise the facilities in the private sector to the maximum to achieve the desired testing capacity, he added. Mr. Shankar also urged the government to open up vaccination for the age group of 18-45 years, as this age group has been acting as the super spreaders of infection in the country.  Augmenting capacity “Given that there is no shortage of vaccines and there is a huge scope of augmenting inoculation capacity through greater involvement of private sector, we urge you to open up vaccination for this age group to help subside the spread of infection as well as severity of cases in the country,” the FICCI president added. He  assured the government of complete support and cooperation of the industry in fighting this crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/boost-testing-vaccinate-those-aged-18-45-ficci-urges-govt/article34235595.ece
04 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Gas firms hurt by low prices fixed by govt.’||Natural gas production remains a loss-making proposition for most fields for the Indian upstream producers as government-dictated gas price remains at its lowest level, rating agency ICRA has said. The domestic gas price notified at $1.79 per million British thermal unit for the six months beginning April 1 remains the lowest since the institution of the modified Rangarajan formula. Also, the ceiling on price for gas produced from deep-water, ultra deep-water, high-temperature and high-pressure fields has been fixed at $3.62 per million Btu for April-September 2021-22 which is 10.8% lower than the ceiling for October-March 2020-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gas-firms-hurt-by-low-prices-fixed-by-govt/article34235596.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Sushil, Anand, Humpy, Manpreet and Rani strike it big||Sushil Kumar, Viswanathan Anand, Koneru Humpy, Manpreet Singh and Rani Rampal were among the big winners of the 2021 Sportstar Aces Awards on Saturday. “I am very happy that the jury has chosen me for this award,” said wrestler Sushil after winning the Sportsman of the Decade (Individual Olympic Sports). “I am honoured that you would continue to support me as I continue to serve my country.” Malini Parthasarathy, Chairperson, The Hindu Publishing Group, presented the Sportsman of the Decade (Individual non-Olympic Sports) award to Anand, the five-time World champion in chess. Each one significant “I’m really delighted to win the ‘Sportsman of the Decade’ award. For me, that includes two World Championships, the qualification [for the World Chess Championship] in 2014 and the World Rapid Championship in 2017. Each one of these was very significant for me, and emotionally draining,” Anand said. Humpy was adjudged the Sportswoman of the Decade in the same category. India’s hockey National team captains Manpreet Singh and Rani Rampal were named the Sportsman and Sportswoman of the Decade for Team Sports. “This award is for women’s hockey. I hope this award will encourage more and more girls to take up sports,” said Rampal. Hero MotoCorp was named the decade’s Best Corporate for the Promotion of Sports. “Coming from such great icons [jury] from the field of sports, it’s a true vindication of all that we have been doing to nurture sports in the country. “I would like to assure you all that Hero MotoCorp and I remain committed to making India a sporting powerhouse in the years to come,” said Pawan Munjal, Hero MotoCorp’s chairman, managing director and chief executive officer.  Sportstar also recognised the efforts of three Indian athletes who, as frontline workers, have been at the forefront of the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Malini Parthasarathy, while highlighting the role played by frontline workers, said: “This year, Sportstar also pays tribute to unsung heroes and heroines of this long-drawn fight to keep us and our homes safe during these deadly times. “The idea was to salute these COVID warriors who, as sportsmen, are giants off the field.” 2007 T20 World Cup hero Joginder Sharma, former India kabbadi captain Ajay Thakur and Commonwealth Games gold medal-winning boxer Akhil Kumar were conferred with the Giant off the Field honour.   Third list of Sportstar Aces Awards winners   Sportswoman of the decade (Individual non-Olympic Sports): Koneru Humpy  Sportsman of the decade (Individual non-Olympic Sports): Viswanathan Anand  Best Corporate for Promotion of Sports: Hero MotoCorp  Giant off the field (COVID Warriors): Joginder Sharma, Akhil Kumar, Ajay Thakur  Sportswoman of the decade (Team Sports): Rani Rampal  Sportsman of the decade (Team Sports): Manpreet Singh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sushil-anand-humpy-manpreet-and-rani-strike-it-big/article34235760.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Are Royal Challengers equipped to break a 13-season curse?||Season after season, Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) has suffered from one glaring problem — an over-dependence on captain Virat Kohli and AB de Villiers. When the two star batsmen click, all is well with RCB, but more often than not, the burden is too heavy to bear. The support cast — which has included the likes of Gurkeerat Singh, Colin de Grandhomme, Marcus Stoinis, Shimron Hetmyer, Aaron Finch, Chris Morris, Moeen Ali and Shivam Dube in the last few seasons — simply has not delivered. The 2021 IPL auction was another chance for RCB to address this concern, but once again, it does not appear as if the right answers have been found. The franchise invested heavily in Glenn Maxwell, with the Australian being touted by Director of Cricket Operations Mike Hesson as the ‘X-factor’. A look at Maxwell’s IPL record, however, does not inspire confidence. In his last two seasons, Maxwell has averaged 15.42 (2020) and 14.08 (2018), with a highest score of 47. And yet, RCB thought it wise to acquire his services for Rs. 14.25 crore. There were more surprise picks in the auction, with Dan Christian, Sachin Baby, Rajat Patidar, Suyash Prabhudesai and Mohammed Azharuddeen added to bolster a frail middle- and lower-order. None of these signings — some experienced and others untested — count as consistent match-winners. RCB also has to contend with Kohli’s tendency to make impulsive selection and tactical decisions, all in the name of playing free, flexible cricket. Kohli himself is set for a big change, with the skipper announcing recently that he will open the batting for RCB. If the middle-order was deemed weak despite Kohli’s presence, one can imagine the panic that will set in if he is dismissed cheaply at the top. Classy opener Devdutt Padikkal could prove the bright spot in this batting line-up. The Karnataka southpaw — retained by RCB after some fine performances in the IPL and domestic tournaments last year — can provide good starts in the PowerPlay. The bowling attack has a familiar feel to it. Mohammed Siraj and Navdeep Saini — both have not played too many T20Is in recent times — lead the pace attack, and Washington Sundar can keep things tight with his flat off-spin. Death bowling has been another old crack left without a fix. While Saini can consistently deliver yorkers, the others could face the music in the final overs. Hesson and the team management are fond of spreading cheesy buzzwords like ‘Play Bold’ to whip up positive sentiment. Last year, players made references to ‘positive vibes’ and ‘different feeling’ in nearly every media interaction, in an attempt to erase bad memories from repeated failures of the past. It will take much more than catchphrases and eternal optimism, however, for RCB to break the long jinx and win a maiden IPL trophy.   X-Factor   Kyle Jamieson: Despite a disappointing T20I series against Australia recently, Jamieson is a truly exciting prospect. The New Zealand cricketer bowls at a good pace, and can generate awkward bounce from a length. In Siraj, Saini and Jamieson, RCB has a potent new-ball attack||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/are-royal-challengers-equipped-to-break-a-13-season-curse/article34235600.ece
04 April 2021||London,||West Bromwich lays Chelsea low||Chelsea manager Thomas Tuchel suffered the first defeat of his reign as lowly West Bromwich Albion swept to a stunning 5-2 win. Tuchel saw his 14-game unbeaten run since replacing the sacked Frank Lampard come to a halt. Norwegian midfielder Jens Petter Hauge snatched a late equaliser to salvage a point for AC Milan whose poor home run continued with a 1-1 draw against 10-man Sampdoria in Serie A on Saturday. Napoli survived a spirited fightback from bottom side Crotone to earn a 4-3 win and go fourth.   The results: Premier League: Chelsea 2 (Pulisic 27, Mount 71) lost to West Brom 5 (Pereira 45+2, 45+5, Robinson 63, 90, Diagne 68); Leeds 2 (Harrison 12, Jagielka 49-og) bt Sheffield United 1 (Osborn 45+2).   LaLiga: Granada 0 lost to Villarreal 3 (G. Moreno 9-pen, 18, 60-pen); Real Madrid 2 (Asensio 41, Benzema 73) bt Eibar 0.   Bundesliga: Borussia Dortmund 1 (Hummels 45) lost to Eintracht Frankfurt 2 (Schulz 11-og, Silva 87); Bayer Leverkusen 2 (Alario 26, Schick 72) bt Schalke 1 (Huntelaar 81); Wolfsburg 1 (Brekalo 69) bt Cologne 0; Mainz 1 (Brosinski 56-pen) drew with Arminia Bielefeld 1 (Voglsammer 75); Augsburg 2 (Vargas 8, Hahn 23) bt Hoffenheim 1 (Skov 86).   Serie A: AC Milan 1 (Hauge 87) drew with Sampdoria 1 (Quagliarella 57); Atalanta 3 (Muriel 19, 43, Zapata 61) bt Udinese 2 (Pereyra 45, Stryger Larsen 71); Napoli 4 (Insigne 19, Osimhen 22, Mertens 34, Di Lorenzo 72) bt Crotone 3 (Simy 25, 48, Messias 59); Lazio 2 (Lazzari 56, Caicedo 89-pen) bt Spezia 1 (Verde 73); Sassuolo 2 (Traore 57, Raspadori 85) drew with AS Roma 2 (Pellegrini 26-pen, Peres 69).   Benevento 2 (Glik 23, Ionita 67) drew with Parma 2 (Kurtic 55, Man 88); Cagliari 0 lost to Hellas Verona 2 (Barak 54, Lasagna 90+9); Genoa 1 (Destro 13) drew with Fiorentina 1 (Vlahovic 23).   Friday: La Liga: Levante 0 lost to Huesca 2 (Mir 15, 54).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/west-bromwich-lays-chelsea-low/article34235764.ece
04 April 2021||BENGALURU,||‘Developing a core of Indian players big positive’||Royal Challengers Bangalore head coach Simon Katich feels that developing a core of Indian players was a big positive from last season, that would serve the team well this edition. "We backed [Devdutt] Padikkal at the top, who had never played IPL before, and was marvellous for us," said Katich. "We then backed Washington Sundar, who played a full season and went on to do good things for India, even in Tests. “Then we had [Mohammed] Siraj and [Navdeep] Saini who played almost full seasons. “These four, on top of Virat [Kohli] and [Yuzvendra] Chahal, have formed a strong core for us. We feel we have gained a lot from developing them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/developing-a-core-of-indian-players-big-positive/article34235602.ece
04 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||HCA getting ready to host games if needed||The Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) is gearing up to host IPL matches if the Rajiv Gandhi Stadium here is looked at as an alternative venue. “We are getting the playing area and other facilities like full-fledged nets ready,” a senior HCA official told The Hindu on Saturday. “Since spectators are not allowed, the task will be that much more easier.” “We have to ensure that everyone involved have to be in the bio-bubble.” This can be the biggest challenge, the official said even while making it clear that the association is yet to receive any official communication from the BCCI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hca-getting-ready-to-host-games-if-needed/article34236013.ece
04 April 2021||Mumbai:,||Iron Age should score||Trainer Imtiaz Sait’s ward Iron Age should score over his rivals in the Seth Ramnath Daga Trophy, the main event of Sunday’s (April 4) races. Rails will be placed 7 metres wide from 1200m to 1000m and thereafter 10 metres wide from 800m up to the winning post. The Stewards of RWITC have decided that racing from Sunday, April 4, 2021, at the Mahalaxmi race course will be conducted behind closed doors (without spectators). Only those who are connected with the conduct of racing will be allowed. A detailed report is published on club’s website www.rwitc.com in this regard.  FLAREON PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30, 3.00 p.m.: 1. Gusty Girl (9) Ayyar 59.5, 2. Sufiyah (4) Sandesh 59.5, 3. Multimoment (8) C.S. Jodha 58.5, 4. Royal Castle (2) J. Chinoy 57.5, 5. Marlboro Man (10) T.S. Jodha 56.5, 6. Trinket (1) Bhawani 56.5, 7. Suited Aces (3) Shelar 55, 8. Who Dares Wins (6) Nirmal 54.5, 9. Allegria (7) Chouhan 52.5 and 10. Thea’s Pet (5) Kaviraj 50.  1. GUSTY GIRL, 2. SUFIYAH, 3. MULTIMOMENT   DR A H SAYED PLATE (1,600m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30, 3.30: 1. Hioctane (8) K. Bhagat 59, 2. Marrakesh (2) C.S. Jodha 59, 3. Memorable Moments (6) Dashrath 58, 4. Scotland (3) Ayyar 58, 5. Aadhya (7) Zeeshan 56.5, 6. Patriots Day (5) Kaviraj 54, 7. Adonijah (4) T.S. Jodha 52.5 and 8. Lovely Fairy (1) Peter 49.  1. HIOCTANE, 2. MARRAKESH, 3. MEMORABLE MOMENTS   SETH RAMNATH DAGA TROPHY (1,000m), Cl. I, rated 80 and upward, 4.00: 1. Iron Age (1) K. Bhagat 65, 2. Silver Flames (2) Kaviraj 57.5, 3. Mystic Bay (4) C.S. Jodha 55 and 4. Hidden Gold (3) Zervan 50.   1. IRON AGE   JEHANGIR P DUBASH CUP (1,600m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66, 4.30: 1. Rambunctious (2) K. Bhagat 59, 2. Shamshir Sword (6) Chouhan 57, 3. Mishka’s Pride (4) Dashrath 56.5, 4. Summer Night (5) C.S. Jodha 56.5, 5. Speed Air (3) Sandesh 53 and 6. Fleur De Lys (1) Zeeshan 50.  1. SHAMSHIR SWORD, 2. RAMBUNCTIOUS   R J KOLAH TROPHY (1,400m), (Terms) 3-y-o only, 5.00: 1. Red Merlot (7) J. Chinoy 57, 2. Constant Variable (4) Santosh G 54, 3. Count Of Savoy (5) C.S. Jodha 54, 4. The Awakening (8) Yash Narredu 54, 5. Arctic Bay (6) S. Amit 52.5, 6. Emiliana (1) Dashrath 52.5, 7. Enjoy (2) Zervan 52.5 and 8. Love Warrior (3) Chouhan 52.5.  1. LOVE WARRIOR, 2. THE AWAKENING, 3. RED MERLOT   J RUSTOMJI SOPARIVALA TROPHY (1,000m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only, 5.30: 1. Demetrius (Late Circuit House) (3) T.S. Jodha 56, 2. Loaded Dice (Late Over The Rhine) (12) J. Chinoy 56, 3. Moonshot (4) Sandesh 56, 4. Nishk (7) Ajinkya 56, 5. Whistle Blower (11) P. Dhebe 56, 6. Anastasia (6) Kiran Naidu 54.5, 7. Champers On Ice (9) S. Amit 54.5, 8. Divine Soul (8) Ayyar 54.5, 9. Fete Accompli (5) Nadeem 54.5, 10. Galloping Glory (14) Bhawani 54.5, 11. Hilma Klint (13) Dashrath 54.5, 12. Impermanence (2) C.S. Jodha 54.5, 13. Marvellous (10) Chouhan 54.5 and 14. Mysterious Girl (1) Zervan 54.5.  1. MARVELLOUS, 2. MYSTERIOUS GIRL, 3. MOONSHOT   FLAREON PLATE (Div.I) (1,200m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30, 6.00: 1. Hilad (2) Shahrukh 60, 2. Victoria Peak (5) Sandesh 60, 3. Count The Wins (1) Raghuveer 59.5, 4. Stick To The Plan (10) Ajinkya 59.5, 5. On Va Danser (9) J. Chinoy 59, 6. Perfect Perfecto (7) Shubham 59, 7. Grand Architect (3) Ayyar 58.5, 8. Historic (6) Zeeshan 58.5, 9. Streek (4) Zervan 58.5, 10. Regal Prince (11) Kaviraj 57.5 and 11. Spice (8) M.S. Deora 57.  1. VICTORIA PEAK, 2. STREEK, 3. STICK TO THE PLAN   R R KOMANDUR PLATE (1,200m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46, 6.30: 1. Cellini (13) Aniket 62, 2. Judy Blue Eyes (2) S.J. Sunil 61, 3. Oui Sauvage (11) Sandesh 61, 4. Slam Dunk (6) Shubham 59.5, 5. Arc Shine (14) Merchant 59, 6. Divine Glory (9) Bhawani 59, 7. Jetfire (4) P. Dhebe 57.5, 8. Untitled (1) Hanumant 57.5, 9. Collegium (3) S. Nayak 57, 10. Ame (12) T.S. Jodha 55.5, 11. Seniority (7) Ayyar 53.5, 12. Dilbar (8) S. Amit 51.5, 13. Airmax (5) Zeeshan 50 and 14. Suarez (10) Vishal Bunde 50.  1. CELLINI, 2. OUI SAUVAGE, 3. DIVINE GLORY  Day’s Best: SHAMSHIR SWORD  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 5, 6 & 7. (ii) 6, 7 & 8. Tanala: All races. Super Jackpot: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/iron-age-should-score-in-main-event/article34235810.ece
04 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||COVID hits Delhi ITF tournament||One asymptomatic case of coronavirus took the sting out of the competition in the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament at the DLTA Complex here on Saturday. Former National champion Niki Poonacha got a walkover into the final, as Dalibor Svrcina of the Czech Republic reported that he was COVID-19 positive. The fact that the Czech was also in the doubles final with Zsombor Velcz of Hungary meant that top seeds Arjun Kadhe and Saketh Myneni took the winner’s trophy with a walkover. It was the third doubles title of the season for the newly-crowned National champion Arjun Kadhe, while it was the second for Saketh, who had won the Lucknow event with Yuki Bhambri. The 18-year-old Svrcina has been a phenomenal player so far. He had helped Czech Republic win the Junior Davis Cup in 2017, and had reached a career-high World junior rank of No. 8 in 2018. In the ongoing tournament, the Czech had won his singles in three sets against third seed Aidan Mchugh of Britain and was quite robust in the doubles as well on Friday. There was only one match played in which fourth seed Oliver Crawford of the US tamed second seed Simon Carr of Ireland 6-4, 6-3.  The results: Semifinals: Oliver Crawford (USA) bt Simon Carr (Irl) 6-4, 6-3; Niki Poonacha w/o. Dalibor Svrcina (Cze).   Doubles (final): Arjun Kadhe & Saketh Myneni w/o Dalibor Svrcina (Cze) & Zsombor Velcz (Hun).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/poonacha-in-final-kadhe-myneni-pair-wins/article34235906.ece
04 April 2021||Thrissur,||Gokulam blazes into semifinals||Gokulam Kerala FC fired in three goals in the last five minutes and became the first team to enter the seventh Ramco Kerala Premier League semifinals after a 4-1 victory over Kerala Police in a Group ‘A’ match at the Corporation Stadium here. Saliou Guindo scored two of these goals in the space of three minutes. Gokulam, with an all-win record from four matches, has 12 points in the six-team group and is assured of the top spot in the pool with Kerala Police far away in the second rung with five points. Earlier in the evening at Kochi’s Maharaja’s Stadium, Ghanaian forward Francis Dadzie scored twice as Kerala United FC brought down the high-flying Mar Athanasius Football Academy with a 3-0 victory. The victory, its third from four matches, took Kerala United to the top of six-team Group ‘B’ with 10 points while overnight group leader Mar Athanasius, virtually the MA College team from Kothamangalam, is in the second spot with seven. It was Mar Athanasius’ first loss in the event.  The results: Group A (at Thrissur): Gokulam Kerala, Koz, 4 (Gritty C. Gracious 23, Saliou Guindo 89 & 90, Lalrinzuala 92) bt Kerala Police, Tvm, 1 (Firoz 95).   Group B (at Kochi): Kerala United FC, Koz, 3 (Francis Dadzie 35 & 84; Muhammed Jinshad 90+4) bt Mar Athanasius FA, Kothamangalam, 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gokulam-blazes-into-semifinals/article34236043.ece
04 April 2021||North Sound,||Lanka holds out for a draw||Sri Lanka's top-order held firm to ensure a draw and a drawn series against the West Indies on the last day of the second and final Test at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium here on Friday. Set a daunting target of 377 and resuming at 29 without loss, the tourists reached 193 for two with a top score of 75 by captain Dimuth Karunaratne and an unbeaten 66 by Oshada Fernando.  Thirimanne ended the series with a tally of 240 runs, the most on either side and putting him three runs ahead of the leading West Indian, captain and fellow opening batsman Kraigg Brathwaite. Early-morning rain delayed the start of play by just over an hour, effectively ending any distant hope the Sri Lankans would have entertained of launching a run-chase.  The scores: West Indies 354 & 280/4 decl. drew with Sri Lanka 258 & 193/2 in 79 overs (Lahiru Thirimanne 39, Dimuth Karunaratne 75, Oshada Fernando 66 n.o.).   Man-of-the-Match: Kraigg Brathwaite; Man-of-the-Series: Suranga Lakmal.   Match drawn and the two-match series drawn 0-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lanka-holds-out-for-a-draw/article34235740.ece
04 April 2021||MUMBAI,||No plans to move out of Mumbai||At least 18 individuals who were to be involved in the Indian Premier League’s Mumbai leg, including Delhi Capitals’ allrounder Axar Patel, have been confirmed as having contracted COVID-19. However, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) is not overly worried about the fate of the Mumbai leg, scheduled from April 10 to 25. The main reason, according to a BCCI official, is that all cases are being detected before they enter the biosecure bubble. Eliminating doubt “The objective of extensive pre-tournament testing is to eliminate all doubts before they enter the bubble. There is need for concern only if an infection is detected within the bubble,” the official told The Hindu on Saturday. At least 10 groundstaff at the Wankhede Stadium — which is to host 10 games — six members of the IPL’s operations/event management team, Axar and a member of Chennai Super Kings’ content management team have been confirmed COVID-19 positive. According to the IPL’s Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), the groundstaff and BCCI operations personnel are not supposed to enter the bubble. According to the CSK team management, its crew member has not been in the bubble and yet is being regularly tested, while Delhi Capitals confirmed Axar’s infection was detected during his second COVID-19 test. As a result, despite murmurs about possible back-ups, the BCCI is not considering moving IPL matches out of Mumbai, which has re-emerged as a major COVID-19 hub along with the rest of the State of Maharashtra. Three tests Every player and support staff member, besides match officials and broadcast crew has to clear three tests during a mandatory seven-day isolation before entering the bubble. And those on the periphery, like groundstaff, are to be tested every third day since a day before teams start training at the venue. Bubble sanctity The BCCI is confident the sanctity of the bubble shall be maintained and the tournament will be conducted without health concerns to everyone involved. Even in 2020, almost two dozen individuals from various teams had tested positive upon arrival in the United Arab Emirates, but the event was staged successfully.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/axar-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article34235808.ece
04 April 2021||KOLKATA,||Gurkeerat replaces Rinku||Kolkata Knight Riders has signed up Gurkeerat Mann as replacement for batsman Rinku Singh, who will be unavailable for IPL-14 due to a knee injury. KKR acquired Gurkeerat at his base price of Rs. 50 lakh, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gurkeerat-replaces-rinku/article34235903.ece
04 April 2021||New Delhi,||Axar tests positive||Delhi Capitals and India all-rounder Axar Patel has tested positive for COVID-19 and kept in isolation, the IPL franchise said on Saturday. Axar is the second IPL player to have returned a positive report after Nitish Rana. The left-handed Kolkata Knight Riders batsman had initially tested positive for COVID-19 but later returned a negative report. “Delhi Capitals all-rounder Axar Patel has tested positive for COVID-19. He had checked into the team hotel in Mumbai on March 28, 2021, with a negative report. “His report from the second COVID test, came positive,” the franchise said in a statement.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/axar-tests-positive/article34235745.ece
04 April 2021||Oman,||Harshita finishes second||Asian Games bronze medallist Harshita Tomar of India finished in second position in the laser radial class at the end of two races of the Asian Olympic sailing qualification which commenced here on Saturday. Harshita came fourth and second in the two races. The event will run till April 8.   The results (overall, placings of Indians):   49er: 4. Varun Thakkar & K.C. Ganapathy; 49erFX: 3. Ekta Yadav & Ritika Dangi; Laser radial: 2. Harshita Tomar, 4. Nethra Kumanan; Laser standard: 6. Upamanyu Dutta, 7. Vishnu Saravanan; Windsurfing: RX: Men: 5. Ebad Ali; RS: X: Women: 3. Ishwariya Ganesh .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harshita-tomar-finishes-second/article34235761.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: TDCA league, I div., Fine Star CA vs Mugappair CC (9.30 a.m.), OCF ground; MAS CC vs Ambattur CC (9.30 a.m.), Gojan SBT. KDCA league, II div., Vijay CC vs Bharath CC (7.30 a.m.); Gurunanak Combines vs Seshadri Memorial CC (12.30 p.m.), Dhanish Ahmed EC. DCAC league, Adambakkam vs Prahlad (7.30 a.m.): KRC vs GE&TD (1 p.m.), Agni EC ground. Young Talents Grand Sports under-14 tournament (8 a.m. & 1 p.m.), Kabilan CA, Perumbakkam; CDCA, Crome CC vs Reddy CC (1 p.m.), Greens Cricket Ground.  Hockey: N.P.V. Ramasamy Udayar Cup, N. P. V. Ramasamy Udayar Centre (Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education & Research), Porur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article34235806.ece
04 April 2021||Los Angeles,||Raptors roll to biggest win in franchise history||Toronto Raptors won the most lopsided game in franchise history with a 130-77 rout of Golden State Warriors in the NBA on Friday. Milwaukee Bucks breezed to a 127-109 win over Portland Trail Blazers.  The results: Pelicans 103 lost to Hawks 126; Pacers 97 lost to Hornets 114; Celtics 118 bt Rockets 102; Knicks 86 lost to Mavericks 99; Suns 140 bt Thunder 103; Trail Blazers 109 lost to Bucks 127; Kings 94 lost to Lakers 115; Jazz 113 bt Bulls 106; Grizzlies 120 bt Timberwolves 108; Raptors 130 bt Warriors 77.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nba-raptors-win-big/article34235904.ece
04 April 2021||Monastir (Tunisia),||Karman Kaur falls in semis||Karman Kaur Thandi lost 7-6(3), 6-3 to second seed Anna Kubareva of Belarus in the $15,000 ITF women’s tennis semifinals here on Saturday. It was the second consecutive semifinal for Karman who will be joining the Indian team for the World Group play-off against Latvia in the Billie Jean King Cup.  The results: $15,000 ITF women, Monastir, Tunisia: Semifinals: Anna Kubareva (Blr) bt Karman Kaur Thandi 7-6(3), 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karman-falls-in-semis/article34235762.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 07:59 IST,||Sudoku — April 4, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-4-2021/article34236326.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||This action hero gets a radio hit||Suniel Shetty posted a nostalgic tweet on March 31, which marked the 21st anniversary of Hera Pheri ’s release. Sharing a still from the film, he said, “No wonder we underestimate how quickly time flies. It seems I blinked, and 21 years went by. What a film we made.” The slapstick comedy by Priyadarshan is among his finest films in a career spanning close to three decades. But the veteran actor makes an admission: “I got a break in films due to my action and not due to my acting.” Suniel was indeed typecast as an action star. In many of his earlier works, like Mohra and Vinashak , he plays a brawny guy usually out to avenge the injustice he or someone else suffered. His acting, when he began films, was deadpan, but he could land punches, and perform flying kicks and fire stunts.  The show must go on  This makes him the apt host for BIG FM’s new wellness show,21 Din Wellness In. In the three-week show, which began on March 22, Suniel encourages listeners to lead a healthy life. He shares his daily routine, with fitness playing a vital role, and speaks to several experts on physical, mental and emotional well-being. “I believe that it takes seven days to form a habit; 14 days to start seeing the change it brings; and 21 days to be visible to others. So, that’s the idea behind the title,” he says about the show. He is excited because this is his first radio show. “Radio... gives you that feeling of intimacy. You feel the host is directly speaking to you. Since it has tremendous reach, you can discuss wellness, which, in the wake of the pandemic, has become so important. For me, wellness is more than just the body. It is about mental health, nutrition, recovery from injuries, and confidence.” Cricket, karate, and yoga Suniel’s fondness for fitness started in school. “I was an athlete all along,” he says. “I was into cricket at school. I wanted to play for the country, back then. Then, to get stronger, I joined martial arts. I started with the Okinawa Gōjū-ryū style of karate.” He also has a black belt in kickboxing. It was his fitness that gave him his film break and he was quickly typecast as an action hero and fitness was no longer just an option. Yet, Suniel never loathed his workouts. Shooting or not, he is up by 6 a.m. Two hours a day are spent in exercise and yoga. “You cannot build your body overnight,” he says. “I think that’s why I am doing a show called 21 Din Wellness In and not ‘Six packs in six days’. Fitness should be a part of your lifestyle.” Leena Mogre, one of the celebrity fitness experts Suniel interacts with on the show, agrees. Leena is among India’s first female personal fitness trainers. Her clientèle in the past has included some of the top film stars, like Madhuri Dixit-Nene, and John Abraham. She has been in the fitness industry for over 25 years. “Today, everyone is confused because there are so many workouts,” she says. “For instance, some people say, ‘I’ll start CrossFit to lose weight.’ Then, they will get injured and blame the exercise. So, it’s important to assess what suits you.” What has worked through life for Suniel has been yoga. Apart from keeping him in shape, it has helped him handle the mental demands of his profession as well. “For me, it’s not about flexing your body or touching your toes; it’s more about how you can hold your breath, how you can maintain a certain energy. When you start exploring yoga, you realise it goes deep.” At 60, Suniel is trying to do roles that demand acting more than action, not because his body is preventing him, but as a diversification of what he can do. He continues to do roles that are physically demanding as well. He played the antagonist in Darbar , a cop action drama starring Rajinikanth, in 2020. In the National Award-winning Marakkar: Lion of the Arabian Sea , set to be released in May, he plays a sword-wielding warrior named Chandroth Panicker. “Today, I look to age gracefully,” he says. “I can’t avoid the process of ageing but I can delay it. So, I am trying to tell people that if I can do it at 60, you can do it any time.” 21 Din Wellness Inairs on BIG FM from Monday to Friday: 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. in metro cities; 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. in Kolkata; and 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. in non-metros.  For me, wellness is more than just the body. It is about mental health, nutrition, recovery from injuries, and confidence||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/this-action-hero-gets-a-radio-hit/article34236124.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Turn your face towards the sunshine||Trigger warning: This article contains material related to suicide and mental illness. Discretion is advised.  I sat in a psychiatrist’s room at one of Delhi’s best known mental health facilities. Surrounded with drawings by children, most happy-looking pictures, I told the doctor my ‘case history’. As a health journalist I had done enough stories over the years to understand the importance of including everything, to maximise my visit and my treatment. I was determined to stay in control. ‘Anorexia’ she jotted down, with a few more symptoms. Even as she wrote it down, I wondered if I should reiterate that I had it in school — at 17, when I believed I was fat. I wasn’t. I want to tell her that while I had always had a bad relationship with food, the anorexia had never recurred. Like most people who don’t speak up because they assume they’ve got it wrong, I let it be. On every occasion after, when she’d spend about 10 minutes with me, she’d ask how I was doing with my anorexia. Every time I would tell her it wasn’t a concern at the moment. I wanted to say I still felt fat, binge ate, but from someone at their ‘ideal weight’ I felt I was wasting her time. There was always a crowd outside her door with people spilling in, and their concerns seemed more urgent, more serious than mine. She prescribed me pills — SSRIs — meds that give depressed people a ‘shot’ of serotonin, one of the four happy hormones. I was diagnosed with dysthymia, a chronic, long-term, mild depression. Its equivalent to a physical health problem is this: imagine if you had low grade fever every day for over two years. You learn to live with it, telling yourself you have to dress up, work hard, pack lunch, socialise. I also had thoughts of suicide, and was told strictly to come in to the hospital if I felt the urge very strongly. I said I didn’t feel the urge strongly. It was just a recurring thought. Nothing more. A sort of mental getaway when life felt overwhelming. It often did, three years ago. Sometimes, it still does. I was also ‘handled’ by a psychologist. She helped me some. So did the meds. With both, I was able to see in time that sunshine, healthy food, and exercise — and if I could combine them, exercise in the sun — helped me more than anyone talking to me about flawed thinking patterns (though an awareness of this helps). I now also understand that we all have choices — around the way we react, the memories we hold on to, the grudges we nurse, the friends we keep. The anxiety still rises to my throat — it’s a feeling I realise I have lived with through life. Imagine being in a fight or flight stage for a lot of the day, across years. This pattern is going to take time to get out of; my wounds will take time to heal. But I know I must heal. Life is long, and it’s best lived with a bit of fun. I do tell a few people that I have experienced dysthymia, but I am careful about who I tell, lest people judge me, as being an unworthy mother, an undependable colleague. For those I can speak to, I say that there are some days I don’t want to get out of bed, when I don’t want to speak to anyone. On those days, I still put on a dress, some kajal, smile at myself in the mirror and step out. Because there’s always the sun, and it invariably shines through the clouds. The writer wishes to remain anonymous.  If these topics cause emotional, mental, or physical distress, please call 24-hour helplines Sneha at 044-24640059 or Aasra at 9820466726  In this column, we invite people to share their lived experiences of mental health||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/turn-your-face-towards-the-sunshine/article34236125.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Gated community completes one year of reading programme||Grey hair often settles into the pages of children’s books. Here is why. Classic children’s literature is fodder for academic research. The irony is that tales that barely fill an A3 sheet inspire interpretations so voluminous they can crash servers. The closer an interpretation is to current affairs, the greater its traction. Take an example from recent times. In 2019, in the study titled “Hans Christian Andersen in Trumpland”, Clara Juncker from the Department for the Study of Culture, University of Southern Denmark, attempted to deconstruct “Trumpism” by recording the echoes of two timeless stories by the legendary Andersen, as she heard them in Donald Trump’s election in 2016 and the style of governance that followed it. Reason Two: Grown-ups also go back to these classics for day-to-day guidance. The tragedy is that while grown-ups find inspiration and solace from children’s literature, and also drive political narratives with it, children’s hands are often found void of this resource, and is instead filled with gaming-consoles. Around this time in 2020, during the very first lockdown, a gated community corrected this anomaly. It sought to return children’s books to where it belonged. Incidentally, it happened around International Children's Book Day — April 2, which marks Hans Christian Andersen’s birth anniversary. Parents at Rani Meyyammai Towers (RMT) in MRC Nagar were puzzling out how to keep children gainfully engaged during the lockdown. A confabulation on an online group threw up options, one of which was a regular book-reading session on Zoom. There was a ready volunteer in Lakshmi Mitter, an RMT resident and someone writing content for children’s publications. Jayashree Sunderasan, an RMT resident, recalls, “The idea was to get the reading habit and interest going. Lakshmi would choose a portion of a book or take an article, and ask the children to read it aloud. Through leading questions, the exercise ascertained how well the children had comprehended it.” “I volunteered to organise reading sessions for children in the age groups of 7 to 10 and 11 to 14,” says Lakshmi. “Each group would meet for an hour or so, every day, on Zoom.” With lockdown blending seamlessly into another lockdown and then another, what was conceptualised as a short-term exercise became a workaday feature at RMT. And in time, it gave rise to a structured exercise that came with a fee. “The exercise went on for two months, after which it became a paid programme. The idea to make it a structured, paid programme came from the parents themselves,” says Jayashree. “Talking Circle, as it is called, is a cohort-based reading programme for children, with two streams. Young Readers Club (7-to-10-year-olds) meets twice a week to discuss books, reading and analysing them together. Young Executives Club (11-to-14 year-olds) features group discussions and debates in addition to reading. News gets bunged into discussions. Sometimes, activities centre around resolving a real-life problem, chipping away at it as a team. The older age group is also put through writing assignments,” says Lakshmi, who was earlier running a personalised story-book publishing enterprise, which wound up operations around the time the pandemic started. She underlines that parents’ experience is that peer-based group reading encourages children to continue with reading books, as this form of reading as well as sharing from the books they have read individually, constitute a social activity. “A set of parents think when peers recommend books, children are motivated to read them, and also persist with the genre. They may also choose other genres simply to share with their peers,” says Lakshmi. “Every time a new book has to be chosen, I put up the covers and blurbs of three books, and ask the children to rate them. The one that garners the most number of votes from the children qualifies for the group book-reading session. I will be putting up the pages to be read on the screen and sharing the screen with the children.” Lakshmi points out that Talking Circle now is not only about children from RMT, but includes children from other cities, including Hyderabad, Cuddalore, Jaipur, Bengaluru and Pune. “There are 35 children on board, and they joined with their parents learning about the initiative mostly by word of mouth.”  Every time a new book has to be chosen, I put up the covers and blurbs of three books, and ask the children to rate them||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/gated-community-completes-one-year-of-reading-programme/article34235425.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Marathon funds used to set up cerebral palsy lab||If you know of anyone with Cerebral Plasy (CP) who wants to improve their gait, walkability and wheelchair mobility, then guide them to the National Institute for Empowerment of Persons with Multiple Disabilities (NIEPMD) at Muthukad on East Coast Road. The Institute got an adapted sports lab for children with CP and other multiple disabilities, thanks to over 700 running enthusiasts and many other well-wishers from Inner Strength Trust. The lab, which was opened to coincide with Cerebral Palsy Awareness Month, promises to be a place where those with disabilities can play football, carrom board, basketball, portable goal poll and other games that will help improve hand-eye coordination and finger dexterity. “We have 135 children with multiple disabilities enrolled with our model school found on the campus. Besides taking part in these activities at the lab, outsiders can register with the office for other services offered at the Institute that would help improve their hand-eye coordination,” says K.K. Dhanavendan, teacher for CP at NIEPMD.  Running for a cause  Since 2017, Inner Strength Trust, a non-profit that earns from marathons conducted by UNIS Running group, has been supporting those diagonised with CP. “A physiotherapist in our group often used to tell us about the challenges faced by those with CP, including the cost of the physiotherapy they needed every day, and that led us to start supporting them,” says Viji Swaminathan, founder of the Trust. She says treatment for 15 children was sponsored in 2017, an it cost around Rs. 2.5 lakh. In the following years, the Trust helped NIEPMD with equipment required to help children with CP, with their learning and development needs. In 2020, Rs. 2.5 lakh was spent towards the surgery of almost 20 children who have CP. The 2021 edition of the Madras Inner Strength Half Marathon had 750 participants and the proceeds from the event went towards establishing the lab at NIEPMD. Others dignitaries who took part in the inauguration are Mudumbi Narayan and Ranish Haran, members of Inner Strength Trust; A. Amarnath, deputy registrar (Offg); and B. Leelavathi, principal in-charge, Model School for Persons with Multiple Disabilities. For details, contact 9444314716.  A physiotherapist in our group often used to tell us about the challenges faced by those with CP, including the cost of the physiotherapy they needed every day, and that led us to start supporting them||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/marathon-funds-used-to-set-up-cerebral-palsy-lab/article34235423.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Water pipeline damaged’||On March 30, a CMWSSB drinking water pipeline at Tansi Nagar 14 Street in Velachery got damaged as a result of an underground electricity cable-laying work, causing a considerable amount of water to be wasted. It signifies negligence on the part of Tangedco and its contractor. Tangedco’s officials should be around to supervise such work. It is a few months since Tangedco began its undeground cable-laying work, and there have been many such instances of negligence. They damage either the CMWSSB’s pipes or telecommunication cables. Tangedco has to increase the height of pillar boxes installed as part of underground cable-laying work. In many parts of Velachery, these boxes have been installed at a low height, which would not help matters during floods. It could lead to untoward incidents, and not just power outages. So, the necessary corrections should be carried out. S. Kumararaja is president of Annai Indira Nagar Residents Welfare Associaiton||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/water-pipeline-damaged/article34235410.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Help in getting to the booth||Senior citizens and those with disabilities who may need a wheelchair and also a vehicle that factors in their unique limitations, to get to the polling booth, now know where to look for it. Vidya Sagar, an NGO working for persons with disabilities, started Get Going two years ago to help those with varying disabilities to travel comfortably in an inclusive vehicle. “This was largely being availed by the alumni and staff of Vidya Sagar who want to get to their workplace or travel independently. We have two of these inclusive vehicles and we are now offering them to those who may need them to get to the polling booth, at Rs. 25 per kilometre (Kotturpuram being the start and end point). The vehicle has to be booked at least a day in advance, ” says M. Abhishek, coordinator, Get Going. Equipped with a hydraulic lift, the Tata Winger can accommodate up to three wheelchairs with four additional seats. There are three drivers specially trained to meet the needs of the special-needs people. “Prior to the pandemic, we had the vehicles making trips to different parts of the city to ferry people. Many even availed them for their weekend outings. Recently, we had the vehicle make a trip to Vellore,” says Abhishek. For bookings, call 9444398182 ‘Helpee Hands’ Helpee and Sarada Foundations have launched an initiative to help senior citizens reach the voting centre or access any other assistance relating to the voting process. ‘Voting Assist’ can be availed either through WhatsApp or a call by posting the task and a ‘Helpee Hand’ will reach out to the individual. Helpee is a two-year-old start-up whose workers run errands and organise hospital visits for seniors. They also train them on how to use the Internet. “Assistance to walk to the polling station/ wheelchair support/ transport arrangement to get to the centre/ queries with regard to the voting centre — we expect requests for any of these services or a mix of them to come up on our platform,” says Suman Choudhary, founder, Helpee. He says ‘Helpee Hands’ are verified and background-checked from the local community. The two organisations also ensure senior citizens receive their vaccinations without any hassle. As per its website, the first 300 elders get this service at no cost. For details, visitwww.helpee.inor call 8861608484  Prior to the pandemic, we had the vehicles making trips to different parts of the city to ferry people||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/help-in-getting-to-the-booth/article34235434.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Science teacher dons new hat||Duraiswamy Suresh is a go-to person, this season. A science teacher at CSI Higher Secondary School for the Deaf at Santhome, 48-year-old Duraiswamy is sought by government departments for his proficiency in sign-language. His latest client is the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission, which has tasked him with creating awareness on voting among speech-and-hearing-impaired voters. At a recent press conference chaired by the Tamil Nadu Chief Electoral Officer Satyaprakash Sahoo, the spotlight found Duraiswamy, as he interpreted the official’s speech. His interpretations were being captured by television crews for the benefit of their differently-abled audience. “For many years, I have been the official interpreter at the Monday grievance meeting at the Chennai Collectorate office where I help speech-and-hearing-impaired visitors to air their grievances. In most cases, they get immediate relief and that gives me immense joy,” says Suresh, who has been a science teacher at the CSI Higher Secondary School for the Deaf for two decades. On how Suresh became a sought-after sign language interpreter, he was invited by the Periamet police on Raja Muthiah Road to help them solve a theft case that involved a speech-and-hearing-impaired person. Suresh recalls how he was taken to the lock-up and asked to engage with the culprit. The police tried unsuccessfully to get the culprit to reveal the details of the theft of stolen cables used as ducts in the air-conditioned train coaches at the Central railway station. “I spent the next 24 hours in the lock-up helping the suspect reveal the cables’ whereabouts. The suspect revealed that he had sold the cables to an electrical shop,” he says. Since then, Suresh is a familiar face at the police station, being invited regularly, to attend court proceedings in the sub-courts at Egmore, Saidapet, Allikulam and Alandur. Humble beginnings Suresh, a first-generation learner, spent much of his childhood at Adikarapatti village in Thiruvallur district before moving to his uncle’s home at Thiruvallur town at age eleven for better educational prospects. His father, C. Duraiswamy, was a farmer. Suresh completed his post graduation from the University of Madras in the late-1990s before enrolling himself as Senior Diploma Teacher for the Deaf. Subsequently, Suresh joined the CSI Higher Secondary School for the Deaf at Santhome.  I have been the official interpreter at the Monday grievance meetings at the Chennai Collectorate office||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/science-teacher-dons-new-hat/article34235432.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Presenting part two of a recycling initiative||Often times those working tirelessly behind the scenes, sadly just stay there. Occasionally, their work is acknowledged in small print. This is an attempt to remove the veil and spotlight those who keep the recycling wheel spinning, silently and with quiet efficiency. Last month, a drive by ROKA to collect clothes that have outlived their use and other discards, yielded 9.9 metric tonnes of worn-out clothes and 1.8 metric tonnes of totally unusable footwear, mattresses and pillows. In the hands of the residents at Little Drops, a home for the destitute old, these worn-out clothes are finding new usefulness. There are many names behind this faceless work. Shenbagam patti is one of them. Along with her friends, she is repurposing the torn clothes, turning them into diapers for bed-ridden residents. Pillows, mats and cushions would also be made out of these clothes. The Little Drops has a Trash & Treasure shop at Porur, not too far from its home, where clothes that are not re-purposed and can be used with zero-to-minimal improvements, are put up for sale for the benefit of the less fortunate, at a nominal cost. ROKA had made a visit to the organisation two weeks before the drive to understand how best the collected clothes would be reused. So, we could tell the 460-odd people from across the length and breadth of Chennai — from Puruswakkam to Valasaravakkam, Porur to Perungudi, Madippakkamto Medavakkam and so on — who donated these clothes, that their contribution would effect a change at many levels, besides preventing a mammoth load of trash from reaching the landfill. Now, the question on their lips could be: What happened to the nearly two metric tonnes of unusables — the footwear, mattresses and pillows? They were safely loaded and transported to the facility run by Greater Chennai Corporation’s empanelled aggregator Wastewinn Foundation, for recycling. Imagine two metric tonnes of footwear, mattresses and pillows not landing up at the landfill — isn’t that an exciting thought to mull over? ROKA has a word of appreciation for GCC officials for their unstinted support to the Association’s waste-management initiatives. Janani Venkitesh is the secretary of Residents of Kasturba Nagar Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/presenting-part-two-of-a-recycling-initiative/article34235404.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Footpath disturbed||Last week, the Bus Route Roads Department of the Greater Chennai Corporation removed slabs from the footpath, for a length of 150 metres, on Besant Avenue Road, near The Theosophical Society. There is still not complete clarity on what the Greater Chennai Corporation is planning to execute on this section of the footpath. However, members of Spark, a city-based civic forum, say that according to information available with them, the civic body is working on a plan to turn this section of the footpath into a natural heritage area, with photography allowed. T. D. Babu, founder, Spark, says this development raises concern at multiple levels. One, this area is located 100 metres before a curve on the stretch, which is designated as an accident prone-zone. He points out that while removing the slabs, the electrical ducts have been damaged. The project is on hold after residents and Spark took up the issue with the top authorities in GCC. “The residents were not consulted before the removal of the slabs from the footpath. Further, we won’t allow parking of vehicles at the area. Further, we have requested GCC to facilitate a steel railing along the footpaths to prevent encroachments by hawkers,” says Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/footpath-disturbed/article34235397.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||A new experience||Ambattur Rotary Hospital recently took the wraps off a renovated cerebral palsy (CP) unit. Amba Cerebral Palsy Rehab Centre, as it is called, would serve children with CP from underprivileged families. The Centre is equipped with ‘therasuits’ from the United States, gait-training equipment, vertical trainers and treadmills. It also houses a hydrotherapy pool and other modern equipment that would help improve motor control together with physiotherapy exercises, says a press release. Since 2006, Rotary Club of Ambattur runs this signature project of treating and rehabilitating children with CP through its dedicated NGO arm, Ambattur Rotary Charitable Trust. The Ambattur Rotary Hospital comes under the Trust. According to an estimate, in India, three children out of every 1000 live births are affected by cerebral palsy, says the release. On an average, 30 to 35 children are treated for cerebral palsy every day at the hospital. The release points out that upgradation of the CP wing was made possible by the CSR funds extended by Heat & Control (South Asia) Private Limited; and expenditure of acquiring certain sophisticated equipment was met via the Global Grants scheme offered by Rotary Foundation of Rotary International. “The Centre started in a small way with one of our Rotarians, Prem Watwani, sponsoring treatment and equipment needs of the children with CP for eight years. To keep this initiative going as well as to benefit more children, we made sure there was funding by Global Grants scheme,” says M. Viswanathan, president, Rotary Club of Ambattur. The treatment is free irrespective of the economic status of the family, but those who can afford, can pay to avail the treatment, says Viswanathan. The hospital is at SP 98, Ambattur Industrial Estate, 1 St Main Road  On an average, 30 to 35 children are treated every day at the hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-new-experience/article34235417.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||A steep challenge||The Terek Sandpiper’s forehead is a cliff dressed in feathers. The bird would still be headbutted out of a “Mr. Steep Forehead” contest for birds. The Pied Avocet, also a Chennai migrant, is enough to dash its hopes. Placed next to the Avocet’s forehead, Mount Thor with its daunting cliff is just a hopelesly flat-lined ECG lead. The Terek Sandpiper’s more attention-grabbing feature is its upcurved bill. Here again, the Pied Avocet is comfortably placed above the competition. The Terek Sandpiper’s nickname — Avocet Sandpiper — in fact settles the matter, announcing who gets the better of the other in the two-feature contest. “As with plovers, the Terek Sandpiper’s bill rises immediately from the bill base,” says S. Balachandran, deputy director, BHNS Regional Migration Study Centre, Point Calimere. Balachandran has literally had a “ring-side” view of this species, having held some in his palms, year after year, to have them ringed. “On an average, 15 to 20 Terek Sandpipers are ringed at the centre,” Balachandran volunteers the information. His observations of the Terek Sandpiper at Point Calimere confirm what is generally believed to be true about the species. That it does not wrack its steep forehead over the Ruddy Turnstone poking around in its feeding area. It is their differences that probably enable these two birds to share feeding space, without frequent squawks of protest. With its strong and short bill, the Ruddy Turnstone probes into the mud and pecks hard at the flotsam that may be harbouring prey, or turns small stones to expose hidden meals. Balachandran points out that with its upcurved bill, the Terek Sandpiper’s foraging behaviour contrasts sharply with the Ruddy Turnstone’s. “The Terek Sandpiper has to scoop its prey out of the mud, before ingesting it,” explains Balachandran. From there, an inference is almost begging to be made. Though the Terek Sandpiper shares a good part of its diet plan with the Ruddy Turnstone — the Terek Sandpiper feeds largely on crabs, and sometimes molluscs, as Balachandran puts it — the difference in the design of their feeding tools seems to be achieve a balance that enables bill-gritting tolerance and co-existence. It is at common feeding grounds that one finds a strong reason to be thankful that birds’ bills do not follow a cookie-cutter design. Hardly gregarious “The Terek Sandpiper does not occur in large flocks in any part of its distribution range,” says Balachandran. Vikas Madhav Nagarajan, eBird reviewer, puts it this way: A large flock of Terek Sandpiper could often just mean “four birds together”. Vikas points out that in its range, sightings of the Terek Sandpiper are most likely around tidal flats, particularly mangrove tidal flats, and estuarine systems. “It is found in such an environment around Marakanam, Mudaliar Kuppam backwaters and Pulicat,” he elaborates. Given this, why doesn’t Adyar Estuary also figure prominently among its hangouts? “It may be difficult to find the bird there, but not impossible. It is a skulky bird and would not be visible from a place that we are able to access. They could be found in the sand bars at Adyar Estuary,” is Vikas’ response. The eBird reviewer however calls it a “regular” bird showing up where it is expected to — Vikas’ view is based partly on his observation of the Terek Sandpiper consistently keeping its date with a particular sand bar at Mudaliar Kuppam Backwaters, over the years.  (Migrant Watch is a weekly column about the birds that visit Chennai during the migratory season)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-steep-challenge/article34235430.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Residents spruce up key road||A stretch of Varadhapuram Main Road along the compound of a park at Nesamani Nagar wears a new look. Earlier overrun with heaps of waste, the spot is now clean. In February, Chettinadd Greenville Owners Association took up this cleaning exercise. With the consent of the Perumbakkam Panchayat, the Association laid a path of paver-blocks along the compound wall of the park and had it fenced. Further, the Association made sure the compound wall received a fresh coat of paint. “Only in the past two years, this problem has been cropping up. Probably, many new apartments and houses have come up and the volume of waste generation has increased. When we inform the Panchayat, its workers come and clear the place. But again, within a few hours, the waste begins to pile up. The approach road — Varadhapuram Main Road — was an eyesore due to dumping of garbage. So, we came up with this cleaning exercise. We were planning this last year itself, but put the plan on hold due to the pandemic. However, early this year, we once again considered it and the work was carried out in February. The expenditure was borne by the Association. Thankfully, ever since the place was restored nobody has dumped waste,” says Gratia Sajish, secretary, Chettinadd Greenville Owners Association. Inspired by Chettinadd Greenville Owners Association, the residents’ associations at neighbouring apartments Stepstone Atchyuta and Colorgate along with Varadhapuram Residents Welfare Association are planning to carry out a similar exercise near the bunds of Sitheri lake in Perumakkam. “Here too, waste pile-ups can be found. We would like to clear them and plant tree saplings. Besides, the section of the lake where waste is dumped will be fenced. This will be done with the Panchayat’s consent,” says Srinivasan, member of Varadhapuram Residents Welfare Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/residents-spruce-up-key-road/article34235413.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Walkers forum wants beach road to be relaid||East Coast Beach Walkers’ Association has sought that the road along Thiruvalluvar Nagar beach in Thiruvanmiyur be relaid. This beach witnesses a good number of visitors including fitness enthusiasts. Despite this, the beach road is battered, and also marked by protruding stones. Stray dog menace, ranging stray cattle, increasing vehicular traffic and dumping of construction debris are the other issues encountered on this road. “Pedestrians have to watch our steps as the road is uneven. Two women have fallen and sustained fractures. We have been requesting the Greater Chennai Corporation to relay the road as it is in a bad shape and senior citizens find it unsafe to walk on,” says T. Arunachalam, secretary, East Coast Beach Walkers’ Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/walkers-forum-wants-beach-road-to-be-relaid/article34235392.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||On World Autism Day, special children showcase their artworks||Twenty neuro-diverse children are showcasing their artworks at an exhibition that opened on April 2, marking World Autism Awareness Day. The special artists are students of A Brush With Art (ABWA), a programme for the neuro-diverse. Launched in 2016 in Besant Nagar, the programme since then has a permanent studio at the Cholamandal Artists Village on East Coast Road. ABWA has been associated with that campus over these years, except of course for the last one year when the pandemic forced it on to a virtual platform. The students face various challenges — non-verbal, autistic, hyperactive, dyslexic — and their prowess as artists signals a victory over the factors limiting them. ABWA started Madhav Krishnan on his journey of explorations through the medium of art. The classes did not teach in the conventional way of drawing forms but offered the child a choice of material and then allowed him the freedom to experiment and explore. “Over the years, from complete free abstract expressions he has now moved to a more structured programme. I find that the experiences that bring Madhav joy often find themselves reflected as motifs in his art. He loves drinking tea and many of his paintings have teapots and cups. Hotels, surfboards, favourite people have all often crept into his paintings,” says Madhuca, Madhav’s mother. The ABWA show seeks to create awareness about autism. “With awareness comes understanding and with understanding comes acceptance,” says Mala Chinnappa, an ABWA facilitator. In 2018-19, artworks by 11 children were featured in the Outsider Art Show, during the Kochi Biennale, and annually at an exhibition at Cholamandal Artists Village. “The encouragement received by the young artists from these platforms boosted their confidence and they have been holding such shows in the city since then,” says Mala, adding that “over the years the work has come with a greater ring of maturity.” The artworks that can be purchased will be on display through April (between 11.30 am to 7.30 p.m) at Paati Veedu, a restaurant at Bhagirathi Ammal Street, T. Nagar.  With awareness comes understanding and with understanding comes acceptance||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/on-world-autism-day-special-children-showcase-their-artworks/article34235421.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Fencer honoured||Hindustan International School, Guindy, felicitated C A Bhavani Devi, for her achievement in fencing at the national level. According to a press release, Bhavani Devi won her ninth title in the 31st Senior National Fencing Championship and has qualified for the Olympic Games in Tokyo. Anand Jacob Verghese, director and CEO of Hindustan Group of Institutions initiated the felicitation. In the presence of dean, academics; registrar; principal and other important members of the institution, Ashok G Verghese, director of Hindustan Group of Institutions, felicitated Bhavani Devi, adds the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/fencer-honoured/article34235388.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||New residents’ association formed in Semmancherry||Seventy-one residents of Rajiv Gandhi Nagar in Semmancherry have come together and formed an association called Rajiv Gandhi Nagar Youth Welfare Association (RGNYWA). Spread over nine streets, the decades-old locality leaves a lot to be desired in terms of civic amenities. Hence, the residents have formed an association. This area falls in Ward 200 of the Zone 15 (Sholinganallur) of the Greater Chennai Corporation. According to A. Athishtaraj, Association president, and S. Jayakumar, its treasurer, residents have been fighting for basic civic amenities — drinking water supply, good roads, upgradation of transformers, street lights and stormwater drains — for years. So, the Association is now working towards resolving these issues. The Association can be reached at 74015 48693/ 96001 72355.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/new-residents-association-formed-in-semmancherry/article34235395.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Jewellery store in Thiruvanmiyur||Mahalaxmi Gold & Diamond Merchants opened its showroom on L.B. Road in Thiruvanmiyur on April 1. According to a press release, the 6,000 sq.ft outlet has four floors with dedicated sections for display and sale of gold, silver, diamond and bridal jewellery. The store has come up with various special inaugural offers, including no-waste charges and no-making charges. The offer ends on April 20. The showroom was inaugurated by its proprietor S. Kishore Kumar Jain and his Son K.V. Karan. For 22 years, this store was in Adyar, adds the press release. For details, call 044 - 4211 7771 / 9283 916916||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/jewellery-store-in-thiruvanmiyur/article34235408.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Catching up, after 50 years||Around a fortnight ago, the alumni of the 1970 SSLC batch of PS High School, Mylapore, had their golden jubilee reunion on the school premises. The reunion had to be delayed by around one year due to the pandemic. This batch of students enrolled with the school between 1964 and 1970. The 1970 batch had 40 students per section, with the sections spanning from A to G. As even landlines were a rarity in those days, the task of tracing contacts from 50 years ago was Herculean. Fortunately, TN Janakiraman, Prabhakaran, CR Ravi, Easwaran and Raman and myself, all belonging to this batch, remained in the same address since our days at school. This factor enabled us to establish an action group, which was instrumental in expanding the circle of contacts to 49 members. As this group connected with their schoolmates, they noticed great willingness to join the group, a lack of contact yawning across 50 years. By October 2020, the members had established communication with the current headmistress of the school, Kala R. and the Secretary of PS Educational Society, K. V. S. Gopalakrishnan. During this process, the group also took stock of the school’s current requirements to ascertain the possible ways in which they could contribute towards its advancement. Through these interactions, the need for upgrading the facilities at the school’s computer lab was understood and conveyed to members of the group. With contributions being made by the members of the group, the efforts commenced to provide equipment for a full-class of students, including computers, air-conditioners, wall-mounted fans and a vacuum cleaner for the upkeep of the facility. By December 2020, the outcome of all the efforts came together and the school authorities were able to start utilising the facilities for the ongoing batch of students. The members of the group also brought their efforts together in locating and felicitating their teachers, from their time at the school. Their efforts reached far beyond the shores of India, with one of the teachers, now a resident of the United States, being met in person by Ramachandran, one of the members of the group to express gratitude on behalf of the batch. And finally, the golden jubilee reunion happened on 20 March, 2021, with the function was graced by the presence of the Secretary of P. S. Educational Society K.V.S. Gopalakrishnan; president of PS High School Alumni Association, Sundararajan; secretary of the Alumni Association, Shivakumar; and the present headmistress of PS Higher Secondary School, Kala R.  An action group we established was instrumental in expanding the circle of contacts significantly||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/catching-up-after-50-years/article34235428.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Kelambakkam sub-post office moved to a new building||Kelambakkam sub post office, which was functioning near the bus terminus, has been shifted to a new building in the same area. The new sub-post office was inaugurated recently by Dr. Susan Marthandan, director, Hindustan College of Arts and Science. “The old building had suffered considerable damage, especially during the monsoon, when rainwater used to seep in; so, there was a need to shift it to a new premises,” said an official with the postal department. The new office will offer a range of services including booking for speed-post and delivery. “All services that are available at the Tambaram head post office will be available here too,” says the official. The department has also been promoting the ‘My Stamp’ service, where on payment of Rs. 300, an individual can get a photo printed on the stamp. “Printing the stamp needs a special printer that is available at the Tambaram post office,” the official adds. Dr. Susan Marthandan got a ‘My Stamp’ issued with her image, and also recalled memories about the post office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/kelambakkam-sub-post-office-moved-to-a-new-building/article34235393.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Buy books by the weight||Come prepared to buy pre-owned books by its weight at this exhibition organised by Booksbyweight, an Mumbai-based enterprise that has brought the concept to Chennai. The exhibition will be on between April 8 and 11. “We have organised similar sales in the past in Chennai and the response has been encouraging,” says Madhavi Gupta of Booksbyweight. Books will come with different price range based on genres they slot into. Books on fiction are priced at Rs. 100 a kilo; children’s premium book at Rs. 300 a kilo; and children’s board books and sound books at Rs. 400 a kilo. “For example, a Dan Brown book would be priced anywhere between Rs. 30 and Rs. 40,” says Madhavi. Selling books by weight is more economical for the buyer than shopping by MRP, she says. “All our books are second-hand books, but they look as good as new,” she adds. The exhibition is on from April 8 to 11 (10 a.m. to 8 p.m.) at Sri Sankara Hall, T.T.K Road, Alwarpet. According to a press release, social distancing norms will be followed and entry will be prohibited for those without a mask. The organisers do not provide carry bags, the release adds. For details, contact 9821026234||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/buy-books-by-the-weight/article34235427.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Vaccination camp at AGS Colony||The Health Department of Greater Chennai Corporation recently organised a vaccination camp at AGS Colony in Velachery for the benefit of its residents. According to a press release, around 500 residents made use of the camp, which was held at a private school in the neighbourhood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/vaccination-camp-at-ags-colony/article34235390.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Geriatric patients need extra care’||With second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic on us, it becomes important that extra care is offered to the elderly. Medical support must be provided to them at their residence because to avoid unnecessary hospitalisation, says a press release from Dr. Kamakshi Memorial Hospitals. The Hospitals has a slew of measures to ensure its geriatric patients are kept comfortable and safe at every step, during this second wave. It covers ensuring COVID-19 vaccination or any other, obtaining prescribed medicines at home and safe home collection of blood samples and also providing caregivers to assist them. The doctors and staff are trained to deal with geriatric patients and provide them a holistic care so that their quality of life does not suffer during the second wave, the release says. For details, call 044-66300300 or visit www.drkmh.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/geriatric-patients-need-extra-care/article34235415.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Velachery RWA creates awareness on voting through banners||Annai Indira Nagar Resdients Welfare Associaiton in Velachery has installed four banners on streets in Annai Indira Nagar. The banners seek to create awareness about the importance of voting. “We want people to cast their vote. The banner contains information provided on the website of the Election Commission of India,” says S. Kumararaja, member of the association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/velachery-rwa-creates-awareness-on-voting-through-banners/article34235385.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Eco-friendly products sale in Guindy||In commemoration of Earth Day, Women Entrepreneurs India is organising a sale of environment-friendly products on April 22 at Olympia Teknos in Guindy. Time: From 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. Entrepreneurs interested in taking part in the sale should register on or before April 10. For details, call 9952013800 or visit https://www.womenentrepreneursindia.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/eco-friendly-products-sale-in-guindy/article34235386.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Dance school in Neelankarai celebrates first anniversary||Kathak Darpan, a dance school at Sri Kapaleeswarar Nagar in Neelankarai, recently celebrated its first anniversary with a colourful presentation by its students. Just a couple of months after its inception of the dance shool, run by Neha Banerjee, there was the pandemic to deal with. A majority of the students learnt online, a press release says. This anniversary event was made special by live accompanists from Mumbai, Somnath Maharajji and Vivek Mishraji on on the tabla and vocals, the release adds. Indu, Bharatnatyam exponent and lecturer from Kalakshetra, was the chief guest. The show went live via webcast, enabling many people across the globe to attend it virtually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/dance-school-in-neelankarai-celebrates-first-anniversary/article34235406.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||A formula that worked||Take a leaf out of Rani Meyyammani Towers’ book, on how to keep the community library well-hoofed. Jayashree Sunderasan, a resident, descontructs a formula that worked at RMT. One, the library with its comfortable furniture is first and foremost just a hangout for children. Two, there is a scattering of board games to keep them parked in the library sufficiently long to catch a glimpse of some titles. Three, when they start flipping through the pages, start designing story-telling sessions around the children’s books stacked at the facility. A reading club — initiated by two young RMT residents, Ananya Vijay Ganesh and Adithi Sharan — has such story-telling sessions to its credit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-formula-that-worked/article34235426.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Presenting part two of a recycling initiative||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/presenting-part-two-of-a-recycling-initiative/article34235399.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Reading programme completes one year||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/reading-programme-completes-one-year/article34235401.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Science teacher dons new hat||Duraiswamy Suresh is a go-to person, this season. A science teacher at CSI Higher Secondary School for the Deaf at Santhome, 48-year-old Duraiswamy is sought by government departments for his proficiency in sign-language. His latest client is the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission, which has tasked him with creating awareness on voting among speech-and-hearing-impaired voters. At a recent press conference chaired by the Tamil Nadu Chief Electoral Officer Satyaprakash Sahoo, the spotlight found Duraiswamy, as he interpreted the official’s speech. His interpretations were being captured by television crews for the benefit of their differently-abled audience. “For many years, I have been the official interpreter at the Monday grievance meeting at the Chennai Collectorate office where I help speech-and-hearing-impaired visitors to air their grievances. In most cases, they get immediate relief and that gives me immense joy,” says Suresh, who has been a science teacher at the CSI Higher Secondary School for the Deaf for two decades. On how Suresh became a sought-after sign language interpreter, he was invited by the Periamet police on Raja Muthiah Road to help them solve a theft case that involved a speech-and-hearing-impaired person. Suresh recalls how he was taken to the lock-up and asked to engage with the culprit. The police tried unsuccessfully to get the culprit to reveal the details of the theft of stolen cables used as ducts in the air-conditioned train coaches at the Central railway station. “I spent the next 24 hours in the lock-up helping the suspect reveal the cables’ whereabouts. After 16 diversion attempts, the suspect revealed that he had sold the cables to an electrical shop,” he says. Since then, Suresh is a familiar face at the police station, being invited regularly, to attend court proceedings in the sub-courts at Egmore, Saidapet, Allikulam and Alandur. Humble beginnings Suresh, a first-generation learner, spent much of his childhood at Adikarapatti village in Thiruvallur district before moving to his uncle’s home at Thiruvallur town at age eleven for better educational prospects. His father, C. Duraiswamy, was a farmer. Suresh completed his post graduation from the University of Madras in the late-1990s before enrolling himself as Senior Diploma Teacher for the Deaf. Subsequently, Suresh joined the CSI Higher Secondary School for the Deaf at Santhome.  I have been the official interpreter at the Monday grievance meetings at the Chennai Collectorate office||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/science-teacher-dons-new-hat/article34235452.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||A steep challenge||The Terek Sandpiper’s forehead is a cliff dressed in feathers. The bird would still be headbutted out of a “Mr. Steep Forehead” contest for birds. The Pied Avocet, also a Chennai migrant, is enough to dash its hopes. Placed next to the Avocet’s forehead, Mount Thor with its daunting cliff is just a hopelesly flat-lined ECG lead. The Terek Sandpiper’s more attention-grabbing feature is its upcurved bill. Here again, the Pied Avocet is comfortably placed above the competition. The Terek Sandpiper’s nickname — Avocet Sandpiper — in fact settles the matter, announcing who gets the better of the other in the two-feature contest. “As with plovers, the Terek Sandpiper’s bill rises immediately from the bill base,” says S. Balachandran, deputy director, BHNS Regional Migration Study Centre, Point Calimere. Balachandran has literally had a “ring-side” view of this species, having held some in his palms, year after year, to have them ringed. “On an average, 15 to 20 Terek Sandpipers are ringed at the centre,” Balachandran volunteers the information. His observations of the Terek Sandpiper at Point Calimere confirm what is generally believed to be true about the species. That it does not wrack its steep forehead over the Ruddy Turnstone poking around in its feeding area. It is their differences that probably enable these two birds to share feeding space, without frequent squawks of protest. With its strong and short bill, the Ruddy Turnstone probes into the mud and pecks hard at the flotsam that may be harbouring prey, or turns small stones to expose hidden meals. Balachandran points out that with its upcurved bill, the Terek Sandpiper’s foraging behaviour contrasts sharply with the Ruddy Turnstone’s. “The Terek Sandpiper has to scoop its prey out of the mud, before ingesting it,” explains Balachandran. From there, an inference is almost begging to be made. Though the Terek Sandpiper shares a good part of its diet plan with the Ruddy Turnstone — the Terek Sandpiper feeds largely on crabs, and sometimes molluscs, as Balachandran puts it — the difference in the design of their feeding tools seems to be achieve a balance that enables bill-gritting tolerance and co-existence. It is at common feeding grounds that one finds a strong reason to be thankful that birds’ bills do not follow a cookie-cutter design. Hardly gregarious “The Terek Sandpiper does not occur in large flocks in any part of its distribution range,” says Balachandran. Vikas Madhav Nagarajan, eBird reviewer, puts it this way: A large flock of Terek Sandpiper could often just mean “four birds together”. Vikas points out that in its range, sightings of the Terek Sandpiper are most likely around tidal flats, particularly mangrove tidal flats, and estuarine systems. “It is found in such an environment around Marakanam, Mudaliar Kuppam backwaters and Pulicat,” he elaborates. Given this, why doesn’t Adyar Estuary also figure prominently among its hangouts? “It may be difficult to find the bird there, but not impossible. It is a skulky bird and would not be visible from a place that we are able to access. They could be found in the sand bars at Adyar Estuary,” is Vikas’ response. The eBird reviewer however calls it a “regular” bird showing up where it is expected to — Vikas’ view is based partly on his observation of the Terek Sandpiper consistently keeping its date with a particular sand bar at Mudaliar Kuppam Backwaters, over the years.  (Migrant Watch is a weekly column about the birds that visit Chennai during the migratory season)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-steep-challenge/article34235462.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Help in getting to the booth||Senior citizens and those with disabilities who may need a wheelchair and also a vehicle that factors in their unique limitations, to get to the polling booth, now know where to look for it. Vidya Sagar, an NGO working for persons with disabilities, started Get Going two years ago to help those with varying disabilities to travel comfortably in an inclusive vehicle. “This was largely being availed by the alumni and staff of Vidya Sagar who want to get to their workplace or travel independently. We have two of these inclusive vehicles and we are now offering them to those who may need them to get to the polling booth, at Rs. 25 per kilometre (Kotturpuram being the start and end point). The vehicle has to be booked at least a day in advance, ” says M. Abhishek, coordinator, Get Going. Equipped with a hydraulic lift, the Tata Winger can accommodate up to three wheelchairs with four additional seats. There are three drivers specially trained to meet the needs of the special-needs people. “Prior to the pandemic, we had the vehicles making trips to different parts of the city to ferry people. Many even availed them for their weekend outings. Recently, we had the vehicle make a trip to Vellore,” says Abhishek. For bookings, call 9444398182 ‘Helpee Hands’ Helpee and Sarada Foundations have launched an initiative to help senior citizens reach the voting centre or access any other assistance relating to the voting process. ‘Voting Assist’ can be availed either through WhatsApp or a call by posting the task and a ‘Helpee Hand’ will reach out to the individual. Helpee is a two-year-old start-up whose workers run errands and organise hospital visits for seniors. They also train them on how to use the Internet. “Assistance to walk to the polling station/ wheelchair support/ transport arrangement to get to the centre/ queries with regard to the voting centre — we expect requests for any of these services or a mix of them to come up on our platform,” says Suman Choudhary, founder, Helpee. He says ‘Helpee Hands’ are verified and background-checked from the local community. The two organisations also ensure senior citizens receive their vaccinations without any hassle. As per its website, the first 300 elders get this service at no cost. For details, visitwww.helpee.inor call 8861608484  Assistance to walk to the polling station/ wheelchair support/ transport arrangement to get to the centre/ queries with regard to the voting centre — we expect requests for any of these services or a mix of them to come up on our platform||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/help-in-getting-to-the-booth/article34235453.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||A vehicle testing track?||A stretch of Kilpauk Garden Road — from Chintamani junction to Pulla Avenue intersection — is more of a rumble course than a thoroughfare. Milled a few weeks ago by Zone-8 of Greater Chennai Corporation, this two-kilometre stretch is yet to be relaid, which leaves motorists with a greater risk of skidding. The volume of vehicular traffic passing through Chintamani junction — which connects New Avadi Road and First Avenue Road in Anna Nagar with Kilpauk Garden Road — is huge. “During rush hour, traffic movement is sluggish due to the milled carriageway. Vehicle tyres get damaged,” says V. Prabhu, a motorist from Anna Nagar. Delay in pruning overgrown trees between these two junctions, especially towards ICF, is another complaint from motorists. As per norms, pruning of trees especially on key stretches should be done at least once in two months. Residents say trees around Chintamani junction have not been pruned for many months. The intersection also connects streets in Third Avenue of Anna Nagar with the Chintamani junction. Due to the overgrown trees, motorists coming from the junction cannot see the motorists that come from these streets, found on either side of the stretches including First Avenue Road that intersect at Chintamani junction. “Steps will be taken to relay the milled portion of the stretch soon,” says a Corporation official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-vehicle-testing-track/article34235439.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Marathon funds used to set up cerebral palsy lab||If you know of anyone with Cerebral Plasy (CP) who wants to improve their gait, walkability and wheelchair mobility, then guide them to the National Institute for Empowerment of Persons with Multiple Disabilities (NIEPMD) at Muthukad on East Coast Road. The Institute got an adapted sports lab for children with CP and other multiple disabilities, thanks to over 700 running enthusiasts and many other well-wishers from Inner Strength Trust. The lab, which was opened to coincide with Cerebral Palsy Awareness Month, promises to be a place where those with disabilities can play football, carrom board, basketball, portable goal poll and other games that will help improve hand-eye coordination and finger dexterity. “We have 135 children with multiple disabilities enrolled with our model school found on the campus. Besides taking part in these activities at the lab, outsiders can register with the office for other services offered at the Institute that would help improve their hand-eye coordination,” says K.K. Dhanavendan, teacher for CP at NIEPMD.  Running for a cause  Since 2017, Inner Strength Trust, a non-profit that earns from marathons conducted by UNIS Running group, has been supporting those diagonised with CP. “A physiotherapist in our group often used to tell us about the challenges faced by those with CP, including the cost of the physiotherapy they need to take every day, and that is how we started supporting them,” says Viji Swaminathan, founder of the Trust. She says treatment for 15 children was sponsored in 2017, an it cost around Rs. 2.5 lakh. In the following years, the Trust helped NIEPMD with equipment required to help children with CP, with their learning and development needs. In 2020, Rs. 2.5 lakh was spent towards the surgery of almost 20 children who have CP. The 2021 edition of the Madras Inner Strength Half Marathon had 750 participants and the proceeds from the event went towards establishing the lab at NIEPMD. Others dignitaries who took part in the inauguration are Mudumbi Narayan and Ranish Haran, members of Inner Strength Trust; A. Amarnath, deputy registrar (Offg); and B. Leelavathi, principal in-charge, Model School for Persons with Multiple Disabilities. For details, contact 9444314716.  A physiotherapist in our group often used to tell us about the challenges faced by those with CP, including the cost of the physiotherapy they needed every day, and that led us to start supporting them||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/marathon-funds-used-to-set-up-cerebral-palsy-lab/article34235456.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Presenting part two of a recycling initiative||Often times those working tirelessly behind the scenes, sadly just stay there. Occasionally, their work is acknowledged in small print. This is an attempt to remove the veil and spotlight those who keep the recycling wheel spinning, silently and with quiet efficiency. Last month, a drive by ROKA to collect clothes that have outlived their use and other discards, yielded 9.9 metric tonnes of wornout clothes and 1.8 metric tonnes of totally unusable footwear, mattresses and pillows. In the hands of the residents at Little Drops, a home for the destitute old, these wornout clothes are finding new usefulness. There are many names behind this faceless work. Shenbagam patti is one of them. Along with her friends, she is repurposing the torn clothes, turning them into diapers for bed-ridden residents. Pillows, mats and cushions would also be made out of these clothes. The Little Drops has a Trash & Treasure shop at Porur, not too far from its home, where clothes that are not re-purposed and can be used with zero-to-minimal improvements, are put up for sale for the benefit of the less fortunate, at a nominal cost. ROKA had made a visit to the organisation two weeks before the drive to understand how best the collected clothes would be reused. So, we could tell the 460-odd people from across the length and breadth of Chennai — from Purusawalkam to Valasaravakkam, Porur to Perungudi, Madippakkamto Medavakkam and so on — who donated these clothes, that their contribution would effect a change at many levels, besides preventing a mammoth load of trash from reaching the landfill. Now, the question on their lips could be: What happened to the nearly two metric tonnes of unusables — the footwear, mattresses and pillows? They were safely loaded and transported to the facility run by Greater Chennai Corporation’s empanelled aggregator Wastewinn Foundation, for recycling. Imagine two metric tonnes of footwear, mattresses and pillows not landing up at the landfill — isn’t that an exciting thought to mull over? ROKA has a word of appreciation for GCC officials for their unstinted support to the Association’s waste-management initiatives. Janani Venkitesh is the secretary of Residents of Kasturba Nagar Association  More than 400 people from across Chennai donated these clothes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/presenting-part-two-of-a-recycling-initiative/article34235459.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||A new park on the block||A spacious children’s park cum playground has seen the light on Rangasayee Street near the railway station in Perambur. Work on this facility was going on for close to a year, and it was finally inaugurated last month. A tiled walkers’ pathway, tennis and badminton court, volleyball area and a space for yoga are among the amenities provided at Mayor Munusamy Corporation playground. The sandy floor of the facility has been raised to a height of 1.5 feet to construct a tiled walker’s pathway. The playground also got a high-mast lamp and LED lights. The improved conditions at the facility are expected to draw more visitors to the facility. “As there was no park nearby, we would walk up to the Perambur flyover to enjoy these facilities,” says K. Sudrendar, a regular visitor to the park. Tucked away between Perambur Paper Mills Road and Perambur Loco Works railway station, Rangasayee Street has many British-era buildings and apartment complexes. A good number of the residents on the stretch are senior citizens who retired from Southern Railway. A compound wall with two steel gates was also built to prevent the entry of visitors after closing hours. The entire playground will also come under CCTV-camera surveillance, says a Corporation official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-new-park-on-the-block/article34235442.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Have you met the candidate who wears a PPE suit?||An independent candidate contesting the State Assembly elections from the Kolathur constituency is making heads turn. S. Ashok Kumar, who runs an automobile consultant service in Perambur, has been canvassing for votes donning a PPE suit. While Ashok Kumar certainly wants to make a mark in the election, he seems more keen on people following the safety guidelines while stepping out of their homes. So, he can be seen offering pamphlets and face masks to road users and holding forth on the necessity of maintaining social distance in public places and wearing a mask, as he goes about his canvassing work. Recently, he was spotted handing out face masks to passengers of a share autorickshaw on Kolathur Main Road. Before handing the pamphlet and face mask, he shares the plans for the neighbourhood he would work on, if he wins. Initially, Ashok Kumar wanted to wear the kit once a week, just on Sundays, when he would meets a huge number of voters as part of a door-to-door campaign. However, the enthusiastic response from voters to how he spoke about COVID-19 protocols and how he wore the message, led him to be togged in PPE suit all seven days of the week. “I really understood how difficult it would be for the frontline workers to wear a PPE kit and work, through their duty hours. We also have a bag full of face masks to distribute to those who do not wear them, during our campaign,” says Ashok Kumar, who has a post-graduate degree in sociology. A resident of Jamalila Lane opposite Brinda Theatre in Perambur, Ashok Kumar was born and brought up in the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) quarters that comes under Corporation Ward 68 and 69. He understands the need for basic amenities in an area. Prevention of inundation, especially overflow of excess rainwater from Retteri lake during monsoon, and traffic regulation on the Kolathur-Perambur Main Road are the two major promises made by the young candidate. Ashok Kumar says that having spent all his life in the region, “I know our residents’ aspirations better than others. Many know my social work in the area — such as the street-cleaning campaign twice a year and the health camps that we have conducted.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/have-you-met-the-candidate-who-wears-a-ppe-suit/article34235447.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||A slippery stretch for motorists||An extra ounce of caution is required while navigating the narrow carriageway of Central Avenue Road in Korattur. Following the drain work, the carriageway has been levelled with construction debris. A steel barricade has also been kept warning road users to stay off that spot, but this measure does not amount to much help as the volume of vehicles taking the stretch is incredibly high. Due to the location of a transformer nearby, the carriageway is significantly narrow near the damaged spot. As a result, road users including pedestrians put themselves at risk while negotiating the narrow road space. At night, visibility on this stretch is poor mainly due to overgrown avenue trees that block the light from the LED street lights along the stretch. “It would hardly take a few hours to have the damaged carriageway relaid,” says K. Santhosh, a motorist from Korattur. Tucked away between Korattur lake and CTH Road, Central Avenue Road connects small industrial units involved in fabrication of metals and manufacturing of lubricants in the Pattaravaram industrial zone. “Steps will be taken to have damaged portion of the stretch relaid soon,” says a Corporation official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-slippery-stretch-for-motorists/article34235444.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||A new experience||Ambattur Rotary Hospital recently took the wraps off a renovated cerebral palsy (CP) unit. Amba Cerebral Palsy Rehab Centre, as it is called, would serve children with CP from underprivileged families. The Centre is equipped with ‘therasuits’ from the United States, gait-training equipment, vertical trainers and treadmills. It also houses a hydrotherapy pool and other modern equipment that would help improve motor control together with physiotherapy exercises, says a press release. Since 2006, Rotary Club of Ambattur runs this signature project of treating and rehabilitating children with CP through its dedicated NGO arm, Ambattur Rotary Charitable Trust. The Ambattur Rotary Hospital comes under the Trust. According to an estimate, in India, three children out of every 1000 live births are affected by cerebral palsy, says the release. On an average, 30 to 35 children are treated for cerebral palsy every day at the hospital. The release points out that upgradation of the CP wing was made possible by the CSR funds extended by Heat & Control (South Asia) Private Limited; and expenditure of acquiring certain sophisticated equipment was met via the Global Grants scheme offered by Rotary Foundation of Rotary International. “The Centre started in a small way with one of our Rotarians, Prem Watwani, sponsoring treatment and equipment needs of the children with CP for eight years. To keep this initiative going as well as to benefit more children, we made sure there was funding by Global Grants scheme,” says M. Viswanathan, president, Rotary Club of Ambattur. The treatment is free irrespective of the economic status of the family, but those who can afford, can pay to avail the treatment, says Viswanathan. The hospital is at SP 98, Ambattur Industrial Estate, 1 St Main Road  On an average, 30 to 35 children are treated every day at the hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-new-experience/article34235454.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Collect a free water bowl and participate in this challenge||People For Cattle in India (PFCI), which has been conducting the Water Bowl Challenge since 2014, recently launched its latest edition. The annual challenge is aimed at encouraging people to place water bowls outside their houses to quench the thirst of birds and animals. To participate in the water bowl challenge, one has to collect their water bowl from PFCl, click a picture with an animal/ bird drinking water from the bowl and nominate five other people to do the same. The participants have to use the hashtag #WaterBowlChallenge, #WaterBowlChallenge2021, #PFCI and tag actor Regina Cassandra, who is the campaign brand ambassador. Regina will pick the lucky entries and they will receive surprise gifts, says a release. The last date to submit entries is April 25. Bowls are allotted on a first-come-first-serve basis. For details, call 98840 71136||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/collect-a-free-water-bowl-and-participate-in-this-challenge/article34235435.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Remembering Jaigopal Garodia on his 11th anniversary||Jaigopal Garodia Group of Schools observed the 11th anniversary of its founder-chairman Jaigopal Garodia on April 2. To commemorate the occasion, special assemblies were organised at all Jaigopal Garodia Group schools, in Anna Nagar, Kolathur and Sakthivel Nagar, adhering to COVID-19 guidelines, says a press release. Floral tributes were offered to the statue of Jaigopal Garodia by the managing trustee Ashok Kedia, trustees Meyyappan, Hitesh Kanodia. Similar programmes were organised at the government schools and management schools adopted by Jaigopal Garodia, in Tambaram, Avadi, Choolaimedu, Saidapet, Nanganailur, Virugambakkam, Thirurottiyur, Manali, Madhavaram, Ponneri, Madurai and Bengaluru. The philanthropist laid emphasis on women’s education. Special schemes such as Free Book Bank and Scholarships Centre for College students were initiated during his time. He was an animal lover, and sponsored a number of ‘May I Help You Police Booths’, the release adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/remembering-jaigopal-garodia-on-his-11th-anniversary/article34235437.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Two issues need to be resolved soon’||There are two issues that I want authorities have to look into, immediately. At many roads in Villivakkam, the manhole covers are protruding at least two inches above the road level. Not only is this dangerous for motorists, it also signifies a drain on resources as the exposed surface will be damaged on account of the continual movement of heavy vehicles. Road-laying work at North Jagannath First Main Road is left incomplete, adding to the risk of taking this stretch. From the subway till North Jagannath Nagar First Main Road, due to laying of pipelines, there has been considerable damage to the road and it must be relaid. G. Udayakumar North Jagannath Nagar, Villivakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/two-issues-need-to-be-resolved-soon/article34235466.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||On World Autism Day, special children showcase their artworks||Twenty neuro-diverse children are showcasing their artworks at an exhibition that opened on April 2, marking World Autism Awareness Day. The special artists are students of A Brush With Art (ABWA), a programme for the neuro-diverse. Launched in 2016 in Besant Nagar, the programme since then has a permanent studio at the Cholamandal Artists Village on East Coast Road. ABWA has been associated with that campus over these years, except of course for the last one year when the pandemic forced it on to a virtual platform. The students face various challenges — non-verbal, autistic, hyperactive, dyslexic — and their prowess as artists signals a victory over the factors limiting them. ABWA started Madhav Krishnan on his journey of explorations through the medium of art. The classes did not teach in the conventional way of drawing forms but offered the child a choice of material and then allowed him the freedom to experiment and explore. “Over the years, from complete free abstract expressions he has now moved to a more structured programme. I find that the experiences that bring Madhav joy often find themselves reflected as motifs in his art. He loves drinking tea and many of his paintings have teapots and cups. Hotels, surfboards, favourite people have all often crept into his paintings,” says Madhuca, Madhav’s mother. The ABWA show seeks to create awareness about autism. “With awareness comes understanding and with understanding comes acceptance,” says Mala Chinnappa, an ABWA facilitator. In 2018-19, artworks by 11 children were featured in the Outsider Art Show, during the Kochi Biennale, and annually at an exhibition at Cholamandal Artists Village. “The encouragement received by the young artists from these platforms boosted their confidence and they have been holding such shows in the city since then,” says Mala, adding that “over the years the work has come with a greater ring of maturity.” The artworks that can be purchased will be on display through April (between 11.30 am to 7.30 p.m) at Paati Veedu, a restaurant at Bhagirathi Ammal Street, T. Nagar.  With awareness comes understanding and with understanding comes acceptance||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/on-world-autism-day-special-children-showcase-their-artworks/article34235455.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Improve last-mile connectivity to Teacher’s Colony’||Teacher’s Colony, situated off Jawaharlal Nehru Road near Senthil Nagar traffic signal, is an old residential area. Developed through Central Cooperative Housing Society and DTP in the 1970s, it is still seeking better connectivity through public transport. Despite the presence of a well-developed bus terminus, there is not an adequate number of MTC buses connecting the locality with other parts of Chennai. It takes anywhere between 15 and 20 minutes to reach the main road by foot. The autorickshaw drivers demand Rs. 60 one-way to take passengers from the neighbourhood to the main road. Route number 42C, which has three buses, ply between Teacher’s Colony and Parry’s corner terminus. The services of these three buses to the locality remain suspended between 12.30 p.m. and 3.30 p.m. every day. Small bus route S43 which plies between Villivakkam bus terminus and Pudur meets the requirements of a small section of the public. However, buses on long-haul routes touching Madras University, T Nagar, Guindy and Tambaram have not been introduced. We have represented this matter, both individually and through the welfare association, to MTC general manager and secretary to the government transport department. C.R.Rajasekharan Teachers Colony, Kolathur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/improve-last-mile-connectivity-to-teachers-colony/article34235465.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Offer on lens||C’thru has launched ‘Crizal Happiness offer’, where shoppers who buy one pair get 50% off on the next. According to a press release, customers can choose from a range of designs to suit their needs, like Crizal Blue UV Lenses, Transitions Gen 8 light intelligent lenses / Xperio / Optifog – Fog free vision lenses, and Crizal Previencia Lenses. The release also says that it has moved from dispensing to providing eye care solutions for customers. C’Thru stores are at Annanagar (044-42693890) and Mogappair (044-43358030)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/offer-on-lens/article34235436.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Refresher course||HOPES, a city-based NGO, is conducting a workshop for teachers of classes VI to XII titled ‘Beyond Black Board’. According to a press release, the refresher programme will discuss innovative ideas that schools can adopt in the classroom. Clement Arockiasamy, a Chevening scholar, will be presenting at the meet, said a release. For details, contact 7358450825, 9841069801||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/refresher-course/article34235463.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Eco-friendly products on sale||In commemoration of Earth Day, Women Entrepreneurs India is organising a sale of environment-friendly products on April 22 at Olympia Teknos in Guindy. Time: From 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. Entrepreneurs interested in taking part in the sale should register on or before April 10. For details, call 9952013800 or visit https://www.women entrepreneursindia.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/eco-friendly-products-on-sale/article34235464.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) The articles have to be factually well-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article34235467.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Readers write about civic issues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/readers-write-about-civic-issues/article34235449.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||A new experience||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-new-experience/article34235450.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||There is now help in getting to the polling booth||Senior citizens and those with disabilities who may need a wheelchair and also a vehicle that factors in their unique limitations, to get to the polling booth, now know where to look for it. Vidya Sagar, an NGO working for persons with disabilities, started Get Going two years ago to help those with varying disabilities to travel comfortably in an inclusive vehicle. “This was largely being availed by the alumni and staff of Vidya Sagar who want to get to their workplace or travel independently. We have two of these inclusive vehicles and we are now offering them to those who may need them to get to the polling booth, at Rs. 25 per kilometre (Kotturpuram being the start and end point). The vehicle has to be booked at least a day in advance, ” says M. Abhishek, coordinator, Get Going. Equipped with a hydraulic lift, the Tata Winger can accommodate up to three wheelchairs with four additional seats. There are three drivers specially trained to meet the needs of the special-needs people. “Prior to the pandemic, we had the vehicles making trips to different parts of the city to ferry people. Many even availed them for their weekend outings. Recently, we had the vehicle make a trip to Vellore,” says Abhishek. For bookings, call 9444398182 ‘Helpee Hands’ Helpee and Sarada Foundations have launched an initiative to help senior citizens reach the voting centre or access any other assistance relating to the voting process. ‘Voting Assist’ can be availed either through WhatsApp or a call by posting the task and a ‘Helpee Hand’ will reach out to the individual. Helpee is a two-year-old start-up whose workers run errands and organise hospital visits for seniors. They also train them on how to use the Internet. “Assistance to walk to the polling station/ wheelchair support/ transport arrangement to get to the centre/ queries with regard to the voting centre — we expect requests for any of these services or a mix of them to come up on our platform,” says Suman Choudhary, founder, Helpee. He says ‘Helpee Hands’ are verified and background-checked from the local community. The two organisations also ensure senior citizens receive their vaccinations without any hassle. As per its website, the first 300 elders get this service at no cost. For details, visitwww.helpee.inor call 8861608484  Prior to the pandemic, we had the vehicles making trips to different parts of the city to ferry people||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/there-is-now-help-in-getting-to-the-polling-booth/article34235492.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Park and playground in Pallavaram go to seed||A park — called Ashoka park — and a playground are found cheek-by-jowl at Thiruttani Nagar in Pallavaram. Viewed as twin facilities, the park-cum-playground saw the light on April 10, 2005; and according to residents, its proper upkeep lasted just two years. Now, it is nothing short of a dumping ground. The benches have missing; and the play equipment and the fountain are damaged. Last year, though the Pallavapuram Municipality took steps to clean the park-cum-playground, the collected waste was dumped on Pallava Garden Second Avenue, and is yet to be removed, allege residents. In the last week of March, some residents drained the water out of the fountain as it was proving to be a breeding ground for mosquitoes. They also pruned the branches of trees as they found it a hindrance while walking. The well in the park has to be desilted as its water is being used to water the plants. Miscreants have plugged the cables powering the lights at the facility, rendering them useless. Further, they have also removed the lamp-posts. As the facility is not adequately-lit, it has become a haven for drunkards, say residents. The tipplers litter the park with leftovers, cigarette stubs and liquor bottles. Besides, there are no nameboards at the three entrances to the facility. Residents point out that they have taken up this issue with the Municipality over the years, but in vain.  As the facility is not well-lit, it has become a haven for tipplers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/park-and-playground-in-pallavaram-go-to-seed/article34235469.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Marathon funds used to set up cerebral palsy lab||If you know of anyone with Cerebral Palsy (CP) who wants to improve their gait, walkability and wheelchair mobility, then guide them to the National Institute for Empowerment of Persons with Multiple Disabilities (NIEPMD) at Muttukadu on East Coast Road. The Institute got an adapted sports lab for children with CP and other multiple disabilities, thanks to over 700 running enthusiasts and many other well-wishers from Inner Strength Trust. The lab, which was opened to coincide with Cerebral Palsy Awareness Month, promises to be a place where those with disabilities can play football, carrom board, basketball, portable goal poll and other games that will help improve hand-eye coordination and finger dexterity. “We have 135 children with multiple disabilities enrolled with our model school found on the campus. Besides taking part in these activities at the lab, outsiders can register with the office for other services offered at the Institute that would help improve their hand-eye coordination,” says K.K. Dhanavendan, teacher for CP at NIEPMD.  Running for a cause  Since 2017, Inner Strength Trust, a non-profit that earns from marathons conducted by UNIS Running group, has been supporting those diagnosed with CP. “A physiotherapist in our group often used to tell us about the challenges faced by those with CP, including the cost of the physiotherapy they need to take every day, and that is how we started supporting them,” says Viji Swaminathan, founder of the Trust. She says treatment for 15 children was sponsored in 2017, an it cost around Rs. 2.5 lakh. In the following years, the Trust helped NIEPMD with equipment required to help children with CP, with their learning and development needs. In 2020, Rs. 2.5 lakh was spent towards the surgery of almost 20 children who have CP. The 2021 edition of the Madras Inner Strength Half Marathon had 750 participants and the proceeds from the event went towards establishing the lab at NIEPMD. Others dignitaries who took part in the inauguration are Mudumbi Narayan and Ranish Haran, members of Inner Strength Trust; A. Amarnath, deputy registrar (Offg); and B. Leelavathi, principal in-charge, Model School for Persons with Multiple Disabilities. For details, contact 9444314716.  A physiotherapist in our group often used to tell us about the challenges faced by those with CP, including the cost of the physiotherapy they need to take every day, and that is how we started supporting them||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/marathon-funds-used-to-set-up-cerebral-palsy-lab/article34235493.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||What Pozhichalur residents want||Residents of Prem Nagar in Pozhichalur are irked over the condition of the roads in their neighbourhood. This locality is found near the Pozhichalur bus terminus. Its layout was approved in 1974 by the Directorate of Town and Country Planning. From 1991, the locality began to have a sizeable population. Thirty years on, these residents still wait for bitumen-topped roads. While Thamarai Street and Malligai Street await a road-laying exercise, Mullai Street, Roja Street and Thiruvalluvar Street have to be relaid. Residents of Thamarai Street and Malligai Street point out that these streets are uneven, and studded with protruding stones. Besides, during the monsoon season, water remains stagnant on these streets for more than a week, add residents. Residents of Roja Street say around five years have elapsed since their street was last relaid. Petitions to elected representatives in this regard have gone in vain, they add. Further, non-functional street lights are a recurrent problem in Thiruvalluvar Street, Mullai Street, Thamarai Street, and Malligai Street. Stormwater drains As the locality lacks stormwater drains, flooding is a given during monsoon. “Stormwater drains should be constructed and connected to the canal on Vajravel Street in Prem Nagar,” says a resident. Further, there is no underground sewage drains. Hence, residents discharge sewage and kitchen sullage into this canal which is connected to Adyar river “Further, the canal is encroached upon preventing free flow of rainwater causing water stagnation and concomitant mosquito breeding,” says a resident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/what-pozhichalur-residents-want/article34235477.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||A picture of squalor||The subway at East Tambaram is in a state of ruins. Water seeps through the ceiling and the walls. The lights have been damaged by miscreants. Further, the atmosphere at the subway is unhygienic as many misuse relieve themselves there. During the monsoon, the situaiton worsens. After heavy showers, water remains stagnant in the subway. Share-autorickshaws are parked at the entrance of the subway hindering the movement of pedestrians. For these reasons, people go to West Tambaram via the vehicular subway located off Sudhananda Bharathi Street, connecting East Tambaram and Grand Southern Trunk Road. Or else, they use the foot-over-bridge at the Tambaram terminal connecting East Tambaram and West Tambaram. A. Siva Kumar is a resident of East Tambaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-picture-of-squalor/article34235497.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Science teacher dons new hat||Duraiswamy Suresh is a go-to person, this season. A science teacher at CSI Higher Secondary School for the Deaf at Santhome, 48-year-old Duraiswamy is sought by government departments for his proficiency in sign-language. His latest client is the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission, which has tasked him with creating awareness on voting among speech-and-hearing-impaired voters. At a recent press conference chaired by the Tamil Nadu Chief Electoral Officer Satyaprakash Sahoo, the spotlight found Duraiswamy, as he interpreted the official’s speech. His interpretations were being captured by television crews for the benefit of their differently-abled audience. “For many years, I have been the official interpreter at the Monday grievance meeting at the Chennai Collectorate office where I help speech-and-hearing-impaired visitors to air their grievances. In most cases, they get immediate relief and that gives me immense joy,” says Suresh, who has been a science teacher at the CSI Higher Secondary School for the Deaf for two decades. On how Suresh became a sought-after sign language interpreter, he was invited by the Periamet police on Raja Muthiah Road to help them solve a theft case that involved a speech-and-hearing-impaired person. Suresh recalls how he was taken to the lock-up and asked to engage with the culprit. The police tried unsuccessfully to get the culprit to reveal the details of the theft of stolen cables used as ducts in the air-conditioned train coaches at the Central railway station. “I spent the next 24 hours in the lock-up helping the suspect reveal the cables’ whereabouts. After 16 diversion attempts, the suspect revealed that he had sold the cables to an electrical shop,” he says. Since then, Suresh is a familiar face at the police station, being invited regularly, to attend court proceedings in the sub-courts at Egmore, Saidapet, Allikulam and Alandur. Humble beginnings Suresh, a first-generation learner, spent much of his childhood at Adikarapatti village in Thiruvallur district before moving to his uncle’s home at Thiruvallur town at age eleven for better educational prospects. His father, C. Duraiswamy, was a farmer. Suresh completed his post graduation from the University of Madras in the late-1990s before enrolling himself as Senior Diploma Teacher for the Deaf. Subsequently, Suresh joined the CSI Higher Secondary School for the Deaf at Santhome.  I have been the official interpreter at the Monday grievance meetings at the Chennai Collectorate office||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/science-teacher-dons-new-hat/article34235483.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Presenting part two of a recycling initiative||Often times those working tirelessly behind the scenes, sadly just stay there. Occasionally, their work is acknowledged in small print. This is an attempt to remove the veil and spotlight those who keep the recycling wheel spinning, silently and with quiet efficiency. Last month, a drive by ROKA to collect clothes that have outlived their use and other discards, yielded 9.9 metric tonnes of wornout clothes and 1.8 metric tonnes of totally unusable footwear, mattresses and pillows. In the hands of the residents at Little Drops, a home for the destitute old, these wornout clothes are finding new usefulness. There are many names behind this faceless work. Shenbagam patti is one of them. Along with her friends, she is repurposing the torn clothes, turning them into diapers for bed-ridden residents. Pillows, mats and cushions would also be made out of these clothes. The Little Drops has a Trash & Treasure shop at Porur, not too far from its home, where clothes that are not re-purposed and can be used with zero-to-minimal improvements, are put up for sale for the benefit of the less fortunate, at a nominal cost. ROKA had made a visit to the organisation two weeks before the drive to understand how best the collected clothes would be reused. So, we could tell the 460-odd people from across the length and breadth of Chennai — from Puruswakkam to Valasaravakkam, Porur to Perungudi, Madippakkamto Medavakkam and so on — who donated these clothes, that their contribution would effect a change at many levels, besides preventing a mammoth load of trash from reaching the landfill. Now, the question on their lips could be: What happened to the nearly two metric tonnes of unusables — the footwear, mattresses and pillows? They were safely loaded and transported to the facility run by Greater Chennai Corporation’s empanelled aggregator Wastewinn Foundation, for recycling. Imagine two metric tonnes of footwear, mattresses and pillows not landing up at the landfill — isn’t that an exciting thought to mull over? ROKA has a word of appreciation for GCC officials for their unstinted support to the Association’s waste-management initiatives. Janani Venkitesh is the secretary of Residents of Kasturba Nagar Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/presenting-part-two-of-a-recycling-initiative/article34235491.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Residents spruce up key road in Perumbakkam||A stretch of Varadhapuram Main Road along the compound of a park at Nesamani Nagar wears a new look. Earlier overrun with heaps of waste, the spot is now clean. In February, Chettinadd Greenville Owners Association took up this cleaning exercise. With the consent of the Perumbakkam Panchayat, the Association laid a path of paver-blocks along the compound wall of the park and had it fenced. Further, the Association made sure the compound wall received a fresh coat of paint. “Only in the past two years, this problem has been cropping up. Probably, many new apartments and houses have come up and the volume of waste generation has increased. When we inform the Panchayat, its workers come and clear the place. But again, within a few hours, the waste begins to pile up. The approach road — Varadhapuram Main Road — was an eyesore due to dumping of garbage. So, we came up with this cleaning exercise. We were planning this last year itself, but put the plan on hold due to the pandemic. However, early this year, we once again considered it and the work was carried out in February. The expenditure was borne by the Association. Thankfully, ever since the place was restored nobody has dumped waste,” says Gratia Sajish, secretary, Chettinadd Greenville Owners Association. Inspired by Chettinadd Greenville Owners Association, the residents’ associations at neighbouring apartments Stepstone Atchyuta and Colorgate along with Varadhapuram Residents Welfare Association are planning to carry out a similar exercise near the bunds of Sitheri lake in Perumakkam. “Here too, waste pile-ups can be found. We would like to clear them and plant tree saplings. Besides, the section of the lake where waste is dumped will be fenced. This will be done with the Panchayat’s consent,” says Srinivasan, member of Varadhapuram Residents Welfare Association.  Residents of Stepstone Atchyuta and Colorgate along with Varadhapuram Residents Welfare Association are planning to clean the bunds of Sitheri lake||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/residents-spruce-up-key-road-in-perumbakkam/article34235486.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Street lights do not have dedicated poles’||A majority of the street lights at Chitlapakkam do not have dedicated poles to hold them, and are therefore found tied to the Tangedco electricity poles. Further, these street lights are usually not tied properly to the pole. So, in some places, these street lights can be found hanging low. We have been taking up this issue with the Chitalpakkam Panchayat for the past four years, in vain. Panchayat officials keep citing fund crunch for not providing dedicated poles. We have represented the case to the Chief Minister’s Cell as well. Dayanand Krishnan is president of Pradeep & Karthik Avenue Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/street-lights-do-not-have-dedicated-poles/article34235495.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||With an eye to good health||The theme for World Health Day 2021 (April 7) is to build a fairer and healthier world, and this entails dealing with preventable disabilities. That takes us to visual disability. The leading causes of blindness worldwide and in India include age-related macular degeneration, cataract, glaucoma and diabetic retinopathy. These can strike, irrespective of someone’s socio-economic background. Studies show that awareness about diabetic retinopathy ranges between 17% and 93.2%. Diabetic retinopathy happens due to damage to very tiny blood vessels that supply blood to the retina. Initially, there may be small leaks of fluid or blood or both. In due course, the blood vessels get blocked and deprive the retina of oxygen. The longer someone has diabetes, the higher their risk of developing diabetic retinopathy. Those with poor blood sugar control are more likely to develop complications than those whose sugar levels are adequately controlled. The annual screening test should include vision testing, taking digital photographs of the retina. Other tests sometimes carried out at the eye hospital are: Fundus Fluorescein Angiography to look for swollen, leaking and abnormal new vessels; Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) of the Macula to reveal fluid or lipid (fat) accumulation in the retina. A wide range of treatment options from LASER photocoagulation to intra-vitreal injections of anti-VEGF are offered to prevent progression to end-stage disease. But if you have a bleed into the eye’s vitreous (jelly like centre of the eye) or develop a detached retina, retina surgery like vitrectomy with gas or silicon oil tamponade may be needed. Making healthy choices and getting regular eye examinations can reduce a person’s risk of vision loss. (Dr K Kavitha Lakshmi is chief ophthalmologist, Dr KK Surgical and Paediatric Centre, Selaiyur, East Tambaram)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/with-an-eye-to-good-health/article34235473.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Traffic signals on the blink in Urapakkam||The traffic signal at the intersection of Grand Southern Trunk Road and Ayyancherry Main Road in Urapakkam is out of order for quite sometime now, which encourages motorists to flout road safety rules. The problems frequently encountered include lane violation and geisterfahrer (wrong-way driving). Further, the road at the intersection is severely battered and stones can be found protruding, which increases the risk of skidding accidents. Residents feel a pedestrian signal is required at the intersection. With an almost continuous flow of vehicles, during the busy hours of the day, pedestrians find it difficult to cross the intersection. K. M. Prem Anand, a resident of Urapakkam, points out, “Recently, a motorist suffered severe injuries on his arm while trying to take a u-turn at the intersection. Fatal accidents are nearly a miss at the intersection.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/traffic-signals-on-the-blink-in-urapakkam/article34235488.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Chengalpattu district cricket association celebrates first anniversary||The Chengalpattu District Cricket Association (CDCA) recently celebrated its first Annual Day at an event organised at Sumangali Indoor Facility, Santhoshapuram. Formed in August 2019, following the bifurcation of the new Chengalpattu district, CDCA could not celebrate its anniversary earlier than this due to the pandemic. S. Sharath, former Ranji and India ‘A’ cricketer, was the chief guest, where cricketers received prizes for their sterling performances in the tournaments organised under CDCA. Sharath released the CDCA’s annual report for 2019-2020 along with guest of honour N. Jothi, former Rajya Sabha MP and Senior Advocate, Madras High Court. From November 2020, CDCA actively conducted a range of events with government-guided Covid-19 precautions and permissions, says a press release. These include tournaments under CDCA League 2019-20. And then, nineteen schools from the urban and rural sections of Chengalpattu district participated in the interschool tournament 2019-2020. TNCA playing gear was provided to the school students, the release adds. There was also the Intercollege T-20 Knockout Tournament 2020 for which 36 college/ university teams enrolled. Under the CDCA under-12 coaching programme (February to March 2020), 120 boys from different parts of Chengalpattu district participated in the selection trials. The corporate league would be conducted in July-August every year from 2021, says the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/chengalpattu-district-cricket-association-celebrates-first-anniversary/article34235482.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||‘A section of Camp Road waits for bitumen topping’||The Chengleput District Collectorate acted promptly in relaying a major section of Camp Road after the poor condition of the key road was brought to the notice of the Chief Minister’s Cell. Earlier, it was a cement road. Camp Road has now been widened on both the sides and a bitumen layer has been given. However, for a stretch of 100 metres — that is, from Camp Road signal to Camp Road bus stop — there is no bitumen topping. I would also like to point out that the lamp-posts that earlier stood on the road margins are now found in the middle of the road. We request the authorities to address this road safety issue immediately. R V Baskaran is a resident of Selaiyur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-section-of-camp-road-waits-for-bitumen-topping/article34235502.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Nanganallur residents seek creation of two MTC stops||Residents of Ram Nagar and Thillai Ganga Nagar in Nanganallur see a need for two more MTC bus stops to be established on Southern Sector Inner Ring Road. They want one of these bus stops to come up at a judiciously-chosen spot on the stretch between Jayalakshmi Theatre and Vanuvampet bus stops. And the other one on the stretch between Thillai Ganga Nagar subway and Vanuvampet bus-stops. The nearest bus stop for residents of Ram Nagar and Thillai Ganga Nagar is found at Vanuvampet. If these suggested bus stops see the light, residents would be spared the trouble of having to walk more than a kilometre. To cover this distance, many hire auto-rickshaws. These proposed stops are expected to benefit commuters immensely. Prominent route numbers plying on this section include 14M (between NGO Colony and Medavakkam Koot Road), 18D (Keezhkattalai and Broadway), and 76 (between Koyambedu and Medavakkam Koot Road). A. Raghavan, a long-time resident of Nanganallur, says, “There is adequate space for the creation of a bus shelter with seating facilities. These proposed stops will prove a boon to commuters, especially senior-citizens. Further, it will also commuters access suburban railway station and Metro station at St. Thomas Mount and the Alandur Metro station.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/nanganallur-residents-seek-creation-of-two-mtc-stops/article34235480.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||MTC bus shelter misused by tipplers in Vanuvampet||A shelter meant for MTC buses on Medavakkam Main Road in Vanuvampet does not seem to serve its intended purpose. With tipplers occupying the shelter, MTC commuters, especially women, choose to wait a little distance away. A Tasmac outlet is located diagonally opposite the bus shelter. Hence, tipplers doze off at this shelter. At times, commuters are a witness to brawls among the tipplers. “Only routine police patrolling can put an end to this public nuisance,” says R. Vidhya, a resident of Nanganallur. MTC routes numbers 18R (from Broadway to Keezhkattalai); 76 (from Koyambedu to Medavakkam Koot Road bus terminus); and 14M (from NGO Colony to Medavakkam Koot Road bus terminus) halt at this shelter. In this respect, a police official says that the patrolling in the locality will be stepped up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mtc-bus-shelter-misused-by-tipplers-in-vanuvampet/article34235475.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||A new address for sub-post office||Kelambakkam sub post office, which was functioning near the bus terminus, has been shifted to a new building in the same area. The new sub-post office was inaugurated recently by Dr. Susan Marthandan, director, Hindustan College of Arts and Science. “The old building had suffered considerable damage, especially during the monsoon, when rainwater used to seep in; so, there was a need to shift it to a new premises,” said an official with the postal department. The new office will offer a range of services including booking for speed-post and delivery. “All services that are available at the Tambaram head post office will be available here too,” says the official. The department has also been promoting the ‘My Stamp’ service, where on payment of Rs. 300, an individual can get a photo printed on the stamp. “Printing the stamp needs a special printer that is available at the Tambaram post office,” the official adds. Dr. Susan Marthandan got a ‘My Stamp’ issued with her image, and also recalled memories about the post office.  The old building had suffered considerable damage, so there was a need to shift the office to a new building||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-new-address-for-sub-post-office/article34235478.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Commuters irked by lack of bus shelters||As the mercury is climbing, there is not much that three shelter-less bus stops on Medavakkam Koot Road do for them. Further, these bus-stops are misused as a parking lot and therefore buses halt on the main road and customers have to run and board the buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/commuters-irked-by-lack-of-bus-shelters/article34235487.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Perumbakkam needs an e-seva centre’||Residents of Perumbakkam request the authorities concerned to open an e-seva centre in Perumbakkam. It is a long-pending request. At present, residents go either to the Sholinganallur or Pallikaranai e-seva centre. The centres are located at a distance of more than three kilometres from Perumbakkam. Time and again, we have made a representation about this issue to the Chief Minister’s Cell. We hope that the authorities concerned would the needful at the earliest. N. K. Raja, is the secretary of Federation of Perumbakkam Welfare Associations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/perumbakkam-needs-an-e-seva-centre/article34235500.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, write to us about civic issues in your neighbourhood to downtownfeedback@thehindu.co.in Letters should be packed with facts and relevant photos. Also, they must carry your name, postal address, and phone number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article34235498.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||There is now help in getting to the polling booth||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/there-is-now-help-in-getting-to-the-polling-booth/article34235470.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Extra care for geriatric patients||With second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic on us, it becomes important that extra care is offered to the elderly. Medical support must be provided to them at their residence because to avoid unnecessary hospitalisation, says a press release from Dr. Kamakshi Memorial Hospitals. The medical facility has a slew of measures to ensure its geriatric patients are kept comfortable and safe at every step, during this second wave, the release adds. It covers ensuring COVID-19 vaccination or any other, obtaining prescribed medicines at home and safe home collection of blood samples and also providing caregivers to assist them. The doctors and staff are trained to deal with geriatric patients and provide them a holistic care so that their quality of life does not suffer during the second wave, the release says. For more details, call 044-66300300 or visit www.drkmh.com  “The facility offers measures to ensure its patients are kept comfortable and safe at every step, during this second wave.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/extra-care-for-geriatric-patients/article34235471.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Long live Tumpa Sona||Mamata Banerjee can wear bermudas if she wants to show her legs. ‘Which bhadralok talks like that?’ Kolkata’s gentry fumed about the Bengal BJP chief’s crude jibe at his State’s chief minister and her bandaged foot. Oddly, not long ago, Banerjee herself struggled to pass the ‘class’ test from the same bhadralok brigade. Didi’s predecessor, Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, they had pointed out, was a pucca bhadralok who translated Russian poetry while she wrote “ epang opang jhopang ” nonsense rhymes. The Left Front’s bhadralok babus called her ugly names then, sexist and classist. Ironically, as a class, it is Kolkata’s famous bhadralok who are now in danger of irrelevance. In a recent electoral survey of Bengal for ‘Peoples Pulse’, Dr. Sajjan Kumar found that Kolkata seemed to be the last bastion of the bhadralok who still buy into a “logic of Bengali exceptionalism”. The non-Kolkata bhadralok, he says, have already jumped to the BJP in significant numbers. Polarisation is so acute, says Kumar, that Dalits, tribals and backward castes are the BJP’s most ardent supporters even while being beneficiaries of Banerjee’s many welfare schemes. In an election buzzing with the identity politics of groups like Matuas, Rajbanshis and Namasudras, the bhadraloks — upper caste yet claiming to be beyond caste — are discovering they are paper tigers. They might dominate the media but their writ does not go too far beyond columns (this one included). Exclusive club Bhadralok was always a problematic term, assuming as its counterpart the ones who were not bhadra or civil, the chhotolok, with no breeding. It came into its own in the 19th century as a Bengali equivalent to ‘gentlemen’, merchants and pen-pushers for the Raj. A bhadralok had caste privilege, college education and culture, and prided himself on liberal values, intellectualism and modernity. It was an exclusive genteel club whose membership was fiercely guarded. Scientists like Meghnad Saha, C.V. Raman and Satyen Bose were admired not just as scientists but as ‘bhadralok physicists’. Even many firebrand leaders of the Naxalite movement came from the bhadralok. The bhadralok still looms large over Bengal’s cultural life but their stranglehold on its political future is eroding fast. Jyoti Basu, the State’s long-serving chief minister, and a bhadralok to his starched core, once said there were only two castes in Bengal — rich and poor. His regime brutally uprooted and killed Dalit migrants from Bangladesh who had settled on the island of Marichjhapi in the Sundarbans, a horror the bhadralok intelligentsia of Kolkata largely ignored. Last laugh The bhadralok Bengali’s achievements are undeniable but so is his disdainful sense of superiority. “Yet another Bengali wins the Nobel,” bragged a television channel after economist Abhijit Banerjee won the prize. But the award-winning writer Manoranjan Byapari once said that his books “were never read by the bhadralok because I am a chhotolok (the subaltern). They see me with a gamchha (cotton towel) wrapped around my neck and wonder how I can write books!” It’s true, people like Byapari were largely invisible to the bhadralok elite. But no longer. In this election, Byapari is a candidate. That casual condescension of the bhadralok has had its own comeuppance. Writer Sambit Pal, in his book, The Bengal Conundrum , quotes CPI(M) politburo member Mohammed Salim saying that they had thought “like bhadralok, that people would understand the mistake they were making by supporting Mamata Banerjee.” She often drops the ‘r’ in words like Trinamool and problem, a tell-tale sign of a lack of class, according to the bhadralok language police. In 2016, the CPI(M) leader Surjya Kanta Mishra scoffed, “gobment, poblem, theat, poposal, popaganda... If you want the ‘R’ back, vote judiciously!!” I must sheepishly admit I probably chuckled too, but Didi had the last laugh. Her party romped home. Mishra lost his seat. Now the CPI(M) babus have read the writing on the wall and embraced a parody of a raunchy subaltern hit, ‘Tumpa Sona’ (Tumpa darling), as an election theme song, one that would have given Jyoti Basu instant acid reflux. Mishra shared it on Facebook. The subaltern understands today that they matter more to political parties as voting blocs than the wishy-washy bhadralok with their ephemeral loyalties. But what must be most galling is that those the bhadralok assiduously kept outside their exclusive club show little interest in gaining access any more. Banerjee tried to be accepted with her poetry and paintings. The blunt-spoken Dilip Ghosh, unapologetic about his bermuda comment, doesn’t seem to care. That must sting. No matter who wins the Bengal elections, the bhadralok’s sun seems to be setting. But they might be too busy to notice that on May 2, when the results come out, because that day also marks the birth centenary of Satyajit Ray — the Holy Grail for the Montu Pythons of bhadralok-dom. The universe clearly has its own sense of irony.  The subaltern understands today that they matter more to political parties as voting blocs than the wishy-washy bhadralok with their ephemeral loyalties||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/long-live-tumpa-sona/article34235577.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Incubator 2.0 is an outcome of COVID-19’||It was late March 2020, and WHO had just declared COVID-19 a global pandemic. India needed ventilators — reliable and affordable. In the midst of the lockdown, a group of 20 people came together over Zoom and WhatsApp — young techies and seasoned medical professionals, entrepreneurs and academics — and pulled off the unimaginable: in just 90 days, the Nocca Robotics team (a start-up incubated at IIT Kanpur) created a world-class, cost-effective, life-saving ventilator, complete with clinical validation. In their book, The Ventilator Project , authors Srikant Sastri, mentor to start-ups and incubators across the country, and Amitabha Bandyopadhyay, professor in charge of the technology business incubator at IIT Kanpur, chronicle this story of collaboration that catalysed an engineering feat. Excerpts from an interview: Why do you think your innovation story jumps out so much? Was it the speed of engineering in the midst of the lockdown, the vast network of collaborators, or the inherent message to policymakers?  Srikant Sastri : I think speed was absolutely paramount. Because if we hadn’t got it done in 90 days, it would have been of no use. When we started in late March 2020, cases in India had just begun rising, and the prognosis was that they would peak in July or August. That is when the shortage of ventilators would have been felt the most. The fact that the 18 months it takes for a multinational company to make a ventilator could be compressed into 90 days, that stood out. The product itself did not involve remarkable innovation, because it’s not as though new technology had been invented. But 20 people, with diverse skill-sets, worked together in a compressed time-frame in a manner that’s never been done before. The government, science and technology institutions, incubators, they all stepped in to help. What did you find was the biggest hurdle in creating and operationalising something as complex as an invasive ICU ventilator?  Amitabha Bandyopadhyay: The biggest challenge I think was managing the supply chain. It was not just India, the whole world was under lockdown. And a ventilator typically has some 500 parts, flown in from different parts of the world to India. So managing that was a huge challenge. And then convincing the doctors. Doctors cannot take a machine that is not known to be effective for ICU patients, COVID-19 patients. So we had to win their trust. That was not trivial. India is a hub for healthcare tourism, but there is a paucity of state-of-the-art homegrown medical equipment. Why is that?  SS: It is a chicken-and-egg story. Many doctors think that imported products are better because of which there isn’t a market for domestically-made products; and because there isn’t a market, domestic manufacturers don’t make that investment. This can only be solved in two ways. One, the government must say it wants to invest in medical infrastructure and give preference to domestic equipment. (The government is one of the biggest buyers of healthcare equipment.) Two, to recognise that there is demand, because outside big cities and big hospitals, smaller hospitals in small towns can’t afford to buy the imported stuff and they’re waiting eagerly for domestic products that are inexpensive but of good quality. What more can be done to create a thriving ecosystem for such start-ups?  AB: A start-up will thrive only if the company can get its business right. The government is investing a lot in the start-up ecosystem right now. But there are roadblocks. There is no testing or certification process for Indian devices in the country; one option is getting an FDA or CE certificate which is expensive and time-consuming. In the absence of certification, doctors cannot be convinced of the quality of the product. Starting this October, every medical device will have to be certified. But the fear is that there will be a logjam because there aren’t enough testing centres. We need to rapidly increase the testing ecosystem so that a company does not get frustrated waiting to be certified. The testing regimen must be strict, but it should also be friendly and efficient. Ideally, you should get your testing done in a month’s time. You have said in your book that incubators turned into frontline warriors during the pandemic...  SS: Let’s start with testing kits. In the initial stages, India did not have enough kits to test for COVID-19, because they were imported, they were expensive. But very quickly, there were start-ups. And just as the robotics start-up at IIT Kanpur morphed itself to make ventilators, there were start-ups in adjacent focus areas that said we will make testing kits, and suddenly you had massive capacity. There are examples of start-ups that came up with a variety of sanitisers, so you could do aerial sanitation of public areas like offices, hospitals. Mask production in India went through the roof. A lot of this happened with incubators. Suddenly, incubators are hand-holding start-ups, mentoring them, apart from funding and exposing them to investors, and providing infrastructure. I would say incubator 2.0 is an outcome of COVID-19.  There is no testing or certification process for Indian devices. In the absence of certification, doctors cannot be convinced of the quality of the product||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/incubator-20-is-an-outcome-of-covid-19/article34235507.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Breakfast most fowl||There’s more to the Easter feast than chocolate bunnies and painted eggs. In fact, the real hero of Easter — apart from the Risen Christ himself — is the meat! As Easter is the culmination of 40 days of fasting and penitence, it’s only fair that the feast is one of grand indulgence. I remember how, growing up in the 70s and 80s in Madras (now Chennai), the season of Lent was a time of complete abstinence at home, when even eggs were off the menu. Stretching into 46 days (to include Holy Week), it was a time to embrace a variety of vegetarian dishes, pachchadis, pickles and vadams, which blended quite well with the onset of spring and summer. Surprisingly, this brief dalliance with vegetarianism would be quite spiritually uplifting, and I wouldn’t really miss the meat — until Easter. But the dawn of Easter awakened the senses in more ways than one, and the first dish for breakfast on Easter morning was our cook Shankar’s green chicken kurma with soft, melt-in-the-mouth idlis. Lunch was a different story. But that kurma, with its profusion of fresh greens and succulent chicken pieces, brings back many fond memories of festivals and the coming together of family and friends. Now, with both my parents gone and community gatherings becoming increasingly rare, it is memories such as these that I find myself reliving often. Feast for the soul Back in the 80s, my family used to man one of the breakfast stalls at the CSI St. Thomas English Church’s annual thanksgiving festival, for the sole reason that our cook used to make the best chicken kurma. I still remember how, on the carnival day, Shankar would arrive at four in the morning to start his preparation, and soon the house would be filled with the aroma of fresh mint and coriander, till the chicken joined in and took it to a different level. My father was a stickler for punctuality and we would arrive at the church well ahead of time, chicken kurma, gas stove, cylinder and Shankar in tow. The freshly-made idlis, dosas and kurma would fly off the plates in a jiffy. By popular demand, we would repeat the ‘idli-kurma’ treat for carol rounds and choir Sunday breakfasts. Every annual mission fundraiser sale would also feature this star dish. Fresh as a memory Recently, I happened to delve deeper into the origin of the kurma (or korma, as it is called in the north), which has its roots in Mughlai cuisine. I was surprised to find that this particular green variant is quite popular in the Nilgiris and the surrounding hilly regions of Kongu Nadu. A staple of the tribal Badaga kitchen, the recipe is unique as no powdered masalas are used — it’s only whole spices and fresh herbs. And the fresher the coriander and mint, the greener the kurma. These little bits of information fit in so neatly, like the missing piece of a jigsaw puzzle, as our cook too was from Coimbatore. I still have Shankar’s recipe. I remember writing it down as he narrated it the very year I was married. Now my daughter thinks it’s the only worthwhile dish in my rather limited repertoire of culinary exploits. I make it only for Christmas and Easter. The writer is a freelancer based in Chennai, who loves telling stories from the past.    We would arrive at the church well ahead of time, with chicken kurma, gas stove, cylinder and Shankar in tow. The freshly-made idlis, dosas and korma would fly off the plates in a jiffy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/breakfast-most-fowl/article34235509.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Amena out of the woods||She was asleep in the raucous environs of the rehabilitation centre. It was the third day — January 24 — after she was brought to the centre at Kottoor, near Thiruvananthapuram. She was sleeping while being reclined, a rarely seen posture among elephants in the woods. Amena’s sensitive ears captured our footsteps and in a jiffy, she reverted to the normal vertical posture and looked at us menacingly. Insecurity and fear reflected in her eyes for a while, and soon, she could make out the presence of the mahouts who had attended to her in the past two days. And she slowly reached out to the grille, poking her trunk through the iron bars and started suckling the lactogen concentrate from the huge milk bottle offered by her mahout-designate. Three days ago, she was untiringly guarding her mother’s carcass on a rubber plantation contiguous to the forests fringes of the Palode range in the Thiruvananthapuram Forest Division and persistently thwarting the team of veterenarians, forest personnel and watchers who had assembled there for her rescue. Finally, Amena was to be trapped in a net, tethered and administered mild dozes of xylazine to restrain her and make her docile for easy transportation. Immediately on getting administered with the sedative, the hapless calf ran to her mother’s carcass grappling her teats, a heart-rending scene. Only after her immobilisation could the team go near the carcass of the mother, who was electrocuted with a live electric wire trap when she strayed into the private plantation. She is the latest victim of the unending human-animal conflict in Kerala. Amena was bought to the rehabilitation centre by the Rapid Response Team of the Kerala Forest Department by evening. Her wild ferocity came to the fore when she suddenly started charging at the second mahout who entered the cage for cleaning, trying to pin him to the wall and head-butt him as is the wont in the wild. She was soon disengaged by another mahout. “The agonising memories of her mother’s gruesome death might be haunting her at times, it seems,” the forest veterinary surgeon said. Amena started drinking directly from the bucket and eating grass, though her palate was more tuned to leaves of reeds. It was a sight to watch, she beating the tufts of grass against her front toes as if to get rid of soil and insects, a typical gesture of wild elephants. She was also being given food supplements. After an initial quarantine for 15 days, Amena, now a year-and-a-half old, was allowed to befriend her fellow mates at the centre and acclimatise with the other five elephant calves — some of them had reached the centre after being swept away from the forests in monsoon floods and others ostracised by their herds. Young ones with genetic deformities are unlikely to survive the stiff competition and may lose the war for the “survival of the fittest” in the wild. In the coming days, Amena will become an obedient elephant in the camp, a far cry from the thick jungles and a life of gay abandon.  (The writer is the Wildlife Warden of Thiruvananthapuram)   jraniattingal@gmail.com  In the coming days, Amena will become an obedient elephant in the camp, a far cry from the thick jungles and a life of gay abandon||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/amena-out-of-the-woods/article34235535.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Marching towards extinction||In this collection of disquieting and thought-provoking essays, Elizabeth Kolbert persuades us that the world is in entirely uncharted territory. She picks up the thread from her previous award-winning books, Field Notes from a Catastrophe, on climate change, and The Sixth Extinction , on the mass extinction of species wrought by humans on the planet. Kolbert’s writing, in brief, is about the Anthropocene, the geological epoch during which humans have had an unprecedented influence on the planet, its climate, and its denizens. This book comes out at a time when the average global temperature is over a degree Celsius above pre-industrial temperature, and carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere have crossed 414 ppm. Global greenhouse gas emissions should be near zero in the next few decades to stay below 2oC. Field trips Kolbert, a staff reporter for The New Yorker, takes us with her on field trips to places where human actions have brought species or ecosystems to the brink of extinction or calamitous ruin. Her writing is part travelogue and part science reporting. In each case, the situation is so dire that the only option available appears to be engineering interventions. But, she laments, will these apparently absurd solutions solve the problems? While the answer to this question is unclear, and her disbelief suggests the answer is “no,” what runs through the subtext of her narrative is overflowing human hubris. Have a problem? Here’s a technological fix! She travels first to Chicago, where an artificial drainage canal built at the turn of the 20th century reversed the flow of polluted water but ended up connecting the Great Lakes with the vast Mississippi drainage basin. Invasive species, previously separated, were now able to cross from one system to another. Escaped Asian Carp species have become a pest wiping out local fish stock and now threaten to enter the Great Lakes. Alarmingly, electrifying portions of the water is the only solution the engineers seem to have. Will it work? The next human-made disaster she tracks is in Louisiana. The Army Corps of Engineers once boasted, “We harnessed it, straightened it, regularized it, shackled it.” They were talking about the mighty Mississippi, which carries about 550 million metric tonnes of sediment into the Gulf of Mexico each year. The French founded New Orleans in 1718 through the backbreaking work of slaves who built levees and cut channels. Of course, the river was not shackled and the land has since been sinking while the region is coming apart. The dams, drainage canals and surge barriers can only go so far. Add to these the challenges posed by intense hurricanes in the region from climate change and you have a place perfectly designed for disasters. Fishy refuge In the second section, Kolbert writes, “the Devils Hole pupfish may well be the rarest fish in the world. In an effort to preserve it, a kind of fishy Westworld has been constructed.” Nevada’s pupfish is a “Stockholm species,” one that has been pushed to the brink and is now reliant on conservation. The story of the fake Devil’s hole refugia is bizarre. She then describes attempts to save coral that are dying due to acidification of the oceans from climate change and genetic engineering methods to reduce toxins and modify the giant cane toad, a prolific breeder in Australia. Various species in Australia have crashed from eating the poisonous toad. So, in a strange turn of nature and human interventions, the carp is a problem in the U.S. because nothing eats them, but cane toads are a menace in another part of the world because almost everything eats them. The book’s final section is on geo-engineering, which aims to deflect the sun’s energy from the earth or remove greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. Kolbert first travels to Reykjavík to visit a geothermal company where they suck carbon dioxide from the air and store it in rock as chalky white calcium carbonate. She meets innovators and scientists to discuss their geo-engineering ideas, their feasibility, and the possibility of success. “The result would not be a return to the climate of pre-industrial days or to that of the Pliocene or even that of the Eocene when crocodiles basked on Arctic shores. It would be an unprecedented climate for an unprecedented world, where silver carp glisten under a white sky.”  The reviewer is a scientist who lives in Chennai.  Under a White Sky  Elizabeth Kolbert  Penguin Random House  Rs. 732 (Kindle price)    This book comes out at a time when the average global temperature is over a degree Celsius above pre-industrial temperature, and carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere have crossed 414 ppm||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/marching-towards-extinction/article34235563.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Back to the future||Museums tell many stories, most explicitly political. For instance, among the issues facing Brexit is EU’s demand that the huge marble slabs, stolen from the roof of the 5th century BCE Parthenon temple in Athens, be returned. They are among the biggest attractions at British Museum, where they have been housed since 1816. The slabs were removed by the Scottish nobleman, Lord Elgin, who was then the British ambassador to the Ottoman Empire, which had conquered Greece. So naturally, the keynote address at the Bihar Museum Biennale 2021 by Neil MacGregor, director of the British Museum from 2002 to 2015, was of huge interest. He, along with Sarat Chandra Maharaj, Professor Visual Art & Knowledge Systems, Lund University, Sweden, and Sabyasachi Mukherjee, Director-General, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya and advisor to the Bihar Museum, spoke of the the history of museums as key institutions in creating an image of a country’s identity, heritage and values. They also discussed several current debates within museums, including the call last year to remove images and statues of imperialists and exploiters. They didn’t offer solutions. Instead, what the biennale did was to juxtapose smaller museums and regional issues against these bigger international topics. Good initiative The biennale was a good initiative by the Bihar government to promote the new Bihar Museum, designed by the Pritzker Prize-winning architect Fumihiko Maki at a cost of Rs. 500 crore, and possibly the largest public museum in South Asia, both in scale and its wide collection, ranging from the historical to the contemporary. At a time when the Centre has cut the allocation for the ‘Development of Museums’ scheme by more than 50% — Rs. 126 crore in 2020-21 from Rs. 286 crore in 2019-20, this is a welcome move by a State government, in line with countries such as China, U.K., Singapore and Australia, which have increased their budget for arts and culture in the wake of the pandemic, offering multi-billion relief packages for the sector. The biennale itself had to be postponed to 2021, thanks to the pandemic, and was finally held online, with curated walk-throughs of museums, workshops, master classes and talks. Participants included speakers from Prado museum in Spain; National Museum of Interventions, Mexico; Castle Museum in Pszczyna, Poland; the National Museum of Colombia; Liberation War Museum, Bangladesh; and Assam State Museum, Guwahati, among several others. Unusual collections The walk-throughs of over 20 museums included the new Bihar Museum, which houses the beautiful 3rd century BCE Didarganj Yakshi among other treasures. The story of the Yakshi is legendary. She was found in 1917 on the banks of the Ganges in Didarganj in Old Patna City, where her base had been used for years as a washing slab by dhobis. The statue’s nose was damaged during a travelling exhibition, and a decision was made to not send the Yakshi abroad again. This is one among the nearly 49,000 artefacts in the museum, as Bihar seeks to reclaim its legacy as an international centre of culture dating back to its history as Pataliputra, the capital of Magadha, as well as being a centre of Buddhist, Sikh and British history. This as well as the other walk-throughs of museums in Florence, Poland, Canada, Colombia, Jaipur, Goa, Assam and Bengaluru are now online on the Bihar Museum’s YouTube channel. But what made the biennale particularly interesting and unique was the introduction to unusual museums, such as the Museo Camera in Gurugram and the Kanha Museum of Life and Art in Madhya Pradesh, located at Singinawa Jungle Lodge, which looks at indigenous Gond and Baiga art and life. Relevant conversations “It has been both an exciting and challenging experience to re-imagine a grand physical Bihar Museum Biennale into a completely virtual one,” said Alka Pande, curator of the biennale. “The reach has been phenomenal and now with everything being on Facebook and YouTube, it is there for posterity and people can watch and rewatch the sessions.” It was a massive exercise to coordinate with 20 museums, both national and international, create a microsite, conceive the virtual conference, the master classes, podcasts and virtual tours, she said. The master classes focused on storytelling through dance, cultural appreciation, and vernacular dialects. An important intervention was a smaller museum, such as the Maharaja Sawai Man Singh II Museum in Jaipur, speaking about how engagement-driven programmes, workshops and seminars can help museums open relevant conversations. The impact of the first-ever museum biennale in India will continue. It raised the profile of museums in general and asked questions not just about the return of stolen and confiscated treasures but about their survival in their own nation. Looking at the plight of the Amaravati Marbles in the Chennai Museum or the sculptures that have disappeared or been damaged over the years, a conversation around museums has been long overdue. This might have been the beginning.  The writer is the author of a fantasy series, and specialises in art and culture of South East Asia.  The impact of the first-ever museum biennale in India will continue||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/back-to-the-future/article34235574.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Modern literature has become completely logocentric’||While researching for his 2016 book, The Great Derangement: Climate Change and the Unthinkable , Amitav Ghosh paid close attention to the way premodern texts are written and designed, specifically how they engage with the natural world. Among other things, the book  elaborates upon two points: medieval texts across language and region have a wide-ranging engagement with nature, and a great many of them have a strong visual component to them. The illustrations aren’t static accessories; they are essential to the ‘grammar’ of these texts. Ghosh’s latest offering embodies both these virtues. Jungle Nama is an illustrated verse retelling of a Sunderban legend of the forest deity, Bon Bibi. The two pre-existing print versions of the story (both from the 19th century) call it Bon Bibi Johuranama or ‘The Narrative of Bon Bibi’s Glory’ ( The Honey Hunter , a 2014 children’s book written by Karthika Nair and illustrated by Joelle Jolivet, gives us a shorter, condensed variation of the legend). Shared concerns Jungle Namaintroduces us to Dhona, a cunning merchant who enlists his nephew, Dukhey, in a honey-gathering mission into the Sunderban mangrove forest. Led by greed, he ends up invading the territory of Dokkhin Rai, a “mighty spirit feared by all under the sky” who “preyed on humans in a tiger avatar”. The beautiful, idiosyncratic illustrations of the book subtly drive home the story’s finer points. In a telephonic interview, Ghosh describes how premodern texts like the Johuranama have been on his mind since the writing of The Great Derangement . “The - nama suffix comes from Persian but its usage in nomenclature was not limited to Persian texts alone,” he says. “When I wrote The Great Derangement , I was thinking about a lot of premodern texts from around the world that seemed to share certain concerns about natural resources and human greed. To my mind, their understanding of these issues was often more humane and sophisticated than books written hundreds of years afterwards.” It’s noteworthy that Ghosh’s last novel, Gun Island, is a modern-day parable woven around the legend of the snake goddess, Manasa. “In that legend, Manasa Devi represents the natural world, or ecological concerns if you will,” Ghosh says. “Chand Saudagar is the human character, a trader. And how do we see the downfall of the human? We see it unfolding because of his greed. These are universal themes, the prospect of finite natural resources and the human penchant for extraction at all costs.” Metre as magic Jungle Nama’s illustrations are by Salman Toor, the Pakistani-American artist whose solo show, How Will I Know , debuted in New York in November to enthusiastic reviews. Ghosh says he wanted an artist whose work “illuminated” the book à la medieval epics rather than “being images subservient to words”. Toor delivers handsomely on that count. His ‘illuminations’ are evocative of several different kinds of premodern visual media: the woodcuts of Flemish painter and graphic artist Frans Masereel, the illustrated Victorian serialised novel and, of course, the style of Persian epics like the Hamzanama . Talking about the impact of these ‘illuminations’, Ghosh says: “Modern literature has become completely logocentric. If you look at the Persian epics or even something like Charles Dickens’ serialised novels, the images that they use are very distinctive. They add a dimension to the text that cannot be achieved by words alone. I wanted Jungle Nama to tap into those modes of creation that were not completely bound up with words.”  Jungle Nama , like the existing Johuranamas , is written in the form of an epic poem in dwipodi-payar , the ‘two-footed’ metre used in Bengali folk literature over hundreds of years. The metre consists of rhyming couplets, generally of 24 syllables each, with a caesura or pause. The metre is designed for chants and songs, meant to be read aloud. Ghosh says he “fell in love with this powerful, flexible metre.” “By the end of the story you realise that the dwipodi-payar is very much a protagonist. The metre becomes the magic that makes the miracle happen,” he says. This is a reference to a poignant scene in Jungle Nama where Dukhey’s old mother advises him to pray to Bon Bibi in dwipodi-payar so that she may save him when the time comes (“Be sure to cast your call in dwipodi payar/ it’ll give your voice wings, it’s the metre of wonder.”) Ghosh points out that reading or chanting these works was a community experience, unlike the modern-day habit of solitary reading and writing. “Reading alone and silently is very fresh as an idea, relatively speaking. It only started in 18th century Europe and has now become universal to the point where people subconsciously associate these acts with solitude. When we think of literature today, we think of a writer writing alone and a reader reading alone.” Committed to memory Moreover, working your ideas into verse was the linguistic equivalent of a preservative; it made sure that the core of your message survived transport and localised variations. As Ghosh says, “Verse is a way of harnessing the power of language. Verses can be read out aloud, you can sing or chant or perform them. In South Asia especially, even premodern grammatical or mathematical texts were in verse. Why? Because verse makes you concentrate what you’re saying. It makes you channel your message through very rigorous forms of expression and in doing so, makes it memorable.” There are other linguistic delights to be found in Jungle Nama. Dukhey and Dhona are aboard the latter’s merchant ship alongside several lascars. As a result, there are several words here that were originally a part of Laskari Baat, the composite language used by lascars from the 16th century onwards, made up of languages as varied as Portuguese, English, Bengali and Tamil. Ghosh made free use of Laskari Baat throughout his Ibis trilogy ( Sea of Poppies , River of Smoke and Flood of Fire ) to add linguistic authenticity to the happenings. In Jungle Nama too, the pidgin speech explodes on the page late into the book. In a sonorous delight of a passage, we come across “alllieballie”, “dosootie” and “dastoorie”— all, as Ghosh explains, referring to different kinds of fabric. “This is one of the things I noticed during my research for the Ibis books — that so many of the lascar words were fabric names. It was great fun incorporating them into the novels. In Jungle Nama , this process felt natural,” Ghosh says.  Jungle Nama ends with a couplet that encapsulates the book’s ecological message perfectly: “A world of endless appetite is a world possessed,/ is what your munshi’s learned, by way of this quest.” This has been the dominant strand running through all of Ghosh’s work from over the last decade or so, whether fiction or non-fiction. Like Barbara Kingsolver or Paul Kingsnorth (two writers Ghosh discusses in The Great Derangement ), Ghosh is deeply invested in the politics of relentless ‘development’ vis-à-vis climate change. Frankly, we could do with more mainstream writers shouting about this stuff from the rooftops. The writer and journalist is working on his first book of non-fiction.  These are universal themes, the prospect of finite natural resources and the human penchant for extraction at all costs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/modern-literature-has-become-completely-logocentric/article34235542.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||The day of the urial||For Munib Khanyari, the species which symbolises his mountain home isn’t the snow leopard, Tibetan wolf, or any of the iconic animals of Ladakh. Although the arid plateau is home to seven other species of ungulates, a little known wild sheep called the urial has wormed its way into the researcher’s heart. Despite growing up in Kashmir, Khanyari didn’t know of the urial until after he had set out to become a researcher. While conducting a survey of blue sheep, he came upon a skull that looked different. A shepherd identified it as shapu, a local name for the urial. It wasn’t a surprise that herders knew the species. Through the course of their workday, they kept tabs on the urial herds in their meadows. An intrigued Khanyari spent eight days looking for the species without success, and on the ninth day, he was rewarded by the sight of 200 urial. He described the beauty of the animal’s rich russet coat glinting in the light. The distant purple mountains offered a breathtaking backdrop. “Other mountain ungulates are a drab greyish white, the better to blend with their surroundings,” he says. “But the urial’s magnificence blew my mind. From a distance, when you see them running, they flow like the river with an ebb and flow.” The veteran biologist George Schaller had termed all the wild goats, sheep, and antelopes of the high elevations as ‘Mountain Monarchs’, but to Khanyari, the urial, in particular, epitomised the term. Sleeping on the horn The heads of rams resemble a bandy-legged letter ‘m’ with their thick horns describing a flamboyant arc. When Khanyari spotted a group resting on a slope, a ram rested its head at such an awkward angle that he thought the animal was dead. Only when it shook its head did he realise it had been sleeping on its horn. Later, he examined the bedding site and saw the clear impression of the appendage’s grooves embedded into the snow. Despite the impressive size of their horns, urial rams rarely fight. Instead, they study their rival’s posture, sizing them up, and usually, the one with an inferiority complex gives way. “The horns are a proxy for strength,” says Khanyari. “Indirect communication may not be as glamorous as fighting, but it saves the rams from wasting their energy.” When two evenly matched challengers meet, however, their silent argument escalates to head-on battering which sounds like a pistol shot. Eventually, brawn prevails in the brawl. The urial also communicate orally. When every member of the herd has its head down chomping greenery, one stands on a ridgeline keeping watch. If she spots danger, she blasts a snort-like whistle to alert the rest. Their heads pop up and they whistle nervously in response. “It’s funny to watch them,” says Khanyari. “Some don’t have a clue what’s going on and don’t realise the gravity of the situation. They go right back to grazing if she stops calling.” If she flees, the whole herd follows her like a wave. Many dangers The species’ preference for undulating meadows makes them vulnerable not only to snow leopards and packs of wolves and stray dogs but also humans. While hunting still remains a threat, people pose another, more insidious form of danger. The terrain favoured by the urial is ideal for growing crops, rearing sheep and goats, and building military and tourism infrastructure. All of these activities cut off urial populations from each other, leaving herds as small as 15 isolated from others. “Even if a valley has only a small flock, it is worth conserving,” Khanyari says. “Instead of seeing the situation as a glass half-empty, we could see it as half-full.” Despite the severe stress on the species and its declining numbers, the fact that the urial continues to hang on has come to symbolise something else for Khanyari: resilience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-day-of-the-urial/article34235590.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||The callsign is century||Some collect stamps. Some coins. Many take to painting or gardening or making handicrafts. There are hundreds of hobbies that are pursued just for enjoyment. Amateur radio, or Ham as it is otherwise called, is a unique hobby. A big attraction is that it allows you to communicate from anywhere: from the top of a mountain or from home, or even from behind the wheel of a car, without relying on the Internet or a cellphone network. One can even talk to astronauts aboard the International Space Station from your bedroom. The current year, 2021, marks the centenary of the hobby in the country. In January 1921, Amarendra Chandra Gooptu of then Calcutta became the first Indian to get the licence to be an amateur radio operator. He was soon followed by Mukul Bose from the same city. However, the number of enthusiasts in India is very low, nearly 45,000. Considering that the first public demonstration of electromagnetic waves was done by India’s pride and legend, Jagadish Chandra Bose, this number is pitiable. A major reason for this is a lack of facilities for training and inadequate information. Most get to know about amateur radio only during disasters such as floods and earthquakes. Some positive movement happened in 1984, when the then Prime Minister, Rajiv Gandhi, himself an amateur radio enthusiast, waived the import duty on wireless equipment. There have been some good initiatives from the Narendra Modi government also. The Wireless and Planning Coordination Wing in the Union Ministry for Communications, Electronics and Information Technology, which regulates amateur radio in India, has done a commendable job by launching an online portal (www.saralsanchar.gov.in). Radio transmission permits are closely controlled by governments because radio waves propagate beyond national boundaries. There is thus a system of licensing in most countries for amateur radio operators. All countries that license citizens to use amateur radio require them to pass an examination. The new portal has made the process of getting the licence easier. Last year, some of us in the amateur radio community in the country came together and provided training for newcomers. Called Open Source Class for Amateur Radio (OSCAR), it is a pan-India programme. Anyone interested can enrol themselves on www.oscar.tsff.in.  nilkantha577@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-callsign-is-century/article34235533.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||So far so fluent||Much of Maithreyi Karnoor’s novel Sylvia is the kind of breezy prose you can run through in one go. A silent hero arrives in a nameless Goan village, builds a house, makes friends with a neighbour, mulls over his past and secrets. Cajetan Pereira is likeable, calm, and reliable. His not-gay relationship with handsome young Lakshminarayan, Lakshmi for short, is the kind of bond one would like to have in real life. Into this duet enters Sylvia, daughter of his long-estranged brother. She spends some weeks with Cajetan and Lakshmi and then moves on. So far so fluent. The novel indeed looks like the “accomplished debut” we are promised. But what happened after that? Perhaps some publisher looked at these pages and said, no, you must put in more, we can’t sell such a short book. The first third of the book certainly contains more decor and snakes than we really need, but it shows stylistic unity and control. In the chapters that follow, characters are tangled like the vegetation that lies between Cajetan’s and Lakshmi’s houses. It is not easy to trace the branch to the root, or to discover whether a vine has embedded itself into a tree or is simply going around on its way to the sky. Sylvia reappears often in those chapters — as a secondary character, in a passing remark, or even in the form of her hand-me-down kurtas . The writing sometimes gets careless, but we do have a few intriguing people. Bhagirathi, who seems shyly enamoured with her professor but marries his son. Young Reshma, who steals water from passing tankers to wash her hair with. These characters also cross over from one narrative to another, taking on greater depth. But over time, we feel as if we were watching a train leave the station. The passengers in the first few windows are three-dimensional, and we can understand the families and baggage they leave behind. As the train speeds up, the faces blur into confusion. Yet, when we look for Cajetan and Lakshmi again we are not just yearning for the familiar. Karnoor possesses craft enough to have made them real. Her next work may be the one to watch for. The writer is author ofThree Seasons: Notes from a Country Year.  Sylvia: Distant Avuncular Ends Maithreyi Karnoor  Tranquebar  Rs. 499||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/so-far-so-fluent/article34235546.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Despite pins and needles||My childhood was spent in the Blue Mountains, Nilgiris, surrounded by a faultlessly blue sky, endless stretches of hills, and a gentle people,” Shobhana Kumar says in her introduction to her collection of haibun — a Japanese form in which haiku are interleaved with prose. It is to these words that I found myself returning after having read the book. For they felt somehow like clues to the work, almost a foreshadowing of the gentleness and the spaciousness that I had just encountered. “How do you touch a place that is unnamed yet?” That is the question ‘Lethologica’, a wry investigation into the nature of pain, poses. The haiku that follows is not so much a response as a deliberate detour, a deft linking and shifting characteristic of the Japanese poetic tradition: “meditation/ learning to focus/ despite pins and needles”. What is it that Shobhana sees? What does she want us to see with her, I asked myself. In ‘Colours’, her eyes come to rest on a “lone corner” where “a widowed grand-aunt sits amidst piles of wedding gifts”. The invisible is nudged into half-light. So this perhaps is what the poet feels is her calling — to write the forgotten and the invisible, like the alcoholic whose “last call to his family is cut half-way through” or the transgender abandoned as a son but coming back to take care of her parents as a daughter. Shobhana draws deftly on the two interconnected archives of the personal and the social. Her haibun are not laboured but are of the moment, the accompanying haiku offering the prose a soft yet unexpected landing. ‘Post-mortem’, a short biography-in-images of a wall-painter working on a new highrise who slips from the fourth floor trying to save a fellow painter from falling, concludes with a stunning monoku: “broken a kite falls into the sewer.” I found the separation of haibun into sections and the use of the theatrical vocabulary of acts and scenes somewhat distracting. This, however, does not take away from the integrity of the collection, beautifully produced by Red River. Shobhana tethers life moments to images with brevity and exactness, which is where the work of poetry lies. The reviewer’s latest book is the poetry collection,The Unmistakable Presence of Absent Humans.  A Sky Full of Bucket Lists  Shobhana Kumar Red River  Rs. 230||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/despite-pins-and-needles/article34235548.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Rahul Gandhi and the loneliness of the long-distance runner||When Sanjay Jha, now removed as a Congress spokesperson, had first tweeted about a letter by senior leaders questioning the party’s leadership and functioning, Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala had not only dismissed it as a rumour but also suggested that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) may be behind spreading such stories. Jha’s book The Great Unravelling: India after 2014 effectively puts to rest that he could be in league with the grand old party’s bitter political rival. In fact, the book should be seen in the context of an opinion piece that he wrote for a newspaper on March 3, 2020, in which he had complained about the lack of internal forum for frank debates and exchange of views. It is also an attempt to find out what explains BJP’s repeated electoral victories despite the country facing many challenges, including a floundering economy after the party came to power in 2014. Unsparing criticism “In 2014, BJP’s vote shares had climbed to a staggering 31 per cent from a mere 18 per cent, seemingly on the back of Modi’s dodgy Gujarat model of development. But what explained the considerable jump to 38.5 per cent in 2019, when all talk of development had been given the short shrift? The only reasonable conclusion is that Indians approved of the prime minister’s theatrical oratory, majoritarian nationalism, muscular Hindutva, and, presumably, willing to sacrifice jobs and future prospects for these,” writes Jha. The author, whose association with the Congress started in 2004 as a “non-political communication” specialist, is unsparing in his criticism about the Congress party’s role in the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 or the Rajiv Gandhi government giving in to clerics to overturn the Shah Bano judgment. “The Rajiv Gandhi government reversed a progressive Supreme Court judgment by bringing about a constitutional amendment, and never quite recovered from the taint of that decision. The banning of author Salman Rushdie’s book The Satanic Verses further cemented Congress’ reputation as Muslim sympathisers,” Jha notes. Congress minus the Gandhis The former Congress spokesperson gives an insider account, is incisive about the challenges faced by the Congress, but the author is fairly honest about his fascination for the Gandhi family. He is critical of Rahul Gandhi’s leadership, his inability to inspire the rank and file of the Congress yet thinks of him as a long distance player who knows that marathons are always lonely affairs. Perceived to be the “unofficial spokesperson” of Congress’ G-23 — group of 23 dissenters who asked for an overhaul of the party in a letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi last August — Jha asserts that the Congress will survive minus the Gandhi family. “The answer to that is an unequivocal yes ! ...I know many who fit the bill. But first we need to go to the drawing board,” he writes. No revival plan The answer to the leadership question could become even more critical once the Congress’ performance in the upcoming Assembly elections to Assam, Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry is known on May 2. The book acknowledges that the Congress is dealing with adversaries — Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah — unlike any other the party has known before. However, it stops short of offering a concrete plan on how to deal with them. Jha’s book has several episodes that would be of interest to any beat journalist (and this writer is one of them) for an insight into decision-making in the party; but what really stands out is the author’s ability to weave in many sub-plots without losing sight of the big picture narrative. The Modi government has failed India, admits Jha, but “the Congress is failing India as well.”  The Great Unravelling: India after 2014 Sanjay Jha Context/ Westland  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/rahul-gandhi-and-the-loneliness-of-the-long-distance-runner/article34235560.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1On April 4, 1796, French zoologist Georges Cuvier gave the first public lecture on fossilised life forms at the opening of the National Institute. His paper was the first to theorise that African and Indian elephants were different species and that based on his studies of fossils there was once another species that must have become extinct. This talk led to the formation of a certain field that gets its name from three words in Greek, meaning ‘old, ancient’, ‘being, creature’ and ‘speech, thought, study’. What is this field that captures almost every child’s fancy? 2After the global success of theJurassic Parkfranchise, the cloning of dinosaurs has become a running theme in popular culture. Unfortunately (or fortunately), the half-life of the most important molecule required for this process is 521 years. This means that the oldest clone-able samples of this molecule cannot be more than two million years old, which pretty much rules out any chance of replicating dinosaurs, the youngest of which lived more than 65 million years ago. What molecule has a half life of 521 years? 3Apatosauruswas a huge dinosaur that had a long tail which was broad at the base and narrow at the tip. Recent computer models studying its behaviour revealed that it moved its tail like how one would use a particular old-fashioned weapon. This also led to the conclusion that the dinosaur could make a deafening noise just by cracking its tail. What weapon whose tip travels faster than the speed of sound does the tail resemble? 4During the Cretaceous period (145.5–66.5 million years ago), Earth’s climate was very warm and forests were everywhere, including in a place where plants and dinosaurs evolved to live in continuous sunlight in the summer and darkness in the winter. Fossils of plant-eating dinosaurs such asAntarctopelta(an armored dinosaur) andTrinisaurahave been discovered in Cretaceous rocks in this now-barren place. Which place is this? 5Although culturally people tend to divide dinosaurs into herbivores (plant-eaters) and carnivores (meat-eaters), paleontologists distinguish dinosaurs based on their hips. They divide them as being either saurischian or ornithischian dinosaurs. If ‘schian’ means hip, what do ‘sauri’ and ‘ornithi’ mean, which refers to the living relatives of these dinosaurs now? 6All reptiles are ‘ectothermic’ — this is based on the fact that they need to rely on the external environment to maintain internal body temperatures. All mammals are ‘endothermic’ meaning they can maintain a constant internal body temperature irrespective of external conditions. There’s solid proof that dinosaurs had both types and were not purely ectothermic as previously thought. What does ‘ectothermic’ mean, which sounds like the animal is a villain in a murder novel? 7Explorer Roy Chapman Andrews found the first dinosaur nest known to science in 1923. He discovered the nest in a rain shadow desert formed by the Tibetan Plateau blocking the precipitation from the Indian Ocean. Which desert is this that is the second largest in Asia ? 8The first recorded description of a possible dinosaur bone discovery dates back to 3,500 years ago in a particular country. At that time the local people thought their discovery, which was some dinosaur teeth, belonged to dragons. Researchers believe that the prevalence of fossils in this country is partly responsible for the popularity of dragons in their culture. Which country is this where multiple different species have been discovered? 9Seismosaurus halliis considered to be the largest dinosaur to ever have existed. It rose to a height of 84 feet, 150 foot long and weighed 150 tonnes. Earlier another dinosaur calledArgentinosauruswas considered to be the largest, weighing up to 100 tonnes. The largest animal to have ever existed, though, weighed 190 tonnes and was 110 feet long. What animal is this? 10Stegosaurushad 30-inch-tall upright plates on its back that researchers believe it used to control its body temperature by regulating blood flow through them. It is also thought to have been able to control its skin colour this way, to either attract a mate or scare predators. The term used for this in humans refers to the blood vessels in the face becoming wide and hence changing colour. What term is this? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article34235579.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||A life spent flying fighter jets for two countries||Ramanathan Iyer, a retired Colonel of the South African Air Force and a Wing Commander in the Indian Air Force till 1996, lived an extraordinary life and passed away at the age of 69 on March 17 doing what he loved best: flying a military aeroplane. I first came across Rama, as he was popularly called in the IAF, in June 1981 as a cadet at the Air Force Academy in Dundigal. Accosting me one morning in the cafeteria, he said, “You seem to be a serious bloke. Do you know your vital actions before take-off — rattle them out and you can go.” By then, Rama was already an A2 qualified instructor and much liked among cadets — he was calm, soft-spoken, an excellent teacher and treated his pupils with kindness and dignity — not a very common thing in those days when most instructors followed the maxim of “spare the rod and spoil the child”. He was also smart and handsome and had a swagger with a touch of benign arrogance when dealing with authority and protocol that was so typical of fighter pilots in those days. I lost touch with Rama for a few years and then met him again at the Flying Instructors’ School at Tambaram, where he was a “super instructor” training rookie flying instructors like me. The next I heard about him was when he was commanding the same MiG-21 squadron that I went on to command a few years after him, No 30 Squadron, also called the Rhinos. Rama was the kind of commanding officer all budding fighter pilots would love to have — always leading from the front, flying his pants off, an excellent communicator, receptive and open, sociable, and most important, would stand up for his boys whatever the consequence. Good teacher Teaching seemed second nature to him, and I bumped into him again at the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington where he expounded on air power among other things. It was in Wellington that he was surprisingly passed over for promotion to the rank of Group Captain despite his stellar record. With children still in school, not many would have had the guts to quit and search for flying opportunities in military aviation in of all places, South Africa. I reckon it was an advertisement for flying instructors that attracted him there. What followed was an extraordinary career in the SAAF. Granted a three-year temporary commission in 1998 as a Colonel, Rama continued to gain the respect of the SAAF leadership as a flyer and a thorough aviation professional, staying on for 20 years in the SAAF in various capacities as a flying instructor, flight safety inspector, display pilot, instructor at the SAAF Staff College and more. After retirement, he continued in aviation as an instructor with South Africa’s civil aviation body. It was on a Patchen Explorer, a vintage single-engined reconnaissance aircraft, that Rama went down recently in Pretoria along with Major General Desmond Barker (retd) on March 17. Tributes continue to pour in for the two in South Africa with one report stating, “The deaths of retired military aviation legends General Desmond Barker and Colonel Rama Iyer were described as a huge loss for South Africa’s aviation sector.” We visited him in 2003 at his large but modest suburban house in Pretoria and learnt that he was much respected in the SAAF. Rama was not a big-shot; nor did he rise to traditional positions of power or influence and nor was he a gallantry award winner. He represents one among us ordinary folks who dared to dream, take risks and plunge into the unknown to follow his passion and provide his family with a better life. Along the way, he touched many people’s lives across two continents and that is what makes him special. Fly on into the blue yonder Rama!  (The writer is a retired Air Vice-Marshal)   arjun31@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-life-spent-flying-fighter-jets-for-two-countries/article34235537.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Fading voices||Arunachal Pradesh, in the farthest northeast corner of India, is a land inhabited by numerous tribes which, taken together, speak more than 90 languages. Many of these languages are being forgotten as younger generations are taught the lingua franca, Hindi, which opens up the rest of India to them. Each time a language dies, an entire culture dies with it. In case of Arunachal Pradesh, the erasure is all the more absolute since many of the tribal languages don’t have any written script. They have been passed down orally through stories, lullabies, songs, chants preserved in memory. Memory keepers As with many ancient tribes, women serve as the memory-keepers here too. It is therefore rather apt that the stories, essays and poems in this collection are all by Arunachal women, who, whether writing in English or in Hindi translated into English, speak of their inescapable inheritance — of words and loss. The legacy is not always mourned; rather, it is assessed critically. If the old ways carried beautiful stories speaking of a visceral bond with nature, they also normalised patriarchy, violence against women, heedless killing of animals. In the poem, ‘My Ane’s Tribal Love Affair’, Ngurang Reena addresses her mother, who wouldn’t stop mourning her dead husband even after a lifetime of subjugation and betrayal: “At thirteen, ‘traded’ for a few mithun to my father.../ Blessed by the spirits of the forest, her forefathers, her ancient tradition”, and replaced by a second wife later. The daughter must break away from this ‘tradition’ and taste freedom, even as she is conscious of “carrying my tribe on my back”. Part of the desired freedom is inscribed in the poem’s language — English — which has created alternate avenues of thinking for the speaker by giving her a ‘tongue’ other than her mother’s. Frogs’ symphony The tension between the given and the acquired informs all the pieces. In one breath they speak of silent mountain passes, fog-shrouded cold wintery nights, babble of brooks, frogs’ symphony, unquiet spirits, shamanic chants, prophetic woodpeckers on the one hand and uprooted forests, unwanted girl children, gender violence and rampant superstition on the other. For each of the writers is an insider and outsider, both. Inevitably, their writings speak of an urban sensibility, involving confusion about familial languages and customs. For instance, in Doused Flames by Leki Thungon, the city-bred speaker is bewildered by the reference to zekmus — “cursed women who sleepwalk” — in her village. It might just be a bogeyman story meant to scare children but the speaker, and the reader, can’t help wondering if there’s more to it — are zekmus women who have defied men and paid the price by being beaten up and ostracised?  The Inheritance of Words is instructive because it helps de-romanticise our notion of tribal culture. Shorn of nostalgia, its value is brought into sharper focus. The pieces are sometimes tentative, as if the writer is unsure of her opinion, but they begin the process of questioning, so vital to any act of evaluation and preservation. The collection is also important in foregrounding the woman’s voice, which, as always, gives us a distinctive view of the past and the present.  The Inheritance of Words: Writings from Arunachal Pradesh  Edited by Mamang Dai  Zubaan  Rs. 350||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/fading-voices/article34235556.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Be island positive||Dear AA,  I want to take my family on a vacation. We have been cooped up inside these four walls for too long. My wife is getting irritable and my daughter is getting cheeky. I think she is watching too many OTT serials and learning these attitudes. As for my son, 14 years old, better not ask. We need a break. So, we were thinking of heading off to the Maldives, which is scenic and clean and pure. We can come back refreshed. But my colleague called me today and said, ‘Machaan, don’t take risk. Maldives government is quarantining tourists if there is any case.’ I find this ridiculous. We are paying so much money and taking holiday, why should governments torture us? How long this Covid thollai will continue? Is it not my fundamental right to take my family on holiday? —Dying of Lonely Torture   Dear DOLT,  You are absolutely right to be annoyed. Whenever I get emails like this, the wonders of travel come back to me in a rush. Are you sure you don’t want to go to Antarctica instead? That is also scenic and clean and pure. And very far away from the rest of us. I can see that all my desi brothers and sisters think that now that one year is over, they must immediately begin to shop and visit and go to Goa on holiday. Before coming, this Covid virus had made its own travel itinerary and in that it was clearly stated that it is going to stay for one year only on Planet Earth. So, everyone is packing bags and baggage and leaving on a jet plane. You must also do so. But before travelling to scenic island, perhaps you can read island government’s health notice? Because there it is clearly stated that if anybody on incoming aeroplane has Covid means passengers from two seats front and back plus all parties coming into contact with above person will be put into quarantine. On same scenic island. Now, this sounds extremely unreasonable to me. After all, why should an Indian tourist’s holiday be spoilt because scenic island wants to protect itself from pandemic? And why should people be careless enough to get infected while travelling to scenic island? There are so many other places to fall sick and let holiday revellers revel in peace. This thoughtlessness is seen everywhere. In the independent house on the next street, my friend Sheela lives. It is her ancestral home, a very large one. She was getting very bored indoors, so she decided to go for a small get-together of 20-30 people in her friend Rohit’s 2BHK flat. They drank and laughed and danced. A good time was had by all. You won’t believe this, but three days later Rohit was inconsiderate enough to test positive. Sheela is really indignant. Can’t people wait at least a decent 3-4 weeks after get-together to fall sick? Anyway, all this talk of holidays has brought another scenic island in the Indian Ocean floating dreamily into my mind. Called Bali. Same island from which Indian family stole towels, soap dish, even pillows and flower vases from the hotel room. The hotel staff got very angry, I don’t know why. After all, when the loot came tumbling out, the family kept saying, ‘We will pay, we will pay.’ Surely these scenic island hotel staff know by now that once they are caught, our tourists quickly pay up. In that same spirit, you must instantly go to Maldives. So what if you are risking yourself and everyone else? You are special. You are a desi tourist. — AA agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/be-island-positive/article34235581.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Surprise extra chance||We suspect that most duplicate players would go down in five diamonds on today’ s deal. They would be dreaming of an overtrick if the trumps split 2-2 and be willing to settle for their contract on a 3-1 split. The 4-0 split would condemn them to two trump losers after starting trumps by cashing the ace. Rubber bridge players would not care about the overtrick and take precautions against a 4-0 split. They would ruff the second spade and lead a low diamond to dummy’s eight and East’s 10. They would still have work to do when East shifts to the jack of clubs. They have the entries, with the ace of clubs and the king of hearts, to pick up the rest of the trumps, but what can they do about their fourth club? The winning solution is to win the club shift with the king, cash the queen, and lead a club to dummy’s ace. If East started with a doubleton club, declarer could never make the hand. If the clubs split 3-3, the long club would be good and declarer could just pick up the trumps. The extra chance would be if East started with four clubs. They could then lead a diamond to the jack and king and ruff a club back to dummy. Another trump finesse and they could draw trumps and claim. Well played!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/surprise-extra-chance/article34235584.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3144||Across  1 Dancing will get you prone with hip replacement (8) 5 Holy man, righteous, flips, goes bananas (6) 10 I see diving bird returning to very cold water (7) 11 Poor misguided fool in the lead somewhere in Japan (7) 12 Because of odour, eat cod only now and then (3,2) 13 Van is seen moving with simplicity (9) 14 Bread boxes? (4,8) 18 Like Enid Blyton vis-à-vis tiny blonde? (12) 21 Earl finally – finally! – has estate ringed by 52 hedges (9) 23 Perhaps Muscat resident will be back soon (5) 24 Productive government losing power, irritating (7) 25 Oddly, drew a little shrine; close to flock, highest screen displaying icons (7) 26 Provokes some toilet-roll shortages (6) 27 We’re prepared to go back to the old you, once a little delightful innocent (4-4)  Down  1 Difficult, love, to get over Everyman’s coiffure (6) 2 Staggered, seeing fish in merlot, perhaps (6) 3 Prehistoric beast – monster – spotted, in reports (9) 4 In impeded light, playing game (3-2-3-6) 6 Regularly fry up pieces of bread in Asia (5) 7 Spooner’s expressed anti-Scandinavian policy as radio programming (5-3) 8 Director adding touch of silliness to film’s music before vacuous scene (8) 9 If fat, side salad could make you healthy (2,3,2,1,6) 15 He and I sense lobby will be evacuated in an awful way (9) 16 Riotous lady, topless, drunk after sunrise (8) 17 Primarily bubbly, a beverage your child is nowadays offered? (8) 19 Little Morgan trying to get support (6) 20 Bit hurried (6) 22 Pollarding allowed – that’s terrible (5)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3144/article34235587.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Award to Rajinikanth||The Dadasaheb Phalke Award for 2020, delayed due to the pandemic, is to be conferred on actor Rajinikanth. He was picked by a jury that included singer Asha Bhosle, actor Mohanlal, actor Biswajit Chatterjee, singer Shankar Mahadevan, and director Subhash Ghai. “I dedicate this award to my fans across the world,” said Rajinikanth in a long tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/award-to-rajinikanth/article34235513.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||The unchargeables||A CBI court in Ahmedabad discharged three Gujarat cops in the Ishrat Jahan case, after the State declined sanction to prosecute. Of the seven officers accused, three others were discharged earlier and one has died. Jahan and three other alleged ‘terrorists’ were killed in an ‘encounter’ in 2004. A SIT had found that the encounter was fake and that the four were already in police custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-unchargeables/article34235515.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Second wave||India was gripped by a second wave of the novel coronavirus, with 80% of new cases reported from six States: Maharashtra, Punjab, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and Kerala. Mumbai and Delhi banned public celebrations. The government expanded the vaccination programme to those aged 45 and above, but allowed large gatherings and political congregations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/second-wave/article34235517.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Rates restored||A Finance Ministry circular announced that interest rates on a number of small savings schemes were being sharply slashed, including the Public Provident Fund (from 7.1% to 6.4%), Kisan Vikas Patra, savings deposits, and others. The order, however, was abruptly canned in less than a day, with Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman tweeting that the current rates would continue and the orders had been “issued by oversight”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/rates-restored/article34235519.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Work decoded||The Centre deferred the four labour codes that were to come into effect from April 1, as States had not yet finalised their rules. Implementation would have affected many people’s take-home pay and employers’ Provident Fund liabilities, as allowances would now be capped at 50%. The codes, which also govern industrial relations, social security and occupational safety, have faced strong opposition from trade unions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/work-decoded/article34235521.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Farm laws report||The committee appointed by the Supreme Court to study the impact of the three controversial farm laws submitted its report. The committee held 12 rounds of consultations over the past two months with some farmers’ groups, industry representatives, researchers and other stakeholders. The protesting farmers’ unions refused to take part. The contents will reportedly be made public at the next court hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/farm-laws-report/article34235523.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Free at last||The 200,000-ton container shipEver Givenwas freed by salvage crews after it got wedged in the Suez Canal and disrupted global commerce for six days. Hundreds of ships were stuck in the resulting traffic jam, holding up 12% of world trade at a cost of over $9 billion per day. The 25-member crew, all Indians, was reported to be safe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/free-at-last/article34235525.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Arrested||Hours after voting concluded in a swathe of West Bengal’s Jangalmahal region, the NIA arrested Chhatradhar Mahato, a key Trinamool Congress leader in the area. He is a former convenor of the PCAPA, allegedly a Maoist front organisation. The arrest was in connection with the murder of a CPI(M) worker and a train hijacking, both in 2009.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/arrested/article34235527.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Gender gap||India now ranks 140th among 156 countries overall in the World Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap Report 2021, having dropped 28 places since last year, to become the third-worst performer in South Asia. In particular, India fared worst in the health and survival category, with a rank of 155 — above China alone — while the gap in economic participation widened by 3%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/gender-gap/article34235529.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Fragile Monsters||Catherine Menon  Penguin Random House Rs. 699 Sharp-tongued and ferocious, Mary is a difficult grandmother for Durga to love. When Durga visits her in rural Malaysia, she only wants to endure Mary. Stuck together in the heat, both women must disentangle the truth from the myth of their family’s violent past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/fragile-monsters/article34235544.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||A Silent Place||Vinod Kumar Shukla, trs Satti Khanna  Eka Rs. 399 The woods have been stunned into silence by grief. A group of children want the woods to overcome the muteness. The schemes they devise and the adventures they embark upon make up the surface. What lies beneath is the deepest human philosophy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-silent-place/article34235550.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Amar Chitra Katha Folktales Collection||Amar Chitra Katha  HarperCollins Rs. 450 A series of three books, put together by the writers at Amar Chitra Katha, brings together some of the greatest folktales in the ACK catalogue. Each book is adapted from the original ACK comics and aims to bring timeless Indian folktales to new readers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/amar-chitra-katha-folktales-collection/article34235552.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Second World War Sandwich||Digonta Bordoloi  Pan Macmillan Rs. 399 April 1944. The Japanese army lays siege to a British garrison in Kohima, to march further into India. Four soldiers of the British troops — a former tea-estate manager, a cook turned soldier, a Nepalese Gorkha, and a native headhunting warrior — get involved and question the human cost of war.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/second-world-war-sandwich/article34235554.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Hostility: A Diplomat’s Diary on Pakistan-India Relations||Abdul Basit  HarperCollins  Rs. 799 Former Pakistan high commissioner to India Abdul Basit’s memoir of his tenure in New Delhi, from 2014 to 2017, takes readers through the highs and lows of diplomacy. Filled with anecdotes, the book provides insight into a damaged relationship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/hostility-a-diplomats-diary-on-pakistan-india-relations/article34235558.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Finding the Raga: An Improvisation on Indian Music||Amit Chaudhuri  Hamish Hamilton/ PRH  Rs. 499 Tracing north Indian music’s development, Chaudhuri dwells on its distinctive characteristics: its extraordinary approach to time, language and silence. He writes of his discovery of, and enduring passion for, north Indian music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/finding-the-raga-an-improvisation-on-indian-music/article34235565.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Philip Roth: The Biography||Blake Bailey  Jonathan Cape  Rs. 1,412 (Kindle price) Appointed by Philip Roth, Bailey spent years poring over Roth’s personal archive, interviewing his friends, and colleagues, and engaging the writer himself in candid conversations. The result is a portrait of an American master and of the postwar literary scene.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/philip-roth-the-biography/article34235567.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Wanderers, Kings, Merchants: The Story of India through its Languages||Peggy Mohan  Viking/ Penguin  Rs. 599 Delving into the early history of South Asia, this book reveals how migration has shaped all Indians from ancient times. Mohan writes about early Sanskrit, the rise of Urdu, language formation in the North-east, and says that all Indians are of mixed origins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/wanderers-kings-merchants-the-story-of-india-through-its-languages/article34235569.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunday Recipe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article34235511.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||What is driving the second wave in India?||With a steady increase in the daily fresh cases since the third week of February, with over 89,000 cases reported on April 2, the seven-day average test positivity rate climbing to 6.8% as on April 2, and with the reproduction number (R0) — how many people each infected person will infect on average — above 1.5 and steadily increasing over the last two–three weeks, the second wave has well and truly begun in many States. The rate of increase in cases in India during March has been faster than at any other time during the pandemic, which is also reflected in the modelling studies by Indian researchers, including Gautam Menon, Professor of Physics and Biology at Ashoka University. While the onset of the festival season since the pandemic peaked in mid-September in India, winter, no restrictions on movement, large gatherings and not-so-good adherence of mask wearing and other non-pharmaceutical interventions did not cause any spike in cases across the country, what is driving the current surge in cases in many States? Cited reasons The Health Ministry has cited the general laxity among people regarding COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, including mask wearing, and lack of containment and management strategy at the ground level as reasons for the surge in cases. The role of variants, either the imported ones or those that have originated in India, are not seen to be responsible. But Dr. Giridhara Babu, epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), Bengaluru cites three important factors — the virus, the host, and the environment — constituting the epidemiological triad for the surge in cases in many States. Explaining the contribution of the three factors, Dr. Babu says in an email: “New variants of concern might be in circulation, which is probably more infectious, and some can be an immune escape as well.” The host factors include waning antibodies, not following COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and incomplete vaccination, while the environmental factors include super-spreader events and poor compliance with preventive measures. The misconception that vaccination prevents even infection might also be contributing to rising cases. Indian variants “We just don’t know enough about the Indian variants to say whether they are more transmissible or more virulent, at this stage. I would personally think, extrapolating from the very high levels of seropositivity in the cities that several surveys have detected across the past several months, that a more transmissible, immune escape variant is responsible,” says Dr. Menon in an email to The Hindu.  In an email to The Hindu , virologist Dr. Shahid Jameel, Director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University says variants, both imported and home-grown, are increasingly seen but have so far not been linked epidemiologically to the surge. “It is possible that may be the case, but there is no data to either support or negate that possibility,” he points out. Explaining the tricky question of why no surge was seen between mid-September 2020 to end-February this year despite perfect conditions for the virus to spread wildly, Dr. Babu says the threshold for population immunity cannot be held as a yardstick when the virus is changing or when the immunity is waning. “Any infectious disease will have outbreaks whenever the susceptible pool builds up. Also, there has been the introduction of other variants due to international travel in some parts of the country, which can be more infectious than the earlier strain,” he says. Surge in large cities Large cities including Mumbai and Pune, which had recorded large infection rates during the first wave, are witnessing a surge. It is unclear if cases in such cities are only in virus-naïve people or if reinfections constitute a significant proportion. “There is no data I know of that is available in the public domain to address this question. Specifically, we don’t know what fraction of these new cases might reflect a new, more transmissible, immune escape variant that is responsible for reinfections,” says Dr. Menon. An ICMR study covering January-October 2020 found reinfection, most likely due to older strains, accounting for about 4.5% of cases. According to Dr. Babu, in the cities that reported more than 50% of seroprevalence (at least in some parts), resurgence of cases would either suggest that the antibodies are rapidly waning (and are below threshold levels to mount a response) or presence of newer variants. An imported variant (UK variant) has been identified in a few States. A double mutant variant has also been identified in at least a few States but all three experts feel that it is too early to conclusively say if this variant is responsible for higher transmission leading to a surge in cases or increased disease severity and death. This is because epidemiological link has so far not been established. That said, the U.K. variant and double mutant variant are considered to be more infectious and therefore more likely to contribute to intense transmission resulting in a faster peak wherever the variants are found. Systematic study needed One way to know if the variant is more infectious is by undertaking concurrent genomic sequencing of the cluster of cases and establishing the chain of transmission of the variants among the contacts, says Dr. Babu. Only such a systematic study will help establish the epidemiological linkage of the variant. Also, in vitro testing is necessary to establish infectiousness. Similarly, the extent of morbidity caused by the variant can be established by tracking the clinical parameters of individual patients. “I am not sure if these studies are being done at sufficient scale and results are certainly not available in the public domain,” says Dr. Menon. Also, against a target of sequencing at least 5% of positive samples across India to know the emergence of new variants, only 7,664 samples — less than 1% of the total positive samples from January to March 18 — have been sequenced. Undertaking studies to understand infectiousness of the double mutant variant becomes all the more important as noncompliance to COVID-19-appropriate behaviour is uniformly poor across India. Yet, the surge in cases is seen only in 19 States, and mainly in about a dozen States. In the absence of timely results of such studies, which will help policy making, placing all the blame on people appears to be the easy way out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/what-is-driving-the-second-wave-in-india/article34235697.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Researchers foresee trends in diphtheria incidence||Researchers from India, the U.K. and Russia have analysed a large collection of 502 genomes sourced from over 16 countries and collected from over a period of 122 years of the bacterium that causes diphtheria – Corynebacterium diphtheriae . The results of this massive and collaborative study hint that we need to anticipate increase in incidence of diphtheria which may be fomented by the diversity of the species, emergence of variant toxin genes and progression of antimicrobial resistance. They recommend that more in vivo and in vitro studies be undertaken to verify these hypotheses. The work was published recently in Nature Communications.  Diphtheria usually begins with angina (a type of chest pain) and tonsilitis symptoms, sore throat and mild fever. The diphtheria toxin causes inflammation of heart muscle (myocarditis) and this can lead to death if not treated with diptheria antitoxin and proper antibiotics. Formation of white-grey pseudomembrane over parts of the throat (pharynx) , voice box (larynx) and tonsils and swollen bull neck are considered stereotypical, although they may not show up in some cases. Vaccine preventable Diphtheria is a vaccine preventable disease – the toxoid vaccine elicits an immune response against the toxin which is encoded by a tox gene of the pathogen. Sometimes, spurts of diphtheria outbreaks occur in unvaccinated or partially vaccinated communities. There is an increasing trend in the number of cases of diphtheria globally, as the number of cases in 2018 (16,651) was double the 1996–2017 average (8,105). Relevant to India is the statistic that 50% of the cases that came up in 2018 were in India. To understand the epidemiology of the disease from a genetic perspective, it is needed to know how the microorganism has evolved in time and over the geographical spread. It is needed to know whether the gene for antimicrobial resistance has evolved and to understand variants of the tox gene which may be prevalent thereby influencing the vaccine targeted towards toxin produced by an old strain of C. diphtheriae.  Family tree In order to map out the genetic spread of the organism, the group has done a phylogenetic analysis that basically gives a picture of the family tree of the species. Unlike certain other bacteria, C. diphtheriae has shown a diversity in evolution, which makes it, as a species, more stable and powerful. This is also true of clades (or groups) that are prevailing in India. They then analyse the genes for their capacity towards antimicrobial resistance. Compared to the 1990s, isolates from the decade spanning the years from 2010 to 2019 show the highest average number of antimicrobial resistance genes encoding resistance for sulphonamide, aminoglycoside, chloramphenicol and trimethoprim.  Transferred AMR genes “These antimicrobial resistance genes might have been transferred by the mobile genetic elements from other bacteria,” says Thandavaranyan Ramamurthy, one author of the paper. He is presently INSA-Senior Scientist at the ICMR-National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases, Kolkata, and the work was completed when he was at DBT-Translational Health Science and Technology Institute, Faridabad. “Fortunately, none of the isolates harboured beta-lactam resistance genes. [that is, for example, resistance to antibiotics like penicillin]. Penicillin or erythromycin are the choice of antibiotics for the treatment of diphtheria,” he explains. Finally, the researchers study the variations (or mutations) in the tox gene, which is responsible for producing the diphtheria toxin – which is the main target of the vaccinations. “We identified 18 tox gene variants, with mutations estimated in its toxin structural impact,” explains Dr. Ramamurthy. This may imply that specific vaccines made for a particular diphtheria toxin may not work against newly evolved ones. “However, this hypothesis has to be demonstrated in in vitro and in vivo studies,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/researchers-foresee-trends-in-diphtheria-incidence/article34235690.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||How Asian desert dust enhances Indian summer monsoon||Carl Sagan once described Earth as a ‘small speck of dust’, a seemingly insignificant tiny particle. But dust has incredible power: it is known to influence monsoons, hurricanes and even fertilize rainforests. A new study now details how dust coming from the deserts in the West, Central and East Asia plays an important role in the Indian Summer Monsoon. Reverse effect The researchers also explain how the Indian Summer Monsoon has a reverse effect and can increase the winds in West Asia to produce yet more dust.  Dust swarms from the desert when lifted by strong winds can absorb solar radiation and become hot. This can cause heating of the atmosphere, change the air pressure, wind circulation patterns, influence moisture transport and increase precipitation and rainfall. A strong monsoon can also transport air to West Asia and again pick up a lot of dust. The researchers say this is a positive feedback loop. Lead author Qinjian Jin, lecturer and academic program associate at the University of Kansas explains a new hypothesis formulated by the team to The Hindu . “Not just the dust from the Middle East [West Asia], we think the Iranian Plateau also influences the Indian Summer Monsoon. The hot air over the Iranian Plateau can heat the atmosphere over the plateau, strengthen the circulation over the deserts of the Arabian Peninsula and increase dust emission from the Middle East [West Asia].” Aerosols transported He explains how deserts across the globe play important roles in monsoons. “The dust aerosols from deserts in West China such as the Taklamakan desert and the Gobi Desert can be transported eastward to eastern China and can influence the East Asia summer monsoon. And in the southwest United States, we have some small deserts that influence the North African monsoon..” When asked if anthropogenic dust from vehicles, mining, construction can influence monsoons, he explained: “Some studies have found that the anthropogenic aerosols emitted from the Indian subcontinent can decrease summer monsoon precipitation, while others found that absorbing aerosols such as dust can strengthen the monsoon circulation. However, in our study, we use the carbon model to simulate the impact of anthropogenic aerosols on India and our results showed that they can strengthen Indian summer monsoon rainfall.” The findings were recently published in Earth-Science Reviews.  Why study dust? But why is it important to study dust? Many studies have shown that the dust emission scheme is extremely sensitive to climate change and the team writes that understanding these mechanisms and effects of dust will help understand our monsoon systems in the face of global climate change. Minor components The team has now planned to study the minor components of desert dust aerosols. “We used to think that dust from deserts across the globe will have the same components, but we now know that different deserts have different chemical compositions and this can influence the dust’s properties. For example, we think that dust from the Middle East [West Asia] has more absorbing ability of solar radiation than dust from North Africa and this difference in absorbing ability might influence monsoon systems,” adds Dr. Jin. “We have also planned to use high spatial resolution remote sensing to identify source regions and create a better dust emission map. I would also like to study new drying lakes and how dust from them can also play a role in the monsoons.”  The hot air over the Iranian Plateau can heat the atmosphere over the plateau, strengthen the circulation over the deserts of the Arabian Peninsula and increase dust emission from West Asia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/how-asian-desert-dust-enhances-indian-summer-monsoon/article34235688.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||IIT Kanpur develops touch-sensitive watch for the visually impaired||Two researchers from IIT Kanpur have developed a touch-sensitive, tactile, haptic watch that can help visually impaired people learn what time it is by touching the face. The watch makes up for two of the disadvantages of watches made for the use of visually challenged people: first, the lack of privacy in watches that audibly announce the time and second, the large sizes of touch sensitive watches. The prototypes were developed by Siddhartha Panda, who is a professor at the Department of Chemical Engineering and the National Centre for Flexible Electronics at IIT Kanpur, and Vishwaraj Srivastava who is a Senior Project Associate at the Centre.  Telling time The watch conveys the time in the form of vibrations when a person touches the right spoke on the face. For instance, if the time is 6.15, the watch gives a vibration of slightly long duration when the sixth spoke is touched and a short vibration when the third spoke is touched. “The watches have resolution of five minutes right now, but with an improvement we are planning, the resolution can go up to one minute,” says Mr Srivastava. They have filed for a patent for the watch. Not just the simple watch, the researchers have also developed a prototype smart watch which can, in addition to telling the time, measure vital health parameters. They started working on the watches only in September 2020 as a part of an older and longer project to develop a tool that would help a visually challenged person interface with a computer. “This was basically the low-hanging fruit,” says Prof. Panda, about the project. “The interface is more complicated and is in the process of being developed.” The watch has been tested with the help of a person from IIT Kanpur who is visually challenged. They plan to have a more formal testing done soon.   The other project – a computer user-interface that is friendly to visually impaired users - is gaining ground. The device consists of a wearable headset or headband, to which is attached a camera eye, and a haptic glove. The word haptic refers to technology that enables transmission and reception of information through touch. Virtual screen By coupling the camera to the touch-sensitive glove, visually challenged users can be helped to navigate a virtual screen spread out before them. Further if this virtual screen is coupled to a smart phone or ATM, they can operate the same even if they are not able to see it. This device is still in the works. Both Mr. Srivastava and Prof. Panda say that the projects are close to their hearts as they have been deeply affected by people close to them with visual impairment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/iit-kanpur-develops-touch-sensitive-watch-for-the-visually-impaired/article34235692.ece
04 April 2021||New Delhi,||Work on Delhi-Meerut corridor begins at Sarai Kale Khan||Work on the largest of the three Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) stations constituting the National Capital Region Transport Corporation’s (NCRTC) Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut corridor has begun on the ground at Sarai Kale Khan. To be completed by 2025, the elevated Sarai Kale Khan station in the heart of the Capital, measuring approximately 215 metres by 48 metres, is likely to accommodate six platforms and four lines for trains running at up to 180 kmph. It will not only reduce travelling time to Meerut, which will be between 40 and 60 minutes, but also to the larger NCR, which will soon include Alwar and Panipat.  Spherical bearings     The 82-km long Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut corridor is the first project of its kind to utilise spherical bearingsto enable high speeds. The 17-km-long priority section between Sahibabad and Duhai on the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut corridor is targeted to be operational from 2023. “Manpower and machinery has been mobilised and construction on the ground has begun at the construction site. On the other hand, operational simulations related to the integration of the station with existing modes of transportation in its vicinity have also begun,” said an NCRTC official.  No inconvenience     “The station is located at a significant distance from vehicular traffic and construction activity will certainly not cause any inconvenience for commuters using the stretch. Simulations in the virtual dimension are being conducted to ascertain operational aspects as well as linking it with other modes post-construction,” the spokesperson said. As The Hindu had reported on December 24 last year, “visible signs of construction” at the site, which is expected to see “significant commuter footfall” once completed, were scheduled to begin manifesting by early 2021 even as work related to the project in Uttar Pradesh is on in full swing. Puneet Vats, NCRTC Chief Public Relation Officer, said the Sarai Kale Khan RRTS station is important as all the three priority corridors of RRTS will converge and it will be seamlessly integrated with the existing Hazrat Nizamuddin metro station, railway station and the Sarai Kale Khan ISBT. The Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS corridor, which also proposes two foot overbridges for multimodal connectivity at Sarai Kale Khan, will have a total of 24 stations and will be elevated for around 70.5 km, with 11.5 km of its stretch underground. The rolling stock or coaches will be manufactured in Savli, Gujarat under the Make-in-India initiative. “The NCRTC is implementing India’s first RRTS which will form a network of networks by integrating different modes of public transport together. An interconnected network of public transport systems will provide seamless travel experience to commuters,” Mr. Vats said. An elevated portion of 9.22 km and 4.28 km underground will be part of the RRTS corridor in Delhi with both — the Sarai Kale Khan and New Ashok Nagar stations to be above and the Anand Vihar station to be below the ground. Bridge over Yamuna Meanwhile, the NCRTC is also constructing a 1.35-km-long bridge over the Yamuna almost parallel to the existing DND flyover to connect the Sarai Kale Khan RRTS station to New Ashok Nagar RRTS station. The length of the bridge crossing over the Yamuna will be around 626 metre and the rest of it will be over the Khadar area on both sides. The bridge will be built using box girders with the help of Segment Launching Gantry capable of providing a speed of 160 kmph. It will have 32 piers and will span over 44 metres on these piers. According to the NCRTC, the well foundation work for the construction of this bridge has also begun with its design having been finalised using the Building Information Modelling’ technology. On the other hand, pier construction of more than 16 km of the 82-km corridor has been completed with around 550 piers erected completely on which approximately 4 km of the RRTS viaduct has been completed. Foundation work of the Sahibabad, Ghaziabad, Duhai and Guldhar on the priority section between Sahibabad and Duhai has been completed and construction of superstructures is under way. The foundation work of the 16-km RRTS viaduct from on the 17-km priority section has also been completed, the NCRTC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/work-on-delhi-meerut-corridor-begins-at-sarai-kale-khan/article34235918.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||How oral health impacts sleep||Dr. Shifa Shamsudeen has been blogging about the connection between problems in the oral cavity and sleep for five years now. As a paediatric dentist, she has seen misaligned jaw lines and under-developed tongues (yes, it’s a set of muscles that work hard). While earlier, these problems were thought to be only genetic, today, research says that a number of oral cavity problems in children are a result of poor lifestyle habits, such as bottle feeding, and infections, like recurring inflamed adenoids. “All these can lead to narrowing of the airway. When a child is not getting enough oxygen during sleep, the tissues, including the brain are not getting rest. As a result the child becomes lethargic during the day,” says Dr. Kunal Gupta, paediatric dentist at Children’s Dental Center in Gurugram. A wider airway leads to better breathing and a deeper sleep. Mouth breathing alters jaw lines causing a short chin, which leads to an asymmetrical face and issues such as speech, breathing, and gum problems. Dr. Shamsudeen and her team at We Little that works on children’s teeth in Coimbatore, have brought out what they call a sleep passport — a booklet for parents and children that gives pointers on a healthy sleep routine from infancy to 18 years. It provides a pictorial description of low quality sleep, and highlights the symptoms, causes, and effects of mouth breathing and sleep disordered breathing (SDB), an upper airway dysfunction. Her message is that many problems with the mouth that result in poor sleep can be prevented. They can also be solved early, with myofunctional therapy. “This involves breath, muscle and sleep re-training exercises,” she says. An example of this is to place the tongue behind the upper front teeth without touching the teeth for 10 seconds. There are many more in the ‘passport’.  Lifestyle choices  Malocclusion (misalignment) of teeth in children is a symptom that something is not functioning in harmony. This used to be mechanically corrected with braces when the child turned 14, but can now be tackled much earlier. Today, dentists understand that for a majority of children, narrow jaws and crowded teeth are induced by lifestyle. “Bottle feeding, the use of pacifiers and thumb sucking can make the tongue muscles weak. It narrows the nasal airway, thereby leading to mouth breathing that induces low quality of sleep,” says Dr. Shamsudeen. To prevent this, it is best to breastfeed, avoid the use of pacifiers and try and break your baby’s thumb-sucking habit. “Breastfeeding sets the foundation for well-defined facial and jaw growth,” says Dr. Shamsudeen.  Timely medical attention  SDB is a result of an improper tongue position, causing difficulties while breathing, says Dr. Uma Nagarajan, chief paediatric dentist at Pedo Planet Children’s Dental Center in Delhi. “When a child snores or wakes up with a sudden gasping sound at night or while napping during the day, it is a symptom of SDB. The tongue at rest should be positioned in a way that the tip of the tongue rests on the roof of the mouth, even during sleep.” “SDB is caused by recurring inflamed adenoids and tonsils, an enlarged tongue, or a narrow lower jaw because of habits like thumb-sucking and mouth breathing. It can have an impact on concentration and attention in the short term and growth in the long term, both because of lack of quality sleep,” adds Dr. Gupta If your child is not getting good quality sleep, and psychological factors are ruled out, it’s best to check whether there is a problem with the oral cavity. To get a copy of the sleep passport, call 9786929892||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/how-oral-health-impacts-sleep/article34236121.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Umpire’s call retained amid DRS tweaks||The story so far: The International Cricket Council’s (ICC) cricket committee has made changes to the way lbws will be decided under the Decision Review System (DRS). The “wicket zone”, the area of the stumps a ball must hit for an on-field not-out decision to be overturned, which previously ended below the bails, will now extend all the way up to the top. The committee also decided to retain the umpire’s call, an element that allows the on-field decision to stand when there is no conclusive evidence to overturn it. A player can also ask the umpire whether an attempt was made to play the ball before deciding to review an lbw call. The soft signal protocol for outfield catches, which was in the news during the India-England series, was not adjudicated on. What necessitated the review? Under DRS, 50% of the ball should predictively hit the “wicket zone” for an on-field not-out decision to be reversed. Earlier, if the ball-tracking simulation showed the ball to be clipping the bails, the on-field verdict, even if it was not out, stood because the “wicket zone” ended below the bails. This left both players and supporters exasperated because two balls, both predictively shown to be hitting the stumps, can both be out and not out depending on the on-field umpire’s call. The 50% test is also applied for balls projected to hit the outside of the off-stump or leg-stump. Virat Kohli recently said that “from basic cricket common sense”, there should be no debate on how much of the ball was predictively hitting the stumps, a view previously expressed by Sachin Tendulkar and Shane Warne. The ICC’s recent move to increase the “wicket zone” is partly to address this confusion. There will still be not-out decisions, even after Hawk-Eye estimates that the ball is hitting the stumps. But this will happen less often. Is the cricketers’ understanding correct? Kohli’s position assumes that technology is fool-proof. But the ICC retaining the umpire’s call is an acknowledgement that the DRS is not an exact science. The Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s (MIT) review of the DRS technology from 2016, which the ICC has continuously relied on to improve rules, says that the error in predicting the height can be as high as 23 mm and width 8 mm. The requirement that half the ball (the radius of a cricket ball can range from 35.6 mm to 36.4 mm)should predictively hit the “wicket zone” is to cover for this possible error. The MIT review clearly states that there should be enough time between a ball bouncing and striking the batsman — four uninterrupted frames — to plot a curve within the above-mentioned error estimate. There are other variables too: the size of a ball is not exact and the ball can wear out and lose shape during the course of a match. Also, faster and fuller deliveries will have fewer frames of video available (imagine a yorker, which bounces only at the fag end). Tennis, another sport that uses Hawk-Eye, does not recognise such grey areas — the ball is either in or out. But the ball actually hits the ground before a decision is made, whereas, in cricket, it is purely a prediction. Even in tennis, the use of Hawk-Eye for calls as close as 1 mm, (in or out) when the figure for maximum error in the technology is around 3.6 mm, has invited criticism. What does the future hold? Though the application of the DRS for lbws does not change, it is now slightly more in favour of the bowler. Senior cricket writer Scyld Berry, writing in The Telegraph during the recent India-England Test series, believed this was already the case. “Umpires have seen what a high percentage of deliveries would have hit the stumps but for the batsman’s pads,” he wrote. “So, the umpires have been erring in the bowler’s favour, giving batsmen out on ‘umpire’s call’, no longer giving them the traditional benefit of the doubt.”  There will still be not-out decisions, even after Hawk-Eye estimates that the ball is hitting the stumps. But this will happen less often||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/umpires-call-retained-amid-drs-tweaks/article34235620.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Maintaining the inflation target at 4%||The story so far: On the last day of the financial year 2020-21, the Finance Ministry announced that the inflation target for the five years between April 2021 and March 2026 will remain unchanged at 4%, with an upper tolerance level of 6% and a lower tolerance level of 2%. This is the retail inflation target that will drive the country’s monetary policy framework and influence its decision to raise, hold or lower interest rates.  Why is this important? India had switched to an inflation target-based monetary policy framework in 2015, with the 4% target kicking in from 2016-17. Many developed countries had adopted an inflation-rate focus as an anchor for policy formulation for interest rates rather than past fixations with metrics like the currency exchange rate or controlling money supply growth. Emerging economies have also been gradually adopting this approach. In adopting a target for a period of five years, the central bank has the visibility and the time to smoothly alter and adjust its policies in order to attain the targeted inflation levels over the medium term, rather than seek to achieve it every month.  What is the rate of consumer price inflation? Terming India’s inflation trends “worrisome”, Moody’s Analytics recently pointed out that volatile food prices and rising oil prices had already driven India’s consumer price index (CPI)-based inflation past the 6% tolerance threshold several times in 2020 and that core inflation trends were rising again. Retail inflation has remained below 6% since December 2020. However, it accelerated from 4.1% in January 2021 to 5% in February. D.K. Srivastava, chief policy adviser at Ernst and Young India, reckoned that core CPI inflation also increased to a 78-month high of 6.1% in February 2021. While inflation headwinds remain, especially with oil prices staying high, there was some speculation that the Central government, whose topmost priority now is to revive growth in the COVID-19 pandemic-battered economy, may ease up on the inflation target by a percentage point or two. This would have given the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) more room to cut interest rates even if inflation was a tad higher. That the government has desisted from doing this and left the inflation target untouched has been welcomed by economists who believe that the new framework has worked reasonably well in keeping inflation in check over the last five years. They attribute the few recent instances when the upper target was breached to the exceptional nature of the COVID-19 shock.  What is the RBI’s position on this? The RBI had, in recent months, sought a continuance of the 4% target with the flexible tolerance limits of 2%. The 6% upper limit, it argued, is consistent with global experience in countries that have a large share of food items in their consumer price inflation indices. Accepting inflation levels beyond 6% would hurt the country’s growth prospects, the central bank had asserted.  Why should this concern consumers? Suppose the inflation target were to be raised to 5% with a 2% tolerance band above and below it, for consumers, that would have meant that the central bank’s monetary policy and the government’s fiscal stance may not have necessarily reacted to arrest inflation pressures even if retail price rise trends would shoot past 6%. For instance, the central bank has been perhaps the only major national institution to have made a pitch for both the Centre and the States to cut the high taxes they levy on fuels that have led to pump prices for petrol crossing Rs. 100 a litre in some districts. As high oil prices spur retail inflation higher, the central bank is unhappy as its own credibility comes under a cloud if the target is breached. If the upper threshold for the inflation target were raised to 7%, the central bank may not have felt the need to seek tax cuts (yet). Thus, the inflation target makes the central bank a perennial champion for consumers vis-à-vis fiscal policies that, directly or indirectly, drive retail prices up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/maintaining-the-inflation-target-at-4/article34235622.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||The big push for digital currency in China||The story so far: China in February launched the latest round of pilot trials of its new digital currency, with reported plans of a major roll-out by the end of the year and ahead of the Winter Olympics in Beijing in February 2022. While several countries have been experimenting with digital currencies, China’s recent trials in several cities have placed it ahead of the curve and offered a look into how a central bank-issued digital tender may impact the world of digital payments. How does China’s digital currency work? Officially titled the Digital Currency Electronic Payment (DCEP), the digital RMB (or Renminbi, China’s currency) is, as its name suggests, a digital version of China’s currency. It can be downloaded and exchanged via an application authorised by the People’s Bank of China (PBOC), China’s central bank. China is among a small group of countries that have begun pilot trials; others include Sweden, South Korea and Thailand. How is it different from an e-wallet? Unlike an e-wallet such as Paytm in India, or Alipay or WeChat Pay, which are the two dominant apps in China, the Digital RMB does not involve a third party. For users, the experience may broadly feel the same. But from a “legal perspective”, points out Santosh Pai, an Honorary Fellow at the Institute of Chinese Studies (ICS) in New Delhi and a corporate lawyer who researches Chinese regulations, the digital currency is “very, very different”. This is legal tender guaranteed by the central bank, not a payment guaranteed by a third-party operator. There is no third-party transaction, and hence, no transaction fee. Unlike e-wallets, the digital currency does not require Internet connectivity. The payment is made through Near-field Communication (NFC) technology. Also, unlike non-bank payment platforms that require users to link bank accounts, this can be opened with a personal identification number, Dong Ximiao, a think-tank researcher with the Asian Financial Cooperation Association, told Chinese media, which means “China’s unbanked population could potentially benefit”. How widely is it being used in China? Following trials launched last year shortly after the COVID-19 pandemic struck, 4 million transactions worth $300 million had used the Digital RMB, the PBOC said in November. In the latest round of trials in February to coincide with the Chinese New Year holiday, Beijing distributed around $1.5 million of the currency to residents via a lottery, with “virtual red envelopes” worth 200 RMB each (around $30) sent to each resident. Shenzhen and Suzhou were other cities that distributed currency as part of pilot trials, which the Ministry of Commerce said will be expanded in coming months, with a wider roll-out expected before the Winter Olympics. What are the reasons behind the push? The trials coincided with moves by Chinese regulators to tame some of its Internet giants, including Alibaba, which is behind Alipay, and Tencent, which owns WeChat Pay. “While digital payment platforms have helped to facilitate commerce in China, they have placed much of the country’s money into the hands of a few technology companies,” said a recent report from the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS). “In the fourth quarter of 2019, Alibaba controlled 55.1% of the market for mobile payments in China. Tencent controlled another 38.9%.” A “key objective of China’s sovereign digital currency” was “to maintain financial stability should ‘something happen’ to Alipay and WeChat Pay,” Mu Changchun, the director-general of the PBOC’s digital currency institute, was quoted as saying by theSouth China Morning Post. Chinese regulators have also warily viewed the rise of cryptocurrencies. The central bank-issued digital RMB will turn the logic of decentralised cryptocurrencies on its head, without the privacy and anonymity they offer, by giving regulators complete control over transactions. There are global motivations as well. “Beyond China’s borders, DCEP could help facilitate the internationalisation of the renminbi,” the CSIS report said.  The digital money trials coincided with moves by Chinese regulators to tame some of its Internet giants, including Alibaba, which is behind Alipay, and Tencent, which is behind WeChat Pay||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-big-push-for-digital-currency-in-china/article34235618.ece
04 April 2021||New Delhi,||Industries welcome govt.’s excise policy||Even as the political tug-of-war between AAPand BJP continue, industry bodies have welcomed the new excise policy proposed by the Delhi government. The International Spirits and Wines Association of India (ISWAI), the representative body of international spirits and wine companies with business establishments in India, and the Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI) have written to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, supporting the move. “The proposal on extended hours for on-premise AlcoBev outlets a good one, and in keeping with Delhi’s image of a modern, bustling city that caters to a large number of young residents and tourists, it would also provide succor to the hospitality industry,” the ISWAI wrote to the L-G even as it sought early implementation of the policy. On its part, the SCAI said it was confident the new policy would go a long way in reforming the liquor trade in Delhi, enhance government revenues and most importantly provide for a better consumer experience. “The new policy is expected to improve ease of doing business for the industry including restaurants and pubs, which form a key part of shopping centres across India...,” the SCAI stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/industries-welcome-govts-excise-policy/article34235919.ece
04 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||DMRC begins revamp of 15-year-old coaches||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has begun the process of refurbishing of 280 coaches which have completed 15 years of being in service on the Red Line. “This refurbishment includes a lot of minor and major overhaul activities such as internal painting, floor replacement, gangway overhauling and secondary suspension replacement. A total of 1,120 secondary suspension in 70 trains. All of these suspensions have been planned for replacement,” officials said. Floor repair DMRC officials added that around 40 coaches required “major attention” to their floor and repair and replacement of the same is being planned with the assistance of the original car builder. “Installation of CCTV will be done for saloon, rear view and catenary monitoring during train operations. All 280 coaches will also be provided with fresh layer of special water base paint,” official said. The official added, “There are a total of 420 gangways [partition area between two coaches] in 70 trains. All of these will go for overhauling which includes 100% fabric or bellow replacement, cleaning and corrosion to provide smooth riding to passengers.” Highlighting other refurbishments that will also take place in the coaches, officials said, “Other activities will include installation of mobile charging facility, refurbishment of electrical panels and installation of fire detection systems.” The DMRC has begun the process of mid-life refurbishment of 70 trains with four coaches each, that were initially pressed into service in 2002 on the Red Line. “These trains and coaches have completed 15 years of their 30-year life,” the DMRC said. The first phase of the mid-life refurbishment of the coaches is likely to be completed by mid-next year, DMRC officials said, while adding that the the work for the second phase would be taken up accordingly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dmrc-begins-revamp-of-15-year-old-coaches/article34235913.ece
04 April 2021||April 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Reversing a ban||The story so far: Last June, the administration of former President Donald Trump, a Republican, halted the issuance of non-immigrant work visas of several types, including the skilled worker visa, or H-1B. At the time, the White House had stated that the aim of the policy was to stop foreign workers from cornering American jobs during the economic distress and consequent shortage of economic opportunities brought on by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. While the original order was valid until December 31, 2020, it was extended by the Trump administration to be valid until March 31, 2021. Now, the 46th and current U.S. President, Democrat Joe Biden, has allowed the ban on H-1B visa issuance to expire, potentially bringing relief to a large number of Indian nationals, especially IT workers who are prospective applicants for the visa. What was the context for the Trump administration issuing rules tightening immigration policy? Immigration reforms in favour of protecting U.S. jobs for Americans and favouring legal over undocumented migration was a major policy thrust for Mr. Trump even during his days campaigning for the 2016 presidential election. In April 2020, the final year of Mr. Trump’s term in office, the White House announced a 60-day halt on legal migration, effectively a ban on “green card” issuance. Then came the proclamation of June 22, which was justified by the White House on the grounds that the COVID-19 pandemic “significantly disrupted Americans’ livelihoods”, to the extent that the overall unemployment rate in the country nearly quadrupled between February and May 2020 to a little over 13%. Later, the Trump administration also announced that it would stop issuing visas for incoming students who had enrolled in programmes that were entirely online. Lawsuits filed by top U.S. universities challenging this policy resulted in the White House partially walking back on the new rules. Was it economics or politics that prompted the ban? It is unlikely that any significant economic benefits of the skilled-worker visa ban, in terms of protecting U.S. jobs from foreigners, could have been realised during 2020 and early 2021 given the pressures of the COVID-19 pandemic on the U.S. economy. Firstly, the ban did not apply to visa-holders already within the U.S., or those outside the country for whom a valid visa was already issued. Second, given that the ban remained in force only during the pandemic and that there had been a slowdown in economic activity during this period, U.S. firms relying on skilled foreign nationals may have anyway been unable to make new hires. Given this, it is hard to see the Trump White House’s policy as anything other than a political manoeuvre. Mr. Biden has sought to nudge the broader immigration ethos of the U.S. back towards one that is consistent with Democratic values. In allowing the H-1B visa ban to expire, he is walking a fine line between restoring the inflow of skilled workers into the U.S., a source of productivity-increase for its labour force, and not being seen as overly aggressive in unwinding Trump-era immigration crackdowns. After all, around 74 million people voted for Mr. Trump in the 2020 presidential election, and they will continue to be vocal advocates for a political system that puts ‘America First’, even if their leader no longer occupies the Oval Office. What was the economic fallout of the visa ban? Even more than Mr. Biden, it turned out that America Inc., the employers of perhaps millions of non-immigrant foreign workers, from Wall Street to Silicon Valley, was at the vanguard of the backlash against the skilled worker visa ban. For example, Google CEO Sundar Pichai lashed out at the policy, saying at the time of its announcement, “Immigration has contributed immensely to America’s economic success, making it a global leader in tech, and also Google the company it is today. Disappointed by today’s proclamation — we’ll continue to stand with immigrants and work to expand opportunity for all.” SpaceX founder and Tesla CEO Elon Musk and Apple CEO Tim Cook posted similar messages on social media. Until now, the U.S. issued 85,000 H-1B visas annually, of which 20,000 went to graduate students and 65,000 to private sector applicants, and Indian nationals would garner approximately 70% of these. Analysts predicted that around 2,19,000 workers around the world might have been prevented from taking up work in the U.S. as a result of Mr. Trump’s visa ban. What will be the impact of the ban’s expiry on Indian corporations? Given that the order banning H-1B visa issuance expired on Thursday, all H-1B applicants will now be in a position to receive a visa and travel to the U.S. to begin or resume work as full-time employees or independent contractors. In time, that will lead to a steady increase in the size of the talent pool available to IT companies with U.S. operations. This would also benefit Indian IT companies with U.S. operations. The opening up of H-1B visa availability is also premised on U.S. diplomatic missions worldwide resuming new visa issuance to appropriately qualified skilled workers.  All H-1B visa applicants will now be in a position to receive a visa and travel to the U.S. to begin or resume work as full-time employees or independent contractors||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/reversing-a-ban/article34235624.ece
04 April 2021||New Delhi,||AAP MLA files complaint against temple priest for blasphemy||AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan on Saturday filed a police complaint against Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati, head priest of Dasna Devi temple, for alleged blasphemy against Prophet Mohammad and “hurting” religious sentiments of the Muslim community. Mr. Khan in his complaint filed at Jamia Nagar police station said that a video clip on blasphemy against The Prophet has gone viral on social media. Mr. Khan’s complaint said that he is a practising Muslim and believes in the doctrine of Islam, offers regular prayer, observes fast and strictly follows the five pillars of Islam. Viral video clip “In this clip, there are uncouth words that are below the standards of being repeated [his hate speech is available on social media, that may be referred for details]. It is needless to say that such statements for cheap publicity and personal gain hurt the sentiments of Muslim section at large. Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati who happens to be the chief priest of Devi Mandir, Dasna, leader of Hindutva organisation, Hindu Swabhiman and president of Akhil Bhartiya Sant Parishad with all his knowledge and intention, has hurt the religious sentiments of the Muslim community,” the complaint said. Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said that a case has been registered. “Taking cognisance of a video circulating on social media in the matter, a case under Section 153-A/ 295-A of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Parliament Street police station and investigation taken up,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-mla-files-complaint-against-temple-priest-for-blasphemy/article34235914.ece
04 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man vandalises temple to ‘settle score’ with God||A 28-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly vandalising a temple in west Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh in order to ‘settle score’ with the God, the police said on Saturday. DCP (West) Urvija Goel said the police said that a PCR call was received on Saturday morning from Ranjeet Phatak (47), a priest at Vaishno Mata Mandir in Paschim Puri stating that two Shiva statues were displaced and there were stones and bricks lying in the temple. Ms. Goel said that when CCTV footage was analysed, it was found that a man later identified as Vicky Mal, a resident of Raghubir Nagar, was responsible for this. It was revealed that he is a vagabond and had a grudge against the God for giving him a life of a vagabond. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-vandalises-temple-to-settle-score-with-god/article34235915.ece
04 April 2021||New Delhi,||BJP-led civic bodies are looting the people: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday alleged that the BJP is “looting” people by increasing various charges in the municipal corporations. “BJP-ruled South Delhi Municipal Corporation [SDMC] and its standing committee has proposed to increase the surface-level parking rates from Rs. 20 per hour to Rs. 40 per hour. The BJP knows that this is the last year of looting the people and to do corruption, since in the coming civic elections, the people of Delhi will throw them out,” said AAP leader Atishi. She added that whenever BJP-ruled corporations increased such charges, the money is never utilised for the welfare of the people of Delhi. “We have witnessed this every month. The civic bodies say they cannot pay the salaries of sweepers, and safai karamcharis. They say that they do not have the money to pay the salaries of teachers, doctors, and nurses. So, if they have increased property taxes, commercial taxes, parking rates, property transfer taxes, where is all that money going?” the AAP leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-led-civic-bodies-are-looting-the-people-aap/article34235920.ece
04 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cross cases registered over death of constable’s wife||The Delhi police on Saturday said that two cross cases have been registered in connection with a constable’s wife allegedly ending her life after trying to kill her two children in south west Delhi’s Ghitorni. The police said that one case has been registered against the constable based on the complaint of his wife’s family alleging that he harassed her for dowry. The second case has been registered based on the complaint of the constable on charges of attempt to murder the children. A PCR call was made on Thursday afternoon wherein a constable posted in Vasant Kunj (South) police station said that his wife and children were at home and the wife was not opening the door. When the police reached the spot, they broke open the door and found the wife dead. The couple’s two sons aged three and six were found unconscious in the bathroom and were taken to a hospital for treatment.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cross-cases-registered-over-death-of-constables-wife/article34235912.ece
