05 April 2021||New Delhi,||Sukma encounter toll touches 22; Shah cuts short campaign||A day after the encounter between Central paramilitary forces and Maoists in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma, bodies of 22 personnel were recovered on Sunday. One commando was still missing, the Chhattisgarh police said. Thirty-one others were injured. The bodies could be retrieved only close to 24 hours after the attack at noon on Saturday. Some jawans may have died due to excessive bleeding, a police officer said. On reports that a jawan's body may have been mutilated, the officer said, “There was intense firing from both sides and it is possible that the victim was blown up due to the impact; we can confirm only after the postmortem is conducted.” Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who were both campaigning for the Assam election, returned to Raipur and New Delhi respectively as the toll rose. K. Vijay Kumar, Senior Security Adviser, Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), said for the past two weeks the Maoists were trying to disrupt the construction of a road near Silger-Jagargunda. “The security forces and the Maoists were engaged in a cat and mouse game for the past two weeks,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sukma-encounter-toll-touches-22-shah-cuts-short-campaign/article34240789.ece
05 April 2021||Mangaluru,||Tiff over online game leads to boy’s death||The addiction to an online game led to a tiff between two boys, resulting in the death of one of them in K.C. Road in Ullal police station limits on Saturday night. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar identified the dead boy as Akif, a Class VI student of Falah English Medium School. The police registered a case of murder against the boy’s friend, aged 17. The accused has been secured and is being questioned. “We are checking if anyone else is involved in the incident,” Mr. Kumar told reporters on Sunday. According to the Police Commissioner, Akif, 12, left his house around 9 p.m. with his mobile phone. His parents usually allowed him to play ‘PUBG’ with his friends for 30 minutes. When he did not return by 10 p.m., the family began a search for him. His phone had been switched off. On Sunday morning, the boy’s body was found on a ground behind the Falah school, which is about a km from his house. Preliminary enquiries revealed that he had been assaulted about 20 metres away from the spot where the body was found. It was covered with banana, coconut leaves, and plants. Akif was the second of five children of Mohammed Haneef, a resident of Kotekar and a lorry owner. In his complaint with the Ullal police, Mr. Haneef accused the 17-year-old boy of murdering Akif. Mr. Kumar said the boy in conflict with the law told the police that he got acquainted with Akif a few days ago at a mobile store outlet. Quoting the boy, Mr. Kumar said the two were into playing “PUBG” and Akif was winning all the time. The boy in conflict with law called Akif on Saturday night to play the game. After Akif lost, there was a heated exchange of words between the two. Akif hit his friend with a small stone and the 17-year-old boy retaliated by hitting Akif with a bigger stone. Akif collapsed and died, Mr. Kumar quoted the boy as saying. Mr. Kumar said the police were looking into how the two boys got access to “PUBG”, which was among 118 mobile apps that was banned by the Union government in September 2020. Meanwhile, the Ullal police produced the 17-year-old boy before the Juvenile Justice Board on Sunday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tiff-over-online-game-leads-to-boys-death/article34241230.ece
05 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Fronts change gear to silent campaigning||Major coalitions in Kerala changed gear to focus on a relatively subdued door-to-door campaign after open electioneering came to a close at 7 p.m. on Sunday. Candidates in 140 Assembly constituencies prepared to make their final pitch to voters on the day of the silent campaigning on Monday. They would make last-minute house calls as their campaigns race to conclude an exhausting electioneering season that unfolded at the peak of an unseasonably harsh summer. Most candidates believe that turning up at doorsteps to seek votes would ensure a higher supporter turn out and offer them a better shot at victory. The Congress, BJP and CPI(M) have mobilised armies of political workers to distribute election slips and campaign pamphlets at the booth level over the next 24 hours. The ruling LDF is fighting for continuity of governance. The UDF wants to show the government the door on nepotism and corruption charges. Love jihad  The BJP hoped to capitalise on Sabarimala and ‘love jihad’ as a springboard for improving its electoral prospects in Kerala. The three fronts have exuded the confidence of a good showing. However, none seemed to have a clear bellwether of Kerala's Assembly voting behaviour given the myriad local and national issues at stake. The Congress and BJP had competed to campaign for the Muslim vote by focussing on the citizenship law, National Population Register, criminalisation of ‘triple Talaq,’ cow vigilantism and emergent streak of Hindutva politics. The BJP has focussed on Sabarimala. It believed that its stand against ‘love jihad’ and the Islamist threat had resonated among the Christian community, a crucial demographic in Central and south Kerala. The LDF, UDF and NDA were also attempting to make sense of last-minute shifts in a voting pattern influenced by caste, communal, gender and age preferences. Most parties feared the spectre of cross-voting. They have accused each other of striking secret alliances to trade votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fronts-change-gear-to-silent-campaigning/article34241142.ece
05 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Amid virus surge, Russian vaccine may get the nod||The Russia-made Sputnik V vaccine may be cleared for emergency use in India within 10 days, a highly placed official confirmed to The Hindu on condition of anonymity. The possible approval for a third vaccine candidate comes as Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a high-level meeting on Sunday to review the situation and the on-going vaccination programme with the number of new cases crossing 1 lakh — surpassing the figures recorded in September 2020. On April 1, Dr. Reddy’s Labs, which is conducting a trial on the Sputnik V’s suitability on India, was reportedly denied authorisation because the Subject Expert Committee of the Drug Controller General of India asked for more data on the vaccine’s stability. Sputnik V, developed by Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, is a two-dose adenovirus based vector vaccine, similar in design to AstraZeneca’s Covishield.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nod-soon-for-sputnik-v-rollout-amid-virus-surge/article34240787.ece
05 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Another batch of Rafale jets to fly in by mid-May||India will receive another 8 to 9 Rafale jets from France by mid-May, with some expected later this month, completing the first squadron of the fighters in the Indian Air Force (IAF), according to a defence official. “The number of jets that will arrive in India by the month-end is being finalised. In all, around 8-9 jets are expected by mid-May,” the official said. With the inductions this month set to complete the first squadron, which currently has 14 jets, the IAF is all set to operationalise the second Rafale squadron at Hasimara in West Bengal later this month. Last September, the IAF inducted the batch of five Rafales, of the 36 contracted from France under a €7.87 billion Inter-Governmental Agreement signed in September 2016 with 13 India Specific Enhancements (ISE). The first batch of five jets, three single-seat and two twin-seater trainers, were formally inducted into the No. 17 ‘Golden Arrows’ squadron of the IAF last September at the Ambala Air Force station. They arrived in India in July 2020 with a stopover at Al Dhafra airbase in the United Arab Emirates. During the first leg of the flight from Merignac airbase at Bordeaux in France to the UAE, the jets were accompanied by French Air Force mid-air refuellers. For the journey from the UAE to India, they were accompanied by IAF mid-air refuellers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/another-batch-of-rafale-jets-to-fly-in-by-mid-may/article34240778.ece
05 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Campaign ends in T.N., Puducherry; polling tomorrow||Campaigning for the first Assembly election to be held after the Karunanidhi-Jayalalithaa era in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry ended at 7 p.m. on Sunday, with leaders of political parties making last-minute appeals for public support in their respective hometowns and constituencies. What was unusual this time was that electioneering began several months before the polls were notified in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic. Polling for 234 constituencies in Tamil Nadu, 30 seats in Puducherry and the Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha seat will begin at 7 a.m. on April 6. While the AIADMK, under the joint leadership of Edappadi K. Palaniswami and O. Panneerselvam, is seeking a third consecutive term in office, the DMK, under M.K. Stalin, is making a pitch to see him take the Chief Minister’s chair for the first time. The Dravidian majors have formed alliances comprising national and regional parties. Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam, which has teamed up with smaller allies; Seeman’s Naam Tamilar Katchi, which has fielded an equal number of women and men; and T.T.V. Dhinakaran’s AMMK, which has an alliance with the DMDK and others, are seeking to prove their strength. The campaign between the AIADMK and DMK had turned high-pitched with personal attacks. While the AIADMK-BJP sought to project the DMK as a threat to law and order and women; the latter and its allies, projected the AIADMK as an extension of the BJP asking the electorate to be wary of communally divisive politics gaining roots in Tamil Nadu. The run-up to the polls also saw the Income Tax Department conducted searches in the premises of Mr Stalin’s daughter, former ministers and others. Besides, DMK deputy general secretary A Raja was banned from campaigning for 48 hours for making certain remarks against the CM. The Election Commission of India has consolidated its efforts to curb the menace of distribution of money to voters, a notorious feature that prevails across Tamil Nadu during every election. Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) and Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) units have been kept ready and would be moved to the respective booths latest by Monday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/campaign-ends-in-tn-puducherry-polling-tomorrow/article34240883.ece
05 April 2021||JIND,||‘Centre curtailed Delhi govt.’s powers as a punishment’||Delhi Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party convener Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the BJP-led government at the Centre had curtailed the powers of the Delhi government to punish him for supporting the farmers. He said he was prepared to sacrifice his life for it. Addressing a “Kisan Mahapanchayat” at HUDA Ground in Sector-9 here, Mr. Kejriwal said the Union government had brought the Bill in Parliament divesting the Delhi CM of all powers to “punish Kejriwal for supporting the farmers’ movement”. “The Delhi Chief Minister has no power. All power is with the Lieutenant-Governor. An elected government with 60-odd MLAs has no power. Did we fight for Independence for this day?” he asked. He said he was not scared of any ‘punishment’ and ready to sacrifice even his life. “Those who are opposed to farmers’ movement are traitors. We are ready to make any sacrifice to make this movement a success,” said Mr. Kejriwal. ‘BJP has done nothing’ He said the BJP had all the power but had not done a single work worth mentioning in seven years. He said one doesn’t need power to serve people. “The BJP has power but it’s intentions are bad. We don’t have power but have right intentions,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He vowed to support the movement till the end. “Your son is the Chief Minister in Delhi. There is no need to worry,” Mr. Kejriwal assured farmers amid loud cheers. He said he was confident that the Union government would agree to the farmers’ demand. He said it was his dream to see India as a ‘developed’ country in his lifetime. Despite pressure from the Union government and the threats to curtail his power, he did not accord permission to convert stadiums in Delhi into jails for the agitating farmers, he said. “I put a noting on the file saying farmers’ movement and their demands were justified and returned it.” He said he directed his MLAs to serve the agitating farmers as “common man”. He also condemned the police action on the farmers in Rohtak on Saturday during Chief Minister Manohar Lal’s visit. The AAP leaders attributed the thin attendance at the mahapanchayat to the farmers blocking roads at several places on Sunday in protest against the police action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-curtailed-delhi-govts-powers-as-a-punishment/article34240982.ece
05 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||EC rejects Mamata’s complaint of rigging at Nandigram booth||The Election Commission (EC) on Sunday warned West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee that her conduct at a polling booth in Nandigram was under its scanner and rejected her allegations of rigging and violence on April 1, the day of voting for the second phase of the State Assembly election. Ms. Banerjee, a candidate from Nandigram, reached a polling booth at Boyal in the Assembly segment amid polling, alleging that her party agent was not allowed inside the booth and outsiders were trying to create trouble while Central forces were protecting them under instructions from the Home Ministry. While the Chief Minister sat inside the polling booth at the Boyal Primary School for almost an hour, passions ran high among supporters of the Trinamool Congress and the BJP outside. In a letter on April 3, Election Commission of India’s Secretary General Umesh Sinha warned Ms. Banerjee that it was examining the incident for violations under Section 131 and 123(2) of the Representation of the People Act, which deal with disorderly conduct outside the booth and attempts by a candidate to exert undue influence or interfere with free exercise of electoral right.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ec-rejects-mamatas-plaint-of-rigging-at-nandigram-booth/article34240785.ece
05 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||HC reserves order on parishad polls||A single-judge bench of the High Court comprising Justice U. Durga Prasad Rao on Sunday reserved its judgement on a batch of petitions that challenged the notification for the MPTC and ZPTC elections, which are scheduled to be held on April 8. The verdict is likely to be pronounced on April 6. The TDP and the BJP have prayed for a direction to the State Election Commission (SEC) to issue a fresh notification and not to go ahead with resumption of the process that was paused a year ago due to COVID-19. They also argued that the elections could not be held without imposing the mandatory Model Code of Conduct four weeks prior to the date of poll. Advocate General S. Sriram said the order of the SC was to be construed in the context of a composite schedule given for elections to all the local bodies which commenced on March 7, 2020, and since the time frame mentioned therein was only four weeks, the apex court indicated the imposition of MCC. It should not be considered as a requirement for each and every election to every local body, he said. C.V. Mohan Reddy, counsel for SEC, said the court does not ordinarily interfere with notified election schedule and the SC order by itself fixes an outer limit in the context of the facts pleaded therein and does not import itself into the present process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-reserves-verdict-on-local-elections/article34240723.ece
05 April 2021||New Delhi,||PSU banks may have to take Rs. 2,000 crore hit||The public sector banks may have to bear a burden of Rs. 1,800 crore-Rs. 2,000 crore arising out of a recent Supreme Court judgment on the waiver of compound interest on all loan accounts which opted for moratorium during March-August 2020, sources said. The judgment covers loans above Rs. 2 crore as loans below this got blanket interest on interest waiver in November last year. Support scheme The compound interest support scheme for loan moratorium cost the government Rs. 5,500 crore during 2020-21 and the scheme covered all borrowers, including the prompt ones who did not opt for the moratorium. According to banking sources, initially 60% of borrowers availed themselves of the moratorium and gradually the percentage came down to 40% and even less as collections improved with the easing of the lockdown. In the case of corporates, this was as low as 25% as far as public sector banks were concerned. They said banks would provide compound interest waiver for the period a borrower had availed the moratorium. The RBI on March 27 last year announced a moratorium on payment of instalments of term loans falling due between March 1 and May 31, 2020. It was later extended to August 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/psu-banks-may-have-to-take-rs-2000-cr-hit/article34240776.ece
05 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Five COVID deaths, 1,730 new cases in State||The State reported five more COVID-19 deaths and 1,730 new infections in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. It was the highest single-day tally of infections since November 11. The cumulative tally increased to  9,07,676 and the toll reached 7,239. The recovery rate and total recoveries stood at 98.07% and 8,90,137 respectively. The positivity rate of the samples tested daily has been increasing, indicating the rapid spread of the virus. The State has been testing around 30,000 samples per day since the past three weeks and the daily positivity rate gradually increased from 0.65% on March 15 to 5.57% on April 4. It was the highest positivity rate in about the past six months. During the past three weeks that saw 15,688 cases, at least two in every hundred samples tested were confirmed positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-covid-deaths-1730-new-cases-in-state/article34240783.ece
05 April 2021||MANGALURU,||Fire breaks out at Pachchanady||Fire broke out at a dry waste recycling unit of the Mangaluru City Corporation at Pachchanady damaging machineries and a shed late on Sunday. Fire fighters were trying to extinguish the fire till close to midnight. Mayor Premananda Shetty told The Hindu from the spot that short circuit is suspected to be the reason for the fire. Machinery and a shed have been damaged in the fire, he said and added that precautions were being taken to prevent the spread of the fire to any residential locality nearby. The fire broke out in the unit of Nature Friendly, an outsourced agency which is recycling dry waste for the corporation, he said. Mr. Shetty added that six fire tenders were fighting the fire. In addition to the fire tenders of the Department of Fire and Emergency Services and the New Mangalore Port Trust, fire tenders have been summoned from MRPL, he said. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra was also at the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fire-breaks-out-at-pachchanady/article34241228.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Few takers for naxalism: CM||The Naxals carried out the Bijapur attack to assert their presence since the people were growing disenchanted with them and were joining the mainstream because of developmental work done by the State government, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said.page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/few-takers-for-naxalism-cm/article34240790.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The missing gap||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/the-missing-gap/article34240792.ece
05 April 2021||KALABURAGI,||Three patients die of pandemic in Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi district which has been seeing a surge in COVID-19 positive cases for the last fortnight reported three deaths caused by the pandemic on Sunday. As per information shared by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, three men, a 92-year-old, a 59-year-old and a 65-year-old, were the latest victims of the pandemic. All three were suffering from severe acute respiratory infection. With this, the total number of COVID-19 deaths in the district rose to 349. The 92-year-old man was admitted to a private hospital after he complained of breathlessness on Monday last and died on Thursday. The 59-year-old man was admitted to a designated hospital after he complained of breathlessness on Thursday and died on Friday. The 65-year old man was admitted to a designated hospital after he complained of breathlessness on Wednesday. He too died on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-patients-die-of-pandemic-in-kalaburagi/article34241079.ece
05 April 2021||Mysuru,||Tenure of fire watchers at Bandipur extended||The authorities at Bandipur have decided to extend the tenure of temporary fire watchers who are recruited in the run-up to summer to beef up the staff strength to battle forest fires.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tenure-of-fire-watchers-at-bandipur-extended/article34241257.ece
05 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Govt. to survey 2,500 quarries using drones||More than 2,500 building stone quarries operational across the State will be re surveyed using drones to ascertain the volume of stone mined before a One-Time Settlement (OTS) scheme is announced. A whopping Rs. 6,000 crore royalty and penalty are to be recovered from the quarries as per a 2018-2019 survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-survey-2500-quarries-using-drones/article34241258.ece
05 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Gyms can function with 50% occupancy||The State government on Sunday provided relief to gymnasiums that were ordered to shut down following the spurt in COVID-19 cases, by issuing a fresh set of guidelines allowing them to function with reduced occupancy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gyms-can-function-with-50-occupancy/article34241259.ece
05 April 2021||Bengaluru,||SIT is protecting Jarkiholi, alleges woman||The woman in the CD scandal involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has again expressed her apprehension about the impartiality of the probe by the SIT. She has alleged that there is a conspiracy to protect the Minister, while she is being treated as an accused||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sit-is-protecting-jarkiholi-alleges-woman/article34241260.ece
05 April 2021||Chennai,||Complaint filed for tweet involving NEET aspirant||The family members of S. Anitha, a medical aspirant who committed suicide in September 2017, filed a police complaint against Minister ‘Ma Foi’ K. Pandiarajan after a video featuring the girl with a voice-over in favour of the AIADMK was tweeted from his Twitter handle on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/complaint-filed-for-tweet-involving-neet-aspirant/article34240887.ece
05 April 2021||Chennai,||Election teams make Rs. 428 cr. worth seizure||Election Commission officials and surveillance and police teams have so far seized cash and other property valued at Rs. 428.46 crore, according to the Election Commission of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/election-teams-make-seizures-worth-rs-428-cr/article34240888.ece
05 April 2021||Chennai,||Stalin's poser to AIADMK govt. on newspaper ads||In response to newspaper advertisements against the DMK, party leader M.K. Stalin on Sunday asked if the AIADMK government was ready to issue advertisements stating that it had nothing to do with the Pollachi sexual assault case, in which members of the ruling party have been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalins-poser-to-aiadmk-govt-on-newspaper-ads/article34240884.ece
05 April 2021||Chennai,||3,581 new COVID-19 cases in State||The number of positive cases in the State inched towards 9 lakh on Sunday with 3,581 more people being diagnosed with the COVID-19 infection. In Chennai district, 1,344 more persons were infected. The State also recorded 14 more deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3581-new-covid-19-cases-in-state/article34240886.ece
05 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Gyms can function with 50% occupancy||The State government on Sunday provided relief to gymnasiums that were ordered to shut down following the spurt in COVID-19 cases. It issued a fresh set of guidelines allowing gyms to function with reduced occupancy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gyms-can-function-with-50-occupancy/article34240845.ece
05 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Vaccination timings to be extended till 9 p.m.||If all goes as planned, people above the age of 45 in Bengaluru will soon be able to walk into a designated hospital and get vaccinated against COVID-19 as late as 9 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-timings-to-be-extended-till-9-pm/article34240846.ece
05 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam gears up for final polling round||Campaigning for the third and final phase of the Assembly election covering 40 constituencies across 12 districts of western Assam and other parts came to an end on Sunday evening. The Congress and two of its main allies in the 10-party Mahajot enter this phase with the confidence of having won more seats than the Bharatiya Janata Party and its regional allies in 2016. The Congress, the Bodoland People’s Front and the All India United Democratic Front had together won 25 third-phase seats in the last election, while the BJP and the Asom Gana Parishad won 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-gears-up-for-final-polling-round/article34241192.ece
05 April 2021||Bhubaneswar,||BJP MLAs continue protest in Odisha||BJP legislators spent the night under the statue of Mahatma Gandhi on the campus of the Odisha Assembly, protesting against the suspension of three of their colleagues. BJP MLAs were handed a suspension after shoes were hurled at the Speaker on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-mlas-continue-protest-in-odisha/article34240976.ece
05 April 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi reports 4,000 new cases, 21 deaths||The surge in the number of COVID-19 cases and deaths in the Capital continued with 4,003 fresh cases and 21 deaths being reported on Sunday, according to a health bulletin issued by the Delhi government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-reports-4000-new-cases-21-deaths/article34240978.ece
05 April 2021||Lucknow,||13 workers injured in U.P. scaffolding collapse||Thirteen labourers were injured, five of them seriously, after a scaffolding collapsed on them during maintenance work at a privately-run power plant in Uttar Pradesh’s Sonbhadra district on Sunday, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/13-workers-injured-in-up-scaffolding-collapse/article34240979.ece
05 April 2021||New Delhi,||FIR against Khan over threat to religious leader||Taking suo motu cognizance of a video and tweet, the Delhi Police on Sunday said an FIR has been registered against AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan for allegedly threatening religious leader Narsinghanand. This comes a day after an FIR was filed against the religious leader on the complaint of Mr. Khan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fir-against-khan-over-threat-to-religious-leader/article34240980.ece
05 April 2021||Mumbai,||Seized papers suggest ‘bribe’ paid to ‘officials’||The probe into the security scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house and the alleged murder of businessman Mansukh Hiren has led the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to documents that show some payments, suspected to be bribe money, being made to officials in the Mumbai Police and the administration, officials said. They said the NIA was scrutinising the documents unearthed during a raid on Thursday on a club at Girgaum to probe further the role of suspended police officer Sachin Vaze, who is in the custody of the Central agency till April 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seized-papers-suggest-bribe-paid-to-officials/article34241254.ece
05 April 2021||BELAGAVI,||‘Use technology wisely’||The 20th convocation of VTU was held in Belagavi on Saturday. The university gave away degrees and diplomas to over 70,000 students. V.K. Atre, scientist and former scientific advisor to Defence Minister, urged young graduates to work for the welfare of society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/use-technology-wisely/article34241081.ece
05 April 2021||Chennai,||Top leaders helm campaigning finale in T.N.||The high-octane campaign for the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections ended at 7 p.m. on Sunday, with the stage now set for the polling on April 6 which will decide whether it will be a hat-trick of terms for the AIADMK or a comeback for the DMK after a decade in the Opposition. The Election Commission said items and cash worth over Rs. 428 crore had been seized in the run-up to the polls. As many as 3,998 candidates, including Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, his deputy O. Panneerselvam, DMK president M.K. Stalin, AMMK founder T.T.V. Dhinakaran, Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan, Naam Tamizhar Katchi leader Seeman, and BJP State chief L. Murugan are in the fray. Leaders, including Mr. Palaniswami and Mr. Stalin, hit the campaign trail on the last day. They have been criss-crossing the State of late, the former in a bid to ensure a record third term, and the latter bent on upsetting his rival’s chances. National leaders such as Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, and Congress president Rahul Gandhi campaigned for the ruling and Opposition alliances. The Election Commission has made it clear that no campaign activity shall be held from now, including on social media and through other forms of electronic communication, including SMS. Over 6.28 crore eligible voters will choose 234 representatives out of the 3,998 candidates. Mr. Palaniswami and Mr. Panneerselvam said in a statement that the late Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran had founded the AIADMK to protect people of Tamil Nadu from the ‘evil force’ of the DMK. The AIADMK is part of the NDA, the other major constituents being the BJP and the PMK. “Let us stop the evil force from rearing its head again. That is how we will express our gratitude to Puratchi Thalaivar (M.G. Ramachandran) and Puratchi Thalaivi Amma (J. Jayalalithaa) for their selfless work,” they said. Mr. Stalin, the DMK leader, sought an opportunity for the party-led Secular Progressive Alliance to come back to power. “Let the Rising Sun (DMK symbol) rise. Let us retrieve our lost rights. Let us make Tamil Nadu hold its head high,” Mr. Stalin said in a tweet. The DMK has been in the Opposition since 2011. Meanwhile, the Election Commission said that cash and materials valued at Rs. 428.46 crore were seized in Tamil Nadu. The cash seizure alone came to Rs. 225.5 crore, the rest being gold and liquor, a release said. Patrolling has been strengthened all through the State, resulting in many seizures in the past 24 hours. This included cash seizure of Rs. 91.56 lakh in Ranipet district, Rs. 1.23 crore in Thousand Lights constituency, Chennai, and Rs. 1.15 crore at Veerapandi, Salem, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/top-leaders-helm-campaigning-finale-in-tn/article34241163.ece
05 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Stormy campaign draws to an end in Kerala||The public campaigning for the 2021 Kerala Assembly election ended at 7 p.m. on Sunday. The frantic last-minute electioneering marked the summing up of an arguably rancorous poll season, marked by recriminatory bickering, identity politics and provincial mawkishness. Matters of faith and religion clashed with livelihood and development issues to take centre stage in the electoral debate. Both the BJP and the Congress recurrently played up the Central law enforcement’s “incriminating” investigative forays against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s and Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan’s offices in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case. The Congress and the BJP lacerated the government for “trampling” on the religious beliefs of Ayyappa devotees. Their respective campaigns persistently talked about “defending” religious custom. LDF overtures The Left Democratic Front (LDF) struggled to relegate the socially volatile issue of gender equity at Sabarimala to the backburner. It strained to shift voter attention away from Sabarimala and the gold smuggling case. The ruling front tried to focus the poll narrative on the administration’s welfare measures, governance record, COVID-19 management and election manifesto. The LDF also strived to draw Muslim and Christian votes to its fold by damning the Congress as “lenient” to the Hindutva agenda. The ruling front projected itself as the sole bulwark against the rising tide of majoritarianism. The LDF calculated that consolidation of minority votes favouring the ruling front might help counterbalance the emergent BJP. The BJP played on the Christian community’s “insecurities” without seeming to relinquish its traditional emphasis on Hindutva politics. The party has promised legislation against “love jihad” and a State law for “defending” the Sabarimala faith. The Congress has skirted the “love jihad” controversy. But it made overtures to Hindu, Christian and Muslim social organisations and influencers. Its campaign banked heavily on the presence of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to sway voters. The slew of corruption charges raised by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala also formed the UDF campaign’s central plank. The pandemic and the disruption it wrecked appeared to take a back seat as the open campaigning crescendoed across Kerala in the build-up to curtains down at 7 p.m. The Election Commission of India’s ban on the grand campaign finale, Kottikalasham , remained primarily on paper. National leaders, including Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Mr. Gandhi, held large closing-day rallies that drew energetic crowds of supporters. Mr. Vijayan held a roadshow in Kannur. Ever optimistic As the open campaigning reached its last gasp, the competing coalitions seemed to express unalloyed optimism about their electoral chances. However, their aura of confidence belied the hectic behind-the-scenes manoeuvring. Political agents hastened to prop up traditional support bases, staunch possible bleeding of votes and ensure turnout on polling day on April 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stormy-campaign-draws-to-an-end-in-kerala/article34240722.ece
05 April 2021||Kolkata,||Campaign ends for phase 3 of Bengal poll||Campaigning for the third phase of West Bengal election for 31 Assembly segments that will go to polls on April 6 ended on Sunday. After polling in 60 Assembly segments in the southwestern parts of the State in the first two phases, constituencies in the southern part are going to the polls in the third phase. These 31 Assembly segments are concentrated in three districts — Howrah, Hooghly and South 24 Parganas. There are 205 candidates in the fray for the 31 seats, of which eight are located in Hooghly district, seven in Howrah and 16 in South 24 Parganas district. Twelve constituencies are reserved for Scheduled Caste candidates. About 78 lakh voters will be able to exercise their franchise across 10,871 booths. The Trinamool Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have fielded candidates in all the 31 seats. Under the Samyukt Morcha, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI-M) has fielded candidates for 13 seats, the All India Forward Bloc has two candidates, the Revolutionary Socialist Party one and the Congress nominees are contesting in seven seats. In the remaining eight seats, the Indian Secular Front has fielded its candidates mainly in the minority-dominated areas of South 24 Parganas. The 16 Assembly segments going to polls in South 24 Parganas are seeing an interesting contest. The seats are concentrated across three police districts of Baruipur, Daimaond Harbour and Sunderbans. The seats going to polls in South 24 Parganas and Howrah are Trinamool Congress bastions. The party had won all of the 31 Assembly seats in the South 24 Parganas district in 2016.  The key constituencies include Tarakeshwar in Hooghly, where former Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta is testing political waters against Trinamool Congress candidate Ramendu Singh Roy. At Raidighi, former Minister and senior CPI(M) leader Kanti Ganguly is contesting from Raidighi against Trinamool candidate Alok Jaldata. West Bengal Speaker Biman Banerjee is contesting in Baruipur Paschim, whereas prominent Trinamool youth leader Saukat Molla is contesting from the Canning Purba Assembly segment. The fourth phase of polling is scheduled for April 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/campaign-ends-for-phase-3-of-bengal-poll/article34240736.ece
05 April 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra tightens curbs across State||The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra government on Sunday tightened restrictions further by announcing a night curfew and weekend lockdown across the State in the wake of the relentless surge in COVID-19 cases. The fresh norms, which come into effect from Monday, include a curfew from 8 p.m. to 7 a.m. (Monday to Friday), a ban on gatherings of five or more people throughout the day, and closure of malls, restaurants and bars to prevent gatherings. Theatres and cinema halls are to remain shut as well, while playgrounds and gardens will also be closed. Home delivery services will be permitted while essential services will continue unhindered. The new rules are to last till April 30, said a government notification. In order to keep the wheels of the economy spinning, there will be no curbs on industrial operations and construction activity. Agriculture and agricultural activities, transportation of foodgrains and agricultural commodities will continue as usual too. Film shoots will be permitted, though in the strict absence of crowds. Everything except essential services will be closed on weekends. While no new restrictions are put on traffic, public transport will run at 50% capacity. All types of shops, malls and markets (except for groceries and medicines) are to remain closed till April 30. The regulations mandate shopkeepers and staff of essential goods shops and services to complete the vaccination as soon as possible and see to it that the rules are followed by themselves and the customers. It further mandated that private offices, except those dispensing financial services, will be required to work entirely from home. Only banks, stock markets, insurance, pharmaceuticals, mediclaim companies, telecommunications, disaster management offices, electricity and water supply offices will remain open. Government offices are to work at 50% capacity with visitors having limited access. The new curbs were announced after an intense, two-hour-long cabinet discussion. According to sources, the Congress and other senior MVA leaders had reportedly expressed their opposition to a stringent lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-tightens-curbs-across-state/article34240750.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||‘There is a post-CAA Assam; people are insecure’||At his Guwahati residence on the last day of campaign in Assam, senior Congress leader and Kaliabor MP Gaurav Gogoi talks about the party’s poll prospects, the angst within the ranks about the alliance with Badruddin Ajmal’s All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) and the Congress’s stand against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA).  The campaign has come to a close. In your assessment, how far has the Congress come from the time the campaign initially started? I am quite satisfied with the campaign for many reasons. One, we have had a unified campaign, there was coordinated messaging, and we have been supportive of each other. We did not get distracted with the BJP’s campaign and focused only on issues relevant to us and people of Assam like price rise, corruption, unemployment. We have come a long way in terms of our social media. And overall, it was a very disciplined campaign. And yes, we have come a long way. This is the first election that we are fighting without the wisdom and leadership of my father (Tarun Gogoi). In fact, he is the one who thought of the grand alliance early last year, especially during the Rajya Sabha election where the Congress and the AIUDF came together to send a prominent anti-CAA journalist, Ajit Bhuyan, to the Upper House. It gave us a lot of confidence that there was a pre-CAA Assam where the parties kept distance with each other, my father was at the forefront of maintaining distance from parties like the AIUDF. And there is a post-CAA Assam, where the people are insecure and anxious and therefore they are happy to see politically diverse parties come together on an anti-CAA platform. But there is a lot of angst within the party about this alliance with the AIUDF with many leaders feeling that in the long run, this will harm the Congress. And your father too once had famously said, “Who is Ajmal” (AIUDF president)? I want to correct the misconception that my father was against the alliance, that is not true. Secondly, last year in September, we had a core committee meeting in which we passed a resolution that we will go for an alliance with like-minded parties, that would include the AIUDF and other parties. Of course, whether we should have an alliance or not can be debated and which is acceptable in Congress party. But let’s just say we have gone through an extensive period of debate before reaching a conclusion in January where we announced the grand alliance agreeing on the common agenda. Cracking the seat-sharing was the easy part. Just keeping it together, ensuring some basic dos and don’ts, understanding the common principles and so on is more important. Why didn’t you contest from your father’s constituency of Titabor? My father was not planning to contest the 2021 election because of his health. He had mentioned to me that the next election from Titabor has to be fought by someone from Titabor, he insisted on having his successor from Titabor. I think as a son I fulfilled my late father’s wishes. Even though the Congress party asked me repeatedly to contest, I felt I owed it to my father to respect his wishes. And we have picked a very good candidate in Bhaskarjyoti Barua, he is not a proxy candidate or the Gogoi family’s nominee. And I worked in the constituency, keeping the troops together. Would it have been better if the party went to the polls with a chief ministerial face? After the demise of my father, it was virtually impossible for anyone to fill his shoes as the one leader who can take everyone along. The responsibility of keeping the party united and focused on putting up a strong election campaign rests equally on all our shoulders whether it is the Congress Legislature Party leader Debabrata Saikia or State president Riipun Bora, MPs and ex-MPs. No single person can fill late Tarun Gogoi’s shoes, the vacuum is too big. And we all have shouldered the responsibility together. Why did the Congress take so long to own up the anti-CAA narrative? I think it was a bold step for Rahul Gandhi and the Congress party to make the CAA a part of our poll plank right at the beginning and to put it right in the centre of our campaign. This step sent out a message that Assam voters need not feel disheartened and to grudgingly accept the CAA because of the Centre’s whim. Seeing the Congress take up the issue, they know that if we are elected to power, we will constitutionally challenge the CAA. And as far as delay is concerned, most of the last year was lost in the pandemic, the political activity had declined because we were more focused on COVID-19 relief. And immediately after the lockdown, the pinch of inflation coupled with unemployment was so acute, especially here in Assam, that it remained our focus. We are the only national party which mentioned opposing the CAA in the 2019 manifesto and Rahul Gandhi is the only national leader who took a stand on it. But it was the Congress that was leading the charge of the anti-CAA agitation. Today we see two political parties — Asom Jatiya Parishad and Raijor Dal — born out of the agitation, which are not even part of the grand alliance. Wasn’t that a misstep? During the anti-CAA agitation of September-November 2019, the Congress was the only political party that was against the CAA. These two parties that you talk of came into being just a few months ago. One of them is yet to get its symbol. I am not sure if they have their act together. But at the same time in the concept of having a grand alliance, we welcomed these two parties, they choose to stay outside it, we still feel that we can form the government with or without these parties. We remain the main bulwark against the CAA which the Centre is trying to impose on Assam.  Congress is the only national party which mentioned opposing the CAA in the 2019 manifesto||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/there-is-a-post-caa-assam-people-are-insecure/article34240968.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Joint efforts needed for peace’||India and China need to strengthen confidence-building measures in border areas and avoid a repeat of last year’s border crisis, China’s envoy to India Sun Weidong has said. “Maintenance of peace and tranquillity need our joint efforts,” Mr. Sun said. “The border disputes can only be resolved through dialogue and negotiations... In case of an incident, a timely communication through military and diplomatic channels should be undertaken to avoid any action that may complicate or escalate the situation. We should strengthen confidence-building measures to jointly maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas. The lesson of last year’s border incident is profound and such incident should not be repeated.”  He made the comments in a “virtual dialogue” with columnist Sudheendra Kulkarni, the transcript of which was released on Sunday by China’s Embassy in New Delhi. On last year’s clash in the Galwan Valley which marked the worst violence on the border since 1967, Mr. Sun said: “Neither China nor India would like to see it happen. Both sides are willing to resolve issues and de-escalate tensions through dialogue and consultation.” The disengagement at Pangong Lake was “conducive to building mutual trust and further easing the situation on the ground”, he stated. Political will He said both sides had “the political will to resolve the boundary question” and “should actively push forward boundary talks and strive to reach a fair, reasonable and mutually acceptable solution”. While the Chinese envoy called on both sides to view relations “in a comprehensive way rather than limited to one part” and said “the boundary question is not the whole story of China-India relations”, India has made clear that relations cannot continue as normal unless there is peace and tranquillity in border areas. Last year’s crisis, India has said, was triggered by China’s mobilisation of a large number of troops in forward areas and multiple transgressions across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that went against a number of border agreements that had helped keep the peace. India last year placed curbs on Chinese investment and banned more than 200 Chinese apps, underlining that trade and investment could not proceed as normal in light of last year’s border crisis. Mr. Sun said “complete decoupling” or “selective decoupling”, in his view, “will not be realistic and harm others without benefiting oneself”. Trade ties “We hope that India will treat all as equals in its opening-up and refrain from imposing restrictions on specific countries or regions, over-stretching the concept of national security to exclude companies from specific countries,” he said. Last year, two-way trade reached $87.6 billion, of which India’s exports to China were $20.8 billion, up 16%. “It shows that the Chinese market will always welcome marketable commodities,” he said. “China has been India’s largest trading partner for consecutive years and India is China’s largest trading partner in South Asia. This is the result of the market functions and enterprises’ choices,” Mr. Sun said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/joint-efforts-needed-for-peace/article34240744.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Doval-Bajwa a good combination to oversee back channel dialogue’||Details are still emerging of a reported back channel initiative between India and Pakistan that has led to a number of measures since the February 25 DGMO ceasefire agreement announcement. As the latest Pakistani move to clear and then cancel imports from India is debated, former diplomat and special envoy to PM Manmohan Singh, Satinder Lambah , who ran the back channel from 2005 to 2014, stressed that a previous deal on trade derailed in 2014 and the agreement on Jammu and Kashmir are valid even today. Excerpts:  You have been involved in India-Pakistan diplomacy for 40 years, and the back channel dialogue for more than a decade. According to you, is there a back channel in place now, and as reports suggest, facilitated by a third country like the UAE? With regards to the current scenario, my knowledge of the specifics is limited to what I read in the newspapers. I can tell you about the dialogue we had (2005-2014). There was no third-party involvement. Bill Burns (now the CIA chief), in his memoirs, wrote that the Indians did not share details with them and did not want any mediatory role. If you were to ask me, even now, it is probably a bilateral dialogue, although it may be influenced by the Biden effect. Could you share some details of the back channel you were part of and the 2007 Kashmir agreement? It will not be proper for me to share details as the papers were transferred from the former Prime Minister (Manmohan Singh) to the present Prime Minister (Narendra Modi). Some top legal luminaries of the country were consulted (at the time). Were the legal luminaries part of any political leadership? No. But would the agreement on Jammu and Kashmir that was negotiated still be valid more than a decade later, despite the changes in J&K in August 2019? Yes, it would. We did not negotiate for a specific era or political regime in government, but by keeping the future of the two countries in mind. Unconnected with relations with Pakistan, I believe the important State of J&K on our border deserves full statehood. What advice would you give the current back channel, that is believed to be between NSA Doval and the Pakistani Army chief General Bajwa? I have no advice to give. If true, I believe that a back channel dialogue between Mr. Doval and General Bajwa would be a good combination. Our two countries have different power structures, and therefore, we need people who have seniority in their own systems, direct access and confidence of the leadership. They need to be able to take on-the-spot decisions. I have worked with Mr. Doval in the 1980s, at the High Commission in Islamabad, including a hijacking situation in Lahore (1981), and later, on the situation in Afghanistan post the Bonn conference. General Bajwa has had an extension. As I said, given all our differences, they would be a good combination as interlocutors, or to oversee the dialogue. History shows that Pakistan Army leaders/chiefs think of improving relations with India only after stabilising themselves. General Zia suggested back channel talks after nine years in office, just before his death. General Musharraf started his peace overtures five years after taking over; and General Bajwa, three years after becoming Army chief. Such occasions come after a gap of several years. Given the suspension of India-Pakistan ties in the past few years, do you still think peace has a chance? Yes, of course. Engagement is necessary particularly with an adversary, and I am glad it is being done now. I think we must take the dialogue process slowly, begin with some people-to-people initiatives and emphasis on economic relations. At a suitable occasion, respective High Commissioners should be reinstated. Track 2 dialogues should be held. There is no need to shy away from any discussion, because our fundamentals are strong. We expect that no help will be given to promote terrorist activities in our country. I agree there are spoilers in both the systems. However, I have observed that in the present election, there has been no real Pakistan-bashing other than a few stray comments made during the campaign, and that will also ease along the current process.  (For the full interview, log on to bit.ly/satinderlambah)    We did not negotiate the 2007 Kashmir deal for a specific era but by keeping the future of the two countries in mind||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/doval-bajwa-a-good-combination-to-oversee-back-channel-dialogue/article34240752.ece
05 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam gears up for final polling round||Campaigning for the third and final phase of the Assembly election covering 40 constituencies across 12 districts of western Assam and other parts came to an end on Sunday evening. The Congress and two of its main allies in the 10-partyMahajot(grand alliance) enter this phase with the confidence of having won more seats than the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its regional allies in 2016. Congress’s position The Congress, the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) and the All India United Democratic Front had together won 25 third-phase seats in the last election, while the BJP and the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) won 15. The scenario was reversed in the first two phases covering 86 seats. Migrant Muslims are likely to play a major role in this phase. A majority of them live in chars (river islands) and chaporis (flood-prone riverbanks), which are invariably woven into the narrative of demographic “invasion” that has dictated election after election in Assam. Many of the third-phase constituencies are inhabited by Bengali Muslims and Hindus who have often carried the tag of “illegal immigrants”, dodging or defending charges of being ‘D’ (doubtful) voters. A sizable number of them have been left out of the National Register of Citizens (NRC), while a few have spent years in detention centres in Goalpara and Kokrajhar. Of the 40 seats in this phase, eight are in the Bodoland Territorial Region, including Tamulpur, where a BPF candidate joined the BJP less than a week ahead of voting on April 6. Key seats The key constituencies in this phase are Jalukbari, Patacharkuchi, Dharmapur, Bongaigaon, Kokrajhar East and Sidli. The BJP’s heavyweight candidates in this phase are Assam Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who seeks to win Jalukbari for the fifth straight term, State BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass, who moved to Patacharkuchi from Sorbhog, and Industries Minister Chandra Mohan Patowary, who is seeking a re-election from Dharmapur.  While the AGP is betting on the Food and Civil Supplies Minister to win the Bongaigaon seat for the eighth consecutive time, BJP’s friend-turned-rival BPF is confident of Ministers Pramila Rani Brahma and Chandan Brahma winning the Kokrajhar East and Sidli constituencies. There are a total of 7,875,468 voters, including 3,882,962 women and 140 transgenders in the third phase of the election. The first two phases of polling across 47 and 39 Assembly seats had a turnout of 79.97% and 80.96% respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-gears-up-for-final-polling-round/article34240732.ece
05 April 2021||New Delhi,||People disenchanted with Naxals, says Chhattisgarh CM||The Naxals carried out the Bijapur attack to assert their presence since the people of the region were growing disenchanted with them because of steady developmental work done by the State government, said Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel. He said that the action against Naxals as well as developmental work would continue. “The security forces entered the very den of these Naxals to fight them. The Naxals have suffered heavy losses in the fight in Bijapur. As per our information, the Naxals have removed four tractors full of injured and dead from the encounter spot,” Mr. Baghel said. The CM also paid tributes to the security personnel who lost their lives on Saturday, and met injured security personnel on reaching Raipur.  “With more and more developmental work, health, education and other facilities have become accessible and people in these areas no longer want to be with the Naxals. They are now disenchanted. Which is why the Naxals carried out this attack to make their presence known,” Mr. Baghel said. “The State government is determined to carry out development work in each and every village,” he said. Meanwhile, Bastar MP and Congress leader Deepak Baij said Naxal activity had increased in the past few months. “This is a failure of the Central intelligence agencies,” said Mr. Baij.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/people-disenchanted-with-naxals-says-chhattisgarh-cm/article34240738.ece
05 April 2021||Kolkata,||Modi insulting women of Bengal, alleges Trinamool||Leaders of the Trinamool Congress, including Minister for Women and Child Development Shashi Panja, on Sunday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of addressing Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in a mocking tone at public meetings. Three women leaders of the State’s ruling party held a press conference at the Trinamool headquarters. They said addressing a woman Chief Minister in such a manner was an insult to all the women of the State. Dr. Panja was joined by Trinamool leader June Malia and Ananya Chakraborty. The Trinamool leadership said Prime Minister referred to Ms. Banerjee as “Didi O Didi” in a mocking tone. “This behaviour of the PM is anti-woman, akin to harassment. We will leave it to the people of West Bengal to give a befitting reply to Modi and [Union Home Minister] Amit Shah,” Dr. Panja said. Ms. Chakraborty said addressing a woman Chief Minister thus was a reflection of “patriarchy”. Earlier, Trinamool MP Mahua Moitra had raised objections to the manner in which the Prime Minister was addressing the Chief Minister. The BJP State leadership said the language used by Ms. Banerjee to address the Prime Minister, the Home Minister and the BJP president was derogatory. “How does the Chief Minister address PM Modi and Amit Shah at poll rallies? How had she addressed J.P. Nadda [BJP president]?” asked Agnimitra Pual, president, West Bengal BJP Mahila Morcha. Earlier in the day, addressing a public meeting in Hooghly district, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee wondered whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi was “god or a superhuman” to make claims about the BJP winning the West Bengal Assembly election, even when polling for six phases was still not over. “What do you [Modi] think of yourself... are you god or superhuman,” the Chief Minister asked, referring to the Prime Minister’s remark that he would attend the oath-taking ceremony of the BJP government in West Bengal.  We will leave it to the people of West Bengal to give a befitting reply to Modi and Amit Shah Shashi Panja State Minister for Women and Child Development||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-insulting-women-of-bengal-alleges-trinamool/article34240739.ece
05 April 2021||JIND,||‘Centre curtailed Delhi govt.’s powers as a punishment’||Delhi Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convenor Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre had curtailed the powers of the Delhi government to punish him for supporting the farmers. He said he was prepared to sacrifice his life for it. Addressing a “Kisan Mahapanchayat” here, Mr. Kejriwal said the Union government had brought the Bill in Parliament divesting the Delhi Chief Minister of all powers to “punish Kejriwal for supporting the farmers’ movement”. “The Delhi Chief Minister has no power. All power is with the Lieutenant Governor. An elected government with 60-odd MLAs has no power. Did we fight for Independence for this day?” he asked. He said he was not scared of any “punishment” and ready to sacrifice even his life. “Those who are opposed to farmers’ movement are traitors. We are ready to make any sacrifice to make this movement a success,” said Mr. Kejriwal. He said the BJP had all the power but had not done a single work worth mentioning in seven years. He said one does not need power to serve people. “The BJP has power but its intentions are bad. We don’t have power but have right intentions,” said Mr. Kejriwal. “Your son is Chief Minister in Delhi. There is no need to worry,” Mr. Kejriwal assured farmers amid loud cheers. He said it was his dream to see India as a “developed” country in his lifetime. Despite pressure from the Union government and the threats to curtail his power, he did not accord permission to convert stadiums in Delhi into jails for agitating farmers, he said. “I put a noting on the file saying farmers movement and their demands were justified and returned it.” He said he directed his MLAs to serve the agitating farmers as “common man” and arranged for power, water and toilets at the sit-in sites. He also condemned the police action on farmers in Rohtak on Saturday during Chief Minister Manohar Lal’s visit. Party leaders attributed the thin attendance at the mahapanchayat to farmers blocking roads at several places on Sunday in protest against the police action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-curtailed-delhi-govts-powers-as-a-punishment/article34240741.ece
05 April 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Delay in filling key posts in apex tax body raises concerns||A delay in appointing members of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), the apex body of the Income Tax Department, is puzzling the entire revenue service and tax bureaucracy. The Board has four crucial vacancies, while its chief, P.C. Mody, and member, S.K. Gupta, are serving extended tenures. Mr. Mody was given a three-month extension, effective March 1, 2021. Apart from being Chairman, he is holding additional charge as Member (Investigation) and Member (Administration), both crucial positions. The posts of Member, Investigation, Legislation, Income Tax and Revenue and Administration are vacant. In January, the Committee of Secretaries (CoS) shortlisted names for CBDT members from 10 contenders. According to sources, after that meeting, the CoS further shortlisted a few names and sent them to the government for approval. However, there appears to be no progress in the appointment process, and the government appears to be in a wait-and-watch mode. Department of Economic Affairs Secretary Tarun Bajaj has been handling the additional charge of the Department of Revenue after the previous Finance Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey retired in February. “The last appointment in the CBDT was that of S.K. Gupta,” a retired IRS officer told The Hindu. Mr. Gupta, Member (Tax Payers Services and Systems), is holding additional charge of Legislation and his extended tenure will end in July. In July 2020, Mr. Gupta was given a one-year extension with re-appointment in the Board. “Hope the government takes the decision in due course so that all conspiracy theories and speculation are put to an end,” a serving IRS official told The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delay-in-filling-key-posts-in-apex-tax-body-raises-concerns/article34240748.ece
05 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Rain brings mercury down in Vizag||The strong gales and rain, which lashed the city on Saturday evening, brought down the mercury levels and provided the much-needed respite from the summer heat. The gales, however, resulted in the uprooting of trees, breaking of branches and falling of electrical poles at some places in the city. “The rain resulted in disruption of power supply at many places, but it was restored after a few hours at most of the places and in a few areas by noon on Sunday. There was no damage to transformers,” according to an AP EPDCL source. Advertisement hoardings were ripped off by the winds at some places. Visakhapatnam city received 5 cm of rain but Visakhapatnam Airport recorded only 2.8 cm. Kurupam and Srungavarapukota, both in Vizianagaram district, also received 5 cm or rain each The maximum temperature in the city dropped to 33.4° C and at Visakhapatnam Airport to 33.8° C on April 4, and the minimum temperatures dropped to 21° C and 22.2° C respectively. Tirupati recorded the highest temperature of 42° Celsius. “There is nothing unusual about the thunderstorm activity on Saturday evening. The severe thunderstorm had formed above the forests of Paderu and Araku around 4 p.m. and moved over towards Visakhapatnam city. The think cloud and the strong squall with gales, were observed through the radar. It’s purely a local phenomena,” P.V. Rama Rao, a former Director of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), told The Hindu . Meanwhile, the IMD bulletin has forecast that thunderstorm with gusty winds, with speed up to 30 to 40 km/hr, is very likely to occur at isolated places over north coastal A.P. and Yanam on April 5. The maximum temperatures are likely to be above normal by 2° to 3° Celsius over south coastal A.P. and Rayalaseema. The weather would mainly be dry over Rayalaseema on April 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rain-brings-mercury-down-in-vizag/article34240851.ece
05 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Reservation quota needs to be hiked beyond 50%: Bommai||Saying that it was necessary to raisethe reservation quota beyond 50% for the welfare of the backward classes, Home, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Sunday that the State Cabinet has already agreed on it while an affidavit has been submitted to the Supreme Court onthis matter. “The Cabinet has unanimously taken the decision to raise the reservation cap. We are expecting a favourable decision from the Supreme Court,” he said. “If the Kurubas have to be brought under Scheduled Tribe, the reservation quota for ST has to be increased to 7.5%. The Panchamasali community has sought backward classes 2A status. Similarly, other communities have also petitioned for reservation. If all these demands are to be met, then the current reservation cap of 50% has to be increased.” The Minister said this at Belloddi village, near Harihara, during the inauguration of a community hall, a hostel, and an arch, organised by Kaginele Mahasamsthana. Mr. Bommai felt that it was a challenge to raise the reservation cap as the quota for all communities had to be settled legally and within the ambit of the Constitution. “To prevent anyone from questioning the decision, an experts committee headed by a retired judge has been appointed.” He also said that the B.S. Yediyurappa government has showered “love and affection” on the community, which is mutual. ‘Waiting for report’ The Chief Minister, meanwhile, said that the demand of Kurubas for inclusion in the ST list was being considered by a high-level committee. “We are awaiting the report. After consulting legal experts, our government has submitted an affidavit to the Supreme Court to increase reservation. Discussion on the issue has begun and we have placed our arguments before the court,” he added. Mr. Yediyurappa also assured the gathering of shortly releasing about Rs. 35 crore for works taken up by the community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/reservation-quota-needs-to-be-hiked-beyond-50-bommai/article34240850.ece
05 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Woman in CD scandal again questions impartiality of SIT||The woman in the CD scandal involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has once again expressed her apprehension about the impartiality of the probe being conducted by the Special Investigation Team (SIT), this time in a complaint to Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant. In a signed letter emailed to the officer, she has alleged that there is a “conspiracy” to protect the Minister, while she is being treated as an accused in the case. According to her lawyer, K.N. Jagadeesh, a physical copy of the letter would be handed over to the Police Commissioner on Monday. In the letter, the woman has stated that though she has appeared in court to record her statement, the SIT has been questioning her every day and keeping her under tight security, while the accused has been questioned only for three hours so far and is moving around freely. “Considering this, I have serious doubts about whether I am the victim or the accused in the case,” she has said. She has also stated that though her name was not mentioned in the complaint filed by Mr. Jarkiholi with the Sadashivanagar police, the police raided her paying guest accommodation and searched the premises to “destroy the evidence to make me accused in the case”. The letter goes on to state, “In addition to this, there is a deliberate attempt to defame me by releasing fictitious, frivolous and fake information.” Mr. Jagadeesh said that his client had stated only facts and was being subjected to harassment. “The police are harassing her on the pretext of conducting an inquiry. They are pressuring her so much that she will break down physically and mentally,” he said. “I have serious doubts about the investigation and demand that the High Court monitor the case.” Incidentally, Mr. Jarkiholi, who had been issued a summons by the SIT to appear before them for questioning on April 2, cited ill health and did not report to the police. The SIT, on Saturday, issued another summons to him to appear before them on Monday. Meanwhile, the woman was questioned on Friday and Saturday. In the letter, the woman has referenced Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s recent statements on the scandal and said, “This has scared me and I am doubting whether there will be a fair investigation or if the SIT is acting under pressure to protect Ramesh Jarkiholi.” She has also objected to the appointment of a special public prosecutor in this case without consulting her. This is the second instance when the woman has accused the SIT of being biased and siding with the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/woman-in-cd-scandal-again-questions-impartiality-of-sit/article34240710.ece
05 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Shah cuts short Assam visit||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday cut short his election campaign in Assam and returned to New Delhi in view of the Maoist attack in Chhattisgarh. Mr. Shah was scheduled to attend three rallies — in Sarbhog, Bhabanipur and Jalukbari — on the last day of campaigning for the third and final phase of polling on April 6. But he had to return after the first rally at Sarbhog in western Assam’s Barpeta district. “Today’s first Assam rally by Home Minister at Sarbhog, before he cut short his visit as well as other two rallies and returned to Delhi in view of the Naxal attack. Crowds in thousands from all sections of society thronged the jam-packed venue,” said Jitendra Singh, Minister for Development of North Eastern Region and in charge of the party’s campaign in Assam, on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shah-cuts-short-assam-visit/article34240733.ece
05 April 2021||Patna,||Hooch deaths still stalk dry Bihar||Bihar completed five years of prohibition on Monday but illicit liquor and hooch deaths have been stalking the dry State raising questions over effective implementation of the law. Easy availability of alcohol — both Indian-made foreign liquor and country-made — across the State has put a serious doubt over the government’s claim of stringent implementation of the law. The Bihar Excise and Prohibition Act came into effect on April 5, 2016. In the last week of March 2021, as many as 15 people died and many others lost their sight after spurious liquor consumption in Nawada district alone. Some others lost their lives in Begusarai and Sasaram districts after consuming spurious liquor on the occasion of Holi (festival of colours). The Nawada district administration first denied that the deaths were caused by hooch consumption. When Chief Minister Nitish Kumar sent a high-level team from Patna for investigation, the Nawada district officials admitted in a press conference that the consumption of spurious liquor might be the reason for the deaths. Reports of hooch-related tragedies have been coming in from other districts as well, though the death toll has not been not as high as in Gopalganj and Nawada districts. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar recently said, “Prohibition has a positive impact in society, especially on women of the State. It will continue in more stringent manner. Strong action will be taken against violators.” Smuggling continues Meanwhile, the traders of spurious liquor have been exploring different ways in smuggling. Ambulances, oil tankers and milk containers have been used to ferry illegal consignments. In the last five years, over 3.46 lakh people have been arrested, 186 police and other officials dismissed, 60 tainted Station House Officers banned from postings and 97 lakh litres of IMFL and 53 lakh litres of country-made liquor seized in the State from April 2016 to February 2021. “Such huge confiscation of illicit liquor validates what we’ve been saying — that prohibition has completely failed in the State,” charged RJD leader and party spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari.  Such huge confiscation of illicit liquor validates what we’ve been saying — that prohibition has completely failed Mrityunjay Tiwari RJD leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hooch-deaths-still-stalk-dry-bihar/article34240742.ece
05 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Educate the poor about their rights’||Supreme Court judge, Justice N.V. Ramana, on Sunday said the most vulnerable sections of society often fall prey to human rights atrocities from either the state or anti-social elements. Justice Ramana, the seniormost apex court judge who has been recommended for appointment as the 48th Chief Justice of India, urged young lawyers to educate the poor and the vulnerable about their rights. Young lawyers, he said, should raise their voice against atrocities committed against the poor by the state and criminal elements. “The most vulnerable are often the victims of human rights atrocities, by either the state or by anti-social elements. As young advocates, you are best placed to strongly oppose the same through legal action. You must be the conscience-bearers of the nation,” Justice Ramana said in his virtual address at the Damodara Sanjivayya National Law University convocation. Lawyers should give proper legal advice and not drag people to court in disputes which could be settled amicably outside courtrooms, he said. “One of the consequences of the poor quality of legal education in the country is the exploding pendency in the country. There are nearly 3.8 crore cases pending in courts in India despite the large number of advocates in the country ... They [lawyers] must keep in mind not only their duty to their clients, but also their duty to the courts, to society and to the law,” Justice Ramana said. Quality issues The Supreme Court judge said that with over 1,500 law colleges and schools in the country, law was no longer a rich man’s profession. However, there was also the problem of quality suffering over quantity. “Please do not take this wrongly, but what proportion of graduates who are fresh out of college are actually ready or prepared for the profession? I would think less than 25% ... It is a comment on the large number of sub-standard legal educational institutions in the country which are colleges merely in name. There are many sub-standard colleges in the country, which is a very worrying trend. The judiciary has taken a note of this, and is attempting to correct the same,” Justice Ramana said.  The most vulnerable are often the victims of human rights atrocities, by either the state or by anti-social elements||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/educate-the-poor-on-their-rights/article34240746.ece
05 April 2021||Hyderabad,||Cases surge in TS; T.N. records over 3,500||COVID-19 cases in Telangana rose by over 200 in a day at 1,321 on Saturday, after recording 1,078 infections a day earlier. Five more patients died. Kerala reported 2,802 new cases and Karnataka, 4,553 on Sunday. In Telangana, 62,973 persons were tested. Of the 1,321 fresh cases, 320 were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 144 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 121 from Rangareddy and 96 from Nizamabad. Andhra Pradesh reported five more coronavirus deaths and 1,730 new infections on Sunday morning, the highest single-day tally in 144 days. The test positivity rate (TPR) was increasing by the day. The State was testing around 30,000 samples per day over the past three weeks and the TPR gradually increased from 0.65% on March 15 to 5.57% on April 4. It was the highest positivity rate in about six months. Chittoor reported three new deaths, while Visakhapatnam and Nellore reported one each. More than 77% (1,341 cases) infections were reported from five districts. Guntur topped the single-day tally with 378, while Chittoor had 338, Visakhapatnam 235, Krishna 226 and Nellore 164. Kerala’s 2,802 new cases came from 45,171 samples, registering a TPR of 6.20%. The addition of 10 deaths from the past few days on Sunday took the cumulative toll to 4,668. Kozhikode reported three deaths, Thiruvananthapuram two, while one death each was reported from Ernakulam, Thrissur, Malappuram, Wayanad and Kannur. The number of critically ill COVID-19 patients in the State was 498 on Sunday. Kozhikode reported the maximum new cases at 403, Ernakulam 368, Kannur 350, Malappuram 240, Kottayam 230, Thrissur 210, Kasaragod 190, Thiruvananthapuram 185, Kollam 148, Palakkad 133, Idukki 113, Alappuzha 99, Pathanamthitta 74 and Wayanad 59 cases. Over 3,500 cases in T.N. The number of positive cases in Tamil Nadu inched towards nine lakh on Sunday with 3,581 more persons being diagnosed with COVID-19 infection. Also, 1,813 more persons were discharged following treatment. With this, 8,65,071 persons have been discharged from various healthcare facilities post-treatment, according to the daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health. As many as 19 of them were among people who had arrived from other States or countries. The State also recorded 14 more deaths taking the tally to 12,778 till date. As on date 21,958 persons are under treatment for the infection. In Chennai district, 1,344 more persons were infected. At the same time, 792 persons were discharged after treatment. The district also recorded four deaths.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram, and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cases-surge-in-telangana-and-ap/article34240717.ece
05 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Notice to bizman who took MLA to drug party||The narcotics ring that the Govindapura police uncovered in March involving a reality TV star, a Telugu actor and a producer has taken yet another twist as an MLA from Telangana allegedly attended a party hosted by Kannada film producer and accused drug dealer Shankare Gowda two years ago. Drugs were allegedly sold and consumed at the party. The MLA’s name has not been revealed. However, the police have issued a notice to a businessman from Hyderabad, Kalahar Reddy, who, along with another associate, had accompanied the MLA to the party. “We want to question the businessman to ascertain his role in this racket after which we will probe whether the MLA consumed drugs at the party,” said a senior police officer. “Even if he consumed drugs at the party, it would be difficult to establish given that it happened two years ago.” “Shankare Gowda used to organise parties for his clients. Along with drugs, he would also arrange for dance bar girls to be present. Politicians, celebrities and businessmen from the city and neighbouring states attended these parties. One such party was hosted two years, which the MLA attended accompanied by two Hyderabad-based businessmen to discuss a land deal,” the police officer added. The police said they have questioned the other businessman Sandeep Reddy, who said the MLA left the party after having a drink. During the probe into a narcotics ring, reportedly run by three foreign nationals from Nigeria, the police had recovered a large cache of drugs worth about Rs. 4 crore. The arrest of the three dealers led the police to former Big Boss contestant Mastan Chandra and producer Shankare Gowda, both of whom have been arrested. As part of the investigation, the police had summoned Tollywood actor Tanish for questioning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/notice-to-businessman-who-brought-telangana-mla-to-drug-party/article34240863.ece
05 April 2021||Mangaluru,||Tiff over online game leads to Mangaluru boy’s death||Addiction to an online game led to a tiff between two boys, resulting in the death of one of them in K.C. Road in Ullal police station limits on Saturday night. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar identified the deceased as Akif, a Class VI student of Falah English Medium School. The police registered a case of murder against the boy’s friend, aged 17. The accused has been secured and is being questioned. “We are checking if anyone else was involved,” Mr. Kumar said on Sunday. According to the Police Commissioner, Akif, 12, left his house around 9 p.m. with his mobile phone. His parents usually allowed him to play ‘PUBG’ with his friends for 30 minutes. When he did not return by 10 p.m., the family began a search for him. His phone had been switched off. On Sunday morning, the boy’s body was found on a ground behind the Falah school, which is about a kilometre from his house. Preliminary enquiries revealed that he had been assaulted about 20 metres away from the spot where the body was found. It was covered with banana, coconut leaves, and plants. Akif was the second of five children of Mohammed Haneef, a resident of Kotekar and a lorry owner. In his complaint with the Ullal police, Mr. Haneef accused the 17-year-old boy of murdering Akif. Mr. Kumar said the boy in conflict with the law told the police that he got acquainted with Akif a few days ago at a mobile store outlet. Quoting the boy, Mr. Kumar said the two were into playing “PUBG” and Akif was winning all the time. The boy in conflict with law called Akif on Saturday night to play the game. After Akif lost, there was a heated exchange of words between the two. Akif hit his friend with a small stone and the 17-year-old boy retaliated by hitting Akif with a bigger stone. Akif collapsed and died, Mr. Kumar quoted the boy as saying. Mr. Kumar said the police were looking into how the two boys got access to “PUBG”, which was among 118 mobile apps that was banned by the Union government in September 2020. Meanwhile, the Ullal police produced the 17-year-old boy before the Juvenile Justice Board on Sunday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tiff-over-online-game-leads-to-mangaluru-boys-death/article34240715.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||EC rejects Mamata’s complaint of rigging||The EC slammed Ms. Banerjee for her conduct and said that as a poll candidate and CM, she sought to weave a media narrative to mislead the voters. The EC said tensions outside the polling booth could have had an “adverse impact on law and order across West Bengal and may be some other States” while the voting was under way. It added, “there could not have been a greater misdemeanour”. “There is no evidence at all to suggest that the BSF jawans who were deployed at the polling station indulged in any inappropriate behaviour. Moreover, the complaint that they did not allow the voters to go inside the booth is far from truth,” Mr. Sinha said. The letter called the Chief Minister’s allegations “factually incorrect, without any empirical evidence whatsoever and devoid of substance”. The EC stated that TMC’s polling agent was assured that he would be escorted by the police and the sector officer of the booth, but he refused to come.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ec-rejects-mamatas-plaint-of-rigging/article34240724.ece
05 April 2021||Hassan,||Man dies while handling explosives in Karnataka||One person died and two other suffered serious injuries while handling explosives at Chakenahalli in Holenarasipur taluk, Karnataka, on Sunday afternoon. Sampath, 27, of Bettadahalli in Channarayapatna taluk, died on the spot. Nataraj and Ravi Kumar have been admitted to a hospital in Bengaluru. It is not yet clear how the blast occurred. To procure explosives Sampath and Nataraj of Bettadahalli had come to Chakenahalli to procure explosives from a godown, which belonged to one Nagesh. Mr. Nagesh had a licence to keep the explosives and the blasting materials in his godown. It is suspected that the blast occurred as they were loading the explosives onto a two-wheeler. Following the incident, Fire and Emergency Services, police personnel and Revenue officials reached the spot. The police are yet to ascertain the cause of the blast. A bomb detection squad is expected to reach the spot soon. Inspector-General of Police, southern range, Praveen Madhukar Pawar and other senior officers also visited the site. ‘Thorough probe’ “A thorough investigation will reveal the cause of the blast. One person died in the incident and two others are undergoing treatment,” said K.R. Srinivas, Holenarasipur tahsildar. Earlier, in January, a blast occurred at a stone quarry point in Shivamogga, killing six persons. Six others died in a similar incident in Chikkaballapur in February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-dies-while-handling-explosives-in-karnataka/article34240726.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Sukma encounter toll touches 22||“The forces tactically withdrew some operations and we were waiting for them, this is where (Tarrem, site of encounter) the Maoists had mobilised on Saturday,” Mr. Kumar told The Hindu . The official added that Tarrem is one of the core areas of the Maoists, and the joint forces were on an area-domination exercise. A joint team of the Chhattisgarh police, comprising the District Reserve Guard (DRG) and Special Task Force (STF), along with various teams of the Central Reserve Police Force had proceeded for a combing operation in south Bastar on Friday night. Mr. Kumar said the Maoists had used “improvised grenades” to attack the forces. He denied that the security forces were moving in large numbers that could have exposed them to the Maoists. “The security forces were in appropriate numbers; it is too simplistic to say [that they were in large number], there were tactical gaps between them, they had maintained appropriate offensive and defensive postures ... they were spread in four groups — around 130 each from four directions. Improvised grenades were used by the Maoists. It was a combing operation, the radius of operation was around 30 km; they were completely independent teams,” Mr. Kumar said. He added, “There were no specific inputs but these formations [of Maoists] were wanting to hit the security forces for quite some time... For two weeks, they were trying to do some mischief on Silged-Jagargunda road that was under construction. The road jeopardises their existence… It has cut away their territory,” he said. The officer denied that there was a delay in retrieving the bodies. “By the time the haze of combat subsided, the forces waited for an opportune time... Therefore, they waited, they went again in the morning. Removal of bodies takes time, as Maoists are capable of putting bombs in bodies, they [retrieval teams] have to be doubly sure,” he said. The Chhattisgarh police said in a statement that the teams were dispatched to Tarrem as they wanted to corner People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army (PLGA) chief Hidma, who was said to be in the area. Hidma heads PLGA Battalion 1, one of the most lethally armed units of the Maoists active in southern Chhattisgarh. He is also said to have been involved in the 2010 attack, when 76 CRPF jawans were killed at Tadmetla in Dantewada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sukma-encounter-toll-touches-22/article34240727.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Nod soon for Sputnik V rollout amid virus surge||Sputnik V, developed by Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, is a two-dose adenovirus based vector vaccine, similar in design to AstraZeneca’s Covishield. A challenge with the vaccine is its storage. The liquid form of the vaccine requires it to be stored at -18°C or colder while the freeze-dried version can be stored in 2-8°C. The company was asked by the regulator to furnish more information on the cold storage management plan and its stability. Last month, Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) — the main business promoters of the vaccine — announced a contract with three Indian firms for manufacturing more than 300 million doses of the vaccine. It has reported an efficacy of 91% and has so far been approved for use in 59 countries. “The Sputnik V was discussed and it's likely to be cleared within the next 7-10 days. In phases, it is expected that vaccines will be available to all adults,” the source, who declined to be identified, confirmed to The Hindu . A press statement following the briefing stated that a special campaign would be organised for underlying Covid-appropriate behaviour from April 6-14 with emphasis on 100% mask usage, personal hygiene and sanitation at public places /workplaces and health facilities. The meeting flagged the situation in Maharashtra, Punjab and Chhattisgarh as of “serious concern.” Maharashtra has contributed 57% of total cases and 47% of deaths in the country in the last 14 days. The total number of new cases per day in the State has touched 47,913 which was twice its earlier peak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nod-soon-for-sputnik-v-rollout-amid-covid/article34240728.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Another batch of Rafale jets to fly in by mid-May||The first batch of five jets, three single-seat and two twin-seater trainers, were formally inducted into the No. 17 ‘Golden Arrows’ squadron of the IAF last September at the Ambala Air Force station. They arrived in India in July 2020 with a stopover at Al Dhafra airbase in the United Arab Emirates. During the first leg of the flight from Merignac airbase at Bordeaux in France to the UAE, the jets were accompanied by French Air Force mid-air refuellers. For the journey from the UAE to India, they were accompanied by IAF mid-air refuellers. The second batch of three Rafales arrived in India last November, also flying non-stop from France.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/another-batch-of-rafale-jets-to-fly-in-by-mid-may/article34240729.ece
05 April 2021||Kolkata,||BJP links Trinamool leader to scam||The BJP on Sunday targeted Trinamool Congress leader Abhishek Banerjee, alleging that the conversation in a recently leaked audio clip proves his complicity in the coal pilferage scam. The audio clip of an alleged conversation between a Kolkata businessman and another individual was made public by the BJP leadership. Two persons are heard talking about how money was siphoned through coal pilferage and other illegal activities, like cattle smuggling, through a well-organised syndicate. Senior party leaders Suvendu Adhikari, Dinesh Trivedi and Amit Malaviya held a press conference alleging that Mr. Banerjee was a beneficiary of the scheme. Mr. Adhikari termed the development an organised scam, carried out with the help of the State government. The Trinamool Congress leadership dismissed the allegations. “Knowing that they are losing the polls, the BJP is clinging to straws by manufacturing such audio tapes It is still not proved whether the tapes are genuine,” said senior Trinamool leader Subrata Mukherjee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-links-trinamool-leader-to-scam/article34240772.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Mask mandate||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mask-mandate/article34241318.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Body language||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/body-language/article34241324.ece
05 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘Kazipet to just host wagon overhauling unit’||The Indian Railways and the South Central Railway (SCR) have been planning for a wagon repair or ‘Periodical Wagon Overhauling Workshop or ‘POH’ in Kazipet and not a wagon manufacturing unit. Another 10 more acres is yet to be handed over by the State government for the work to begin, clarified senior railway officials on Sunday. “The idea of having a full fledged wagon manufacturing unit was dumped long time ago. Wagon overhauling unit was initially proposed to be set up in Secunderabad and later, it was decided to shift to Kazipet and the government was requested to allot 160 acres,” they informed. The wagon repair unit was part of the assurance given to the State as part of the AP Reorganisation Act and the government here initially could hand over about 54 acres only due to litigation as the land belonged to the Endowments Department with many farmers tilling it. “It was only in January that 150.5 acres in total was given to us by the government following land acquisition and 10 more acres is required,” they explained. Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy during his December visit to Kazipet said the Rs. 383 crore wagon repair unit would have a capacity of repairing 200 wagons a month. It would take two years and three months from the commencement of works to get ready and sought expediting land acquisition.   Senior railway officials, not willing to be identified, stated that Rs. 200 crore was allocated in the railway budget two years ago expecting an imminent transfer of land but as this did not happen, the funds were utilised elsewhere. This year, the budget allocation has been a token Rs. 2 crore. “Any decision of starting work on the wagon repair unit will have to be taken by the Railway Board during the mid-year review,” they said. The issue got highlighted in recent times when Minister for Municipal Administration, IT and Industries K.T. Rama Rao criticised the Central government for the ‘delay’ in starting work on the wagon factory. This was in response to the Railways Minister Piyush Goyal tweet of a video announcing development of Marathwada Rail Coach Factory at Latur in Maharashtra, set up at a cost of Rs. 625 crore on 350 acres land and capable of producing 250 coaches per annum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kazipet-to-just-host-a-wagon-overhauling-unit/article34240848.ece
05 April 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Security tightened in forested border region||The district police tightened vigil along all the forest routes, including ferry points in Bhadrachalam Agency, in the wake of the major ambush by Maoists on security forces that left at least 22 security personnel dead in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district on Saturday. The incident, considered as one of the worst Maoist attacks in their strongholds in the neighbouring State, spurred additional surveillance measures in the forested border region of Bhadrachalam Agency. Vigil has been mounted along all the forest routes leading to Chhattisgarh’s south Bastar division in Charla and Dummugudem mandals, which share a porous border with Bijapur and Sukma districts, sources said. The ferry points across the Godavari and other forest streams have been brought under enhanced surveillance to keep tabs on the movement of rebels along the volatile inter-State border with Chhattisgarh. Local police in coordination with CRPF personnel intensified joint combing operations in the forest fringe areas situated in close proximity to the border. It may be mentioned that Charla police in a joint combing drive unearthed and defused a pressure cooker bomb at Rallapuram forest area on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/security-tightened-in-forested-border-region/article34241141.ece
05 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rs. 25,586 crore paid out under loan scheme||Five years after the Stand Up India scheme was launched by the government to promote entrepreneurship among women, Scheduled Castes (SC) & Scheduled Tribes (ST), banks have sanctioned more than Rs. 25,000 crore to over 1.14 lakh accounts, the Finance Ministry said on Sunday. As per the scheme, bank loans between Rs. 10 lakh and Rs. 1 crore are routed to at least one SC or ST borrower, and at least one woman borrower, by each branch of the scheduled commercial banks. Official data suggest that women-led enterprises have dominated the sanctions so far under the scheme, which has now been extended till 2025. “Rs. 25,586 crore has been sanctioned under the Stand Up India Scheme to over 1,14,322 accounts up to 23.03.2021 since its inception,” the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-25586-crore-paid-out-under-loan-scheme/article34240730.ece
05 April 2021||New Delhi,||Sonia Gandhi condoles with kin of jawans||Expressing her condolences to the families of the security personnel who were killed in the naxal attack in Chhattisgarh, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday expressed solidarity in the fight against Naxalism and assured the Chhattisgarh government’s assistance to the Central paramilitary forces in fighting naxal outfits. But the party’s spokesperson, Randeep Surjewala, in a series of tweets, pointed fingers at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah and said Mr. Shah was not interested in running his Ministry and was busy with elections. Mr. Surjewala said on Twitter, “Sadly, PM & HM are too busy electioneering to take on the menace of Naxalism. TV proclamations ain’t enough. We need to put a decisive strategy & blueprint.” BJP MP from Assam Dilip Saikia hit back by pointing out that Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel continued to camp in Assam until Sunday afternoon despite the naxal attack taking place on Saturday afternoon. Former party chief Rahul Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted to express their condolences to “the families of the martyrs who sacrificed their lives in combat in Chhattisgarh”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonia-gandhi-condoles-with-kin-of-jawans/article34240734.ece
05 April 2021||Bhubaneswar,||BJP continues to protest in Odisha||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators spent the night under the statue of Mahatma Gandhi on the campus of the Odisha State Assembly, protesting against the suspension of three of their colleagues. BJP MLAs were handed a suspension after shoes were hurled at Speaker Surjya Narayan Patro during the ruckus in the Assembly on Saturday. Pramila Mallick, the State government’s chief whip, alleged that BJP MLAs Bishnu Charan Sethi and Jai Narayan Mishra had thrown shoes at the Chair. Subsequently, the Speaker, after going through CCTV camera footage pronounced the verdict of a suspension. BJP MLAs said they had not been given the opportunity to present their views. The Budget session of the Assembly was ended abruptly, five days before its scheduled conclusion. Mr. Patro tried to convince the BJP MLAs not to sleep on the campus but they stuck to their stand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-continues-to-protest-in-odisha/article34240745.ece
05 April 2021||Mumbai,||Veteran actor Shashikala dies at 88||Veteran actor Shashikala, best known for her supporting roles in 1960s-70s films like Aarti , Gumrah and Chhote Sarkar , passed away on Sunday at the age of 88. Ashoke Pandit, filmmaker and president of the Indian Film & Television Directors’ Association, and B.N. Tiwari, president of the Federation of Western India Cine Employees, confirmed the news. “Shashikala ji has passed away. She was 88. We don’t know the exact details of her demise,” Mr. Tiwari said. Born in Solapur, Shashikala Jawalkar started acting on stage at the age of five. After her father went bankrupt, she moved to Bombay (now Mumbai) with her family and started to look for work in movies. In her early 20s, she married Om Prakash Saigal, who belonged to the K.L. Saigal family, and had two daughters, one of whom later died due to cancer. She made her first big screen appearance in the 1945 movie Zeenat , directed by Syed Shaukat Hussain Rizvi, the husband of legendary actor Noor Jehan. Better known by her first name, Shashikala starred in over 100 films in her career spanning around six decades. She went on to play small parts in various films for almost a decade and later got an opportunity to feature in V. Shantaram’s Teen Batti Char Raasta (1953) and Daku , the 1955 film starring Shammi Kapoor. Breakthrough movie Her career breakthrough came in 1959 when she appeared in Bimal Roy’s Sujata , one of the first movies in Hindi cinema to explore the issue of casteism. Shashikala then appeared in Tarachand Barjatya’s Aarti (1962), starring Meena Kumari, Ashok Kumar, and Pradeep Kumar in the lead. The film proved to be a stepping stone for Shashikala as she went on to become one of the go-to actors for filmmakers to portray negative parts. She later appeared in supporting roles in classics like Gumrah (1963), Waqt (1965), Anupama (1966) and Phool Aur Patthar (1966) and returned to playing a vamp in the Shammi Kapoor-Sadhana-starrer Chhote Sarkar (1974). In the 1980s, she played character roles, appearing in Khubsoorat , fronted by Rekha, the Sunny Deol-led Arjun (1985), Khamosh Nigahen (1986), Ghar Ghar Ki Kahani (1988), Sach (1989), Govinda’s Pardesi Babu (1998), Shah Rukh Khan-starrer Baadshah (1999), Karan Johar’s directorial Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham , musical hit Jhankaar Beats (2003) and Mujhse Shaadi Karogi (2004) and Padmashree Laloo Prasad Yadav in 2005. Shashikala switched to television in 2000s and went on to play pivotal parts in serials like Apnaapan , Dil Deke Dekho and Son Pari . She received the Padma Shri in 2007 for her contributions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/veteran-actor-shashikala-dies-at-88/article34240754.ece
05 April 2021||Pune,||57,074 cases reported||In its highest-ever single-day surge, Maharashtra touched a new peak on Sunday, recording 57,074 fresh COVID-19 cases as its active case tally soared to 4,30,503. In a high fatality spike, the State reported 222 deaths (123 of which were reported in the last 48 hours while the rest were from an earlier period) as the death toll climbed to 55,878. Both Mumbai city and Pune district touched new single-day highs in cases. In contrast to the spike, just 27,508 patients were discharged. The State’s recovery rate dipped to 83.8%. A record-high 1.97 lakh samples were tested in the last 24 hours as well. While the total case tally has now reached 30,10,597, the cumulative recoveries stand at 25,22,823. “Of a total 2,05,40,111 laboratory samples tested thus far, 30,10,597 (with the average case positivity rising to 14.66%) have returned positive with over 1.97 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate had incrementally dipped to 1.86%. Pune district posted its highest surge till date, recording more than 12,500 new cases to take its total case tally to 5,76,758. As per the State Health Department figures, nine deaths were reported as the fatality toll rose to 8,434. As per district authorities, however, the active case tally has crossed 75,000 while the death count has gone up to 10,227 with a record 64 deaths reported in the district on Sunday. Mumbai reported an unprecedented 11,206 new cases, taking its total tally to 4,52,681 of whom 66,803 are active. As s many as 25 fatalities took the city’s death toll to 11,799. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, the Kalyan-Dombivli civic body added 1,740 cases to take its total tally to 89,012. A single death pushed the fatality count to 1,138. Nagpur district in Vidarbha logged more than 4,200 cases as its total cases rose to 2,46,239 of whom 53,638 are active. As per the State Health Department figures, the district reported 32 deaths to take its toll to 4,071. Aurangabad in Marathwada registered a huge spike of more than 1,700 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/57074-cases-reported/article34240773.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Rs. 1.72 cr.||average assets per candidate contesting in the Tamil Nadu Assembly election. 18% of the candidates contesting in the State have declared themselves as crorepatis||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-172-cr/article34241319.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||41%||of candidates contesting in Tamil Nadu have declared themselves as graduates or more; 49% declared their qualification as between 5th pass and 12th pass||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/41/article34241320.ece
05 April 2021||New Delhi,||Assam: EC turns down BPF plea to postpone polls in Tamulpur assembly seat||Press Trust of India,  The Election Commission on Sunday turned down a plea of the BPF to postpone polls in the Tamulpur constituency in Assam as its candidate has joined the BJP under inducement, and said under the law adjourning election at this stage is allowed only if a candidate of a recognised party dies. The Bodo Peoples Front (BPF) moved the poll panel alleging that its candidate from Tamulpur, Rangja Khungur Basumatary, joined the BJP on April 1 under inducement. The election in Tamulpur will be held on April 6 in the third and last phase of the Assam assembly poll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-ec-turns-down-bpf-plea-to-postpone-polls-in-tamulpur-assembly-seat/article34241322.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||40%||of the candidates contesting in Kerala declared that they were graduates or more, while 55% declared their educational qualification as between 5th pass and 12th pass||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/40/article34241325.ece
05 April 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Probe into ferrying of cattle in motor boat||After a video showing at least half-a-dozen cattle being ferried across the Godavari, perilously tied to a motor boat, in Charla mandal went viral on social media on Saturday, the authorities concerned on Sunday initiated a detailed inquiry. The incident has not only brought to the fore the cruelty being meted out to cattle but also the potential danger of boat mishaps. Charla tahsildar Prasad said that a thorough inquiry was being conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-into-ferrying-of-cattle-in-motor-boat/article34241105.ece
05 April 2021||Bengaluru,||Ashok Soota to invest Rs. 200 crore in research on ageing, neuro health||Tech industry veteran Ashok Soota on Sunday announced the creation of SKAN, a not-for-profit entity exclusively for medical research around ageing and neurological disorders and also made a financial commitment of Rs. 200 crore to fund the venture. SKAN will conduct its research activities in-house also through partners. The Centre for Brain Research (CBR) at Indian Institute Science, Bangalore (IISc), will be its strategic partner for neurological research. CBR is currently putting together a consortium to handle the first project on Parkinson’s disease, as per a statement. Of the Rs. 200 crore, a total of Rs. 100 crore has been earmarked for partners such as St. John’s, Centre for Brain Research (CBR), IIT-Roorkee, NIMHANS, and new partners who are joining in the future while the remaining Rs. 100 crore would be spent on SKAN's in-house projects. For neurological research, the plan would be to go deep into select areas like Parkinson’s, bipolar, strokes and other cerebrovascular disorders. Mr. Soota said, “It will take 10 years to build a world-class institution for ageing and neurological research. I am grateful to two eminent leaders who have agreed to take charge as chairpersons for the two divisions in case of exigency to me if line leadership is not ready to take charge. I have had this exigency-based arrangement in every organisation I started, be it MindTree or Happiest Minds.” On the ageing front, the approach would be to go wide into relatively under-researched areas. A large community-based research cohort also would be set up. The proposed Centre for Research in Ageing and Geriatrics (CRAG) at SJGC, to be located on the St John’s Hospital campus, would be the strategic partner for SKAN's work around ageing. For problems related to both ageing and neurological disorders, the philosophy of the research would include searching for kinder, gentler therapies; delaying the onset and slowing down the progression of the disease and providing persons a better quality of life even as they live with the illness, according to SKAN. SKAN is currently on the lookout for talent including CEOs for its Ageing and Neurological divisions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ashok-soota-to-invest-rs-200-crore-in-research-on-ageing-neuro-health/article34240712.ece
05 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||State stares at severe heatwave conditions||The State is staring at severe heatwave conditions in the next two months as the temperature is expected to rise considerably over 47º Celsius in some districts, especially Khammam, Nizamabad, Bhadrachalam, Nalgonda, Karimnagar and Warangal. Telangana, according to a report filed by the Telangana State Development and Planning Society, is highly prone to hot weather conditions and heatwave. The data on ‘vulnerability’ analysis prepared by the Society indicated that three out of the 589 mandals are in severe conditions, 62 in critical and 187 in semi-critical conditions. The report said Adilabad, Nirmal, Jagtial, Kumram Bheem, Asifabad, Mancherial, Peddapalli, Karimnagar, Warangal, Mulugu, Khammam, Suryapet, Mahabubabad and Nalgonda districts are highly vulnerable to the heat. According to Telangana State Heatwave Action Plan 2021 prepared by the Revenue (Disaster Management) department and TSDPS in association with UNICEF Hyderabad chapter, non-availability of irrigation facilities, erratic distribution of rainfall, limitations of ground water exploration are compounding the situation and making some parts of the State drought prone. Changes in the monsoon pattern too, are adding to the cause of proneness to droughts in the State. The agricultural drought vulnerability index indicated that 87 mandals are less vulnerable, 90 mandals are moderately vulnerable, 91 mandals are vulnerable, 98 mandals are highly vulnerable and 76 mandals are very highly vulnerable. Mandals with high and very high vulnerability are mostly in Nalgonda and Mahabubnagar districts followed by RangaReddy, Medak and Karimnagar districts. The action plan, accordingly, aims at providing guidelines to be taken up by the State and district administration for minimising the impact of possible heatwaves. The primary objective is to ensure no fatalities during the heatwave and reduce related illnesses. The government had already launched a mobile app (TS-Weather) for keeping the departments, expert agencies and stakeholders on the alert during the summer months. In addition to putting together reports from the automated weather stations, the app is providing information about the top 10 hottest locations, enabling district officials to issue weather bulletins locally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/state-stares-at-severe-heatwave-conditions/article34240714.ece
05 April 2021||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Complaint against Minister for tweet involving Anitha||The family members of S. Anitha, a medical aspirant who committed suicide in September 2017 after NEET was introduced, filed a police complaint against Tamil Language Minister ‘Ma Foi’ K. Pandiarajan after a video featuring the girl with a voice-over in favour of the AIADMK was tweeted from his Twitter handle on Sunday. Her brother, S. Manirathinam, also wrote to the Chief Electoral Officer, seeking action against Mr. Pandiarajan. Hours after the video triggered widespread outrage on social media, the Minister, who is seeking to get re-elected from the Avadi constituency, claimed it was posted without his knowledge. In the clip, the voice-over for Anitha states that 427 students from poor and underprivileged families are studying in medical colleges in the State, and this was made possible by Jayalalithaa’s government. It adds that instead of spreading awareness about such positive aspects, some have destroyed precious lives like Anitha’s through malicious propaganda for political gain. It goes on to state that the issue has claimed the lives of 17 students, and that the people must not forget or forgive the DMK for spreading malicious propaganda. Strongly condemning Mr. Pandiarajan for the tweet, Mr. Manirathinam released a video from Kumulur, near Senthurai, with a bust of Anitha as the background. Mr. Pandiarajan subsequently removed the post from his Twitter account. In his complaint to the Superintendent of Police, Ariyalur, Mr. Manirathinam said footage and pictures of his late sister had been used in the video without the approval of her family. The voice-over was used to cheat the public, he said, seeking action for the offence under the Information Technology Act, 2000. Mr. Manirathinam said the video, meant to boost the prospects of Mr. Pandiarajan and the AIADMK, was an insult to his late sister, who was forced to take the extreme step due to NEET. Besides taking suitable action against Mr. Pandiarajan, the Election Commission of India should debar him, the complainant said. Mr. Pandiarajan claimed the tweet was uploaded without his knowledge. The Minister said he would file a case with the cyber crime police, seeking action against those responsible for the tweet. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complaint-against-minister-for-tweet-featuring-anitha/article34240925.ece
05 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Officials seize Rs. 91.67 lakh near AIADMK candidate’s premises||The election authorities seized Rs. 91.67 lakh found abandoned near the premises of AIADMK candidate in Ranipet on Saturday night and also rounded up 27 youth who were brought from Andhra Pradesh to distribute money to the voters in the constituency. Ranipet Sub-Collector and Returning officer K.Elambahath received information from a caller, who alleged that 30 youth brought from Andhra Pradesh for distributing money, were illegally confined at a premises and tortured by the political functionaries, following alleged misappropriation of Rs. 13 lakh. The official ordered a flying squad team to conduct a search on the said premises. A huge drama unfolded when the team of the flying squad reached the bungalow, belonging to AIADMK candidate S.M.Sugumar in Vasantham Nagar, Ranipet, in the late hours of Saturday. On seeing the team, a few persons who were inside the premises scaled the compound wall and ran away. The premises, also being used as a godown, was found locked from inside. The Returning officer, with the static surveillance team and police officers, reached the spot and inspected the premises. While the officials were waiting outside, a youth who identified himself as Dinesh, 24, from Chitoor, jumped off the compound wall and raised an alarm for help. The officials caught him and conducted an inquiry. He told them that 26 more youth were illegally confined inside and tortured by a gang. Sources said the AIADMK candidate, Sugumar, came to the spot on being summoned by the police officers and argued that there was nothing inside. Illegal confinement In the meanwhile, the election officials entered the premises and found the youth inside. They complained to them that they were brought from A.P. for the purpose of distributing money to the voters. On the premise that they misappropriated Rs. 13 lakh which was handed over to them for distribution, the political functionaries had locked them up in the godown and tortured them, they said. After a thorough search, the officials seized Rs. 91.67 lakh cash stashed in three bags and abandoned in a bush near the premises. Police rescued 27 youth and the Ranipet police booked a case against the AIADMK candidate Sugumar, his son Gopi and others for offences under sections 323( Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) 342(Punishment for wrongful confinement), 506 (i)(Criminal Intimidation), 171 H(Illegal Payment) and 171 E(Punishment for Bribery) IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-seize-rs-9167-lakh-in-ranipet/article34241014.ece
05 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3,581 more test positive in Tamil Nadu, 14 deaths recorded||The number of positive cases in the State inched towards 9 lakh persons on Sunday with 3,581 more persons being diagnosed with COVID-19 infection. However, 1,813 more persons were discharged following treatment in a day. With this, 8,65,071 persons have been discharged from various healthcare facilities post-treatment, according to the daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health. As many as 19 of them were among people who had arrived from other States or countries. The State also recorded 14 more deaths taking the tally to 12,778 till date. As on date 21,958 persons are under treatment for the infection. 1,344 infected in Chennai In Chennai district 1,344 more persons were infected in the past several hours. At the same time 792 persons were discharged after treatment. The district also recorded four deaths in a day while 8,246 persons were undergoing treatment either in healthcare facilities or at home, officials said. Till date 2,53,760 persons have tested positive for the infection and as many as 2,41,246 persons have been treated and discharged. The district has recorded 4,268 deaths as on date. Among the districts, Coimbatore, followed by Chengalpattu had the most number of cases whereas districts such as Kancheepuram (124), Tiruvallur (163), Tiruchi (150) Tiruppur (105) and Thanjavur (136) each recorded more than 100 cases. The neighbouring district of Chengalpattu recorded 297 additional cases in a day while 205 more persons were discharged after treatment. The district recorded the most deaths with five persons losing their life to the infection. As many as 2,183 persons are currently under treatment and till date 827 persons in the district have died of the infection. In Kancheepuram, 124 more people tested positive and two deaths were recorded. In Tiruvallur district, 163 new infections and one death were recorded. One person died of the infection in the district. As on date 934 persons are under treatment in the district which has so far recorded 715 deaths. In Coimbatore district, 315 more persons had contracted the infection in a day while 146 persons were discharged at the same time. Two deaths recorded in the last 24 hours were among those with no pre-existing co-morbid conditions. The deaths were recorded in government medical college hospitals. 90-year-old dies A 90-year-old hypertensive woman from Chennai admitted on March 23 in the Central government-run Integral Coach Factory hospital with complaints of breathing difficulty died on April 3 after testing positive for COVID-19 a day before. The hospital recorded her death as due to acute respiratory distress syndrome caused by COVID-19 pneumonia. A total of 82,791 RT-PCR samples were taken on Sunday and 82,187 persons were tested, health officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3581-more-persons-test-positive-in-tamil-nadu/article34240917.ece
05 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Campaigning in the shadow of the virus||Leaders and candidates faced the unusual challenge of COVID-19 this election season, campaigning for which concluded on Sunday. While the pandemic was in control for over a month, soon after electioneering began in full swing, COVID-19 cases surged, prompting the AIADMK and DMK leaders to urge those in the crowd to wear masks. Quite a few leaders and candidates cutting across party lines, including the DMK women’s wing leader, M.K. Kanimozhi, were infected during the campaign, forcing them to isolate themselves. Some of them, previously infected, were seen being actively involved in the campaign, unmindful of the chances of re-infection. “I suspect I contracted the virus when I attended a huge public meeting addressed by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in Salem,” said Manithaneya Makkal Katchi leader M.H. Jawahirullah, also the candidate for the Papanasam constituency. Mr. Jawahirullah, who is being treated at a private hospital, is out of critical condition. “I have been a diabetic for 20 years. My only regret is that I was not able to meet people. I covered only 50% of the constituency. Fortunately, leaders and cadre of the alliance partners compensated for my absence,” he said. Bureaucrat-turned-politician and Makkal Needhi Maiam candidate for Velacherry Santhosh Babu had to depend on social media for his campaign after he contracted the virus. Former Minister and DMK candidate for Kurinjipadi M.R.K. Panneerselvam also quit campaigning after testing positive for COVID-19. CPI(M) Polit Bureau member G. Ramakrishnan said it proved to be a challenge for him since he was already infected by the virus. ‘Interaction inevitable’ “Campaigning and physical distancing are two contradictory terms. Meeting people and travelling is inevitable. Though the possibility of re-infection was always there, enthusiasm for this keenly contested election helped overcome the fear,” added Mr. Ramakrishnan. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri bore the brunt of COVID-19 heavily. “I lost my health after the infection. My sugar levels went up and blood pressure too increased. My skin still feels itchy,” said Mr. Alagiri, a star campaigner for the DMK-Congress combine. “But we have no option. Like a migratory bird that flies from one continent to another, flapping its wings, I travelled across the State. I am happy that DMK president M.K. Stalin’s and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s campaigns made a tremendous impact,” the TNCC leader said. CPI candidate for the Sivaganga constituency Gunasekaran also tested positive for COVID-19. “I did not mind the threat of infection. I travelled throughout the State and campaigned for the election,” said CPI State secretary R. Mutharasan.  I covered only 50% of the segment. Fortunately, leaders and cadre of the alliance partners compensated for my absence M.H. Jawahirullah   Manithaneya Makkal Katchi leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campaigning-in-the-shadow-of-the-virus/article34240891.ece
05 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 30,000 personnel to be deployed||With the curtains coming down on campaigning, the city has become a fortress with the deployment of police personnel and intensification of surveillance from Sunday evening. “We have been taking all efforts to ensure free and fair polls. We had large seizures in terms of cash, gold, liquor and drugs due to our intensive checking. In the next two days, we will continue our efforts to ensure smooth conduct of polls,” City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal told The Hindu . So far, over 330 cases have been booked against political parties and candidates for poll code violations and 605 cases under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Open Places (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act. Nine cases were registered on charges of money distribution. About Rs. 44.11 crore in unaccounted cash, 50 kg of gold, 119 silver articles and 2,889 litres of liquor were seized across the city. There are 2,083 polling stations in the city, of which 327 have been identified as vulnerable and 10 as critical. Later, Mr. Aggarwal told mediapersons that over 23,500 police personnel from the city police and Armed Reserve, 18 companies of the Central Armed Police Force (CAPF), 10 companies of the Tamil Nadu Special Police, 3,000 Home Guards from Chennai, 1,800 Home Guards fromKarnataka and 700 retired police personnel and ex-servicemen, altogether totalling to over 30,000 personnel, would be effectively deployed on Tuesday to ensure the smooth conduct of polls in the city. He said 50% of vulnerable polling stations would be manned by the CAPF in addition to the local police, while the remaining vulnerable stations would be manned by the Tamil Nadu Special Police personnel. There will be 792 mobile police teams to escort the electronic voting machines. Outsiders who are not voters of a particular constituency have been asked to leave. The police will intensify checks on lodges and guest houses. On polling day, no representative of political parties would be permitted to canvass and no vehicle would be permitted within 100 m of a polling booth. No mobile phones would be allowed inside the booth, Mr. Aggarwal said. As per the guidelines of the Election Commission of India, there will be a three-tier bandobust arrangement at all counting centres. The strongroom will be guarded by the CAPF in the inner circle. Armed police personnel from the State will be deployed in the next layer, and the local police will guard the outer area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-30000-personnel-to-be-deployed/article34240903.ece
05 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nothing has changed since 2016, say T. Nagar residents||T. Nagar, the city’s commercial hub, has an unceasing list of woes that have not been addressed in the last five years. Water crisis, traffic bottlenecks, encroachments, building violations and poor connectivity are issues that continue to cripple the lives of people residing in the constituency. The constituency consists of Kodambakkam, Ashok Nagar, West Mambalam, Pondy Bazaar, CIT Nagar and a few parts of Vadapalani. Around 22 candidates, including 10 Independents, are contesting from this constituency. Sitting MLA B. Sathyanarayanan is the AIADMK candidate while the DMK has fielded J. Karunanithi. Pala. Karupaiah will be contesting from actor-turned-politician Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam. Voters in the constituency said the race would be between the DMK and the AIADMK as most of the other candidates had not even knocked on their doors. Among the constituency’s problems is the encroachment by commercial establishments. “Thanks to the Corporation turning a blind eye, the pubic space is getting narrowed, impeding traffic,” said V.S. Jayaraman of the T. Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association. “Multi-storey commercial buildings have been built violating rules and without any kind of fire safety measures,” he charged. Almost all streets have become parking bays for those who visit T. Nagar. Since the commercial complexes do not have enough space to park customers’ vehicles, they turn to nearby residential streets for parking purposes. This severely restricts the movement of residents. Senior citizens find it difficult to even go for a walk on the streets. Residents also said the Pedestrian Plaza, part of the Smart City Project, was not up to the mark. Gopi Kannadaasan, a resident of Kannadasan Street, said even now one can see vehicles parked on footpaths. “The space was widened for children to play and all shop owners park their vehicles and no one questions them about it,” he said. Mohan, a resident, points out that street vendors and small shopkeepers on Ranganathan Street, Natesan Street and on the main North Usman Road have no toilet facilities. “They have been demanding proper toilets for a very long time and the MLA has not made any effort to get this done,” he noted. West Mambalam residents said waterlogging was a cause for concern and nothing had been done. “The Madley and Duraisamy subways get waterlogged even if there is a small spell of rain and this, in turn, creates traffic congestion,” a resident said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nothing-has-changed-since-2016-say-t-nagar-residents/article34240921.ece
05 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Issue ads denying hand in Pollachi case: Stalin challenges AIADMK||DMK leader M.K. Stalin on Sunday sought to know whether the AIADMK government was ready to issue newspaper advertisements stating that it had nothing to do with the Pollachi sexual assault case, in which members of the ruling party have been arrested. He also appealed to the electorate to give him a chance to implement good schemes for the people. Mr. Stalin, who campaigned in constituencies across Chennai throughout the day, said that when he saw advertisements in the form of news (on Sunday), he thought they were showcasing the achievements of the AIADMK government. “Since the AIADMK has no achievements to boast about, it has come out with advertisements blaming the DMK,” he contended. If the allegations contained in the advertisements were true, why did the AIADMK, which had been in power for 10 years, not file any case against the DMK men and send them to jail, he wondered. “In the last 10 years, the AIADMK indulged only in corruption and commission. It spent taxpayers’ money to issue advertisements,” he alleged. Recalling the memorandum submitted by his party to Governor Banwarilal Purohit against the Chief Minister and his Cabinet colleagues, demanding an inquiry into their alleged corrupt practices, Mr. Stalin asked whether the government had the courage to release an advertisement to dispute the DMK’s allegations. Claiming that 250 young women were abducted and sexually assaulted in a bungalow by ruling partymen, Mr. Stalin said they were kept semi-naked and videographed, and the clips were sent to their parents. “I know the pain of the parents. I am also a father. Does the government have the courage to issue an advertisement saying it has nothing to do with the incident? Only now, the CBI has arrested them [the partymen]. But I will not spare them. Note it down,” the DMK leader said. Harassment case Mr. Stalin said that while other States had only a DGP, Tamil Nadu had a Special DGP, who was accused of sexually harassing a woman SP. “Will the AIADMK government release an advertisement about the incident,” he asked. Recalling the police firing in Thoothukudi, in which 13 people were killed and the custodial deaths of a father and his son in Sattankulam, Mr. Stalin claimed that the Chief Minister sought to sweep the incidents under the carpet. “When asked about the police firing, he [Mr. Palaniswami] said he watched them only on television. He attributed the custodial deaths to natural causes,” he said. Calling upon the voters to award “zero” seats to the AIADMK, Mr. Stalin said the DMK would win all 234 seats and become a “hero”. Speaking in Kolathur, Mr. Stalin, who launched his campaign in Tiruvarur on March 15, said he had travelled 12,000 km and addressed 70 meetings. “I have visited all 234 constituencies in Tamil Nadu and 30 constituencies in Puducherry,” he said. Mr. Stalin said Kalaignar (Karunanidhi) had taught him to be with the people in their joys and difficulties. “I am ready to work for the people for many years. I have many schemes for the betterment of people. Give me a chance to implement them,” he said. “April 6 will see the beginning of Tamil Nadu’s development. The DMK will reach its zenith and all your worries will disappear,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/issue-ads-denying-hand-in-pollachi-case-stalin-to-aiadmk/article34240915.ece
05 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Seizures stand at Rs. 428.46 crore||Election officials and surveillance teams have so far seized cash and valuables worth Rs. 428.46 crore, following violations of the model code of conduct, according to the Election Commission of India (ECI). The total cash seizure so far stands at Rs. 225.5 crore, and that of precious metals (gold, silver, diamond and other ornaments) at Rs. 176.11 crore. Liquor (2,75,293.31 l) to the tune of Rs. 4.61 crore and other items valued at Rs. 20.01 crore have been seized, it said. “The last 72 hours are extremely sensitive from the expenditure standpoint. Round-the-clock surveillance, along with CAPF teams, has been taken up. Patrolling has been strengthened during the night and early morning along with expenditure teams,” it said. During the last 24 hours until Sunday evening, about Rs. 91.56 lakh in cash was seized in Ranipet district; Rs. 1.23 crore in Thousand Lights constituency, Chennai; Rs. 1.15 crore in Veerapandi, Salem; Rs. 1.06 crore in Vellore district; Rs. 98 lakh in Coimbatore; Rs. 1.13 crore in Saidapet, Chennai; and Rs. 65 lakh in Virudhunagar Assembly constituency. During that 24-hour period, the cash seizure stood at Rs. 8.42 crore. Further, 4,190 liquor bottles and 7,600 l of fermented wash was seized from different places. It said that one of the objectives of the ECI was to conduct elections free of inducement. “An all-out effort to curb inducements has been made towards election expenditure monitoring,” it said. Flying surveillance teams, static surveillance teams, video surveillance teams and nodal officers have been set up at the Assembly constitution levels. District-level control rooms to co-ordinate the efforts too have been established. A total of 105 expenditure-sensitive constituencies have been identified in Tamil Nadu, and extra efforts, as mandated by the ECI, have been made. Expenditure-sensitive pockets have been identified and teams directed to be extra vigilant during the last 72 hours. Four State nodal officers — two for expenditure, one police and one general observer — have been appointed by the ECI to oversee all aspects of election expenditure monitoring. “A total of 118 expenditure observers have been drafted to monitor expenditure by candidates and parties,” it said. For complaints, people can call 1950, and contact district election officers, and the State toll-free number (1800 4252 1950) to call the CEO’s office. Further, the cVIGIL app can be used to report any wrongdoing. Complete confidentiality of complainants will be maintained, it said.  An all-out effort to curb inducements has been made towards election expenditure monitoring Election Commission of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seizures-stand-at-rs-42846-crore/article34240897.ece
05 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIIMS delayed due to land and other issues: Nadda||BJP national president J.P. Nadda on Sunday said that construction of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Madurai was delayed due to issues relating to design of the building, soil testing and issues relating to land, but it will come up soon. He was addressing a press conference in Chennai on the last day of election campaigning before the Assembly poll in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Responding to a question on DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin’s recent campaign holding a brick to stress that there was no progress in construction, Mr. Nadda said the proposal of construction of AIIMS came up when he was the Union Health Minister. “Since I was a Health Minister, I take full responsibility. It is a big project with a cost of over Rs. 1,100 crore and with 750 beds. Delays might come in the form of land, building and getting all types of clearances,” he said. On DMK’s charge that the recent I-T searches were politically motivated, Mr. Nadda said that they were done according to norms and based on information received by the department. “These departments work on their own. They (DMK) are trying to politicise the issue unnecessarily. All I would say is honesty is the best policy, remain clean and remain safe,” he said. To a question on DMK president M.K. Stalin’s statement that he would not allow implementation of Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) if his party comes to power, Mr. Nadda pointed out it is a Central legislation passed by Parliament and the State Legislation or State government cannot bypass it. On ally AIADMK’s manifesto stating that it would urge for withdrawal of CAA, he said that they will work together on the issue. He expressed confidence that the AIADMK alliance will form government in Tamil Nadu, the NDA will form government in Puducherry and West Bengal and will retain power in Assam. In Kerala, we will be a force to reckon with, Mr. Nadda added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiims-was-delayed-due-to-land-other-issues/article34240912.ece
05 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Biryani isn’t everywhere these polls, why?||In the past, when an election campaign concluded for the day, the smell of mutton or chicken biryani would engulf the street. Party workers would gladly wait to pick up their packet to satiate their hunger after accompanying their candidates in their daily canvass. Much to the surprise of many, vegetarian options have replaced biryani on many days during this election campaign, say sources in various parties. On most days, only vegetarian fare was given to party workers. “For the morning, we chose to give them idli and vadacurry or pongal and vada ; in the afternoon or evening, we gave them a combination of two from lemon rice, sambar rice and tamarind rice,” said a source. ‘Not feasible’ A party worker said it was not feasible to provide biryani often. “We would end up giving away almost double the quantity of biryani than was required since people would take parcels. People would also gather at the distribution points just to take the biryani and we could not drive them away since it would show us in a bad light. Also, most of them would not choose to eat it because of the current weather,” a party source said. For the night, another party worker had organised distribution of dosa and ice cream. A district-level office-bearer of a party said that in the districts, they were opting to pay those who brought the crowds so that they could buy what they pleased. “Even today, we paid Rs. 120 each for 40 persons for biryani and Rs. 95 each for vegetarian meals for some 80 men. We gave them the option to choose what they wanted since this time many are going for vegetarian choices,” he said. Biryani sellers, too, say the number of orders they have received this season has been very less than in the past. R. Ramalingam, who runs a biryani catering service in the city, says, “In the past, we would have cadres coming to pick up a bunch of packets to distribute to co-workers after the campaign, but this time we barely saw any orders.” But biryani is usually a must on the day the nominations are filed, the last two days of campaign, the day of polling and, of course, the day of counting. “We won’t buy the first quality biryani, with more pieces of meat and made with ghee and basmati rice. That costs Rs. 150 a plate. We opt for the one made with ordinary rice and oil that sells at Rs. 100 a plate,” explained a seasoned organiser, who went on to say the men and women would expect biryani at least on these occasions. “Hopefully, we will order biryani on the counting day,” he said. Meanwhile, as this copy was being filed, organisers of various political parties were stocking up on alcohol to be served later since shops would remain closed from Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/biryani-isnt-everywhere-this-election-why/article34241016.ece
05 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK manifesto rated the best on the social justice front’||Young People for Politics (YPP), a collective of youngsters engaging with politics, has rated the manifesto of the DMK to have done better on the social justice front. In the assessment on different parameters based on the manifestos released by the major parties, the DMK’s secured 12.5%, AIADMK 9.6% and Makkal Needhi Maiam 3.5%. Radhika Ganesh, co-convener of the collective, said owing to the limited resources, they analysed four key parties contesting in the most constituencies — AIADMK, DMK, MNM and Naam Tamilar Katchi. NTK’s case “While the first three released manifestos, NTK did not release a manifesto formally and we had to rely on the promises made in their website on various issues,” she said. However, YPP did not provide a final score for NTK due to the non-availability of the manifesto. She said the assessment was based on the actionable commitments provided by the parties in their manifestos towards women’s education, health and employment, welfare of members of the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes and the differently-abled people and measures towards creating a casteless society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-manifesto-rated-the-best-on-the-social-justice-front/article34240904.ece
05 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Seeman concludes campaign in Thiruvottiyur||Naam Tamilar Katchi co-ordinator Seeman on Sunday concluded his campaign in Thiruvottiyur, from where he is seeking election to the Assembly, declaring that he was here to wage a Tamil nationalist war against Dravidianism and ‘Indhiyam’. In an attempt to reach out to supporters, Mr. Seeman sang MNM founder Kamal Haasan’s song ‘ Punjai Undu Nanjai Undu ’ from the film Unnal Mudiyum Thambi and his now famous song, ‘ Vote poda pora penney odhungi nikkadha ’. He criticised DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin, and also the Central and State governments for their failure to build an AIIMS in Madurai. “Everybody knows [Prime Minister Narendra] Modi is a fraud. But this is the same as the DMK’s promise to retrieve Katchatheevu and Kalaignar’s [M. Karunanidhi’s] promise to give 2 acres.” Mr. Seeman said he opposed national parties because of whom a coalition government at the Centre and an autonomous rule in Tamil Nadu would not be possible. “Where do funds come for the Union government? We give them. And then it says ‘no’ to education, health and GST dues. India is not a country — it is a union of States. Like the United States of America, we are the united States of India. My linguistic nationality is Tamil, but I am a citizen of India,” he said.  Terming the Election Commission a “drama party”, Mr. Seeman asked why it did not prevent cash distribution to voters but was searching people at random. “Those who distribute cash to voters should be banned [from politics] for 10 years. We need to change the system in a fundamental way,” Mr. Seeman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seeman-concludes-campaign-in-thiruvottiyur/article34240913.ece
05 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||In first quarter, PE-VC firms invest $508 million in T.N. companies||For the first quarter of 2021, Private Equity (PE) and Venture Capital (VC) firms invested $508 million in eight deals in companies based out of Tamil Nadu. During the same quarter last year, the number of deals were higher and stood at 14 and firms had invested $336 million. Among the top firms that received PE-VC funding in the State during the January-March 2021 quarter are: Five Star Business Finance ($234 million), Uniphore Software Systems ($140 million), Ally ($50 million) and Shriram EPC ($48 million), according to data provided by Venture Intelligence, a research service focused on private company financials, transactions and their valuations. “The value of deals has risen significantly, even as the number of deals (volume) has slid. This naturally has boosted the average deal size, indicating the increasing comfort of investors to back companies that are already established or ripe for scale up with large amounts of capital,” Arun Natarajan, founder of Venture Intelligence, said. “The increasing interest among investors for SaaS and also fin-tech and tech savvy financial services companies is favouring Chennai-based companies with traditional strengths in these sectors,” Mr. Natarajan added. The data provided by Venture Intelligence shows that last year, even after the COVID-19 induced lockdown came into effect from March last week, companies in Tamil Nadu managed to pull in investments across 22 deals until December. In the second quarter of 2020, around $15 million came into seven deals and in the following quarter around $97 million was invested across five deals. And, in the last quarter of the year, PE-VC firms pumped in $157 million in 10 deals. 3 angel investment deals In terms of angel investments, there were three deals during the January to March 2021 quarter when compared to seven deals during the same period in 2020. The three startups that received angel investments during this quarter are the ePlane Company, YAP and AgniKul Cosmos.  The increasing interest among investors for SaaS and also fin-tech... is favouring Chennai-based companies with traditional strengths in these sectors Arun Natarajan  Founder, Venture Intelligence||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-first-quarter-pe-vc-firms-invest-508-million-in-tn-companies/article34241307.ece
05 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BEL engineers to ensure a smooth poll||Hundreds of engineers from the State-owned PSU, Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL), will be part of zonal teams that will ensure the smooth functioning of electronic voting machines (EVMs) and voter-verifiable paper audit trail units (VVPATs) in over 88,000 polling booths on April 6. A zonal team, comprising BEL engineers and support staff, will be headed by a tahsildar-level officer. Every zonal team will be assigned 10 polling booths, and in case of technical snags in equipment on the day of polling, the teams will rush to the site to rectify issues. “They will keep moving between the 10 booths. In case of emergencies, they will rush to the particular booth and rectify the snag,” Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo told The Hindu on Sunday. Fixing faults In most cases in the past, simple faults, such as not plugging the line into the socket and not turning on the equipment, among other things, were noticed. “But in the case of other serious issues, teams have sufficient spare EVMs and VVPAT units with which they can substitute the ones facing problems,” the CEO explained. Since every zonal team is assigned 10 booths within an Assembly constituency, names and symbols of candidates will have to be keyed in much in advance so that they can be operated readily. “Under no circumstances will even one vote cast by an elector be disturbed, even if an EVM developes a technical snag,” said Mr. Sahoo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bel-engineers-to-ensure-a-smooth-poll/article34240889.ece
05 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A higher digital presence this season||Parties in Tamil Nadu, especially the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the All-India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), picked up huge digital slots, particularly on YouTube, this Assembly election, when compared to previous years. The DMK started flooding YouTube and websites from February, while the AIADMK started a few days later. A source from the DMK’s IT wing said with people working from home after the COVID-19 outbreak, YouTube’s outreach was quite high. “We were dominating with our content early March itself. We were dominant at different points of time. We picked space in almost every video that we thought people would watch. We also ensured that we are present in the videos of certain influencers,” he said. “Yes, we have doubled our presence on YouTube, compared to previous elections. The prime reason for this is that after COVID-19, the consumption of information from YouTube, in particular, has increased,” Aspire K. Swaminathan, secretary, IT wing of the AIADMK in Chennai, said. He added that during the lockdown, several popular youngsters took to YouTube, and were now having several millions of followers. It made sense to pick up space in between those channels, he said, adding that YouTube had been successful and the number of views had been quite high. The DMK’s ‘ Stalindhaan vararu vidiyal thara poraru ’ song and the AIADMK’s ‘ Vetri nadai podum Tamilagame ’ were among the popular videos that popped up this election season.  After COVID-19, the consumption of information from YouTube, in particular, has increased Aspire K. Swaminathan Secretary of the IT wing, AIADMK, Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-higher-digital-presence-this-season/article34240899.ece
05 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC disapproves of U.T. prohibitory order||There is no doubt that the Election Commission of India (ECI) has primacy on the issue of how to conduct elections and control over law and order, too, passes on to the Commission during elections. However, just like any other authority, the Commission is required to act reasonably, rationally and without the slightest hint of bias, the Madras High Court observed on Sunday. After holding a special sitting to hear a public interest litigation petition filed by R. Rajangam, secretary, Communist Party of India (Marxist), Puducherry Pradesh Committee, the first Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, disapproved of a prohibitory order passed by the Puducherry Collector under Section 144 of the CrPC. The judges agreed with the petitioner that the 48-hour prohibition on unlawful assembly and movement, shouting of slogans and use of loudspeakers from Sunday evening till the completion of polling in the Union Territory on April 6 might create a scenario of committed voters alone stepping out to vote and others choosing not to vote, fearing the possibility of trouble or violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-disapproves-of-ut-prohibitory-order/article34240923.ece
05 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Seeman concludes campaign||Naam Tamilar Katchi co-ordinator Seeman on Sunday concluded his campaign in Thiruvottiyur, from where he is seeking election to the Assembly, declaring that he was here to wage a Tamil nationalist war against Dravidianism and ‘Indhiyam’. In an attempt to reach out to supporters, Mr. Seeman sang MNM founder Kamal Haasan’s song ‘ Punjai Undu Nanjai Undu ’ from the film Unnal Mudiyum Thambi and his now famous song, ‘ Vote poda pora penney odhungi nikkadha ’. He criticised the DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin for the Central and State governments for their failure to build an AIIMS in Madurai by showing up a brick. “Everybody knows [Prime Minister Narendra] Modi is a fraud. But this is the same as the DMK’s promise to retrieve Katchatheevu and Kalaignar’s [M. Karunanidhi’s] promise to give 2 acres.” ‘Drama party’ Terming the Election Commission a “drama party”, Mr. Seeman asked why it did not prevent cash distribution to voters but was searching people at random.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seeman-concludes-campaign-in-thiruvottiyur/article34240940.ece
05 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen seek to defer annual fishing ban||Various fishermen associations have urged the State government to defer the annual fishing ban for mechanised boats by at least 15 days. The 61-day long ban on the East Coast usually comes into force from April 15. In representations submitted to Fisheries Department officials, the associations said they had been badly affected by the lockdown and a 15-day extension of fishing time would allow them to bring in some catch. “This is the time when the seas are calm and the yellow fin tuna is in abundance,” said a fisherman. The fishermen sought relief since all the boats had returned early from their voyages so that the men could cast their vote. “We have lost this voyage. If we are to venture into the sea again, we need more time and the extension would help us,” said a boat owner. Fisheries Department sources said that the fishermen had also sought a change in the ban period, and all their requests were being perused. However, with the Central government recently issuing its notification announcing the ban in waters covering India’s Exclusive Economic Zone for both East and West Coasts for all coastal States, boat owners think their pleas are likely to remain unanswered. A former official of the department explained that the ban is usually imposed for conservation and effective management of fishery resources and also for sea safety reasons. Traditional non-motorised craft are usually exempted from the ban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-want-annual-fishing-ban-to-be-put-off-by-15-days/article34240906.ece
05 April 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Discounted cab rides on polling day||In collaboration with the Election Commission of India, Uber has announced concessions on its rides in Chennai, Tiruchirapalli and Coimbatore for the elderly (above 80 years of age) and persons with disabilities from their home to their respective polling stations on April 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/discounted-cab-rides-on-polling-day/article34240902.ece
05 April 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Durga Stalin||S. Vijay Kumar   On the last day of campaigning, Durga Stalin, wife of DMK president M.K. Stalin, offered prayers at Tirumala, the abode of Sri Venkateswara Swami, in Andhra Pradesh. Mrs. Stalin was accompanied by Nischitha Muppavarapu, member, Board of Trustees, Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/durga-stalin/article34240895.ece
05 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Even on the last day of campaigning, Kamal Haasan battles ‘outsider’ tag||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) president and candidate for Coimbatore South Kamal Haasan fought the ‘outsider’ tag unto the last hours of the campaign on Sunday. Accompanied by Agila Indiya Samathuva Makkal Katchi principal deputy general secretary and actor Raadhika Sarathkumar, Mr. Haasan campaigned at Amman Kulam, Kamarajapuram and Kotaimedu before winding up his campaign at Kembatty Colony. He said he chose to contest from Coimbatore South to demonstrate the fact that India is a plural society. “For me diversity and plurality are not mere words. I wanted to show them in deeds. That is why I chose to contest from here,” he said. Mr. Haasan said the MNM was the first party from Tamil Nadu to have filed a case in the Supreme Court against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Solutions to problems would have to be found through the legal means, not through violence, he said. At Kotaimedu, the MNM president said he wondered what impact outstation campaigners would have on voters when Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister campaigned in Coimbatore. “I also wondered what is the language he would use to reach out to voters. It was because they did not have this understanding, so that they flung stones,” he said. To those charging him with exaggerating the stone-throwing incident, he would like to say that even a bullet was small, and it was those small bullets that killed protesters at Thoothukudi. At other places, Mr. Haasan said he would remain engaged with the voters by opening offices at all 19 wards of the constituency. Ms. Raadhika said the source of all corruption could be traced to Gopalapuram [the place of residence in Chennai of former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi] as she was associated with those lived there. The MNM’s campaign, unlike others, was decent and honest and the parties in the alliance were proud of conducting a decent campaign, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/even-on-last-day-kamal-battles-outsider-tag/article34240910.ece
05 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||I will stop acting if it impedes my politics, says Kamal Haasan||Makkal Needhi Maiam president and Coimbatore South Assembly constituency candidate Kamal Haasan said on Sunday that if his acting were to impede his political journey, he would stop acting. At a press meet in Coimbatore he said he would complete the films he had committed to and earn more money so that he could continue working for the people. And, he wanted to earn because he did not want to be dependent on others. Justifying his decision to juggle film and politics for the present, Mr. Haasan said, “To those attempting to criticise me for me being an actor, I will only say that even after getting elected as MLA, MGR had acted in several movies. He did so because he needed the money for his politics and so do I.” Mr. Haasan claimed that he was spending his hard-earned money in politics and with so much honesty that a few Election Commission of India officials, whom he did not want to name, had appreciated him. ‘Threat to life’ Claiming to have received threats, he said they would not cow him down. “The serious threat is threat to life, something about which I am not concerned about. I want to leave a lasting impression and I am working towards that through politics. And, that politics is duty and not charity.” The MNM president, however, refused to elaborate on the nature of the threats or name those who had threatened him. “It will be wrong to allege such things without proof,” he said. Answering critics who had commented that he would leave Coimbatore after the election, Mr. Haasan said he wanted to change his address to Coimbatore. He was looking for a house and hoped to find one. After he decided to contest in the Coimbatore South Assembly constituency, he had had several rewarding experiences during campaigning that only reinforced his decision on his choice of the seat, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-will-stop-acting-if-it-impedes-my-politics-kamal-haasan/article34240942.ece
05 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||BJP candidate alleges unfair conduct by flying squad officer||BJP candidate for Coimbatore South Assembly constituency Vanathi Srinivasan had written to the Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo alleging excess by a flying squad officer. In her complaint, Ms. Srinivasan said the officer went ahead to recommend registration of a case against 12 of her supporters who were taking a break from campaigning on April 2. Belongings seized The officer had seized cash, credit card, vehicle and other belongings from them though the cash from all them amounted to less than Rs. 50,000. The officer went ahead and recommended registration of a case against the party cadre, which the Variety Hall Police did eventually, even though no goods for distribution or cash beyond the permitted limit was seized from them.  Transfer sought This had strengthened her suspicion whether the officer concerned had acted at the behest of those who were against her victory in the election and sought a transfer of the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-candidate-alleges-unfair-conduct-by-flying-squad-officer/article34240957.ece
05 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Elephant found dead near Mettupalayam||A male elephant was found dead within the Sirumugai forest range near Mettupalayam on Sunday. Forest Department officials said that a team detected foul smell emanating from Pudhukadu area while on a patrol duty in the Pethikuttain area on Saturday. The team could not proceed further as a herd of elephants were present in the location. Hence, the team returned to the spot in the early hours of Sunday, where they found the carcass of the tusker that was estimated to be between 15 and 20 years old. Autopsy of the carcass on Sunday revealed that the tusker did not have any external injuries. It is suspected to have died due to anaemia on Friday, according to the Forest Department officials. This is the sixth elephant within the Coimbatore Forest Division this year. Another elephant found dead in MTR buffer zone A 15-year-old male elephant was found dead in the Moyar Reserve Forest in Masinagudi range in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) buffer zone on Friday. A postmortem was conducted by the department on Saturday, who said that the animal seemed to have died from natural causes. Rajesh Kumar, veterinary assistant surgeon performed the postmortem in the presence of senior forest department officials on Saturday. During the procedure, it was noticed that the animal was in a “weak condition” due to an infection to its mouth. “No food material was found in the intestine,” officials said, adding that it seemed likely that the animal died due to weakness. Samples collected Samples from the animal’s organs and stomach have been collected for further analysis, officials said. It is not uncommon for elephants, especially weak elephants to die during the dry summer spell in the Nilgiris each year, forest department officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-found-dead-near-mettupalayam/article34240934.ece
05 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||IT raids not politically motivated, says Minister||Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani said the Income Tax raids across the State did not appear to be politically motivated. Addressing journalists on Sunday, he said that in the raids conducted across the State, DMK was getting affected as cash and documents were seized from them. No AIADMK cadre indulged in wrong-doing. Urging voters to compare the AIADMK’s governance track record with that of DMK, Mr. Velumani said his party’s track record was good because there was no kangaroo courts, no law and order issues and women felt safe. Likewise, in Coimbatore, the AIADMK government had built so many flyovers, bridges, upgraded the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, established six government arts and science colleges and a medical college each in Tirupur and the Nilgiris. The AIADMK had a farmer as Chief Minister in Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who had taken care of government school students’ interest by giving them internal reservation in medical colleges, he recalled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-raids-not-politically-motivated-says-minister/article34240959.ece
05 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK, DMK workers injured following clash||As the election campaign drew to a close on Sunday, a minor clash broke out between the AIADMK and DMK cadres at Karumbukkadai within city police limits, causing minor injuries to those on either side. According to police sources, hundreds of people gathered at a DMK campaign meeting at Karumbukkadai at around 6 p.m. At that time, the vehicle of AIADMK’s Thondamuthur candidate S.P. Velumani crossed the location, during which a section of the DMK cadre allegedly shouted slogans against the AIADMK. This resulted in a physical altercation that left a few of the cadres from both parties injured and they were rushed to CMCH for treatment. A verbal altercation also ensued on the hospital premises, sources said. Similarly, tension prevailed for some time at Vadavalli within Coimbatore North constituency as cadres of DMK and AIADMK conducted their final campaign at the same location at around 6 p.m. Workers of both the parties raised slogans against each other. The police intervened and held talks, following which the cadres dispersed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-dmk-workers-injured-following-clash/article34240955.ece
05 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Voter refuses cash, threatened||A voter near Podanur, who refused cash allegedly distributed for votes and recorded the incident of AIADMK men offering cash-for-vote, allegedly received a call from a BJP member threatening him not to share the video on social media platforms. Police said that the 31-year-old voter recorded the two AIADMK members offering him Rs. 1,000 per vote. He recorded it and forwarded the video to election officials. Based on his complaint, the Podanur police registered a case against six men. Two persons have been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/voter-refuses-cash-threatened/article34240947.ece
05 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Candidate releases manifesto||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam candidate for the Coimbatore North Assembly constituency, V.M. Shanmugasundaram, has released his manifesto offering solutions for problems faced by voters in the city’s added areas and apartment residents. If the DMK were to return to power, he would take up with the Municipal Administration Minister the issue of added area house owners not getting building plan approval for the construction of additional house because of the change in building plan approval rules, work to bring in amendments in the new combined building development rules to offer exemption to small commercial establishments from getting building completion certificate to avail of power connection, work to provide residential tariff for common facilities in apartments, and widen roads and flyovers to ease congestion, Mr. Shanmugasundaram added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/candidate-releases-manifesto/article34240943.ece
05 April 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Dakshina||V.S. Palaniappan   Posters of the BJP, welcoming Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, came in handy for the DMK alliance to find a reason to tell the electorate to shun the AIADMK-BJP alliance. The poster read “Welcome Yogi Adityanath to Dakshina Pradesh ”. The IT wing of the DMK immediately turned active, and social media platforms were agog with posts, calling on the electorate to shun the BJP, “as wanted to change the name of Tamil Nadu”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dakshina/article34240893.ece
05 April 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Arrested||The Coimbatore District Police arrested functionaries of the DMK and AIADMK for their alleged involvement in election-related cases on Saturday. The Pollachi East police arrested an AIADMK functionary named Harish. The Mettupalayam police arrested two functionaries each from the AIADMK (Noufal and Pradeepraj) and the DMK (Manoharan and Abbas). All the accused were remanded in judicial custody, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrested/article34240951.ece
05 April 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Election campaign ends on a high note in 3 districts||The curtains came down on the high voltage campaigning for the April 6 Assembly poll in Cuddalore, Villupuram and Kallakurichi districts on Sunday with parties making last ditch attempts to woo the electorate. An intense campaign was witnessed during the last few days amid trading of a series of barbs, charges and counter-charges by arch rivals AIADMK and DMK ahead of the poll. The rival fronts are locked in a fierce contest in most of the constituencies in the three districts. The electioneering reached its crescendo last week with national leaders, including Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J.P. Nadda, addressing meetings at Villupuram, Thittakudi (reserved) and Thirukoyilur assembly segments. The AIADMK campaign was led by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami while the DMK campaign was dominated by party president M.K. Stalin, Youth wing secretary Udayanithi Stalin and VCK president Thol. Thirumavalavan, who toured the districts. Candidates of both the DMK and the AIADMK and the DMDK crisscrossed the constituencies on the last day of the campaign. As many as 355 candidates are contesting in 20 Assembly segments in the three districts. Prominent contestants include Law Minister C. Ve. Shanmugam (Villupuram), Industries Minister M.C. Sampath (Cuddalore), former Ministers K. Ponmudi (Thirukoyilur) and M.R.K. Panneerselvam (Kurunjipadi), T. Velmurugan (Panruti) and DMDK treasurer Premalatha Vijayakant (Vriddhachalam).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/election-campaign-ends-on-a-high-note-in-3-districts/article34241305.ece
05 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Campaigning for Assembly polls ends||The intense three-week campaigning by the political parties for the Assembly elections ended at 7 p.m. on Sunday and the stage is now set for the polling on April 6. Though the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) came into force on February 26, the delay in formation of alliance and announcement of final candidates for the eight Assembly constituencies in the district left the candidates with less than three weeks to campaign in their respective constituencies. Only after the withdrawal of nominations ended on March 22, candidates stepped into intense campaigning to reach the voters. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami campaigned for six of the party candidates and two of its alliance partners -- BJP and Tamil Manila Congress (TMC) -- in the district. DMK president M.K. Stalin campaigned for five of the party candidates and three candidates of the alliance parties - - Indian National Congress, Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi and Communist Party of India -- in the district. BJP national president J.P. Nadda campaigned for the party’s Modakkurichi candidate C. Saraswathi at Sivagiri on April 3. Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan, AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran, Naam Tamilar Katchi founder Seeman, TMC president G.K. Vasan and DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin also canvassed for votes in the district. A total of 128 candidates are in the fray: Erode (East) – 14, Erode (West) - 15, Modakkurichi – 15, Perundurai – 25, Bhavani – 14, Anthiyur – 20, Gobichettipalayam – 19 and Bhavanisagar (Reserved) – six. In Salem, candidates conducted road shows in their respective constituencies and appealed the public for votes. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami finished his campaign at Edappadi bus stand by 7 p.m. Tiruchi N. Siva campaigned for DMK candidates R. Rajendran and Selathampatti Rajendran in different parts of the city. Mr.Siva charged that Tamil Nadu, which was in number 1 position in the country during Karunanidhi’s period, had now slipped to last position. He said that the contentious bills like the farm laws and CAA were passed in Parliament due to the AIADMK’s support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campaigning-for-assembly-polls-ends/article34241069.ece
05 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Create Bedagampana community and include in Scheduled Tribes list’||Members of Lingayat (Jangama) community, listed in the Backward Classes, who live in the hilly areas in the district, wanted a new community named Bedagampana to be created and included in the Scheduled Tribes list. Over 31,500 people reside in the hilly regions of Bargur, Kadambur and Talavadi depending on farming and rearing cattle and livestock. Belonging to the Bedagampana community, their ancestors lived in Srikalahasti in Andhra Pradesh over 600 years ago. “Since a king sought a bride in our community, our ancestors refused and moved to the hill areas in Talavadi, Bargur, Kadambur and Kollegal and M.M. Hills in Karnataka,” said T.P. Rayan, president of Malaival Bedagampana Lingayat Munnetra Nala Sangam at Thamaraikarai in Bargur Hills. “It is evident from the copper sword issued in 1246 by the King Veera Ballala of the Hoysala Empire that we belong to the Bedagampana community,” he added. Currently, 10,780 families comprising 53,900 people live in the hill areas of both Tamil Nadu and Karnataka with mother tongue as Kannada and second language as Tamil. “Crops are rain-fed and after harvesting most of the members work as labourers for six months in the plains,” said T.B. Murugan another member of the community. “Our livelihood did not improve for many generations”, he said and added that due to poor income most of the children could not continue higher studies. The literacy rate of the community is 0.52%, while a few had joined private companies.  Members said that though they belonged to the Bedagampana community, they were wrongly mentioned as Lingayat (Jangama) in the government orders issued in 1985 and 2009. “We have no relationship with the Lingayats. Bedagampana community should be created and included in the ST list,” said its secretary P. Veerabadran. He also wanted Kannada to be included as a subject in schools in the three hills, a nationalised bank branch in Bargur, concrete steps to protect Bargur cattle, creation of sports facilities at Osur and Devarmalai and steps to ensure that all the welfare schemes reached the community members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/create-bedagampana-community-and-include-in-scheduled-tribes-list/article34241066.ece
05 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||ST certificate for Malayali tribal community a long-pending demand||For 24-year-old S. Suresh of Kadambur, who works in a tea shop, his dream of pursuing his education after Plus-Two did not materialise as he was denied a ST community certificate for a mistake that he did not commit. About 32,500 Malayali tribal community people living in Kadambur Hills in Sathyamangalam Taluk and Bargur Hills in Anthiyur Taluk were categorised under Other Caste list, while their counterparts in Dharmapuri, Pudukottai, Tiruchi, Shevaroyan Hills in Salem and Kolli Hills in Namakkal were categorised under Scheduled Tribe. Hence, they are denied reservation in educational institutions, government jobs and also welfare measures provided by the government. When Coimbatore was bifurcated in 1979, Sathyamangalam was demarcated under Erode district. Anthiyur Taluk was formed in 2012 under Erode district. “But tribal people in the two hills were not notified, while tribes in other districts were notified as ST by the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Order, 1956,” said S. Mohan Kumar, District Coordinator, Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association. Based on the recommendations of the Tribal Research Centre in The Nilgiris, the State government had recommended the Central government to include the tribal community in Erode district in the ST list. But a Constitution (Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes), Orders (Amendment) Bill, 2016, was introduced by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs in Lok Sabha that amends the Malayali community as Malayali Gounder community as ST in Tamil Nadu. Since the bill lapsed, the Centre again asked the State to submit a recommendation, he added. After Plus Two, students have to seek admission in colleges in the plains, but were denied accommodation in hostels run for STs. M.K. Subramani (40), a first-generation graduate from Malliamman Durgham, a remote hamlet in Kadambur, said that in the absence of ST certificates, they cannot apply for government jobs and hence most of the youths become daily wagers. “We are fighting for three generations to get ST certificate, but nothing happened so far,” he said and added that they remain socially and economically backward in all these years. Inclusion in ST list can only be notified by the Parliament and the future of the tribes depends on how fast it is done, said Mr. Mohan Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/st-certificate-for-malayali-tribal-community-a-long-pending-demand/article34241075.ece
05 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Cash for votes: five held in Erode, one in Salem||Five persons, including two AIADMK functionaries, were arrested for distributing money to voters and Rs. 1.50 lakh was seized from them here on Sunday. Officials received information that money was being distributed to voters at Valayakarar Street in Erode (East) Assembly constituency and a flying squad team inspected the spot. They found five people distributing cash to voters. The team seized Rs. 1,50,060 from them. Erode Town police station was alerted and the police picked up the five. They were identified as two AIADMK functionaries and three from other alliance parties. After inquiries, they were arrested. IJK functionary arrested Meanwhile, a functionary of India Janayaka Katchi (IJK) was arrested near Attur in Salem for allegedly distributing cash for votes. According to officials, during vehicle check near Attur, a flying squad team checked the vehicle of IJK functionary Selvakumar. Officials found Rs. 3.9 lakh of cash in the vehicle and Selvakumar did not possess necessary documents, officials said. Based on complaint from officials, Attur Town police registered a case and arrested Selvakumar on charges of distributing cash for votes. In Coimbatore, police seized over Rs. 13,000 from a grocery store in Kuniamuthur after complaints from DMK members on alleged distribution of cash for voters late on Saturday. After conducting a search, the police team seized Rs. 13,160 unaccounted cash from R. Thangaraja (48), owner of the grocery store.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-for-votes-five-held-in-erode-one-in-salem/article34241076.ece
05 April 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Unaccounted cash seized so far||Election officials have so far seized unaccounted cash of Rs. 2.26 crore in all the eight Assembly constituencies in the district. Cash seizures in each constituency are: Erode (East) – Rs. 41.63 lakh, Erode (West) – Rs. 15.13 lakh, Modakkurichi – Rs. 24.28 lakh, Perundurai – Rs. 16.25 lakh, Bhavani - Rs. 21.06 lakh, Anthiyur – Rs. 14.58 lakh, Gobichettipalayam – Rs. 25.22 lakh and Bhavanisagar (Reserved) – Rs. 68.78 lakh. Thus, a sum of Rs. 2,26,97,238 was seized, while a sum of Rs. 1,46,32,260 was released so far after documents were produced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unaccounted-cash-seized-so-far/article34241070.ece
05 April 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Three postal ballot papers seized||An election flying squad seized 3,300 election pamphlets of the PMK and a few postal ballots from a campaign vehicle of the AIADMK at Moorarpalayam, near Kallakurichi, in the early hours of Sunday. According to sources, a team was conducting vehicle checks at Moorarpalayam when they noticed an SUV zipping towards Kallakurichi. The team, along with police personnel, barricaded the road following which the car driver parked the vehicle near a roadside tree. One of the occupants in the car fled the scene. The team searched the vehicle and found 3,300 pamphlets of the PMK and three postal ballot papers. Preliminary investigations revealed that the vehicle belonged to an AIADMK functionary in Sankarapuram. The flying squad team lodged a complaint with the Sankarapuram police. A case has been registered and further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-postal-ballot-papers-seized/article34241309.ece
05 April 2021||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Karaikal residents want railways to put off operation of special train||With surge in COVID-19 infection being reported across the country, the travelling public in the delta region are in a fix, unable to express their relief or anxiety over the decision of the railways to operate a special train service to Mumbai later this month after a year’s gap. The weekly train covering 1,627 km distance in a little over 33 hours used to be well-patronised until it was discontinued a year ago when the pandemic lockdown began. For people from Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and northern districts of Tamil Nadu, the train used to be the favourite mode of transport for visitors to Velankanni Shrine, Nagore Dargah and Tirunallar. “The pilgrim movement used to be conducive for our business. But now, under the prevailing circumstances, we would rather expect the railways to defer the operation of the train service by at least a month,” Muthiah, president of Karaikal Chamber of Commerce, said. There are apprehensions in various quarters that the infection will peak during the next one month, Mr. Muthiah said. Operation of the train does not seem feasible in any case since the Maharashtra government is going ahead with its lockdown plans, he pointed out. “No doubt, rail services need to be restored for rejuvenating the economy, but patronage for the Karaikal-Mumbai service at this juncture may not be on desired lines. The rate of infection in Karaikal is already on the rise, and the train service at this point of time may not augur well for containing the spread,” said V.R. Dhanaseelane, president of the Karaikal District Rail Users Welfare Association and Divisional Rail Users Consultative Committee Member .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karaikal-residents-want-railways-to-put-off-operation-of-special-train/article34241017.ece
05 April 2021||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu received more funds only after BJP came to power, says Nadda||Only after the BJP came to power in Centre, States like Tamil Nadu received more funds and projects, said the party’s national president J.P. Nadda here on Saturday. Speaking at an election rally here, seeking support for the party candidate H. Raja, he said that be it railways or four-lane road projects, building infrastructural facilities for ports, the Centre gave its approval without delay. Only in the last five to seven years, Tamil Nadu had been witnessing robust growth on the industrial and economic front. The defence corridor programme was not only innovative, but would also get indigenous products for the Indian Army. The Congress brought a bad image to the government because of corruption and maladministration. “I challenge the opposition parties to find a single corruption case against the Centre or the Prime Minister,” he said. The country was heading for a new high on many spheres. The Union budget focussed on agriculture and women empowerment. The combination of AIADMK and the BJP would only bring in more such welfare and development schemes to the State, Mr. Nadda said. The country was safe in the hands of Mr. Modi and for continuing the good works, the AIADMK should be given a thumping majority in the Assembly election. The DMK, he charged, was anti-people which was the reason why it could not come to power since 2011. The anti-Hindu sentiments had caused ripples among the DMK that the party president M.K. Stalin suddenly turned soft and was moving with ‘Vel’ (spear) after the BJP took it against the Karuppar Kootam, which criticised the kandashasti kavacham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-received-more-funds-only-after-bjp-came-to-power-says-nadda/article34241053.ece
05 April 2021||KOVILPATTI,TAMIL NADU||‘Back AMMK to revive Jayalalithaa’s rule’||Tamil Nadu voters should back the candidates of the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) to revive the rule of Jayalalithaa, general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran said on Sunday. Concluding his campaign in Kovilpatti, where is contesting, he said the revival of Jayalalithaa’s rule, the prime objective of the AMMK, could be done only if the party candidates were elected. He said a new district, with Kovilpatti as its headquarters, would be created if his party won. New industries that would not affect the environment and agriculture and units making cattle-feed, with the rain-fed crops grown in and around the town, would be established. Steps would be taken for getting the geographical indication tag for ‘Kadambur boli’ and ‘kaarasevu’, both snacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/back-ammk-to-revive-jayalalithaas-rule/article34240924.ece
05 April 2021||KOVILPATTI,TAMIL NADU||‘Back AMMK to revive Jayalalithaa’s rule in State’||Tamil Nadu voters should back candidates of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) to revive the rule of Jayalalithaa in the State, party general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran said on Sunday evening. Concluding his electioneering in Kovilpatti Assembly constituency, where he is contesting, Mr. Dhinakaran said revival of Jayalalithaa’s rule, which was the prime objective of AMMK, could be realised only if his party candidates were elected to the Assembly. Much of his campaign was, however, focussed on the constituency. Mr. Dhinakaran assured that a new district with Kovilpatti as its headquarters would be created, if his party won the Assembly election. New industries that would not affect environment, farming and units manufacturing cattle feed with the rain-fed crops being cultivated in and around Kovilpatti would be established. GI tag Steps would be taken to get GI tag for ‘Kadambur’ boli and ‘kaarasevu,’ he said. The AMMK leader said he would alleviate the decades-old drinking water crisis prevailing in the town by properly implementing Seevalaperi Drinking Water Scheme and constructing overhead tanks wherever needed. In rural areas, schemes would be implemented to treat and purify borewell water. The Government Hospital in Kovilpatti would get more doctors and state-of-the-art equipment. College for Kayathar Kayathar block would get a Government Arts and Science College and a polytechnic. The badly damaged roads would be re-laid and damaged cement roads would get a makeover with paver blocks. Mr. Dhinakaran said he would make efforts to install bronze statues of V.O. Chidambaram and Thirumalai Nayak at Kovilpatti. “If I am elected, Kovilpatti will be a self-sufficient segment in every aspect,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/back-ammk-to-revive-jayalalithaas-rule-in-state/article34241215.ece
05 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Dust settles on a promises-filled election campaign||Campaign for the upcoming Assembly elections in the 10 constituencies of the district came to an end on Sunday evening with candidates from all political parties and independents toiling hard in the heat and dust in their final bid to reach out to voters. Cooperation Minister and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam candidate for Madurai West Sellur K. Raju campaigned at Arapalayam, Kochadai and Jeeva Nagar on Sunday. Mr. Raju said that the completion of Mullaperiyar drinking water project would ensure that drinking water was available to all residents of Madurai city round-the-clock. “People will vote for AIADMK so that the State remains peaceful,” he said C. Vetrikumaran, a candidate of Naam Tamilar Katchi contesting in Madurai West constituency, campaigned in Madakulam and nearby areas on Sunday. Rejuvenation of Kiruthumal river and fulfilling the basic needs of the constituency were some of his promises. S. Ponnuthai, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) candidate for Tirupparankundram Assembly constituency, campaigned in Nagamalai Pudukottai and Avaniapuram. Ms. Ponnuthai said she would work towards expediting the construction of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIMMS) in Madurai and bring in more industries to the constituency. A jasmine perfume manufacturing factory would also be set up for the benefit of farmers, she said. Arts college Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam candidate for Madurai East constituency P. Moorthy, who campaigned in Othakadai on Sunday, said that he would work towards setting up a Government Arts College in the constituency. He said that providing clean drinking water and underground drainage system were other prominent areas that he would focus on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dust-settles-on-a-promises-filled-election-campaign/article34241220.ece
05 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Election campaign concludes in southern districts||The high voltage poll campaign in many southern districts came to an end at 7 p.m. on Sunday. During the campaign, leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, AICC former president Rahul Gandhi, Central leaders and regional heads led by AIADMK coordinator Panneerselvam, co-coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami, DMK president M K Stalin, MNM leader Kamal Hassan, Naam Tamilar Katchi leader Seeman, AMMK general secretary TTV Dhinakaran, MDMK general secretary Vaiko among others addressed election rallies in the southern districts. Apart from the by-poll for the Kanniyakumari Lok Sabha constituency, wherein the two national parties — BJP and the Congress — are testing their fortune, the AIADMK had given tickets to almost all its ministers and sitting MLAs. While the DMK had also fielded former ministers and district secretaries, a majority of the sitting MLAs are in the fray. The southern Tamil Nadu, which has 10 districts, has 58 Assembly constituencies. The DMK campaign managers were hopeful of repeating their 2019 Lok Sabha performances, wherein only the Theni Lok Sabha seat was won by the AIADMK. However, the AIADMK's poll campaign revolved around the achievements of the government and the recent waiver of farm loans and cooperative loans among others. The NTK's star campaigner Seeman attracted large turnout in Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga and Dindigul districts. Mr Dhinakaran, who himself is contesting from Kovilpatti Assembly Constituency, is sure to make a mark in all the southern districts with his candidates, who included allies from the Vijaykanth's DMDK. The Makkal Neethi Maiam led by actor-turned politician Kamal Hassan has fielded a good number of youngsters and women candidates in the fray. The Pudiya Tamilagam leader Dr K Krishnasamy is trying his luck from Ottapidaram Assembly Constituency. With the decibel levels coming to the bottom line on Sunday, there were allegations of heavy distribution of money for votes across southern districts that in Bodinayakkanur, the officials seized about Rs. 2.17 crore from a residence of an AIADMK functionary. In Ramanathapuram, the District Election Officer had told reporters a few days ago that out of Rs. 1 crore cash seized, close to Rs. 70 lakh was returned after due verification. In Sivaganga, the DRO K Latha and team seized Rs. 9.23 lakh from a person at Nattarasankottai on Sunday and deposited it in the treasury as there was no valid proof. There were similar seizures and calls in Dindigul district, wherein a flying squad team seized Rs. 8 lakh from Natham Assembly Constituency two days ago. In Theni district's Andipatti, Rs. 8.71 lakh from a dumper bin in Kullappagoundanpatti village. Enquiries revealed that the DMK men had left the cash (all in Rs. 500 denomination) and covers allegedly intended for distribution to the voters in the hamlet. The Uthamapalayam DSP Chinnakannu conducted an inquiry. While Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam is contesting from Bodinayakkanur, Ministers Dindigul Srinivasan, Sellur K Raju, R B Udayakumar, V M Rajalakshmi are contesting again from their hometown constituencies in southern districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/election-campaign-concludes-in-southern-districts/article34241057.ece
05 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Collector leads by example||At a time when there is fear and stigma associated with COVID-19 patients, Madurai Collector T. Anbalagan drove his car to take a COVID-19 positive Election Observer to Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) as other drivers refused to travel with the poll official due to fear of contracting the infection. Dharamveer Yadav, a police Election Observer of Madurai, tested positive for COVID-19. An official from the district administration said that Mr. Yadav had to travel to GRH on Saturday. However, the deputed drivers for the official refused to drive the car due to fear of contracting the virus. The Collector, who came to know about this, decided to take Mr. Yadav to the GRH. Mr. Anbalagan wore personal protective equipment and drove his personal car to drop Mr. Yadav at the GRH. “I have completed both the dosage of COVID-19 vaccination and wore a PPE as a protective measure. I have always felt it was important to help others, especially in case of an emergency,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-collector-leads-by-example/article34240961.ece
05 April 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||All-women polling booth to be set up||Election officials here are planning to have an all-women polling booth in each of the 10 Assembly constituencies of the district on April 6, the polling day. In the all-women booth, the polling officers, presiding officer, security personnel and the voters would be women. A total of 3,856 polling stations will be set up across the district on April 6. The public can cast their votes from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. The officials have identified 1,330 vulnerable polling stations in the district. Madurai West has the highest number - 257, followed by Tirupparankundram (246). Melur has the lowest number of vulnerable polling booths - 31. Officials will closely monitor these vulnerable booths using web cameras. There are 26,97,682 voters in the district. Madurai East constituency has the highest - 3,28,990. A press release from the Collector said that vehicles will be thoroughly checked at the check posts till the election day. Flying squads and static surveillance teams have stepped up their vigil. Thermal scanners and hand gloves will be provided at all the polling booths in the wake of surge in COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-women-polling-booths-to-be-set-up-in-madurai-district/article34241020.ece
05 April 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||AMMK candidate joins AIADMK||The Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) candidate for Senthamangalam constituency, P. Chandran, left the party and joined the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam on Saturday. Mr. Chandran joined AIADMK in the presence of Electricity Minister P. Thangamani at a campaign meeting in Thiruchengode. Mr. Chandran said that he left AIADMK due to personal differences and now has re-joined the party to ensure its victory in the upcoming elections and to prevent the DMK from coming to power. Mr. Chandran said that he would work for the victory of AIADMK candidate S. Chandran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ammk-candidate-joins-aiadmk/article34241078.ece
05 April 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Paid holiday on April 6||District Election Officer K. Megraj has advised businesses to declare a paid holiday on the polling day (April 6) to its employees to ensure 100% voting. Those violating the order would face stern action, and complaints on this regard could be reported at 1800-425-7021 and 9443529743, Mr. Megraj said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paid-holiday-on-april-6/article34241077.ece
05 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||10.04 lakh electors to exercise their franchise||An estimated 10.04 lakh electors, including 31,864 first-time voters, have been registered to exercise their franchise for the 15th general election to the Puducherry Legislative Assembly, across 30 constituencies on April 6. Chief Electoral Officer Shurbir Singh told a press conference on Sunday that the size of the electorate was 10,04,57 voters — 4,72,341 men, 5,31,383 women and 116 transgender. There are 11,915 PwD (Persons with Disability) voters and 17,041 voters above the age of 80. Polling will take place from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. The CEO appealed to all voters to participate in the electoral process. Overall, there are 324 candidates in the fray for the 30 seats. There are 70 candidates of recognised political parties, 254 Independents, three women candidates of recognised parties and 35 other women candidates. Law and order situation Towards ensuring an incident-free election, 40 companies of the Central Armed Police Forces are assisting local police (2,420 personnel), IRBn (901) and Home Guards (1490). While 27 CAPF companies are positioned in Puducherry, six are deployed in Karaikal, four in Yanam and three in Mahe. The Elections Department has marked for tighter security and CAPF deployment in 330 vulnerable polling stations (278 in Puducherry, 30 in Karaikal, 14 in Yanam and eight in Mahe) and 16 critical polling stations in Yanam. IP cameras would be installed outside polling stations to monitor critical events and web-casting done from all stations. Polling infrastructure The polling infrastructure comprises 1,558 control units, 1,677 ballot units and 1,558 VVPATs. Further, two ballot units each would be deployed in Ozhukarai and Nellithope, where 16 candidates are in the fray. Besides, one all-women polling station would be set up in each constituency and these would be governed by women. The CEO said EVM-VVPATs would be used in all polling stations in this election. There are 1,558 polling stations (952 main and 606 auxiliary), across 635 locations in the Union Territory. A team of 6,835 polling personnel, including 2,833 women officials and 719 Central Government employees will be on poll duty. Braille ballots are also available with presiding officers and visually challenged electors would be allowed to seek assistance of a companion to cast vote. In all, 78 voters have been provided with Braille EPIC. To date, 2,928 electors above 80 years, 1,546 PwDs, 34 COVID-affected persons, 68 essential service personnel and 8,117 polling staff have exercised franchise through postal ballots. Though voter slips have been distributed to electors, that alone would not suffice as identification to be able to cast their votes. Electors have to produce either EPIC or any one of the 11 alternate documents prescribed by the ECI at the time of voting.  As part of election expenditure monitoring, unaccounted cash, illicit liquor, precious metal and other items, worth Rs. 36 crore, had been seized so far and 88 FIRs filed. In addition to this, 128 cases have been charged relating to violation of model code of conduct. In all, 105 flying squads, 105 static surveillance teams, 26 rolling static surveillance units and 35 video surveillance teams had been constituted in the Union Territory. Besides, 35 check posts were set up. The ECI had appointed 10 General Observers, an equal number of Expenditure Observers, two Special Expenditure Observers, four Police Observers and one special Police Observer for the election. In addition, 230 micro observers were also appointed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1004-lakh-electors-to-exercise-their-franchise/article34241313.ece
05 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Seizure of gold coins in Karaikal reveals BJP’s use of money power’||Former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Sunday said the seizure of gold coins and money from supporters of a BJP candidate at Thirunallar constituency has revealed BJP’s plan to influence voters through their financial might. Addressing a press conference along with Member of Parliament V. Vaithilingam and AICC secretary Sanjay Dutt, the former Chief Minister said though the gold coins and money meant for distribution to voters were seized, no action had been initiated against the culprits. A resident of Thirunallar, P. Durai, had already written to the Election Commission of India, he said adding that “the BJP was daydreaming of coming to power using money power and official machinery.” No arrest had been made so far in connection with the seizure, he also added. Mr. Vaithilingam added that the election authorities in the Union Territory and the Income Tax Department have failed to prevent distribution of money though they have information about it. Several BJP leaders from Karnataka are camping in the Union Territory to influence voters, he added. “It is painful that the authorities concerned have failed to initiate action. The Congress, DMK, CPI and VCK candidates have complete faith in the power of people as they would give a befitting reply to the use of money power,” he said. Criticising AINRC chief N. Rangasamy for his remarks that a government in the Union Territory should have a good understanding with those in power at the Centre for getting works done, Mr. Narayanasamy said the understanding should not be at the cost of surrendering the rights of the Union Territory. “The AINRC was in power when BJP came to power in the Centre in 2014. Both parties shared a good relationship till the Assembly poll in 2016. Mr. Rangasamy should explain to the people whether he was able to get Statehood and waive the legacy loans. AINRC chief is repeating the same issues even now,” Mr. Narayanasamy said . AICC secretary Mr. Dutt said the Congress was getting “good response” from the public because the voters were aware of the obstructions created to the Congress government by the Centre using the previous Lt. Governor and then the toppling a democratically-elected government. “By toppling an elected government, the mandate of the people was humiliated by the BJP. Now the people are also aware of blatant misuse of official machinery by the BJP to get votes,, including obtaining Aadhar details of the public to influence voters,” he added. Despite the “obstructions” created by the Centre and the previous Lt. Governor, the Congress government was able to "perform" and won several awards from Central Ministries, including NITI Aayog, Mr. Dutt said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seizure-in-karaikal-reveals-bjps-use-of-money-power/article34240922.ece
05 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 227 new COVID-19 cases||Rs. Puducherry recorded 227 new COVID-19 cases as the active cases approached the 1,600 mark on Sunday. Puducherry accounted for 160 of the new cases, followed by Karaikal (63), Mahe (three) and Yanam (one). With the discharge of 109 patients in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 1,592 cases in the Union Territory. Of these, 404 were in hospitals and 1,188 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 9.39%, case fatality rare 1.61% and recovery rate 94.63%. To date, the Union Territory has registered 684 deaths, a cumulative total of 42,359 cases and 40,083 recoveries. Of an estimated 6.80 lakh tests, over 6.27 lakh were negative. Meanwhile, 560 healthcare workers, 2,465 frontline staff and 2,014 members of the public took their first shot of Covid vaccine. The total number of persons vaccinated in the Union Territory stood at 80,198 — 28,163 healthcare professionals, 16,261 frontline workers and 35,774 members of the public. Cuddalore district reported 79 fresh cases on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 25,959. While 25,268 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 292. In Villupuram district, 20 persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 15,609. Kallakurichi district reported seven positive cases, taking the overall count to 10,991.  The test positivity rate was 9.39%, case fatality rare 1.61% and recovery rate 94.63%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1600-active-cases-in-ut/article34241039.ece
05 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Lotus will bloom in U.T., says Nadda||BJP president J. P. Nadda on Sunday said the Lotus (party symbol) will bloom in the Union Territory after April 6 poll. “Thamarai Malarum,’’ he said while taking out a roadshow at Thirunallar constituency in Karaikal region. He was seeking votes for party candidate Rajasekharan. Mr. Nadda said the people of the Union Territory are looking for a change as the previous Congress government was “inefficient and corrupt.” “The government only indulged in corruption. All sections of the society were ignored by the previous Congress government,” the BJP president said. Mr. Nadda said when he was the Union Health Minister, the Centre had sanctioned a branch of JIPMER at Karaikal. The progress of construction of the hospital was delayed as the Congress government in the Union Territory did not cooperate with the Centre, he said. Catering to the presence of a large number of fishermen community in Karaikal, the BJP president said after Narendra Modi took over as the Prime Minister, incidents of firing by Sri Lankan Navy against fishermen from this region had come down. The arrested fishermen by Sri Lankan authorities were released immediately unlike during the Congress regime, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lotus-will-bloom-in-ut-says-nadda/article34241311.ece
05 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Cadres face-off on last day of campaign in U.T.||Rallies criss-crossed the city as candidates reached out to voters in their constituencies one last time before campaigning for the April 6 Assembly poll drew to a close at 7 p.m. on Sunday. A total of 324 candidates are contesting in 30 constituencies. In most constituencies, the fight is primarily between the rival fronts — the Congress-led Secular Democratic Progressive Alliance (DMK, Left and VCK) and the AINRC-led NDA (BJP, AIADMK and PMK). However, there are a couple of seats such as Muthialpet and Thirubhuvanai, where strong Independents could play a decisive role in the outcome. A host of smaller parties such as Naam Tamilar Katchi, Makkal Needhi Maiam, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam and BSP and several Independents will also vie for a share of the votes on polling day. In the final hours of campaigning, rallies of rival parties passed each other in Muthialpet — AIADMK’s Vaiyyapuri Manikandan and Senthil Kumaran of the Congress. Cadres from the rival parties waved at each other as they passed each other. AINRC chief and former Chief Minister N. Rangasamy campaigned in Villianur for party candidate S. V. Sugumaran, in Bahour for N. Dhanavelou and in Embalam for Lakshmikanthan. Rajeev Chandrasekar, BJP MP, and Nirmal Kumar Surana, BJP in-charge for Puducherry, who had been campaigning for the candidates, issued an appeal to reject the “corruption-ridden” Congress-DMK front and choose the NDA that stood for inclusive development. Congress-DMK-Left leaders also launched a last-minute effort to convince voters to return the alliance to power. The Congress was highlighting the “fulfilled promises” of the government in spite of the “hostile attitude of then Lt. Governor and the Centre” alongside the “dangers” to the identity of Puducherry from choosing the NDA. Following CPI general secretary D. Raja campaigning for the party’s Thattanchavady candidate, Sethuselvam, on Saturday, CPI leader Nara Kalainathan and CPM leader R. Rajangam joined former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy and V. Vaithilingam to canvass votes in Kamaraj Nagar, where former Minister Shahjahan is pitted against the BJP’s A. John Kumar. The enclaves of Karaikal, Yanam and Mahe also witnessed rallies in the final hours of campaigning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cadres-face-off-on-last-day-of-campaign-in-ut/article34241023.ece
05 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Precautions in place in polling booths’||A number of safety precautions will be in place across polling stations on April 6. As per the ECI guidelines, the number of electors allowed per polling station has been restricted to 1,000. All polling stations will be sanitised, starting Sunday. All electors will wear face mask before entry. They will be subjected to thermal scanning and provided with one glove to press the button. Electors also have to maintain social distancing at the station. Arrangements are in place for safe disposal of Covid protective materials. All stations have been provided with assured minimum facilities. Wheelchairs will be provided in all stations to assist PwDs and volunteers will be available to provide transportation. Voter Help Desks will be in place under BLOs to guide electors in locating their names and polling station. Besides, the ECI has restricted number of counting tables to seven per hall at counting centres. The counting centres in Puducherry are the Women’s Polytechnic College, Lawspet (9 constituencies), Motilal Nehru Government Polytechnic College (9 ) and Tagore Arts and Science College (5 ). Other centres are the PG Centre Arignar Anna Government Arts and Science College in Karaikal, Jawaharlal Nehru GHSS in Mahe and Conference Hall, Mini Civil Station in Yanam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/precautions-in-place-in-polling-booths/article34241314.ece
05 April 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Withdraw Section 144’||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has urged the District Electoral Officer-cum-District Collector to withdraw the order enforcing Section 144 of the Indian Penal Code in the Union Territory. Addressing a press conference on Sunday night, CPI (M) secretary R. Rajangam said the Madras High Court on Sunday evening, while hearing a petition filed by the party against the imposition of Section 144, had expressed concern over the move. Mr. Rajangam said in the light of the observations made by the court, Section 144 should be lifted immediately in the Union Territory. “The move to impose Section 144 will affect the polling percentage. We have our apprehensions on the decision to impose the section. The restrictions will be used by the Bharatiya Janta Party for a certain purpose,” the party secretary added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/withdraw-section-144/article34240962.ece
05 April 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Rajapalayam is a tough turf for Minister Rajenthra Bhalaji||A serene constituency Rajapalayam Assembly seat has been witnessing hustle and bustle of political activity after Minister for Milk and Dairy Development, K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, decided to contest from here. A two-time MLA and resident of Sivakasi Assembly Constituency, Mr. Bhalaji claimed that he switched the constituency based on requests from local people. However, his political opponents differ from him. “He has run away from Sivakasi after being MLA and Minister for 10 years with fear of defeat,” said his former party colleague and Sattur MLA, M.S.R. Rajavarman. The Congress MP, B. Manickam Tagore, said that the Minister was chased away by the people of Sivakasi. However, without wasting time, Mr. Bhalaji has been into a whirlwind campaign in the constituency claiming credit for all the development works that have come to Rajapalayam AC in the last few years. “When AIADMK is power, how come the DMK MLA, S. Thangapandian could bring development works. He is trying to usurping the credit from me,” Mr. Bhalaji has been telling the voters. He says that his efforts brought Tamirabharani drinking water scheme, underground drainage and road over bridge on Vembakottai road, all under execution. “How will the people of Rajapalayam believe in his words, when Mr. Bhalaji has failed to execute two ROBs (sanctioned long back) in his own constituency where he was an MLA for two terms,” asked Mr. Thangapandian who is seeking a re-election for second term. The war of words with political overtones has taken away the focus of poll campaign from the development point of view of the constituency comprising Rajapalayam Town, Rajapalayam and parts of Srivilliputtur panchayat unions and Seithur and Chettiyarpatti Town panchayats. The sad part of their claims is that all the three development works are not progressing well. They have brought more pain than intended benefits to the people. “All three works that started in quick successions three years back, remain incomplete due to administrative flaws and lack of proper planning,” complained CPI (M) town secretary, B. Mariappan. The entire town is facing lot of dust, left with unmotorable roads leading to accidents and traffic jams. The promise of providing a by-pass road to free the arterial roads in the town from container lorries from and to Kerala has been a non-starter for 10 years. Powerlooms and surgical cotton mills are major employers. But, increasing price of yarn is adversely impacting them. Farmers here have been seeking permanent solutions to prevent wild animals attack on their farms along the Western Ghats. Cane farmers are disappointed as State Government’s intervention failed to get them crores of rupees of arrears due for them from a private sugar mill. Mangoes grown in plenty in the constituency were yet to get a cold storage units being talked about for years. Almost all the candidates have come up with identical manifestos like a new Government Arts and Science College, by-pass road and upgrading the Government hospital as headquarters hospital. While Mr. Bhalaji believes that Rajapalayam being an AIADMK bastion will help for his third consecutive victory in Assembly polls, Mr. Thangapandian pins his hope on his “local man” image, distribution of MLA salary among the needy every month and DMK’s coalition strength will see him through for second time. K. Kalimuthu of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, P. Dhanushokodi of Puthiya Tamilagam could also eat into traditional vote base (Mukkulathors and Scheduled Caste voters respectively) of the ruling party. It is to be seen whether voters’ mood sync with the prediction of a Tiruvannamalai godman who said that constituency whose name starts with “Ra” could bring Mr. Bhalaji success again. A total of 14 candidates, including S. Vivekanandhan of Makkal Needhi Maiam, I. Jeyaprakash of Bahujan Dravida Party, are in the fray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajapalayam-is-a-tough-turf-for-minister-rajenthra-bhalaji/article34241061.ece
05 April 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Fishermen detained abroad returned home safely only in Modi's regime’||Union Minister for Fishing, Animal Husbandry and Dairy, Giriraj Singh, on Sunday said that about 2000 fishermen, who were held in various countries for alleged violations, were safely brought back home in the last seven years. The minister, who was in the coastal district, addressed sea-weed cultivators, Self-Help-Groups and fishermen, told reporters, after a meeting with AIADMK senior leader Anwar Rajhaa, that the Centre did its best for the fishermen as far as they were within the country. For instance, the Centre had enhanced the subsidy and loan component for construction of deep sea fishing vessels to Rs. 80 lakh. The fishermen delegation appealed to enhance it further as the costs had escalated. However, when issues related to detention of Indian fishermen in Iran or Sri Lanka or by any other country, the diplomatic channels had to be opened up and various ministries and officials had to be engaged. Assuring that the Centre would positively look into the grievances of the fishermen from Rameswaram, Pamban and Thangachimadam on compensation for their mechanised boats, which were damaged in the recent cyclone/flood, the Union minister said that instead of crossing the IMBL, the fishermen should be encouraged deep sea fishing. On the lines of smart city, the Union government had been promoting smart villages, wherein the fisherfolks' hamlets could be chosen and basic amenities provided for the welfare of the population. With premier research institutes such as CMFRI, the government was determined to take the benefits of technology from the lab to the beneficiaries. By creating awareness programmes through the academic interface, the fishermen would benefit. The recent programmes on export opportunities had come as an eye opener as the sector was poised for huge exports from the fishing sector. Alliance For Release of Innocent Fishermen Trust founder U Arulanandam in a memorandum submitted to the Union Minister said that the deep sea fishing was launched in Mandapam in September 2017 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Tamil Nadu Fisheries Department had built 30 deep sea fishing vessels, which were not sufficient for fishermen from Pudukottai, Nagapattinam and Ramanathapuram. The funds earmarked for building each vessel should be enhanced from the present Rs. 80 lakh. The memorandum also appealed to the Centre to encourage fishermen to use drift nets in Palk Straits and thus discourage bottom trawling method . By educating the fishermen, the marine resources and eco-system shall be protected and remain safe. He urged the Union government to find a permanent solution to the Sri Lankan Navy personnel detaining the Tamil fishermen, which would give a fillip to the fishermen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-detained-abroad-returned-home-safely-only-in-modis-regime/article34241059.ece
05 April 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami sharpens attack on DMK||On the final day of the campaign for the Assembly election, AIADMK co-coordinator and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami sharpened his attack on the DMK, accusing it of disrespecting women and motherhood. Winding up his campaign at his Edappadi constituency, he said the DMK was the only party which would hurt the sentiments of others with harsh words, and urged the people to teach it a lesson. Maintaining that he was hurt by the comments of DMK [leader A. Raja], he said that if they spoke about the Chief Minister’s mother “in such a low manner”, what would be the condition of the common man. He said Mr. Stalin did not have the intention to condemn the remarks. Even his father M. Karunanidhi had made derogatory remarks against former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, he said. Mr. Palaniswami said that if the DMK returned to power, it would not let women live peacefully, and called for its defeat. He said the people should make it realise that those who spoke ill of women would suffer such punishment. Slams Udhayanidhi The Chief Minister disapproved of the campaign by DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin and said Mr. Udhayanidhi’s age was his political experience. Referring to Mr. Stalin’s statement that he would lose his deposit in Edappadi, he said the DMK had indeed lost its deposit in the constituency in the past. He highlighted the schemes implemented by his government to counter Mr. Stalin’s charge that only announcements were being made and nothing was being implemented. Mr. Palaniswami pointed out that he announced the Mettur surplus water scheme, laid the foundation and inaugurated the first phase. Mr. Palaniswami said the AIADMK-led alliance was the winning alliance and, pointing to the crowd, he said they were the candidates here. ‘The evil force’ In a joint statement issued in Chennai, Mr. Palaniswami and AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam said the AIADMK government would save the people and women from the evil force of the DMK, “like how Hanuman saved Sita from Ravan [In the Ramayana, Hanuman was sent to locate Sita. Later, Lord Ram fought a battle to save her].” They said the State had been peaceful and on the path of development since 2011. The sole intention of founding the AIADMK was to defeat the “evil force” of the DMK, they contended, claiming that that unlike the DMK, the AIADMK cared for all religions equally and treated women as mothers and sisters and even worshipped them. “But the DMK differentiates between religion. They insult Hindu gods. They degrade women who are supposed to be worshipped. They intend to disturb the peace in Tamil Nadu. They are attempting to use minorities for the sake of elections and votes. They are selfish,” the leaders alleged. Claiming that the AIADMK would ensure that the property of the people would not be taken over by the DMK, they said, “This election is a war between justice and injustice.” They added, “We should stop the DMK from rising.” The AIADMK leaders called upon party agents to remain vigilant on the day of polling as well as on the day of counting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-sharpens-attack-on-dmk-on-last-day/article34240908.ece
05 April 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem district sees 64 new cases||Sixty-four persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Salem on Sunday. As per bulletin, 59 cases were indigenous. Namakkal district reported 33 new cases. Fifteen persons had returned from Erode, Salem, Coimbatore, Ariyalur, Chennai and Maharashtra. Krishnagiri district reported 43cases, all indigenous, and Dharmapuri district 12 new cases. Erode district reported 41 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 15,501. While 14 persons were discharged, 249 persons are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-district-sees-64-new-cases/article34241071.ece
05 April 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Tenkasi’s final effort to encourage 100% voting||The district administration has come out with a riveting video that lucidly tells the voters about the efforts taken at every level by all stakeholders to ensure seamless voting in the Assembly election on April 6. Right from the preparations set in motion by the district administration immediately after the formal notification by the Election Commission of India to the arrangements made in the booths to receive the voters with physical disability, the noble effort, christened ‘Celebrate Democracy’, encourages every voter to come to the polling station without fail on April 6 to cast the vote. It’s being shared with the Tenkasi voters through social media. The 2.46 minute-video starts with Collector G.S. Sameeran and Superintendent of Police Suguna Singh and other senior officials of the district discussing the arrangements to be made for the hassle-free polling. The presentation also gives the statistics on the number of voters, booths, number of police, revenue, public health and polling personnel to be involved in this democratic exercise. The district administration’s efforts in creating awareness among the voters for cent per cent voting such as drawing massive rangoli, ‘karagaattam’, silambam and ‘thappattam’ by women etc. portray the measures taken by the official machinery to woo the electorate towards their polling station on April 6. Even as the Media Certification and Monitoring Committee monitors the news and advertisements relating to election, the 24X7 election control room based in the Collectorate attends the poll-related complaints from the public and the political parties and remotely watches the vehicle check being conducted across the district and also on the inter-State border. “The special video helpline centre for helping the differently abled voters is the highlight of this effort as it clearly explains to the target group including the hearing impaired voters. With a sign language expert, we clarified the doubts of hearing-impaired voters,” says Dr. Sameeran. The video shows the efforts made by the police and the paramilitary forces to conduct flag marches across the district every day to reassure the voters and encourage them to come to the polling station without fear. The laudable aspect is that the postal ballot facility offered to the voters in quarantine, people with physical disability and elderly electorate even in the remote areas of the district including the hilly regions. “After vaccinating the polling personnel, we’ve kept ready the COVID-19 kit in all the polling stations. Wheelchairs will receive the aged voters and the electorate with disabilities. So, we’re ready to celebrate the democracy with every voter’s active participation,” says Dr. Sameeran.  The video shows efforts made by the police and paramilitary forces to take out flag marches||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-effort-to-encourage-100-voting/article34241222.ece
05 April 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Mules to ferry poll materials in Theni||A total of 7,492 poll staff would be deployed on poll duty across 1561 polling stations in which about 11.25 lakh electorate would cast their votes on April 6, said District Election Officer-cum-Collector H Krishnanunni here on Sunday. The district, which has four Assembly Constituencies - Bodi, Periakulam, Cumbum and Andipatti, has 23 polling stations situated on the hilly terrain - Bodi (9) and Andipatti (14). The District Election Officer, after reviewing the arrangements at a meeting, said that mules would be used to ferry the poll materials to the hill stations including Ooradi, Oothukaadu and Central Station respectively. All the materials with the polling staff would leave for the respective polling stations from 8 a.m. onwards on Monday. In view of the covid-19 pandemic guidelines, 3122 volunteers and 88 health inspectors would be engaged in checking the body temperature of the electorate visiting the polling stations and providing them with sanitizers and gloves. From the security point of view, the police have identified 271 polling stations as vulnerable and some among them as critical. Hence, more strength would be deployed and also web cameras will also be there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mules-to-ferry-poll-materials-in-theni/article34241019.ece
05 April 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Geared to hold polls peacefully’||The official machinery is fully geared to conduct the polling on April 6 in a peaceful manner, said District Election Officer K Senthil Raj here on Sunday. The DEO, who inspected the security arrangements being done at the counting centre - Government Engineering College campus, told reporters that the ballot boxes from all the six Assembly Constituencies would be kept in individual rooms in the presence of the designated agents of the respective candidates after the polling was completed on Tuesday 7 p.m. The security arrangements would be fool-proof that 75 CCTV cameras would be closely monitoring the movements of the entire campus. While the three-tier security would be in the order of Central forces, followed by the TN police and on the outer ring the agents of the candidates can keep an eye on the rooms from a CCTV, the DEO, SP and Observers would also be inspecting at periodic intervals as per the Election Commission of India's guidelines, Dr Senthil Raj said. He said that about 20 % of the ballot boxes/EVMs would be kept on reserve and would be moved to any polling station, in the event of any error that may arise from the machines. The DEO clarified that the poll staffs would be reaching the respective stations latest by Monday and take charge of the functional responsibilities. The ballot boxes, EVMs, VVPAT, indelible ink, gloves for the voters, thermal scanner/gun and sanitizers would be transported to the respective stations through 158 mini-lorries under police security. To a query on those with ailments such as fever or who had recently recovered from COVID-19 et al, he said that they would be permitted between 6 p.m. and 7 p.m. The DEO said that in all, 20000 staff including police and Central forces, Home Guards, Ex-servicemen and among others would be deployed. Out of 2097 polling stations, 302 were identified as vulnerable and five critical. Hence, web-cameras and micro-observers would be deputed to these stations. The district has six Assembly Constituencies. In Thoothukudi and Kovilpatti, 26 candidates are in fray, in Srivaikundam: 21, Ottapidaram: 17, Vilathikulam and Tiruchendur: 15 each. A total of 120 candidates are in the race for six MLA posts and 14.87 lakh electorate would be exercising their votes. He appealed to all the stakeholders to cooperate with the official machinery for a peaceful conduct of the exercise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/geared-to-hold-polls-peacefully/article34241357.ece
05 April 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Independent candidate ensures continued police protection for aged mother||V. Annalakshmi, an independent contesting from Srirangam Assembly constituency petitioned Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, on Sunday night seeking re-deployment of police personnel for her aged mother residing alone at Muthalaipatti village. Annalakshmi's father Veeramalai and brother Nallathambi were murdered by a gang after they fought against encroachments in water bodies in July 2019. In her petition, Annalakshmi said police protection round-the-clock was being given to her since August 2019 at her residence in Inampuliyur in Tiruchi district and to her mother's house at Muthalaipatti in Karur district. Her mother was left alone at Muthalaipatti after police personnel deployed at her residence for protection left on Sunday evening. Fearing threat to her mother’s life, Ms. Annalakshmi submitted the petition to DIG Annie Vijaya, and refused to leave until follow-up action was taken. She left in the late hours after confirmation of restoration of police protection to her mother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/independent-candidate-ensures-continued-police-protection-for-aged-mother/article34241018.ece
05 April 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami should be given the mandate again: Anbumani||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami should be voted in again for the sole reason that he has declared the Cauvery delta region a protected special agricultural zone and notified it in the gazette, PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss said on Sunday. Tamil Nadu has got the best Chief Minister in Mr. Palaniswami to protect agriculture, he said, claiming that the farmers were happy under his government. Campaigning at Nannilam in Tiruvarur district and Sozhapuram near Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district, Dr. Anbumani said he was the first to demand that the Cauvery delta region be declared a protected agricultural zone and a law be enacted for this purpose. He said he had visited various villages emphasising the need to bring in legislation and put forth the demand to the Chief Minister. The DMK had mortgaged Tamil Nadu’s right to the Cauvery water, fearing the outcome of the Sarkaria Commission. It remained silent when dams were being constructed in Karnataka, he said, debunking DMK president M.K. Stalin’s remarks on the issue. Dr. Anbumani said it was Mr. Stalin who had signed a memorandum of agreement for the methane project in the Cauvery delta region. The DMK had also betrayed the State on the Katchatheevu issue. It was the DMK and the Congress that had introduced NEET, and Mr. Stalin’s statement that his party would oppose NEET must not be believed, he said. He said there was greater awareness among the electorate now and the DMK could not fool the people as it had been doing so far. Former Union Minister and DMK propaganda secretary A. Raja’s derogatory remarks against the Chief Minister’s mother was proof that the party did not respect women and motherhood. Mr. Stalin did not even condemn the remarks, he said. Dr. Anbumani said Mr. Palaniswami had created a 10.5% quota for the Vanniyars in education and employment within the reservation for the Most Backward Classes and De-notified Communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palaniswami-should-be-given-the-mandate-again-anbumani/article34240936.ece
05 April 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||GIS-based map to locate polling booths in Tirunelveli||District Collector and District Election Officer V. Vishnu released the GIS-based polling booths map here on Sunday which will come in handy for the polling personnel and the voters to locate and reach their polling stations with ease. Releasing the facility, Mr. Vishnu said the polling personnel could download it by scanning the QR code or visitinghttps://tirunelvelielections. into reach the polling station. Moreover, a handbook for the voters has also been annexed to this facility, Mr. Vishnu said. “We are taking all these efforts to ensure cent per cent polling and hence the voters should help us achieve this goal,” the Collector said. District Revenue Officer A. Perumal, National Informatics Centre officials S. Devarajan and P. Arumuga Nainar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gis-based-map-to-locate-polling-booths-in-tirunelveli/article34241350.ece
05 April 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Electioneering concludes||The brief but intense electioneering for the Assembly polls came to an end on Sunday evening as the electorate will cast their votes to elect the new Assembly on Tuesday (April 6). Though the electioneering was so animated with the visit of the political leaders, no untoward incident was reported so far in any part of Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts. The tone for the electioneering was set by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who started his 3-day roadshow in all these four districts from Thoothukudi on February 27. Besides addressing the voters from his campaign vehicle, the young leader met the advocates, saltpan workers, academicians, beedi workers and self-help group members, small and marginal businessmen and the students. The leaders’ casual approach with the participants of these meetings did have indelible impact on them. Top leaders and star campaigners of all political parties – right from Prime Minster Narendra Modi to Tamil Maanila Congress president G.K. Vasan – canvassed votes for their candidates and the contestants of alliance parties fielded in the Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts. Both Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and DMK president M.K. Stalin visited the southern districts twice for electioneering in the southern districts as part of their crisscross election campaign. Mr. Modi, in a bid to woo the Christian voters of Kanniyakumari district during his electioneering in the southernmost tip of the country, made a special mention about Good Friday and recalled the services of sacrifices of Jesus Christ. Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who visited Tirunelveli on Saturday, targeted the Congress and the DMK of having nurtured only family rule all these years while ignoring the welfare of the country. While all the nominations of major political parties were accepted, the rejection of nomination by Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam candidate for Tirunelveli constituency Balakrishnan alias Paul Kannan triggered ripples in the political circles. It was expected that Mr. Paul Kannan would split sizable number of votes of the AIADMK and the votes of Thevar and Yadhava communities to spoil the party of BJP candidate for this segment Nainar Nagenthran, state vice-president of the national party. However, his nomination was rejected during scrutiny. The reason was that the electoral roll part number mentioned for two of the ten voters proposed Mr. Paul Kannan had been erroneously mentioned. Though the AMMK men gathered at the Returning Officer’s Office till 10 p.m. on the day of scrutiny and the party’s advocates exerted pressure on Returning Officer Sivakrishnamurthy with some clarifications and explanations, there was no change in the decision of rejecting the nomination, which brightened the poll prospects of Mr. Nagenthran, who is giving a tough competition to DMK candidate and sitting MLA A.L.S. Lakshmanan. After targeting the AIADMK during his election campaign in Thoothukudi, T.T.V. Dhinakaran of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhgam, who is contesting in Kovilpatti Assembly constituency to give sleepless nights for sitting MLA and ruling party candidate for this town Kadambur C. Raju, squarely targeted the DMK while addressing the voters during his electioneering in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts. Thoothukudi district’s Kovilpatti segment is witnessing intense tri-corner contest among Mr. Dhinakaran, Mr. Raju and CPI (M)’s K. Srinivasan. While Mr. Raju is harping on his “achievements”, Mr. Dhinakaran sharp criticism of the ruling party and its failures made the sitting MLAs election campaign tough. After a visibly disturbed Mr. Raju allegedly verbally abused a flying squad team when his vehicle was checked under Naalaattinpudhur police station limits and a case was registered subsequently based on the complaint preferred by the flying squad team leader. And, the Minister had to approach the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court to get anticipatory bail. Minister for Adi Dravida Welfare and ruling party’s candidate for Sankarankovil (Reserved) constituency V.M. Rajalakshmi and AIADMK candidate for Vasudevanallur (Reserved) segment A. Manoharan had to face stiff resistance from the voters in several areas where Thevar community voters live in large number, who objected to the internal reservation given to Vanniyar community. They could not even enter the villages housing Thevar community voters. The social media post on the postal ballot cast by teacher Krishnaveni of Tenkasi district led to the arrest of her husband Ganesa Pandian and one Senthil Kumar who posted it on the social media after another woman teacher was wrongly dragged into this episode. While the District Electoral Officers constantly conducted poll awareness campaigns in their respective areas, the police regularly conducted marches in all the police station limits to tell the voters that there was no need for fear and panic as the police stationed in their area would ensure their safety during the election. Apart from the Deputy Superintendents of the sub-divisions, the Superintendents of Police and the Central Armed Paramilitary Force personnel too participated in these marches which meant a lot for the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/electioneering-concludes/article34241355.ece
05 April 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Three new bird species spotted||As the migratory birds that arrived at Nanjarayan Tank, near Tiruppur, have begun to depart, birdwatchers noted that three new bird species were spotted purportedly for the first time during the migratory season. According to president of Nature Society of Tiruppur K. Ravindran, a Pacific golden plover ( Pluvialis fulva ) was spotted by his team of birdwatchers on March 27. With its breeding habitat at Arctic Tundra extending from Alaska in the U.S. to Russia, the bird usually migrates during winter to South Asia and has been spotted for the first time at Nanjarayan Tank in recent years, he said. Prior to this, the team spotted gadwall ( Mareca strepera ) in February and a flock of ruddy shelducks ( Tadorna ferruginea ) in November 2020 for the first time, he said. The migratory birds will arrive from various parts of the world to the tank from the first week of October and depart by end of March the next year. Mr. Ravindran said that the visibility was better during this season as the water levels were relatively lower when compared to the previous years, making it easier to spot the birds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-new-bird-species-spotted/article34240953.ece
05 April 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Campaigning concludes peacefully in Virudhunagar||Campaigning in a multi-corner contest in all seven Assembly constituencies in Virudhunagar though was fought with all intensity by political parties, it went off peacefully in Virudhunagar district. While most of the local leaders had confined themselves to their respective constituencies for campaigning, only handful number of political leaders, including Chief Minister, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, DMK president, M.K. Stalin, were the prominent leaders who had sought votes for their party and alliance party candidates. Among other leaders were K. Balakrishnan (CPI-M), Mutharasan (CPI), Kanimozhi (DMK) Vaiko (MDMK), Kamal Haasan (Makkal Needhi Maiam) T.T V. Dhinarakarn (AMMK) and Seeman (Naam Tamilar Katchi) and B. Manickam Tagore (Congress). Among leaders from outside the State was Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister, Yogi Adityanath, Union Minister of State, V.K. Singh, Congress leaders, M. Veerappa Moily and Sanjay Dutt, campaigned in the district. A total of 149 candidates are in fray in the seven constituencies. However, the Congress candidate, P.S.W. Madhava Rao, could not campaign for the last two weeks after he was infected with COVID. Amidst increased number of complaints of money distribution received at the Election Control Room, the officials had seized Rs. 14.35 lakh from 18 places in the last two days Out of this money, Rs. 3.70 lakh that was seized from a house in Tiruchuli is under investigation as the owner has claimed that he did not belong to any party. The remaining money has been seized from cadres of political parties while they were distributing cash for votes. This included All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam and Congress. The police have registered cases against the cadres for money distribution and arrested them. A total of 149 candidates are in fray in the seven constituencies whose electoral fate will be decided by 16.68 lakh voters in the district. All the candidates resorted to longer hours of campaigning by vehicles on the last day. Virudhunagar Collector and District Election Officer, R. Kannan, said that following complaints of money distribution 10 additional flying squads had been deployed in each of the seven Assembly constituencies. He said that all poll materials were ready and dispatch will begin on Monday morning. Special teams will take the materials, along with stationery goods, to the 2,370 polling booths. “The issue of non distribution of voter slips has been resolved after there were some problems in printing. Distribution has resumed on Sunday and it would be completed by Monday,” he added. He said that the officials were fully geared up to conduct of the polling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campaigning-concludes-peacefully-in-virudhunagar/article34241054.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||It is over to the voters now as campaigns ends in Tiruchi||Candidates were entirely engrossed in their campaign for the Assembly election as the deadline — Sunday evening — got closer. With the Election Commission extending the deadline for the campaign from 5 p.m to 7 p.m on the last day of the campaign, candidates of recognised and registered parties and independents made use of the opportunity to canvass votes in the evening. After the sweltering heat of the last three weeks, they could conclude their campaign in a relaxed atmosphere. Until the 2019 parliamentary elections, political parties and candidates conducted two-wheeler rallies on the last day of the campaign as a show of strength. They would mobilise a large number of vehicles for the rallies. But such events were not visible on Sunday as officials denied permission. However, the candidates, accompanied by their supporters and party cadre, chose to conclude their campaign in thickly populated areas. Tourism Minister Vellamandi N. Natarajan and AIADMK candidate for Tiruchi (East) constituency concluded his campaign on Big Bazaar Street. He solicited votes by travelling atop an open jeep. His campaign vehicle passed through narrow lanes around Big Bazaar Street. Former Minister and DMK candidate for Tiruchi (West) K.N. Nehru wound up his campaign at Sedal Mariamman Temple ground at Bheema Nagar. DMK candidate of Thiruverumbur constituency Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi concluded the campaign at the Thiruverumbur bus stand. Mr. Poyyamozhi, who was forced to skip the campaign midway on the last day of the campaign after he felt giddy due to dehydration, attended the last-minute campaign. His AIADMK counterpart P. Kumar took out a whirlwind tour in different parts of the constituency to woo voters. AIADMK candidate of Srirangam constituency Ku.Pa. Krishnan and his DMK and AMMK counterparts Palaniandi and Sarubala R. Thondaiman carried out last-minute campaigns in different parts of the constituency. There are 23,28,745 voters in nine Assembly constituencies in the district. Of them, 11,35,780 are male and 12,02,728 female. There are 237 transgenders in the district. Collector and District Election Officer S. Divyadarshini had made it clear that none should undertake canvassing for votes in any form beyond the deadline. The static surveillance teams and flying squads monitored the activities of the political parties round the clock. The parties were told that stern action would be taken if voters were bribed with cash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-is-over-to-the-voters-now-as-campaigns-ends-in-tiruchi/article34241028.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Month-long election campaign comes to an end in districts||Drum beats ended and speakers fell silent as the gruelling month-long campaign for the 2021 Assembly election came to an end on Sunday 7 p.m., ahead of polling on April 6. Municipal Administration Minister and Thondamuthur AIADMK candidate S.P. Velumani ended his campaign at Kuniamuthur. BJP’s Vanathi Srinivasan ended her’s at Six Corner, near Tatabad, MNM’s Kamal Haasan at Kembatty Colony, and Congress’ Mayura S. Jayakumar, accompanied by party leader Dinesh Gundu Rao, ended his campaign at Puliakulam. The month-long campaign began on a slow pace as parties in political alliances were busy finalising seat-sharing while racing against the deadline for filing nominations. The highlight of this election in Coimbatore was Mr. Haasan throwing his hat into the ring from Coimbatore South. What was otherwise perceived to be a direct contest between the AIADMK-led NDA and DMK-led SPA turned into a triangular contest with his entry. His early morning walks and interactions with people in the constituency garnered as much media and social media attention as did his campaigns. Thondamuthur was another constituency that saw a lot of political noise as the DMK fielded its environment wing leader Karthikeya Sivasenapathy to take on incumbent Mr. Velumani. Criticisms and counter-criticisms, name calling and retaliation queered the election pitch. This election also saw contestants actively straddle the election ground and social media platform, which they used to not only update their supporters on their campaign schedule and with speeches but also expose the opponents. A few contestants also asked the public to reach out to them through social media to stop voters being bribed. As for star campaigners, Coimbatore had its share as actors and celebrities from across the political spectrum descended in the district. AIADMK and BJP, however, roped in many of those to woo voters. This election in Coimbatore also saw the Election Commission of India shift the District Election Officer-cum Collector, City Police Commissioner and Coimbatore Rural Superintendent of Police. In this election, people were also witness to a few officials getting suspended for dereliction of duty. Mudslinging, minor clashes, and cash and liquor seizures also were a part of this election campaign as did personal attacks on the lives of contestants or their party leaders. Tiruppur The last day of election campaigning at the eight Assembly constituencies in Tiruppur was largely incident-free as the candidates reached out to the voters one last time before the polls. Speaking at his closing campaign in Dharapuram, BJP State president and Dharapuram (Reserved) constituency candidate L. Murugan exhorted the party cadre to work tirelessly over the next two days to ensure the victory of the AIADMK-BJP alliance. “For the next two days, we should have no rest and no sleep,” he said. He also alleged that the DMK is synonymous with “commission” and “land grabbing” and that they must not be allowed to return to power. Udhagamandalam Candidates contesting in Udhagamandalam Assembly constituency were out in full force in the town canvassing votes on Sunday. R. Ganesh, the sitting MLA and Congress candidate who is contesting the seat this time, took out a rally in the town. M. Bhojarajan, the BJP candidate who is expected to be his main rival, also hit the town alongside his supporters, and visited the shops and met people within the town. Mr. Bhojarajan earlier celebrated his birthday on Sunday by cutting a cake with party workers. Makkal Needhi Maiam candidate, S. Suresh Babu and the AMMK’s T. Lakshmanan canvassed for votes within town, particularly along Commercial Road. In Coonoor, the DMK’s K. Ramachandran campaigned in Attadi, and Solada Mattam, before he took out a procession in the town. The AIADMK candidate, D. Vinoth, campaigned in Kotagiri in the morning and in Coonoor town in the evening. Police said that security was tightened across the Nilgiris to prevent untoward incidents and added that no instances of political violence were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/month-long-election-campaign-comes-to-an-end-in-districts/article34240946.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cash, voter identity cards seized||Election Commission of India General Observer Saurabh Bhagat aided by Expenditure Observer Vijaykumar Singh on Sunday seized Rs. 5.64 lakh and 96 voter identity cards. In a release, the district administration said following complaints, seized Rs. 14,000 and 96 voter identity cards from the office of a political party on Thondamuthur Road and Rs. 5.5 lakh from another political party office in P.N. Pudur. They then asked the police to initiate action against those who violated the model code of Conduct. Static surveillance teams and flying squads seized Rs. 9.27 lakh from five of the 10 Assembly constituencies and liquor worth Rs. 2.83 lakh from nine of the 10 constituencies on Sunday, said a release. The Coimbatore District Police arrested three men who allegedly attempted to distribute cash to voters on behalf of the AIADMK near Sulur in the early hours of Sunday. According to the police, a flying squad along with an Income Tax Department inspector visited Kadampadi, near Sulur, past midnight based on a tip-off. The officials caught O. Ramasamy (37), T. Vinoth Kumar (32) and R. Suresh (23) with cash totalling Rs. 4,500 and took them to the Sulur taluk office. During this time, the accused allegedly threatened the officials, following which the I-T department inspector lodged a complaint at the Sulur police station. All the three accused were booked under sections 171 E (Punishment for bribery) and 506 (1) (Criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and were remanded in judicial custody, the Sulur police said. The Kuniamuthur police seized cash totalling over Rs. 13,000 from a grocery store after complaints from DMK members on alleged distribution of cash for voters late on Saturday. Police sources said on Sunday that many members of the DMK approached the Kuniamuthur police station claiming that the AIADMK men were distributing cash to voters. After conducting a search, the police team seized Rs. 13,160 unaccounted cash from R. Thangaraja (48), who was the owner of the grocery store. He was booked under Sections 171 E (Punishment for bribery) and 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-voter-identity-cards-seized/article34240954.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||504 fresh cases in delta region||Fresh cases of COVID-19 continued to surge in central districts on Sunday with 504 patients testing positive in the region. According to a bulletin issued by the State Health Department, Tiruchi district overtook Thanjavur in the count of fresh cases on Sunday. As many as 150 patients tested positive in Tiruchi district followed by 136 in Thanjavur district. In Tiruchi, more than half of the infections were reported within the city corporation limit. A total of 18 residents of an apartment in Srirangam tested positive for the virus. To check the spread of the infection, the Corporation authorities made the building a containment zone. Sanitary workers rushed to Veereswaram in Srirangam to disinfect the apartment and other residential units in the neighbourhood. While Nagapattinam accounted for 77 fresh cases, Tiruvarur registered 76 cases. The daily case count in Karur and Pudukottai stood at 21 and 29. Ariyalur and Perambalur recorded seven and eight cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/504-fresh-cases-in-delta-region/article34241030.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘CM declared Cauvery delta as protected special agricultural zone’||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami should be given the mandate to rule the State again for declaring the Cauvery delta as protected special agricultural zone and notifying it in the gazette, PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss said on Sunday. Tamil Nadu has got the best Chief Minister in Mr. Edappadi Palaniswami to protect agriculture, he said adding that farmers in the State felt happy under the present regime. Campaigning at Nannilam in Tiruvarur district and Sozhapuram near Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district, Mr. Anbumani said he was the first to raise the demand for declaration of the Cauvery delta region as a protected agricultural zone and the need to enact a law. He said he visited various villages emphasising the need to bring in legislation and put forth the demand to the Chief Minister prior to the declaration. Terming the enactment of the Act as an important decision, Mr. Anbumani said it would protect the delta region, which was feeding the people of the State for thousands of years. The DMK mortgaged the rights of Tamil Nadu on the Cauvery issue to Karnataka fearing the Sarkaria Commission and betrayed the State, Mr. Anbumani alleged and said the people would never forgive the party. The DMK remained silent when dams were being constructed in Karnataka, he said and debunked its president Stalin's remarks of retrieving the rights of the Cauvery. Exhorting the electorate to ignore the DMK, Mr. Anbumani said it was Mr. Stalin who signed a memorandum of agreement for the methane project in the region. The DMK also betrayed the State on Katchatheevu issue. Also, it was DMK and Congress which brought NEET, he said adding that Mr. Stalin's statements that his party would oppose NEET must not be believed. There was greater awareness among the electorate now and the DMK could not fool the people as it had been doing so far. Former Union Minister and DMK propaganda secretary A. Raja's recent derogatory remarks against the Chief Minister’s mother was ample proof that the party did not respect women and motherhood. Mr. Stalin had failed to condemn the derogatory remarks, he further said. It could not be forgotten that Mr. Palaniswami brought internal reservation envisaging 10.5% quota for Vanniyars in education and employment within the reservation for Most Backward Communities and De-notified Communities. Mr. Anbumani said just like Vanniyars there were other communities that continued to remain backward and internal reservation should also be given to them separately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-declared-cauvery-delta-as-protected-special-agricultural-zone-anbumani/article34241038.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Campaign ends in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry; polling tomorrow||The AIADMK and the DMK ran high-pitched campaigns with personal attacks. While the AIADMK-BJP front sought to project the DMK as a threat to law and order and women, the latter and its allies projected the AIADMK as an extension of the BJP and asked the electorate to be wary of communally divisive politics taking root in Tamil Nadu. I-T searches The run-up to the election also saw the Income-Tax Department conduct searches on the premises of Mr. Stalin’s daughter, former Ministers and others. Besides, the DMK deputy general secretary, A. Raja, was banned from campaigning for 48 hours for making certain remarks against the Chief Minister. The Election Commission of India (ECI) has consolidated its efforts to curb the menace of distribution of money to voters, a notorious feature that prevails across Tamil Nadu during every election. EVMs ready Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) and Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) units have been kept ready, and would be moved to the respective booths by Monday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campaign-ends-in-tamil-nadu-puducherry/article34240926.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T to hand-hold a dozen start-ups through CEDI||The Centre for Entrepreneurship Development and Incubation (CEDI), National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi (NIT-T) will be nurturing about a dozen new incubatees, faculty start-ups and alumni start-ups during 2021. Formed to provide hand-holding support to early-stage startups and incubates, social and women entrepreneurs for creating livelihood and to make a societal impact, the Centre will enable them to navigate the challenges from ideation to commercialisation, NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas said. Last week, the newly-admitted startups signed the on board agreement under funding and mentoring category of CEDI Incubation programme 2021. Ms. Mini Shaji Thomas said the Centre for Entrepreneurship Development and Incubation followed a rigorous three-stage selection process. She added that the centre had fostered a number of commercially successful and valued startups since its inception. The purpose was to to deliver innovative products and solutions to their target markets for overall progress of the country, the director said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nit-t-to-hand-hold-a-dozen-start-ups-through-cedi/article34241036.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kamal Haasan, Radha Ravi booked||The Coimbatore City Police on Saturday registered cases against Makkal Needhi Maiam president Kamal Haasan and actor and BJP functionary Radha Ravi on charges of violating the election Model Code of Conduct. Police sources said that the Kattoor police registered a case against Mr. Haasan, the MNM’s candidate for Coimbatore South Assembly constituency, on charges of using actors dressed like religious deities in his election campaign at Ram Nagar on April 1. Based on a complaint from Palanikumar, an Independent candidate from the Coimbatore South constituency, the case was registered under sections of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. The Race Course police booked Mr. Ravi for the alleged remarks he made against Mr. Haasan during an election campaign on March 28. As the clip of his speech went viral on social media platforms, an election official from Coimbatore South constituency filed a complaint against Mr. Ravi, the sources said. The case was registered under section 509 (Word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-haasan-radha-ravi-booked-for-violating-model-code/article34240958.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Celebrating resurrection||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/celebrating-resurrection/article34241050.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Silent hereafter||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/silent-hereafter/article34241226.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Beating the heat||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/beating-the-heat/article34241362.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Not a sight to behold||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/not-a-sight-to-behold/article34241352.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Unaccounted cash seized||A surprise check conducted jointly by police and revenue officials at the house of a contractor for projects at Ezhil Nagar here on Sunday led to seizure of Rs. 2.57 lakh unaccounted money. Acting on inputs that the contractor’'Sothupaalai’ Murugesan, a supporter of Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar contesting in Viralimalai Assembly constituency, was in possession of a huge amount of cash allegedly meant for distribution to voters, the team swung into operation in the morning. Expenditure Observer Dinesh Kumar Meena was present in the house for sometime when the check was being carried out, said police sources. The operation lasted nearly four hours. The seized cash would be produced in court, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unaccounted-cash-seized/article34241031.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Youth murdered||A 17-year-old youth was murdered in Thottiyam in the late hours on Saturday necessitating deployment of police personnel as a precautionary measure. Police identified the deceased as R. Kumar, a native of Kosavampatti in Thottiyam but who was staying with his father in Erode. Police sources said Kumar came to Thottiyam to his grandmother's house to attend Madhura Kaliamman car festival. He was found dead with multiple injuries in the head and chest. Police suspect that the crime would have been committed when Kumar was returning home after the festival got over. The identity of the accused and the motive behind the murder were not known immediately. Thottiyam Police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-murdered/article34241032.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tight vigil||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tight-vigil/article34240950.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Every vote counts||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/every-vote-counts/article34241073.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: daily caseload in Coimbatore crosses 300-mark||The daily COVID-19 caseload of Coimbatore district exceeded the 300-mark after over five months as 315 new cases were reported on Sunday. This led the district’s tally to exceed the 60,000-mark as the new cases took the tally to 60,153 cases. The Health Department did not report any deaths and the toll remained at 694. As many as 57,266 patients have recovered and 2,193 patients were active cases in the district. A total of 146 patients were discharged from various treatment centreson Sunday. Tiruppur district’s daily cases crossed the 100-mark for the first time since November 2020 on Sunday as 105 new positive cases were reported, taking the total tally to 19,653 cases. The death of a 62-year-old COVID-19 patient took the overall toll to 227. A total of 18,893 patients have recovered and 533 were active cases. On Sunday, 42 patients were discharged across the district after recovering from the disease. In the Nilgiris, 23 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 8,742. The number of deaths stood at 50 in the Nilgiris on Sunday while 148 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-daily-caseload-in-coimbatore-crosses-300-mark/article34240956.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||I travelled from Matthuthavani to Arapalayam in a TNSTC city bus recently. Though it was an 'ordinary' bus (TN58N 2387), deluxe fare of Rs. 21 was collected. There are so many old buses in Madurai 'masquerading' as deluxe buses. I request the TNSTC authorities not to cheat the public and increase real ordinary buses with real ordinary fare for the benefit of the poor people. S. Saravanakumar, Tirupachethi     In the recent times, roadside eateries have proliferated in the Tirunelveli-Palayamkottai area. Most of them sell non-vegetarian soups and chicken, mutton and fish fries at a nominal rate. Sportspersons, daily wagers and the general public frequent these stalls .In most of these eateries, oil is not changed. There is an unpleasant smell too. To safeguard the health of the public, I request the Corporation health officials to check these eateries frequently and inspect the quality of oil, mutton, chicken and fish used by them. P. Victor Selvaraj,  Palayamkottai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article34241224.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail-TVL||For the past many decades, Tirunelveli residents have been making representations through various forums to construct a railway overbridge in place of Kulavanigarpuram railway gate. Come election, politicians will remember this promise but forget it once the election is over. It is a very sad spectacle to see the public waiting at the railway gate patiently with a hope that one day the bridge would be constructed as promised. I request the authorities concerned to remove the legal hurdles by settling litigations amicably and start constructing the bridge. A. M. N. Pandian, Tirunelveli.    Roadside eateries have proliferated in the Tirunelveli-Palayamkottai area. Most of them sell non-vegetarian soups and chicken, mutton and fish fries at a nominal rate. In most of these eateries, oil is not changed. There is an unpleasant smell too. To safeguard the health of the public, I request the Corporation health officials to check these eateries frequently and inspect the quality of oil and prepared food. Another issue is vehicle movement on Tiruchendur Road in Palayamkottai has become slow due to parking of four and two wheelers in front of banks and commercial establishments. From Murugankurichi signal to Palayamkottai Gandhi Market, there are so many banks, offices and shops and a large number of customers visit them. The old police quarters has been demolished due to the bad condition of the building and the site remains vacant. As this is a government land, the Corporation may allot a piece of land adjacent to the Tiruchendur Road for parking vehicles. This will enable free movement of vehicles and pedestrians. P. Victor Selvaraj, Palayamkottai.    The RTO Office Main Road in N.G.O. Colony in Tirunelveli is the only arterial road connecting NGO ‘A’ Colony, ‘B’ Colony, New Colony, Thirumal Nagar, Mahizhchi Nagar and all other extended areas along Thiruvananthapuram Road. Underground drainage work taken up months before at the western end of the road has not yet been completed. The earth excavated for laying pipes has been filled up in a haphazard manner and there are a number of pits and heaps of sand. This poses a risk to motorists and two-wheeler drivers. Further, there are not many street lights on this road and this aggravates the situation. I request the authorities to expedite the UGD work and erect street lights. S. Nallasivan,  Tirunelveli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail-dgl/article34241060.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||For the devotees visiting Samayapuram Arulmigu Mariamman Temple in large numbers, basic amenities have not been adequate. Though thehundicollections are huge, the devotees struggle due to paucity of rest rooms and drinking water facilities. Much to the chagrin of pilgrims, water tanks at stoppages for mofussil buses on either side of the national highway have been in a state of disuse for a long period. It would bode well for National Highways Authority of India to rectify the shortcomings at the earliest. Saravanan Natesan Puthanampatti    This refers to the news item under the caption ‘Freight operations begin at Mannargudi’ ( The Hindu March 24). It is a welcome measure though much delayed. For the freight operation is taking place a decade after start of passenger services. Since the largest quantity of paddy procured in Tiruvarur district is from Mannaragudi area, there will be substantial revenue generation for the railways. Also, the inward movement of fertilizers and pesticides has been made easy. A need has arisen for the railways to make sufficient fund allotment for improving basic amenities at Mannargudi railway Station. S. Sethuraman Thanjavur    It has become imperative for voters to wear face masks due to the risks caused by the second wave of COVID-19 infection. Voters must not hesitate to go through thermal screening and make it a point to use sanitisers. People need to make sure that there is no crowding at polling stations, and unfailingly use gloves to exercise their franchise in the electronic voting machine. While it is indeed the responsibility of citizens to cast votes without fail in a democracy, it is equally important to minimise risks to others and oneself. M.A. Aleem Tiruchi    It is apparent that the Election Commission and local administrations are making elaborate arrangements to protect the people from COVID-19 infection during the poll process. Face masks must be made mandatory and the EC must arrange for enough number of hand sanitisers and gloves at polling booths. S. Krishnan Thipppirajapuram    Garbage dumped nears the transformer close to the church near the railway junction could turn hazardous during peak summer season. Accidental fire caused by the soaring temperature could cause damage to the transformer. The local body has to take remedial steps with a sense of accountability. K. Suresh Babu Raja Colony||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article34241025.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Saravanan bereaved||The father of Bharathiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate for Madurai North constituency - P. Saravanan, passed away due to age-related ailments here on Sunday. R. Pandian, Dr. Saravanan's father, was aged 82. Pandian was a retired District Revenue Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-candidate-saravanan-bereaved/article34241047.ece
05 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Use technology wisely, with human considerations’||The 20th convocation of Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) was held in Belagavi on Saturday. The technological university gave away degrees and diplomas to over 70,000 students. V.K. Atre, scientist and former scientific advisor to Defence Minister, urged young graduates to work for the welfare of society. Engineering and related fields will undergo many changes in the coming decade. There is ample scope for engineering graduates in various fields. They should utilise their knowledge in improving their chosen field, along with development and welfare, he said. Engineers have a responsibility to see that disasters such as the Bhopal gas leak do not recur, he said. “Technology should be used for all-round development of society. This happens when we use technology wisely, with human considerations,’’ he said. Technology can be a double-edged sword. It can be useful and dangerous. But we can use it for the welfare of everyone and for the all-round development of the country, if we use it rightly,” he said. “For thousands of years, we have been living in harmony with nature. But with the growth of science and technology, we are moving away from nature. This has led us to exploit technology in a non-sustainable manner, resulting in pollution, climate change and deforestation. Man-centric development has led to depletion of natural resources and drinking water scarcity and other problems. He said that the future challenges would be reducing carbon footprint, increasing green energy usage, feasible use of alternative sources of energy, fighting climate change, protecting data against cyber attacks, providing to a growing population, using bio-technology and new farming techniques,” he said. “We have to focus on sustainable technology, low-cost solutions to problems and health and nutrition,” he said. “Surely, technology has brought in unprecedented change in the last 200 years. Technology has provided solutions to most of our problems and it will continue to do so,” he added. Vice-Chancellor Karisiddappa said that VTU would begin implementing provisions of the New Education Policy in 2022-23. “We will try to evolve and grow into a multi-disciplinary university and help our students grow into researchers and entrepreneurs. Research grants will be given to those who work on innovative technologies. We have already started a compulsory course in intellectual property rights and we will soon start a centre of excellence in smart city planning,” he said. Ashutosh Sharma, secretary, Department of Science Technology, was presented with a honorary doctor of science, honoris causa . Registrar Anand Deshpande, Dean N.V.R. Naidu, registrar evaluation B.E. Rangaswamy and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/use-technology-wisely-with-human-considerations/article34241083.ece
05 April 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Nirani, others blackmailed CM to enter Cabinet’||Bharatiya Janata Party leader and MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal has said that Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani and a few others got Cabinet berths by blackmailing Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. He told journalists in Vijayapura on Sunday that Mr. Nirani had some incriminating CDs on Mr. Yediyurappa and had used them to enter the Cabinet. “I have not done anything like that,” he said. Reacting to Mr. Nirani’s allegation that Mr. Yatnal was “useless”, the latter said that the Minister was among the “most useless of persons out of whom nothing good would come”. “Mr. Nirani is among the suppliers. What such persons have supplied to Mr. Yediyurappa and leaders at the top, I will reveal at the right time,” he said. On Saturday, Mr. Nirani had described Mr. Yatnal as useless as he was criticising the Chief Minister and the government despite being a BJP leader.He had said that Mr. Yatnal should quit the party if he wanted to criticise it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nirani-others-blackmailed-cm-to-enter-cabinet/article34240870.ece
05 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. to survey 2,500 quarries before announcing settlement scheme||More than 2,500 building stone quarries operational across the State will be re surveyed using drones to ascertain the volume of stone mined before a One-Time Settlement (OTS) scheme is announced. A whopping Rs. 6,000 crore royalty and penalty are to be recovered from the quarries as per a 2018-2019 survey, and an OTS to clear the books is being envisaged. While quarries were manually audited annually as to how much stone had been extracted each year and compared to the royalty paid to the government, in 2018-2019 a drone survey had been conducted to make volume metric assessments and fix the pit levels in the quarries. It ascertained that about Rs. 1,200 crore royalty had not been paid to the government for the excess stone removed from these quarries, and the fine amounted to about Rs. 4,800 crore, bringing the total to about Rs. 6,000 crore. However, about 50 quarry owners approached the court for relief, following which the court observed that there had been “procedural lapses” and stuck down the demand notices issued by the department, a quarry owner in Mandya said. “The first drone survey was done from the cost of the quarry owners. When the survey was conducted, the quarry owners were not present and there was no mahazar report,” a government source familiar with the development admitted. A re-survey using drones will be completed by the government this time based on strict guidelines in about three to four months, sources said. Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani told The Hindu that a huge penalty has been imposed based on drone surveys and that he was “not happy with the penalty.” “Wastage has not been considered. In one instance, a Rs. 80-crore penalty has been imposed on the quarry owner when the land value is not even Rs. 50 lakh and his total network is less than Rs. 2 crore. How can he pay the penalty?” he asked. He said that the sum of Rs. 6,000 crore royalty and penalty will remain in the books “can never be recovered.” The government, he said, was considering setting up committees headed by Deputy Commissioners or Regional Commissioners to hear such cases. “We will form the guidelines for the OTS, the discretion will remain with these district level committees. The file will not even come to us,” the Minister said. Mr. Nirani said that the OTS is in the initial stages and will be finalised after the byelections are completed. Meanwhile, the mining adalats will commence from April 17 with the Bengaluru division level adalat and will be held in Kalaburagi, Mysuru, Belagavi, and Mangaluru divisions too, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-survey-2500-quarries-before-announcing-settlement-scheme/article34241095.ece
05 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A frosty affair: Yediyurappa, Eshwarappa give each other the silent treatment at function||Days after Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa wrote to Governor Vajubhai Vala complaining about Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, the two came face to face for the first time in public at Harihara on Sunday. Except for an exchange of customary pleasantries, the two senior BJP leaders from Shivamogga did not speak to each other. The leaders shared the stage and participated in the inauguration of a community hall, a students’ hostel and a welcome arch, organised by Kaginele Mahasamsthana at Belloddi in Harihara. Mr. Eshwarappa, a Kuruba leader, has been associated with the Kaginele Mutt in the recent demand for Scheduled Caste status for Kurubas. “There were no backroom talks between the leaders. They did not even speak. The Chief Minister greeted the Minister when he came face to face along with the Kaginele seer, whom Yediyurappa greeted as well,” a source in the Chief Minister’s Office, adding that even Mr. Eshwarappa was busy speaking to the seer when the Chief Minister was addressing the gathering. The Minister’s letter to the Governor and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, among other BJP leaders, has created a political storm both within the party and outside. While BJP insiders in the Chief Minister’s camp have described the letter as uncalled for, the Opposition Congress has asked the Chief Minister to quit since the allegations made by Mr. Eshwarappa are serious. Nadda’s enquiry Union Home Minister Amit Shah told a TV channel on Saturday that the tussle between the two leaders in Karnataka would be looked into by party national president J.P. Nadda after the polls to the State Assemblies. BJP sources said the party would try to sort out the issues between the two leaders, as well as the accusations against Mr. Yediyurappa’s style of functioning, only after the completion of the byelections to Belagavi Lok Sabha and Maski and Basavakalyan Assembly constituencies. The issue is likely to come up for discussion when the BJP general secretary in charge of Karnataka, Arun Singh, arrives here this week to review the party’s preparations for the bypolls. “Mr. Singh’s schedule is packed. We are not sure whether something will happen on this immediately,” a party leader said. Another party leader, who is close to Mr. Yediyurappa, said the onus was now on Mr. Eshwarappa to tender an unconditional apology, without which his continuation in the Cabinet would be untenable. “I am not going into the merit of the case. When he has questioned the Chief Minister in his communication to the Governor, the Prime Minister and others, how he can morally continue as a Minister?” the leader asked. But Mr. Eshwarappa has already made it clear that he would not be cowed by such threats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-frosty-affair-yediyurappa-eshwarappa-give-each-other-the-silent-treatment-at-function/article34240873.ece
05 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gyms can function with 50% occupancy||The State government on Sunday provided relief to gymnasiums that were ordered to shut down following the spurt in COVID-19 cases, by issuing a fresh set of guidelines allowing gymnasiums to function with reduced occupancy. The order issued by Chief Secretary P. Ravikumar under the Disaster Management Act 2005 said that the modifications to the earlier order of April 2, which ordered closure of gymnasiums, have been modified following a number of representations received by the Chief Minister to relax the restrictions with certain conditions. The order allowed gymnasiums to remain open with the conditions that occupancy at any time cannot exceed 50%. Further, strict COVID -19 appropriate behaviour like ensuring wearing of masks, physical distancing and provision of sanitisers should be enforced. The equipment shall be sanitised after every use and if there is any violation, the gymnasium will be closed till the COVID-19 pandemic is over. While a series of restrictions had been imposed on Friday, the government — heeding to the appeal from the cinema industry — on Saturday allowed the theatres to defer imposition of 50% occupancy in theatres till April 7. The gym owners appealing for relaxation had said that over 3,000 out of about 10,000 gymnasiums in the State had permanently closed after the pandemic-related lockdown was implemented in March 2020. The gym owners association had sought a relief package from the government since thousands of livelihoods are dependent on the gyms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gyms-can-function-with-50-occupancy/article34240866.ece
05 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Private hospitals to reserve 20% of beds for COVID-19 patients||In the backdrop of cases and deaths rising, the civic body has decided that 20% of beds in all private medical establishments will be reserved for patients referred by the government or the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). This will later be scaled up to 40%, should the trend continue. The State government issued an order to this effect on Sunday. The BBMP has already held two rounds of meetings with the private medical establishments to discuss bed allocation. When the cases had peaked last year, 50% of the beds in private medical establishments were reserved for patients referred by the civic body. This was scaled back when the case load dropped. However with a fierce second wave, officials are taking no chances. BBMP’s Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said the scaling up of the number of beds reserved for COVID-19 patients will be done in a phased manner. “This is part of the anticipatory effort,” he said. The civic body has already opened two COVID-19 Care Centres at HAL and Haj Bhavan, while another one at Koramangala Indoor Stadium will be operational soon. Prasanna H.M., president-elect, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA), pointed out that though the number of people requiring admission is less when compared to last year, beds in many private medical facilities were filling up. “We are ready to allocate up to 40% if the need arises,” he said. The BBMP has started receiving proposals from various residents’ welfare associations (RWA), apartment complexes, and multi-dwelling units for vaccination sites. Several private medical establishments have also evinced interest in tying up with these communities, said P. Rajendra Cholan, BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Health). He said the civic body is mapping all the apartment complexes, RWAs, and medical establishments they have tied up with to ascertain the proximity to the BBMP’s cold chain points.  He added that there was a clear definition of a sub-centre where a vaccination site could be established. “Each centre should have a team of medical professionals to administer the vaccine and staff to take citizens through the registration and verification process, as well as adequate infrastructure.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-hospitals-to-reserve-20-of-beds-for-covid-19-patients/article34240865.ece
05 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vaccination timings to be extended till 9 p.m. for working professionals||If all goes as planned, people above the age of 45 in Bengaluru will soon be able to walk into a designated hospital and get vaccinated against COVID-19 as late as 9 p.m. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), in consultation with private hospitals, has decided to extend vaccination timings, following a lukewarm response to the third phase of the vaccination drive, which began on April 1. As most of the people in this category are working professionals, private hospital managements in Bengaluru have been asked to keep the Co-WIN portal accessible till 9 p.m. This will enable people above the age of 45 to visit vaccination centres after they wrap up work for the day. It will be rolled out in the coming days, said officials. H.M. Prasanna, president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA), said that people in the garment industry, government officials and also software professionals will not be able to take the shot before 5 p.m. “After 5 p.m, once we enter a person’s Aadhaar details, the OTP is not generated, and we cannot vaccinate them,” he said. He added that this issue was discussed at a meeting with BBMP Commissioner Gaurav Gupta on Saturday, which saw the participation of heads of 80 hospital managements. On Sunday, BBMP officials told The Hindu that nodal officers across all hospitals would be trained to reset the timings and ensure that they are able to vaccinate people till 9 p.m. without any hurdles. Once the timings are extended, working professionals will no longer have to apply for leave to get the shot. Rohan S., a 47-year-old software professional, said that he tried to get a jab on Friday at around 6 p.m. after work. “I went to a private hospital in East Bengaluru and they asked me to come between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. I will be unable to take such a long break between work on weekdays and the vaccination site is closed on Sundays,” he said. Private hospitals, too, are relieved by this development as an increasing number of vaccination centres have been turning away people who come in after 5 p.m. “We had put up a board that vaccinations can take place only between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. We do not want people to queue up late in the evening if the system does not allow us to schedule vaccinations late in the evening,” said a management member of a private hospital. Poor demand Private hospital managements also say that there is a lot of demand for vaccination in some hospitals and very poor demand in others. “People should go to any health centre to get vaccinated and not pin their hopes on one or two popular hospitals,” said Mr. Prasanna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-timings-to-be-extended-till-9-pm-for-working-professionals/article34240858.ece
05 April 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||4,553 new cases, 15 deaths reported in State||As many as 4,553 people across Karnataka tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 10.15 lakh. According to the Department of Health and Family Welfare’s media bulletin, 2,787 cases were reported from Bengaluru Urban alone. The number of active cases in the State currently stands at 39,092 with as many as 331 patients admitted in intensive care units. The positivity rate for the day stood at 3.79 %, while the case fatality rate was 0.32%. Fifteen people succumbed to the virus on Saturday, taking the total number of fatalities to 12,625. Across Karnataka, 1.19 lakh COVID-19 tests were conducted, of which 1.11 lakh were RT-PCR.   After private hospitals again complained that they may soon face a shortage of vaccines, Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar said that Karnataka will receive 15.25 lakh doses of COVID-19 on Monday. One consignment of 5.25 lakh doses will arrive at Belagavi by road and another consignment of 10 lakh doses will arrive at Bengaluru by air, he said on Twitter. Meanwhile, 15,106 people were vaccinated on Tuesday, taking the total number of people vaccinated in Karnataka so far to 43.55 lakh. This includes healthcare workers, frontline workers and people above 45 years. No serious and severe adverse effects following immunization were reported on Sunday. As many as 2,132 sessions were planned and conducted on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/4553-new-cases-15-deaths/article34240857.ece
05 April 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Boy dies as concrete iron rods collapse||A 16-year-old boy died as centring concrete iron rods collapsed at a road bridge construction site at Hosagadde near Agumbe in Thirthahalli taluk on Sunday. Suleman, a native of Haveri district, died on the spot. His body was retrieved after the iron rods were removed with the help of an earthmover. The local people have expressed doubts over the quality of the work and also raised questions on employing a 16-year-old boy for the job that involved risk. They also pointed out the lack of safety measures for the workers. Agumbe police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boy-dies-as-concrete-iron-rods-collapse/article34240856.ece
05 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. should think about survival of all those working in film industry’||Making no attempt to hide his displeasure over the government’s new rule on 50% occupancy in cinemas, actor-director Duniya Vijay on Sunday said that probably the government was under the impression that film people were spreading the virus. Mr. Vijay, who was in Hubballi for the promotion of his directorial debut Salaga, said that he did not understand the rationale behind reducing occupancy in cinemas, while political rallies where thousands of people took part without any precautionary were allowed to continue. “In cinemas, a few hundred people are allowed that too after thermal screening and ensuring that they are wearing masks. Nobody understands this rationale and no one is happy with the 50% rule. But it is the decision of the government we have chosen. We have to abide by the rule,” he said. Mr. Vijay, who is also a fitness freak, took exception to the restrictions on gymnasiums. “In a gym, there are hardly 25 people, which has come down to 15 post-pandemic. And, they want to close them,” he said. However, he said that efforts were on to talk to the government and convince it of the need to allow full occupancy. “It is not just about a film producer or film stars. There are hundreds of people who are working in the industry and whose life depends on it. The government should also think about their survival,” he said. Concurring with him, Dolly Dhananjay, who plays the role of another protagonist in the film, said: “There is no vaccine for hunger, but a disease can have one”. No release Film producer Soorappa Babu, whose film Kotigobba 3 is due for release, said that while they were hopeful of resolving the issue by April 20, they had decided to put off the film release till 100% occupancy was allowed in cinemas. Producer of Salaga, K.P. Srikanth said that considering the new rule, they had put off the film release, which was due now. “We have already seen how the new rule has affected the Yuvaratna team. We hope the issue will get resolved. But we will wait till the rule is rolled back,” he said. The Salaga team is touring the State, hosting cricket tournaments at various places as part of film promotion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-should-think-about-survival-of-all-those-working-in-film-industry/article34241089.ece
05 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Follow SOP or face closure, PGs , coaching centres told||In the wake of reports about complete disregard for COVID-19 protocol in coaching centres and paying guest facilities in Dharwad, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has warned that such such facilities will be closed down in case of continued violations. Chairing a meeting of proprietors of coaching centres, 24 x 7 libraries and owners of PG facilities in Dharwad on Sunday, Mr. Patil expressed displeasure over apathy towards the COVID-19 protocol. “We have observed that these centres are not following the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) and warned that trade licence of these units will be cancelled and the centres will be sealed after following due procedure,” he said. Considering the surge in the number of positive cases in eight districts, including Dharwad, the State government has issued fresh guidelines, he said. Assistant Commissioner of Police G. Anusha spoke. Assistant Commissioner B. Gopalkrishna was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/follow-sop-or-face-closure-pgs-coaching-centres-told/article34241093.ece
05 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Man who sold job-seeking woman arrested||The man who is said to have sold a woman from Uppin Betageri village to a businessman in Gujarat on the pretext of getting remunerative job for her has been arrested now. The woman is said to have been duped by the man from Amminabhavi and sold to a businessman in Padanpur in Gujarat. She recently filed a complaint at the Dharwad Woman Police Station after somehow managing to escape from there and reaching her native place with the help of a family in Ahmedabad, where she had worked earlier. The accused, Dilip Jain from Amminabhavi village, had promised her to get a remunerative job in Bengaluru but had taken her to Ahmedabad in Gujarat, where he made her work as a domestic help. After a month he returned again to tell her that she had a better opportunity, took her to Padanpur on Gujarat-Rajasthan border and sold her to a businessman for Rs. 2 lakh. On realising that she had been sold, the woman somehow managed to escape and reached Ahmadabad where she worked earlier. She approached the family for whom she worked and with their help, she managed to return to her native place. Acting on her complaint, Police Inspector Y.D. Agasimani and his team managed to trace Dilip Jain in Gujarat and arrested him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-who-sold-job-seeking-woman-arrested/article34241087.ece
05 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Creating awareness on Wednesday’s strike||With the State government yet to respond positively to their demands, State Transport Corporation employees have launched an awareness campaign on their proposed indefinite transport strike on April 7 in a bid to sensitise the general public on their lawful demands and their strike. On Sunday, honorary president of Dharwad Division NWKRTC Employees Association P.H. Neeralakeri and others carried out the awareness campaign in the busy market areas of Dharwad. Mr. Neeralakeri and others visited the main markets in the city, bus stations and busy market areas, interacted with the general public, shop owners and vendors and gave them pamphlets about the transport strike on April 7. Speaking at a street meeting, Mr. Neeralakeri said that launching the agitation had become inevitable as the State government after having promised to fulfil their demands was apathetic towards them and was not responding to their pleas. The transport employees are seeking fulfilment of nine demands, including implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission and consideration them as government employees. He said that employees of all the four divisions of NWKRTC would be participating in the agitation and appealed to the general public to extend their support to the agitation. Mr. Neeralakeri said that the State government would be responsible for damage if any during the protest. In the wake of the proposed indefinite transport strike, the employees have begun a campaign through various social media platforms, informing about the need for holding the agitation and how the government had forced them to take to the streets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/creating-awareness-on-wednesdays-strike/article34241096.ece
05 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Shivanand Tarlaghatti passes away||Sitar exponent and Rajyotsava award winner Shivanand Tarlaghatti passed away at a private hospital in Dharwad due to age-related illness on Sunday. The last rites were conducted on Sunday. He was 94. He is survived by his three daughters and son. Tarlaghatti was a recipient of various awards, including Kalashri Award of Sangeet Natak Academy and the Rajyotsava award. Born into a musicians family at Adaragunchi village in Hubballi taluk of Dharwad district, Tarlaghatti learnt flute first only to shift to sitar later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivanand-tarlaghatti-passes-away/article34241091.ece
05 April 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Food kits for beedi workers in Hubballi||Malabar Charitable Trust distributed food kits to beedi workers, daily wage workers and others in a programme held in Hubballi on Sunday. Branch Head of Malabar Gold and Diamonds Shashank Ekbote handed over the food kits to the beneficiaries at A.J. Mudhol Bhavan in Old Hubballi. Mr. Ekbote gave a brief about the philanthropic activities of the trust. Labour union leader Babajan Mudhol lauded the service of the trust. Nazri Ahmed Kolkar, Shiraj Ahmed Mulla, Shivakumar Hiremath were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/food-kits-for-beedi-workers-in-hubballi/article34241086.ece
05 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||NCP candidate’s withdrawal from bypoll contest triggers protest||The withdrawal of Maratha leader M.G. Muley from the bypoll contest for Basavakalyan constituency triggered a protest by the Maratha community on Sunday. Mr. Muley had, a few days ago, quit the JD(S) and joined the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). He had subsequently filed his nomination papers as the NCP candidate. Community members associated with Sakala Maratha Kranti Morcha and Sambhaji Brigade, apart from the NCP, staged a flash protest at Shivaji Park in Basavakalyan, Bidar district, and raised slogans against Mr. Muley, condemning his withdrawal. Some thrashed with footwear a picture of Mr. Muley printed on a banner. They alleged that Mr. Muley had stepped back from the contest after being lured by the BJP. “Mr. Muley has claimed that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has assured him of fulfilling the Maratha community’s demands and that is why he is withdrawing from the contest to facilitate the victory of the BJP candidate. How could the Chief Minister personally assure him of fulfilment of the community’s demands? He is trying to cover up his misdeeds and betrayal to the community. How could he take the decision to withdraw from the contest without consulting the community leaders when he was the candidate of not just the NCP, but also the entire Maratha community? Mr. Muley has betrayed the community and sold himself to the BJP,” said Narayan Ganesh, district convenor of Sakala Maratha Kranti Morcha. A leader said the community leaders would hold a meeting in a couple of days and decide the future course of action. “If Mr. Muley supports the BJP, the entire community will vote against the party. We will teach a lesson to him and the BJP,” another protesting leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ncp-candidates-abrupt-withdrawal-from-bypoll-contest-triggers-protest/article34240875.ece
05 April 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi records 41.3 degrees C||Several parts of Hyderabad Karnataka, Bombay Karnataka and Central Karnataka districts continued to reel under severe heatwave and many districts recorded maximum temperatures as per observations recorded by India Meteorological Department at 8.30 a.m. on Sunday. Kalaburagi district recorded the highest maximum temperature of 41.3 degrees Celsius, followed by Raichur with 39.8 degrees Celsius and Bidar with a maximum temperature of 39.4 degrees Celsius. Vijayapura recorded a maximum temperature of 38.4 degrees Celsius and Koppal recorded 38 degrees Celsius. Night temperature also continued to show an upward trend with Kalaburagi recording a minimum temperature of 26 degrees Celsius, followed by Raichur with a minimum temperature of 25 degrees Celsius.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalaburagi-records-413-degrees-c/article34241084.ece
05 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. approves revised funding pattern for new Kankanady Market||The Urban Development Department has issued a revised administrative approval for the re-construction of the Kankanady market building after the State Cabinet approved a revised funding pattern to finance the Rs. 41.50 crore project, according to Mayor Premananda Shetty. With this, the modern market-cum-commercial complex to which the Mangaluru City Corporation had laid the foundation stone in February 2019 and the works which are going on in slow pace can now be carried forward with much ease. The revised financial model will save the civic body some amount in terms of paying interest to the loans on the project, he said and added that the government issued the revised administrative approval on March 25 after the Cabinet approval on March 22. Accordingly, the civic body would avail itself of Rs. 29.05 crore from the Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development and Finance Corporation (KUIDFC) as loan at 4.65% rate of interest, Rs. 9.45 crore from a nationalised bank and Rs. 3 crore would be borne from Nagarothana Scheme Phase III. The earlier funding pattern had proposed to avail of Rs. 22.50 crore from the KUIDFC at 6.50% rate of interest, Rs. 16 crore from a nationalised bank at 7.90% rate of interest and Rs. 3 crore from the Nagarothana Scheme Phase III. The government had given the administrative approval for it on December 7, 2018 after the Cabinet’s nod on November 17, 2018. The Mayor said that in the revised approval, the government has not specified any rate of interest on the loan to be availed of from a nationalised bank keeping it flexible. In the revised pattern, the loan amount to be availed of from a nationalised bank has been reduced and the loan amount to be taken from the KUIDFC at a low rate of interest has been enhanced. Mr. Shetty said that he held a meeting with the Commissioner of the corporation and contractors who have taken up the Kankanady and Kadri modern market projects on Saturday. It was decided that work on the Kadri project should be completed by December 2021 and the Kankandy market should be completed by September 2022. Multi-storey building According to the floor area and parking details with the corporation, the Kankanady market will have 10 floors, the lower and upper basements, lower and upper ground floors and additional six floors. It will have a net floor area of 18,338.61 sq m with the plinth area for shops/market at 3,326.06 sq m and plinth area for offices at 10,894.78 sq m. As per the building plan, there will be space to park 71 two-wheelers and 505 four-wheelers which included 96 in lower basement, 91 in upper basement and 318 mechanical parking. It will have toilets and a sewage treatment plant. The market will come up on 147 cents of land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-approves-revised-funding-pattern-for-new-kankanady-market/article34241237.ece
05 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Criminal cases to be filed against protocol violators||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha has said that criminal cases will be filed against those violating the rules and regulations issued by the government to control the increasing cases of COVID-19. The restrictions imposed by the government will be in place till April 20. In a statement issued on Saturday, he said that the Udupi district administration is closely monitoring adherence to the COVID-19 rules and regulations in the district. The officials have been instructed to implement the COVID-19 protocols strictly. The government has banned lessons for students from Class 1 to Class 9. Vidyagama too cannot be held. Medical colleges are permitted to hold classes. In addition, lessons for Classes 10, 11 and 12 can be conducted. No other degree classes are allowed. Only examinations for degree courses are permitted. Religious institutions can permit only personal prayers and not mass gathering, the Deputy Commissioner said. Club houses and swimming pools will remain shut. Protests and rallies are not permitted. Public transport should ensure that only restricted number of seats are occupied. Only 50% of seats should be accommodated in party halls, cinemas and restaurants. Social distancing and masks and hygiene practices should be given the priority, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/criminal-cases-to-be-filed-against-protocol-violators/article34241240.ece
05 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Panel inquiry sought into ‘bribe for V-C post’ case||With pressure mounting on Mangalore University to take the matter of a professor “bribing” a conman to get the post of a vice-chancellor, another Syndicate member, Vivekananda Paniyala, has said that it is a serious issue which needs to be deliberated upon in a special meeting of the Syndicate, which is the highest decision-making body of the university. He has also sought an inquiry into the case by a committee to be headed by a retired High Court judge. Professor in Microbiology on the university campus, M. Jayashankar, who is also the Director of the College Development Council of the university, complained to the police last week that he had been cheated of Rs. 17 lakh by Prasad Attavar who had promised him the post of the vice-chancellor of Raichur University. The police arrested Attavar based on the complaint. Mr. Paniyala, who is also an advocate, in a letter to Mangalore University Vice-Chancellor P.S. Yadapadithaya, said that Syndicate members are shocked reading about the complaint of Prof. Jayashankar that he had paid Rs. 17 lakh and given three blank cheques to Attavar. The case, he said, smacks of malafides and corrupt practice of payment of illegal gratification. This conduct is unbecoming of a professor of a university. “This is an act of moral turpitude lowering the dignity and reputation of the university itself, of which I am part by being a member of the Syndicate,” he said. The university, being employer and appointing authority under the Karnataka State Universities Act 2000, should take serious cognisance of this incident and forthwith seek an explanation from Prof. Jayashankar before initiating appropriate disciplinary proceedings. This is necessary as the issue requires the university to pro-actively act on this issue in larger public interest. The Vice-Chancellor should take cognisance of the matter as he is under an obligation to maintain discipline as stated in Section 15(1) of the Act. While asking Mr. Yadapadithaya to secure a copy of the complaint, the FIR and explanation from Prof. Jayashankar, Mr. Paniyala said that all these should be placed before the Syndicate for its members to deliberate upon in detail and take an appropriate decision. “Let the Syndicate pass a suitable resolution covering all aspects and accordingly, institute an inquiry by a committee headed by a retired judge of the High Court,” he said. Another member of the Syndicate K. Ramesh in a letter to the Registrar (administration) of the university last week said that paying money to get a university post is illegal and such acts would demean the institution, the Syndicate as well as the government. The university should seek an explanation from the professor in the matter, he said. Sources in the university said that though a special meeting of the Syndicate had been called on April 5 to discuss the issue, it has now been postponed to April 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panel-inquiry-sought-into-bribe-for-v-c-post-case/article34241244.ece
05 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Handbook on SSLC exam preparation to be released today||In continuation of the work to prepare class X students for the SSLC examination scheduled in June, the Udupi district administration will release Geluvina Hejje , a 270-page handbook to help students, on Monday. Deputy Director of Public Instruction, Udupi, N.H. Nagur, has brought out the handbook with the assistance of Education Officer Janhavi C., vice-principal of Udupi District Institute of Education and Training Ashok Kamat, and experts from Science, Social Science, Mathematics, Kannada, Hindi and English subjects. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha will release the handbook. Mr. Nagur told The Hindu that the handbook had been designed keeping in mind the needs of slow learners. He said of the 13,336 regular students who will write the examination this June, 2,115 have been identified as slow learners. “We want children to make use of this book that will help in securing minimum passing marks. We don’t want children to fail as it would put a break on their career prospects,” he said. Result of workshops The handbook, he said, is a result of about six workshops recently conducted by the department. Going by the blueprint for the examination, the experts have come out with a good number of multiple choice and other commonly asked questions. “We have tried to remove fear of Mathematics and also prepare them better in Social Science, Science and English subjects,” he said. “This book will be delivered to each of the 2,115 students. I want parents to ensure that their child makes good use of the book,” he said. The teachers were continuing with their visits to houses of class X students. The students were being encouraged to have group studies, he said. The G. Shankar Family Trust has funded printing of the book, Mr. Nagur added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/handbook-on-sslc-exam-preparation-to-be-released-today/article34241250.ece
05 April 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Civil engineer stabbed||Two motorcycle-borne men stabbed a civil engineer on B.C. Road in Bantwal on Sunday evening, the Bantwal Town Police said. According to the police, Manoj, 30, a resident of Ummannagudde in Bantwal, worked as a civil engineer abroad. He had returned home for his marriage, scheduled in the next few days. Mr. Manoj has been admitted to a private hospital in Mangaluru and is stable, the police said. The Bantwal Town police have registered a case and are searching for the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civil-engineer-stabbed/article34241251.ece
05 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||SCDCC Bank records profit of Rs. 33.65 crore||The South Canara District Central Cooperative (SCDCC) Bank recorded a profit of Rs. 33.65 crore for the fiscal 2020-2021, said chairman M.N. Rajendra Kumar here recently. Talking to reporters, Mr. Kumar said that the total business in 105 branches in 2020-21 was Rs. 10,100.3 crore, 19.3% more than the total business in 2019-20. Total deposits for 2020-21 was Rs. 4,948.34 crore, 17.65% more than 2019-20. The total advances in 2020-21 was Rs. 3,712.67 crore of which Rs. 1,596.04 crore was for short-term loans given in the agriculture sector. As many as 1.19 lakh farmers have been given RuPay Kisan Cards, while 58,910 RuPay debit cards have been given to other customers. The two-month-long campaign by the bank from January to take banking services to the doorsteps of people led to opening of 24,036 savings bank accounts. It received Rs. 48.77 crore in the form of deposits and disbursed Rs. 118.84 crore as loan in this period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/scdcc-bank-records-profit-of-rs-3365-crore/article34241247.ece
05 April 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Writer Hoskare Shivaswamy passes away||Writer and former head of the Department of Kannada at MGM College in Udupi, Hoskare Shivaswamy, passed away at his residence in Bengaluru late on Saturday. He was 68. He is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. Mr. Shivaswamy was the recipient of Kadengodlu Kavya Prashasti instituted by Udupi Govinda Pai Samshodhana Kendra and MAHE, Manipal. He had contributed to Kannada literature though his articles in various journals. The late professor had obtained his Ph.D from Madras University. He was the president of N.R. Pura Taluk Sahitya Sammelan award. During the 1970s, he took part in theatre and drama. He had guided many students in their pursuit of doctoral degree.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/writer-hoskare-shivaswamy-passes-away/article34241239.ece
05 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Tenure of fire watchers at Bandipur extended||The authorities at Bandipur have decided to extend the tenure of temporary fire watchers who are recruited in the run-up to summer to beef up the staff strength to battle forest fires. A total of 435 additional fire watchers were recruited for deployment across Bandipur during the fire season and strengthen the field force in January. They are normally deployed for about 90 days and their tenure tends to get extended depending on the local requirement and lasts till the onset of the pre-monsoon showers. The weather pattern in the region is such that the area around Bandipur receives showers during the last week of March after which the threat of fire tends to get diluted. But so far there has been no reprieve from the searing heat and hence it has been decided to extend the tenure of the 435 fire watchers recruited on an ad hoc basis, by 15 days till April 15. A senior official at Bandipur said rains were confined to Moolehole and surrounding areas which was at best scanty. But the more fire-prone ranges including Moleyur, Gopalswamy Betta, Bandipur, and Hediyala continue to remain dry without any showers. Doused What is significant is that the tiger reserve has also escaped the brunt of major fire so far this year but for ground fire reported in a few areas which was doused soon after detection. The Forest Department has also sought the assistance of the fire forces to battle the scourge of forest fire while they have also appealed to the Indian Air Force for assistance in case of a fire. The IAF had deployed two choppers in 2019 to douse a major fire in the region and they were put out through aerial fire bombing using Bambi buckets. Officials said they have received assurance of assistance if the need arises. Meanwhile, about 50 per cent of the waterholes in Bandipur continue to harbour water which is relatively high for summer. This has been attributed to unseasonal rains in January and hence water woes will not affect wildlife. There are nearly 370 waterholes in Bandipur and the authorities have installed 48 solar-powered pumps that tend to replenish the major waterholes.These are located at vantage points where wildlife tend to move and are spread across various ranges of the 874 sq km national park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tenure-of-fire-watchers-at-bandipur-extended/article34241248.ece
05 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Online petition to drop helipad project||An online petition launched by a group of activists urging the government to drop the helipad project at Lalitha Mahal Palace and save hundreds of trees from being felled, has gained traction. The petition launched by M.K.Saptha Girish, Bhamy V. Shenoy and S. Shylajesha through change.org received over 40,000 signatures within 24 hours of its launch and the number was growing. The petitioners argued that Mysuru needed environmentally sustainable tourism and not a helipad near Lalitha Mahal hotel. The petition addressed to the Minister for Tourism, C.P.Yogeshwar, said Mysuru has unparalleled tourism spots including heritage palaces, old buildings with attractive architecture, lakes with stunning natural beauty and iconic Chamundi Hills with rich bio-diversity. “What we need is sustainable development and not the superficial and ephemeral attraction provided by helicopter tourism or ropeway project to reach the hills or energy guzzling Disneyland-type of entertainment at the cost of hundreds of trees which are the lung spaces in the city’’, said the petition. It was argued that the globe faces existential crisis of climate change today and what was needed was sustainable development. “Mysuru is one of the five model cities selected by the UN-habitat to demonstrate how to achieve sustainable development. We can play a critical role by promoting such a strategy for India through Mysuru. We are all for development, but of the kind which is sustainable’’, said the signatories. The petition said promoting heli-toursim by constructing a helipad next to Lalitha Mahal was not viable for attracting tourists to Mysuru and was bad for sustainable development. It said 60 acres of land surrounding Lalitha Mahal hotel hosts vegetation (about 40 species of host plants which are important for the breeding of butterflies) and it was also home to 180 species of butterflies including the State Butterfly, the Southern Birdwing, which is the biggest butterfly in India. Besides, it was home to 77 species of birds that could be found throughout the year and hence the space could be preserved as a natural museum of butterflies and birds so as to attract more tourist. Underlining the importance of increasing the green coverage, the petitioners argued that clearing the vegetation near Lalitha Mahal Palace to build a helipad would amount to destroying the existing green cover. Hence the Minister was suggested alternatives such as renting out the existing helipad belonging to the Wadiyars, build it on a vacant land near the exhibition ground or to use the Mandakalli airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/online-petition-to-drop-helipad-project/article34241264.ece
05 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Cong. MLAs accuse BSY of nepotism||Congress MLAs representing Hunsur and Varuna Assembly constituencies in Mysuru H.P. Manjunath and Yathindra Siddaramaiah respectively have accused Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa of practising nepotism in the release of funds for developmental works in their respective constituencies. Addressing a press conference in Mysuru, both the Congress MLAs cited instances of the State government approving works allegedly favoured by the Chief Minister’s family members or close relatives while blocking release of funds sought for the overall development of the people in the two MLAs’ constituencies. Mr. Manjunath said the BJP government’s contribution to Hunsur was “zero”. Far from sanctioning funds, the government was even withdrawing the already released funds, bringing developmental works in the constituency to a halt. Works worth more than Rs. 200 crore in 17 departments had been stalled due to non-release of funds, he alleged. While the people of Hunsur taluk were awaiting start of approved works that were pending release of funds, the BJP government headed by Mr. Yediyurappa had recently approved a Rs. 3 crore work for development of Dharmapura lake in the taluk allegedly for the benefit of his nephew’s farm that was situated near the waterbody, Mr. Manjunath said. The approval of work for the Dharmapura lake comes even as the works on development of Kattemalavadi lake, which would benefit a larger number of people, has remained a non-starter. Mr. Manjunath said he had reason to believe that the BJP government was discriminating against Hunsur constituency for the sole reason that the people defeated the candidate put up by the BJP in the by-polls after the fall of the coalition government. He alleged that public money was being misused for the benefit of the relatives and family ofMr. Yediyurappa, who has become a mere “rubber stamp”. Mr. Yediyurappa’s son B.Y. Vijayendra was issuing directions to government officials, Mr. Manjunath alleged. Mr. Yathindra Siddaramaiah endorsed Mr. Manjunath’s claims and said developmental work in Varuna constituency too has come to a virtual halt. The government is not even releasing the MLA’s Area Development Funds, let alone funds for other developmental activities. While this was the case, works worth more than Rs. 40 crore had been recently approved in Varuna constituency at the instance of Mr .Vijayendra, Mr. Yathindra alleged. “When the government was not taking up already approved works for the constituency for the benefit of the people, how can it approve works that were not even brought to the notice of the area MLA? So, the approvals had been stopped for now”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-mlas-accuse-bsy-of-nepotism/article34241266.ece
05 April 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Appointed as CBC member||R. Balasubramaniam, founder of Swami Vivekenanda Youth Movement (SVYM) and Chairman of Grassroots Research And Advocacy Movement (GRAAM), Mysuru, has been appointed as a member of the Capacity Building Commission (CBC). The CBC has been mandated to harmonise training standards, and create shared faculty and resources as part of the “Mission Karmayogi”, which is the National Programme for Civil Services Capacity Building (NPCSCB). The CBC, which is a wholly owned Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV), constituted to own and operate the online learning platform and facilitate world-class learning content marketplace, will also have a supervisory role over all central training institutions, according to a note from GRAAM. The appointment committee of the Union Cabinet issued orders on Mr. Balasubramaniam’s appointment on April 1. The CBC will assist the Prime Minister’s Public Human Resources Council in approving the annual capacity building plans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/appointed-as-cbc-member/article34241262.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CSTEP to help deal with air pollution||Bumper-to-bumper traffic, major road and other civic works taken up simultaneously have often seen the city turn into a dust bowl. Air pollution continues to be dangerously high despite widespread improvement in air quality during 2019 and 2020. Now, under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) action plan for 120 cities, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) has entered into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Center for Study of Science, Technology and Policy (CSTEP) for efficient implementation of the programme. CSTEP has been picked as an Institute of Repute (IoR) to work with Urban Local Bodies and State Pollution Control Boards. The recent development comes as the ‘World Air Quality Report, 2020’ compiled by IQAir has revealed that Bengaluru’s pollution levels were above the WHO prescribed limit in 46.7% of the days. The city’s annual average stands at 27.5 g/m3, nearly three times the prescribed limit. As part of the initiative, CSTEP will refine and help implement KSPCB's 44-point action plan, involving nine government departments and divided into ‘short-term, mid-term and long-term’ plans. The plan, which was submitted to the Union government had not been approved. Officials said the KSPCB had been asked to explain what it meant by ‘long’ and ‘short’ term, and to send timelines. Later, they submitted a revised plan. ‘Purely non-financial’ BBMP Special Commissioner (SWM) D. Randeep said the three-way MoU is a “purely non-financial technical support MoU”, wherein the IoR will help with implementation of the programme. “This is a time-bound programme. Apart from cleaning the streets, we also want to install air pollution monitors across the city, which will help us intervene in the right places with air mitigation efforts. We are also looking at a central command centre for BBMP,” he said. Last year, it was revealed that an action plan for nine projects amounting to Rs. 279 crore and aimed towards reducing air pollution has been drawn up by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Action Plan Committee. Some of the projects including improving pedestrian facilities, using water sprayers and mechanical street-sweeping machines to tackle dust pollution, making urban spaces more green and keeping a check on open-air burning of municipal waste. The projects are being funded by the Centre under the Urban Local Body grant as recommended by the 15th Finance Commission. In the first instalment, the Union government has released Rs. 2,200 crore, of which Rs. 139.5 crore has been sanctioned to Karnataka and transferred to the BBMP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cstep-to-help-deal-with-air-pollution/article34240853.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: BBMP requisitions 2,000 Home Guards to monitor citizens||With citizens blatantly flaunting COVID-19 rules and positive cases rising by the day, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has requisitioned 2,000 Home Guards to help with its enforcement drive. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta told The Hindu that this was discussed during a review meeting chaired by Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar on Saturday. He said that the 2,000 Home Guards will be in addition to the contingent of marshals as well as police personnel already deputed to enforce rules. He had written to the Director General of Police and Commandant General (Home Guards) in this regard. “The 2,000 Home Guards would be attached to the 108 police stations in the city. Each police station will have 20 Home Guards,” he said. The BBMP is hoping that the addition of Home Guards will help them strictly enforce COVID-19 appropriate behaviour in the city. “Experts have said that following COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and increasing vaccinations is the way forward. We are already focussing on vaccinating vulnerable people, including senior citizens and those with co-morbid conditions as well as people with a history of travel and exposure. We are working towards enhancing the number of vaccinations from 35,000 a day to at least 70,000 a day,” said Mr. Gupta. The maximum number of positive cases in the State are being reported from Bengaluru, with daily average touching 3,000. Health experts reiterated that wearing masks, maintaining social distance, and washing and sanitising hands frequently are essential to break the spread of the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2000-home-guards-roped-in-to-monitor-citizens/article34240861.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘The action plan’||Pratima Singh, research scientist who leads the Air Pollution domain at CSTEP, said, “CSTEP will provide knowledge, advice and performance assessment to BBMP and KSPCB. The BBMP’s action strategy includes procurement of mechanical sweepers, improvement of road infrastructure to reduce traffic congestion, and installation of water fountains at traffic junctions, and they have initiated work on this. Going forward, we will be preparing a more extensive action plan and implementation strategies for the city.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/the-action-plan/article34240854.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Real estate agency employee stabbed to death||A 25-year-old man was stabbed to death by a group of armed men in Sahakarnagar on Sunday. “The gang, which we suspect is from Hyderabad, argued with him over a sum of money that was due to them. After an argument, they stabbed him,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/real-estate-agency-employee-stabbed-to-death/article34240855.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Game on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/game-on/article34241246.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||Senior BJP leader K.S. Eshwarappawas a sought-after entity for journalists after he dashed off a letter to Governor Vajubhai Vala against Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s “interference” in the Rural Development andPanchayat Raj Department,which he heads. When he chose to address a press conference at Mysuru on the review meeting his department held on Friday, two days after shooting off the “loaded” letter to the Governor, a battery of journalists turned up for the interaction. Barely had he finished his brief on the meeting that reporters began flinging questions at him on his much-publicised squabble with the Chief Minister. The questions came so thick and fast that Mr. Eshwarappa could barely comprehend them in the din. The eagerness of journalists to throw questions at him apparently reminded him of the pandemonium usually seen in the State legislature. “This is how Congress and JD(S) members fight in the Assembly,” Mr. Eshwarappa remarked.   MLAs get requests of many kinds, but this one that came the way of JD(S) MLA C.N. Balakrishna(in picture)definitely stands out: a party worker from Shravanabelagola constituency sought financial aid from the MLA for dentures. Holding the MLA responsible for the loss of his teeth, Annappa of Kottanaghatta in Channarayapatna taluk wrote to Mr. Balakrishna. The incident, he explained, happened a couple of years ago. That fateful day, he was on a bus when he spotted the MLA by the roadside, talking to party workers. Annappa, in his eagerness to join the group, jumped off the moving bus, only to land on his face and losing his teeth. Reminding the MLA about the incident, Mr. Annappa said he was a loyal worker of the JD(S) and he needed financial support to get dentures. When mediapersons in Channarayapatna brought the incident to the notice of Mr. Balakrishna, he readily agreed to help the poor, toothless worker. Laiqh A. Khan, Sathish G.T.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article34240869.ece
05 April 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||No shortage of enthusiasm in Alappuzha||The high-decibel open campaigning for the April 6 Assembly polls drew to a close on Sunday as the race headed for a photo finish in the Alappuzha district. Although jamboree ( kottikalasham ), which traditionally marks the end of the open campaigning, was abandoned in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, there was no shortage of enthusiasm. Left Democratic Front (LDF), United Democratic Front (UDF), and National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidates held roadshows, padayatra and rallies in the final hours of the campaign. The LDF is hoping to repeat the performance of the 2016 Assembly polls when it almost swept the district, winning eight of the nine seats. The UDF on the other hand is confident of improving its tally. Giving both fronts a tight fight is the NDA. It is expected to be a close fight in most of the seats in the district. Among the constituencies witnessing extremely tight contests are Aroor and Kayamkulam. In Aroor, sitting MLA Shanimol Usman of the Congress is up against Alappuzha district panchayat vice president Daleema Jojo of the CPI (M), and T. Aniyappan of the BDJS. U. Prathibha, MLA, of the CPI (M) is engaged in a pitched battle with Aritha Babu of the Congress in Kayamkulam. Pradeep Lal of the BDJS is the NDA candidate there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-shortage-of-enthusiasm-in-alappuzha/article34241211.ece
05 April 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||More proof on Adani deal: Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has said that he has more proof on the agreement entered into by Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) with Adani enterprises. At a press meeting in Munnar on Sunday, he said that KSEB had signed an agreement with Adani enterprises for purchasing power at a high rate. He distributed copies of the short-term agreement. The KSEB had issued a letter to Adani enterprises on February 15, 2021, for purchasing power in April and May. The power will be purchased at Rs. 3.04 a unit. KSEB commercial and planning wing deputy chief engineer had signed the agreement, he said. “The Electricity Minister had claimed that the KSEB had no agreement with Adani enterprises. But KSEB had written a letter to the Power Regulatory Commission to get permission to purchase power from the company. The commission had conducted a hearing with Adani enterprises and three other firms, and the agreement was signed,” he said. As per the contract, power will be purchased in four phases from April 1 to 15, April 16 to 30, May 1 to 15 and May 16 to 31. The KSEB had already received power from Adani enterprise at Rs. 3.04 a unit, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-proof-on-adani-deal-chennithala/article34241183.ece
05 April 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Campaigning in Idukki ends peacefully||After reaching the high-pitch level in the morning it was a slow and peaceful end to the poll campaign in the five constituencies of the district on Sunday. The kottikalasam was suspended to keep the COVID-19 protocol and the two municipalities of Kattappana and Thodupuzha wore a deserted look. The five constituencies that go for polling on Tuesday are Peerumade, Udumbanchola, Idukki, Thodupuzha, and Devikulam. Arrangements are also in place to prevent cross border voting. District Collector H. Dinesan said arrangements were in place for voting in 1,292 booths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/campaigning-in-idukki-ends-peacefully/article34241204.ece
05 April 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Campaigns conclude peacefully in Wayanad||The month-long campaign for the Assembly polls concluded peacefully in the district on Sunday evening. Electioneering did not reach fever pitch in the final hours, as the Election Commission had banned ‘kottikkalasam’. Hence, the campaigners mainly focused on door-to-door visits. However, small roadshows and marches were taken out by political parties across the district. “All arrangements are in place for the polls,” District Collector and District Election Officer Adeela Abdulla said. A total of 6,16,110 voters, including 3,12,870 women and six transgenders, are expected to exercise their franchise.  A total of 948 polling booths, including 372 auxiliary booths, have been set up in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/campaigns-conclude-peacefully-in-wayanad/article34241155.ece
05 April 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||CM debunks Oppn.’s debt charge||Responding to allegations of the Congress on Kerala’s high debt, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that the State’s debt is lower than the Congress-ruled Rajasthan and the BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh. The Opposition is building a house of cards based on lies, he said. Addressing a ‘meet-the-press’ organised at the Kannur Press Club on Sunday, he said that as per Reserve Bank of India figures, Kerala’s debt was 31.2% of the GDP for the financial year 2019-20. In Rajasthan, it was 33.1%, in Punjab, 40.3%, in Uttar Pradesh, 34%, in West Bengal 37.1% and in Bihar, 31.9%. Kerala’s debt was quite low when compared to these States. “People will reject the propaganda that Kerala is in a debt trap,” he said. Response to power deal Countering the allegation raised by the Leader of the Opposition that the KSEB had cost the exchequer Rs. 1,000 crore by signing an agreement to purchase wind power at Rs. 2.80 a unit, he said the price was much lower than that bought by the Congress-ruled Rajasthan or Punjab governments. He said Punjab purchased wind power at Rs. 5.76 and solar power at Rs. 7.25, while Rajasthan bought power for Rs. 5.02 and solar power for Rs. 4.20 a unit. “Will the Leader of the Opposition ask the Punjab and Rajasthan governments to cancel those deals,” he asked. He said the previous UDF government had entered into 11 long-term agreements for purchasing 1,585 MW power at Rs. 3.91 to Rs. 5.42 a unit. By Mr. Chennithala’s yardstick, the State would have incurred huge losses via such agreements, he said. Many challenges Over the past five years, Kerala had to overcome many challenges, including the hurdles put up by the Union government. The Opposition had sought to undermine the State’s survival efforts. There was never a good word from the UDF or the BJP, he said. “Within the limited jurisdiction of a State, the LDF has proved that an alternative policy is possible. The people have rejected the politics of the UDF and embraced that of the LDF. The UDF believes that it can crush the LDF by teaming up with the BJP and the Jamaat-e-Islami. They will face a severe setback at the polls,” he said. He appealed to Keralites to guard secularism to protect the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-debunks-oppns-debt-charge/article34241184.ece
05 April 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||CM’s roadshow draws huge crowd||Holding flags, balloons, and placards, a horde of people followed Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who is the Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate in the Dharmadam constituency, during a roadshow held on the last day of the election campaign on Sunday. Starting the final leg of his campaign around 2.30 p.m. from Peralassery, Mr. Vijayan stood on his campaign vehicle all through the rally, which ended at his native village Pinarayi at 6.30 p.m. He was accompanied by CPI leader C.N. Chandran, CPI(M) leaders E.P. Jayarajan and M.V. Jayarajan, and actors Harisree Ashokan and Indrans. Appeal to voters While appealing to people to vote for the LDF, Mr. Vijayan said the Left alone could safeguard secularism and ensure a corruption-free government in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayis-roadshow-draws-huge-crowds/article34241154.ece
05 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Lacklustre end to poll campaign in city||Its was a lacklustre conclusion for the nearly one-month-long and electrifying political campaign in the city on Sunday. With the Election Commission banning mass rallies to mark the culmination of the election campaign, political parties and candidates kept the concluding session a low-key affair. All the usual enthusiasm and ballyhoo attached to the culmination of the campaign was missing. Political activists shouting slogans from the top of their lungs too were absent. Being a Sunday, the roads were less occupied by vehicles and pedestrians. Instead of vehicles decked up with party flags and festoons, mini vans and jeeps with the pictures of candidates and their election symbols fixed on them were seen parked at strategic locations. Recorded statements and campaign songs were played out from them with a few activists hanging around the vehicles. Tractor ride P.T. Thomas, the UDF candidate in Thrikkakara constituency, went for a tractor ride through the constituency, declaring solidarity with farmers who are protesting demanding the withdrawal of farm laws. Accompanied by an artist who dressed up as Maveli, the mythical King, Mr. Thomas addressed party workers from the tractor and sought votes. For LDF candidate Dr. J. Jacob, activists of the front took out rallies in 162 booths in the constituency. The candidate took out a door-to-door campaign at Giri Nagar. He also used the day to meet close friends and relatives to ensure their votes. Poll manifesto Supporters of Shaji George Pranatha, the LDF candidate of Ernakulam constituency, took out a procession. The rally, which began from SRM Road, ended at Ayyappankavu. A poll manifesto of the candidate was released by Mayor M. Anilkumar. The candidate also visited voters who are residing in apartment complexes, which could not be covered earlier. T.J. Vinod, the UDF candidate of Ernakulam, dedicated the day for meeting voters at their homes. He began the house visit at Cheranalloor and covered the Vaduthala area by noon. In the afternoon, he met voters in Ernakulam South and Thevara areas. UDF workers took out rallies in Vaduthala and Cheranalloor areas. On Saturday, party workers had taken out a cycle rally in the Ernakulam area. All candidates wrapped up their public campaign by 7 p.m. on Sunday as instructed by the Election Commission. They will now be focusing on personal visits and setting up polling counters to ensure votes are polled on April 6, the polling day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lacklustre-end-to-poll-campaign-in-city/article34241180.ece
05 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Industry hit as workers leave for voting||Kabir Ahmad (name changed), a migrant worker in Perumbavoor, had to spend a small fortune on a flight ticket to return home to Hojai district of Assam last month following his parents’ anguished plea to get back in time for voting. Their desperation was borne out of the perceived danger posed to the community by the National Register of Citizens (NRC) proposed by the Union government and the cost that each wasted vote may entail in the fight to keep the legislation at bay. Though not fully convinced of their anxiety, Kabir, who has been in Kerala for over a decade and speaks fluent Malayalam, did vote in the election held on April 1. The State elections to the Assemblies of West Bengal and Assam seem to have assumed unprecedented significance among the sizeable migrant communities from these two States in the wake of the NRC and its potential implications, leading to their mass exodus back home despite having returned here after considerable struggle in search of jobs following the COVID-19-induced lockdown. Plywood, construction, and hospitality industries in the State have been seriously hit following their exit. “The production in plywood industry dropped by about 40%. The migrants from the religious minority community fear that if they do not turn up to vote, the local politicians may abandon them,” says Mujeeb Rahman, State president, All Kerala Plywood and Block Board Manufacturers Association. “There is a definite fear psychosis among the migrants from the religious minorities in the northeastern States and West Bengal reflecting in the unprecedented interest in the Assembly elections. Those from the religious minority community perceive it as a vote against the implementation of the NRC and those from the majority community as a vote for it,” says Benoy Peter, executive director, Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development. The hospitality industry, which is heavily reliant on migrant workers from the northeast and West Bengal has also felt the pinch. “Most of our major clients are facing difficulties and there seems no permanent solution in sight. Our attempt to fill the gap by bringing in migrants from Odisha has failed in the face of large-scale attrition,” says T.R. Krishnakumar, director of business development, KLR Facility Management Private Limited, which supplies human resource to major players in the industry. In pineapple farming The pineapple sector too has witnessed a sharp fall in the number of workers though the price of the fruit has gone up to Rs. 40 a kg after a year-long slump. Around 25,000 workers from other States work in the sector and about 20,000 are from Assam and West Bengal. Most of these workers have gone back for the elections, said Baby John, a pineapple farmer in Vazhakkulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/industry-hit-as-workers-leave-for-voting/article34241167.ece
05 April 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Kerala government takes care of people’s lives’||To a tweet by Subhashini Ali, Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] Polit Bureau member, with a picture of her ancestral home in Kerala’s Anakkara village where her 100-year-old aunt who lives alone is getting weekly visits by a doctor and a nurse from a nearby palliative care centre set up by the government, someone commented that it was socialism at its worst. “Everything is free. No responsibility for individuals...” the critic said. However, someone else replied to this comment: “And this is capitalism at its worst, expects responsibilities even from a 100-year-old. Everything comes with a price tag. Humanity is the last thing on their list (sic).” In an interview with The Hindu a week ago, Ms. Ali spoke about the palliative care assistance given by the government, asking: “Can anybody expect anything like this anywhere else in India? Absolutely no. There’s no way the people’s lives are taken care of by a government as it is happening in Kerala.” She believes that the work done by the government in the crisis-ridden period has been tremendous and recounts the words of appreciation of migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh, “who are not voters” in Kerala, who were given food, medical care and basic accessories for travel during the pandemic. “That is because it has considered all human beings as deserving respect,” she says. Diversionary tactics Ms. Ali rubbishes allegations against the government calling them diversionary tactics. While the Centre is using its agencies to target political opponents all over India, unfortunately in Kerala, the UDF is just echoing the BJP, she says. While crores of children in north India have been deprived of a year of education for lack of access to Internet, look at what Kerala has done to provide everyone access. What the government has done in the education sector is ‘phenomenal’, she maintains. ‘Love-jihad’ question On the attempts by the BJP to get more than a toehold in Kerala, she says the whole Indian society has been caste-ridden where a section of people hanker after some old, golden age of privilege, which probably never existed. “They are prejudiced against the backward castes, women and minorities... But the BJP feeds on such retrograde tendencies.” On the BJP’s promise of a law against ‘love-jihad’, she says the Uttar Pradesh example should be viewed seriously. “It is not against love jihad because there is no such thing and the courts have opined against it again and again. So, they have made conversion for the purpose of marriage impossible and it has been criminalised. Who are being arrested? Young Muslims and Christians! And Christians are being accused of indulging in conversion, which is not true at all. But it is difficult to disprove that. Nuns are under attack daily which is under-reported.” Fundamental right “The laws are stringent and wide-ranging. What we forget is that the right to choose a marriage partner is also a fundamental right for women. These are Constitutional rights getting attacked. They are doing away with these rights,” she says.  Centre is using its agencies to target political opponents all over India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-government-takes-care-of-peoples-lives/article34241173.ece
05 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||368 fresh cases in district||Four health workers were among the 368 people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. Thrikkakara recorded 16 new cases, while Kadavanthra saw 12, Perumbavoor 11 and Vengola 10. A total of 6,061 samples were collected for testing. With 142 people testing negative on the day, the active caseload is at 2,564. After having remained below 300 since the first week of March, daily figures have risen above the 300-mark recently, with 316 cases on Wednesday and 327 cases on Thursday this past week. Health officials are anticipating another surge in cases in the post-election scenario. “We are likely to see a surge, but are hoping that the figures stay below the spike we started witnessing in September and December last year,” said Dr. Mathews Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission (NHM). Infrastructure at the Palluruthy and Thripunithura taluk hospitals, and the community health centres at Vengola, Ramamangalam, Malipuram, and Vadavucode would be able to handle a surge, in addition to the four second-line treatment centres and the 150-bed facility at the CIAL treatment centre, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/368-fresh-cases-in-district/article34241175.ece
05 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||P.T. Thomas’ allegation baseless, says LDF||The Statement made by P.T. Thomas, United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate in Thrikkakara, about Twenty20 being the B team of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, is baseless, according to C.K. Manisankar, secretary of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) Thrikkakara constituency election committee. The discussion during electioneering in Thrikkakara hovered around lack of development in the constituency. No basic infrastructure development to resolve drinking water shortage or traffic snarls took place there, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pt-thomas-allegation-baseless-says-ldf/article34241181.ece
05 April 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Chief of Defence Staff in city||General Bipin Rawat, the Chief of Defence Staff, arrived on a two-day visit to Southern Naval Command here on Saturday. This is his first visit to Kochi after taking over as the Chief of Defence Staff. He would review the training infrastructure at Southern Naval Command - the Training Command of Indian Navy. Gen. Rawat would also visit the Indigenous Aircraft Carrier, under construction at Cochin Shipyard Limited and review its progress. He would also visit various professional training schools and witness the Damage Control Training Facility at the Naval Base here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chief-of-defence-staff-in-city/article34241177.ece
05 April 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Electioneering ends sans usual din in Kollam||The intensive campaign in district’s 11 Assembly segments came to a close at 7p.m. here on Sunday. Though there was no high-octave Kottikalasm this time, most of the candidates held roadshows and rallies from the early hours and the excitement of party workers was very evident on the last day of open electioneering. In Kollam constituency, UDF candidate Bindu Krishna started her day with a roadshow from Ramankulangara that reached Thangassery in the evening. M. Mukesh’s road show ended a with a public meeting attended by party workers. Though the frenzy didn’t reach a higher pitch, the enthusiasm and confidence of the crowd was quite palpable. The roadshow of NDA candidate B.B. Gopakumar concluded in Chathannur junction while LDF candidate G.S. Jayalal also toured various parts of the segment till evening. Kottarkara LDF candidate K.N. Balagopal visited Kerala Congress (B) leader R. Balakrishna Pillai to wish him on his birthday. In Chavara, UDF candidate Shibu Baby John’s campaign ended on a high note with several supporters participating in the finale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/electioneering-ends-sans-usual-din-in-kollam/article34241212.ece
05 April 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Puthupally calm as countdown begins||The narrow road that leads to this former Chief Minister’s residence in Puthuppally became a beehive of activity from early morning onwards. It was just a few hours before the electioneering to conclude on Sunday but Oommen Chandy was still stuck at home. Standing amidst a motley crowd, the leader attended each one of them while also making room for a long line of media persons. If electioneering is all about reaching out to voters, it works just the other way for this battle-hardened veteran. “The pre-poll surveys that forecast an outright win for the Left Democratic Front (LDF) have done something that even we could not do. It has helped re-activate the United Democratic Front (UDF) framework,” Mr. Chandy said. With the final day of campaigning coinciding with the Easter, he toured the various local bodies while also making some personal visits. Jaick C. Thomas, the LDF candidate, began the final day of campaigning with a visit to Mattakkara in Aakalakunnam panchayat. “The situation on the ground has changed considerably and the fort will be breached this time,” he sounded upbeat. The stature of Mr. Chandy as the undisputed leader of Puthuppally has failed to unsettle the LDF a wee bit. Adding to the coalition’s confidence this time is the remarkable performance the Left coalition staged during the recent local body elections across the segment. N. Hari, the candidate fielded by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), meanwhile, campaigned in full blast and visited different panchayats and an election convention at Manarcad. He appeared confident of the high-voltage campaign involving various national level leaders of the BJP including the Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh making the difference this time. “What the NDA envisions is an extension of its welfare and development initiatives for the people of Kerala to take the state out of its current phase of stagnation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/puthupally-calm-as-countdown-begins/article34241207.ece
05 April 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Campaign draws to close in Kottayam||Campaigning for the Assembly elections in Kottayam, a region that also sets the stage for a direct battle between the rival Kerala Congress groups, drew to a close on Sunday amidst speculations of an unprecedented tight fight between the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF). As many as 15.93 lakh voters will decide the fate of the 66 candidates contesting across the nine Assembly segments. Taking electioneering to a crescendo, candidates stepped up the frequency of campaign on Sunday in a last-minute bid to woo the electorate. The focus of the final round of campaign across the region was on road shows and personal visits in which the candidates were also seen taking part in the Easter day celebrations of voters. While former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy visited the various local body centres in the Puthupally constituency, Kerala Congress (M) leader Jose K. Mani and his rival candidate and president of the Nationalist Kerala Congress party spent most part of the day by making personal visits. The LDF and NDA candidates, meanwhile, campaigned full blast in their segments. Heating up the poll scene in Poonjar on the final day, Kerala Janapaksham (Secular) candidate P.C. George came up with allegations of vote trading between the SDPI and the LDF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/campaign-draws-to-close-in-kottayam/article34241208.ece
05 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Campaign ends without ‘kottikkalasam’||Last-minute fireworks were missing. Neither there were many clashes between party workers that the adrenaline rush usually leads to. But excitement was nevertheless at its peak at the Kozhikode beach when the public campaign for the Assembly polls drew to a close in the district on Sunday evening. Just a day left for voting, workers and candidates will now engage in silent campaign on Monday. Though it was expected that the number of workers will be less in view of the ban on ‘kottikkalasam’, hordes of people participated in the last leg in style. Campaign songs blared loudly from vehicles as vote seeking reached its zenith. COVID social protocols were thrown to the wind in many places. What energised United Democratic Front (UDF) workers was former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi’s roadshow for the candidates from Kozhikode North and Kozhikode South Assembly seats, K.M. Abhijith and Noorbina Rasheed, respectively. Hundreds of UDF workers participated in the event that started from Puthiyakadavu and concluded on the Light House premises in the afternoon. Even after Mr. Gandhi left for Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram, the workers did not disperse, but held their own ‘show’, a majority of them workers of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), in support of the candidates. Small groups of workers, some of them accompanied by people beating drums, were seen roaming around the beach. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) too concluded the campaign with a show of strength on the road sans kottikkalasam. Very few State-level leaders of the CPI(M) were, however, seen during the campaign in the city. Ahmed Devarkovil, the LDF candidate for Kozhikode South, held the event from the Palayam area and Thottathil Raveendran, candidate from Kozhikode North, was seen in an open campaign vehicle, accompanied by A. Pradeep Kumar, MLA, at Nadakkavu. Candidates of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), however, came to the beach side for their final leg of the campaign just half an hour or so before 7 p.m. Rural areas According to reports, almost a similar pattern of campaign was seen in rural areas and towns in the district. The LDF has 11 MLAs from the district, the UDF two, and the Congress has none. The party hopes to improve its performance this time, and the UDF expects to snatch Vadakara from the LDF by fielding K.K. Rema, wife of slain Revolutionary Marxist Party (RMP) leader T.P. Chandrasekharan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/campaign-ends-without-kottikkalasam/article34241150.ece
05 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rising BJP vote share to mar UDF prospects?||The emerging presence of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the State’s traditionally bipolar electoral scene may benefit the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the upcoming Assembly polls. The results of the previous Assembly elections show that the rise in vote-share of the BJP in the State has been damaging the prospects of the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) more than that of the Left alliance. The composition of the two rival coalitions may be undergoing changes in the run-up to the polls but the way the electorate moves finally is anyone’s guess. Significantly, the political graph of the BJP has been steadily climbing after the Narendra Modi government came to power in 2014. Besides, the party moderately increased its vote-share after it cobbled up an alliance with Bharath Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) in the 2015 local body polls. However, even if the BJP did not have an alliance with the Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam-backed entity, the Nair- Ezhava binary would have continued to work to the advantage of the party. This social engineering methodology, cleverly employed through its community leaders, was evident in the 2019 Lok Sabha and the 2020 local body polls. For the Congress party, it was only about losing the Nair community votes to the BJP. But for the CPI(M), the party witnessed an erosion in its traditional Ezhava vote-base and from the Nair community as well. This may have possibly compelled Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to make a Facebook post flaying the Congress party for adopting a subservient role to the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) even as the party gained a section of minority votes, especially of the Muslim community. This time, the BJP’s target is to get at least 12 seats and also increase its vote-share between 18-20%. However, the outburst of RSS ideologue R. Balasankar that the BJP had tacit deal with the CPI(M) and the perceived pro-Congress stand adopted by the Nair Service Society appear to threaten the ambitions of the party. Besides, many party supporters feel that their votes would be wasted if they choose to vote for losing BJP candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rising-bjp-vote-share-to-mar-udf-prospects/article34241165.ece
05 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Frenzy peaks as Rahul leads roadshow||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi left workers of the United Democratic Front (UDF) electrified as he campaigned for K.M. Abhijith and Noorbina Rasheed, candidates from Kozhikode North and Kozhikode South respectively, at the Kozhikode beach on Sunday. The party and the front hopes that Mr. Gandhi’s presence will swing the undecided voters from the district towards their candidates as public campaign concluded and shifted to the silent mode. The ‘Rahul roadshow’ began from Puthiyakadavu beach in the afternoon, and hundreds of workers of the Congress and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) thronged the area with their party flags. Earlier, Mr. Gandhi flew down at the Exhibition Grounds on a chopper. The Congress leader boarded an electric autorickshaw to go to the beach. Mr. Gandhi, Mr. Abhijith, and Ms. Rasheed were seen along with Congress general secretary K.C. Venugopal atop an open vehicle and greeting the workers. M.K. Raghavan, MP, and P.M. Niyas, UDF candidate from Beypore, boarded the vehicle in the course of the journey. Local residents were seen standing atop the terraces of their houses and waving towards Mr. Gandhi, who reciprocated the gesture. The event culminated on the Light House premises, and Mr. Gandhi left for Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram. In Wayanad Addressing an election rally for UDF candidate P.K. Jayalakshmi at Vellamunda in Wayanad district on Sunday, Mr. Gandhi said the election would determine the future of Kerala. Though was elected to the Lok Sabha with a record margin from Wayanad, he was not able to utilise his privilege as an MP under the LDF regime, he said. If the UDF is voted to power in the State, he could do more for his constituency, Mr. Gandhi added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/frenzy-peaks-as-rahul-leads-roadshow/article34241146.ece
05 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Safety measures in place||With a day left for the Assembly elections, the police have readied all major safety arrangements and deployment of 7,250 police officers, including para-military and special police personnel, in Kozhikode district. Considering the huge number of hypersensitive and critical booths, over 4,800 police officers will work in the rural areas of Kozhikode. Kozhikode city will get the services of 2,417 personnel. According to the election authorities, the Kozhikode Rural police district has 29 critical booths and 401 sensitive booths. Around 850 officials from various para-military forces will offer their services along with the local police in selected rural booths. To keep an eye on areas frequented by suspected Maoists, an anti-Naxal team will camp in the district. In Kozhikode city, there are 98 sensitive booths and 14 critical booths. For administrative convenience, the number of police sub divisions has been raised to six. Apart from the deployed teams, two separate striking forces will be kept ready within the Kozhikode City and Kozhikode Rural police district limits. There will be more video surveillance squads to monitor the movement of voters and party workers near booths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/safety-measures-in-place/article34241152.ece
05 April 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||403 new COVID cases in Kozhikode||As many as 403 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Kozhikode district on Sunday. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 395 locally acquired infections and the source of six others was not known. A total of 299 others recovered from the infection and the active caseload is 4,220. As many as 4,499 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate is 9.59%. District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao has urged the public to maintain vigil against COVID-19 to avoid the district from going into lockdown mode after the Assembly polls. Addressing a meeting of sectoral magistrates here on Sunday, he warned of strict action against those who did not wear masks and follow the COVID-19 protocol in public places. The sectoral magistrates have been asked to visit places where there were chances of crowding to check if people followed norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/403-new-covid-cases-in-kozhikode/article34241151.ece
05 April 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Denied voting right: actor||National award winning actor Surabhi Lakshmi has alleged that she and her sister were removed from the voters’ list without any hearing based on complaints by some vested interests. The actor, in a Facebook post on Sunday, alleged that she was denied the right to vote after someone complained that she was not a resident in the ward. Ms. Surabhi is a voter of booth 134 in ward 11 of Narikkuni panchayat in Kozhikode. She had changed residence temporarily for her mother’s treatment. Her absence prompted the removal of her name from the list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/denied-voting-right-actor/article34241182.ece
05 April 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Novel ways to evade finale restrictions||Active electioneering in 12 Assembly constituencies in Palakkad district came to an end on Sunday evening. As the Election Commission had banned Kottikalasham, the noisy finale, the culmination lacked the usual excitement. However, candidates circumvented the final day restrictions by resorting to unique means to ignite voters’ curiosity. As there was a ban on motorcycle rallies, some candidates, especially Left Democratic Front (LDF) Independents, took to autorickshaw rallies. S.K. Ananthakrishnan, UDF candidate in Malampuzha, mounted a bullock cart on the last day of open electioneering. Although slow and without any hood to shelter passengers from the scorching sun, the novel canvassing evoked curiosity among people. Maoist threat The Election Commission had banned the raucous finale usually found on the last day of active campaigning in view of COVID-19 situation in the State. Active campaigning came to an end at 7 p.m. in most constituencies. However, in constituencies like Kongad, Mannarkkad, Malampuzha and Nilambur, which face Maoist threat, electioneering ended at 6 p.m. Polling will also be from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. in those constituencies. In other constituencies, polling will be from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Candidates and their supporters will engage in silent campaigning on Monday. National leaders The ruling LDF, the prime Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF), and challenger National Democratic Alliance (NDA) had engaged in a heated campaign to get their candidates elected. National leaders like Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, and CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Prakash Karat to campaign for their parties’ candidates in Palakkad. The presence of technocrat E. Sreedharan in Palakkad on the NDA banner has attracted attention from across the country. The NDA is giving a spirited fight in Palakkad and Malampuzha. The UDF and the LDF are pitted in a direct fight in Thrithala, Pattambi, Chittur, Ottapalam, and Nenmara. In Thrissur, the public campaigning concluded on an uneventful note. All major candidates in the 13 constituencies attended roadshows and public meetings. The LDF is on a no-holds-barred campaign for repeating the 2016 verdict when they won 12 out of 13 seats, while the UDF is trying hard to regain its strongholds. The NDA is on an attempt to improve its vote share. Though there were no usual high-voltage processions for the climax, hundreds of workers accompanied the candidates with drums and traditional art forms.  (With inputs from Thrissur bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/novel-ways-to-evade-finale-restrictions/article34241302.ece
05 April 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Facilities in place in Palakkad||Election arrangements reached the final stage in Palakkad on Sunday. Nearly 18 lakh people are expected to reach the polling booths across 12 constituencies in the district on Tuesday. The district has 22.94 lakh voters. While Malampuzha has the largest number of voters (213,231), Tarur has the lowest (170,119). As many as 73 candidates are in the fray in the district. As many as 3,425 polling stations have been set up in the district. The polling will begin at 7 a.m. and end at 6 p.m. However, from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m., differently abled people will be allowed to vote. COVID-19 affected people and those in quarantine can also vote after the completion of normal polling, said District Collector Mrunmai Joshi. The number of voters in a polling station will be restricted to 1,000. As many as 1,316 auxiliary booths have been arranged by dividing polling booths having more than 1,000 voters. Chittur has the largest number of auxiliary booths (133), and Shoranur the lowest (75). As many as 17,125 officials have been assigned polling duty in the district. Twelve booths will have only women as polling officials, one such booth in each constituency. Election officials said arrangements were made for the differently abled persons to reach polling booths. The distribution of polling equipment will begin at 9 a.m. on Monday. There are nine centres for distribution of polling equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/facilities-in-place-in-palakkad/article34241303.ece
05 April 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Protests mark end of campaigning in Pathanamthitta||Campaigning for the Assembly elections to the five seats in Pathanamthitta drew to a close on Sunday, setting the stage for polling on Tuesday. While attempting to push up the support base, the rival parties also entered into tussles at a few locations. UDF candidate in Adoor M.G. Kannan staged a sit-in in front of the Returning Officer seeking action against the malicious personal campaign against him. A minor clash between the LDF and UDF activists followed. The three leading coalitions campaigned full blast on the final day with road shows and rallies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protests-mark-end-of-campaigning-in-pathanamthitta/article34241209.ece
05 April 2021||THIRUAVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Security strengthened in city||The city came under a tight security net on Sunday with nearly 1,500 police and 700 Central Armed Police Forces personnel being deployed to various parts as part of the election arrangements. One thousand special police officers, comprising ex-servicemen and retired officials, have also been deployed to assist the security forces. Fifty group patrol and an equal number of law and order patrol teams have also been keeping constant vigil over the 1,403 polling booths in the city. Among these, there are 206 sensitive, 10 critical and 81 vulnerable booths in various parts. The Central forces will be deployed to vulnerable booths. Additional police deployments will be in place at sensitive booths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/security-strengthened-in-city/article34241346.ece
05 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Roadshows mark end of campaigning||Brisk tours of the constituencies kept candidates occupied on the final day of campaigning in the district, and by evening the pace was stepped up with roadshows, ‘padayatras’ and rallies. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi were among the senior leaders who campaigned in the district on the day. LDF’s V. K. Prasanth, led a ‘road roller march’ in the Vattiyurkavu segment. It was meant to be symbolic of the public works undertaken during his watch as MLA. K. Muraleedharan, S. S. Lal, Veena S. Nair and V. S. Sivakumar, the UDF candidates in Nemom, Kazhakuttam, Vattiyurkavu and Thiruvanananthapuram, attended a rally with Rahul Gandhi in the evening at Poojappura. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, the LDF candidate in Kazhakuttam, held a rally in the segment and attended a women’s meet in the evening. In Nemom, LDF candidate V. Sivankutty conducted a road show, while Kummanam Rajasekharan and Sobha Surendran, the BJP candidates in Nemom and Kazhakuttam respectively, led ‘padayatras’ in their constituencies on Friday. The BJP candidate in Vattiyurkavu, V. V. Rajesh, and P. K. Krishnadas, the BJP candidate in Kattakada, led vehicle rallies. Ms. Sitharaman lent her star power to NDA’s candidate J.R. Padmakumar in Nedumagad as his campaign concluded with a roadshow from Pazhakutty to Market junction. The LDF candidate in Nedumangad, G.R. Anil, also took out a roadshow, while UDF candidate P.S. Prasanth opted for a low-key end to his campaign, participating in family meetings and a foot march in Andoorkonam. In Kovalam, JD(S) veteran and LDF candidate A. Neelalohithadasan Nadar and his UDF rival M. Vincent wound up their campaigns with road shows. The NDA candidate Vishnupuram Chandrasekharan also toured various parts of the Assembly segment. V. Joy, the LDF candidate in Varkala, toured the colonies in the segment and attended family meets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/roadshows-mark-end-of-campaigning/article34241348.ece
05 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Party is supreme: Pinarayi||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday ventured to shrug off the Opposition’s campaign that he had concentrated power for himself in the CPI(M) and the LDF government. Speaking in Kannur, Mr. Vijayan said the party was supreme. He was extremely well-grounded as a communist. Accolades did not go to his head. The policies and programmes of the party attracted the public, not any individual leader’s persona. The CPI(M) would correct leaders who mistakenly placed themselves above the party. Mr. Vijayan said some quarters were reading too much into CPI(M) leader P. Jayarajan’s FB post. Mr. Jayarajan had written that only the party deserved the honorific title ‘captain,’ an endearment used increasingly by CPI(M) workers to single out Mr. Vijayan. The party line The Chief Minister said Mr. Jayarajan had merely articulated the CPI(M) line on leadership. “Mr. Jayarajan had correctly reiterated that the party is the captain and not any individual leader,” he said. Congress leaders had seized on Mr. Jayarajan’s musings on captaincy to attack Mr. Vijayan. They alleged that the CPI(M) was in the grip of a personality cult centred around Mr. Vijayan. The Congress also felt that Mr. Jayarajan’s post signalled a realignment within the CPI(M) against Mr. Vijayan’s ‘authoritarianism.’ KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said Mr. Vijayan loathed being addressed as ‘comrade.’ The Chief Minister had crowned himself as captain and splurged Rs. 800 crore on building a cult around his personality. Jayarajan’s response Mr. Jayarajan said the right-wing media had misinterpreted his FB post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/party-is-supreme-pinarayi/article34241186.ece
05 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF indulging in politics of hatred: Rahul||Accusing the Left Democratic Front (LDF) of indulging in a politics of hatred and division similar to the BJP-RSS, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has said that Kerala is going to show a way to the whole of India with its decision in this Assembly election. He was speaking at a public rally in Poojappura on Sunday evening, at the fag end of the hectic campaigning in the Nemom constituency, the only seat won by the BJP in Kerala. “The Prime Minister spends every single day talking about Congress-mukht Bharat. I have never heard him say CPI(M)-mukht Bharat. They use Central agencies to pull down the government in non-BJP States. I want to understand why they are not doing that to the LDF government in Kerala. There is open corruption in the State. Why is the BJP not investigating it? Because the BJP has only one goal — elimination of the Congress,” Mr. Gandhi said. He said the Assembly elections are about the future of the State, which more than any State is an idea and a way of looking at the world. ‘Congress is an idea’ “Just like Kerala, the Congress is not just an organisation, it is an idea. The BJP is not worried about the organisation, but about this idea of togetherness, sameness, respect, affection and ability to see someone else’s pain. They do not have any problem with the Left, because the Left is based on the same idea of hatred, division, anger and inability to see another human being’s pain,” Mr. Gandhi said. He said the biggest problem in Kerala today was reflected in the voices of the youth protesting in front of the Secretariat. The BJP government at the Centre and LDF government in the State had failed to fulfil the aspirations of the youth. The BJP had destroyed the economy. The Centre kept raising fuel prices. The UDF would implement the Nyay scheme in Kerala to help people tide over these problems, Mr. Gandhi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-indulging-in-politics-of-hatred-rahul/article34241188.ece
05 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Aggressive vaccination drive to outpace virus||As the rapid rise in infections in the second wave of COVID-19 is already beginning to overwhelm hospitals in many States, Kerala is anxiously watching its COVID-19 case graph, which seems to have been climbing since March 24. “The State’s epidemic curve has not shifted yet but it looks poised to climb further. If one were to look at districts, cases have gone up by 11-30% in many northern districts. We expected cases to rise post-elections but the graph has already begun to rise,” a public health expert pointed out. The impact of the ongoing unrestrained election campaigning and mass gatherings is likely to reflect on the case graph in the coming weeks. Reduction in severity Though the State has launched an aggressive COVID-19 vaccination drive to outpace the virus, it will be much longer before the impact of vaccination can reduce transmission. However, vaccination can help in reducing severe illness. According to a model developed at Imperial College, London, a vaccine that is 90% effective at blocking transmission will need to reach at least 55% of the population to achieve temporary herd immunity, provided the population continues all COVID-appropriate behaviour. 9% vaccinated Kerala has now vaccinated a little over 9% of its population (first dose) and another 35-38 lakhs may have acquired natural immunity through infection. But it still leaves plenty of un-immune people, especially those in the 18-45 age group, in whom the disease transmission can rise exponentially. It is hoped that the spectre of dramatic and severe COVID illness and death might be reduced in the second wave, now that a chunk of the vulnerable population has been vaccinated. The burden of the disease will likely shift to the un-vaccinated. “Entire families are getting infected. What we found is that when one person in the family gets infected, the rest of the family rushes to get the vaccination. This is pointless as they would already have been infected and in the process, will pass on the infection to those at vaccination sites. The government should issue strict directives that if one family member is infected, the others may get vaccinated only after completing the quarantine period,” points out Subramanian Swaminathan, Infectious Diseases specialist at Global Hospital, Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aggressive-vaccination-drive-to-outpace-virus/article34241189.ece
05 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||2,802 cases, 10 deaths||Kerala reported 2,802 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, when 45,171 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate rose further to 6.20%. The active case pool has been rising and now has 27,893 cases. With 2,173 recoveries, the cumulative recoveries has risen to 11,02,359. Ten new deaths were added to the official list of COVID-19 fatalities on Sunday. Kozhikode reported three deaths, Thiruvananthapuram two, while one death each was reported from Ernakulam, Thrissur, Malappuram, Wayanad and Kannur. Of the 2,802 new cases, 2,464 cases are believed to be locally acquired infections. Among districts, Kozhikode reported the maximum number of new cases with 403 cases, Ernakulam 368, Kannur 350, Malappuram 240, Kottayam 230, Thrissur 210, Kasaragod 190, Thiruvananthapuram 185, Kollam 148, Palakkad 133, Idukki 113, Alappuzha 99, Pathanamthitta 74 and Wayanad 59 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2802-cases-10-deaths/article34241191.ece
05 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Close contest on the cards in Chirayinkeezhu||It is a little after 8 a.m., and a sense of anticipation hangs over Pallinada junction in Kadhinamkulam panchayat. A little behind schedule, United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate in the Chirayinkeezhu Assembly constituency B.S. Anoop arrives to kick-off his road show and receives a hearty welcome. In a brief speech, Mr. Anoop expresses hope that everyone’s efforts and prayers would pay off with a UDF win. Further on at Channankara, he stresses his humble background to strike a chord with voters. He is one of them, he tells them. Development or the alleged lack of it is the main plank of his campaign. “Look at the condition of roads, acute drinking water problems, lack of tourism development, and the abject condition of colonies. People will vote against the stagnation of development,”he says. There has been a slew of inaugurations before the elections but no actual work, be it the railway overbridge or the Kalagramam project. The coir sector has been suffering, he says, highlighting the need for a special package to revive the sector. Left Democratic Front candidate V. Sasi is at the fag end of his campaigning in Mundakkal colony in Mangalapuram panchayat on Saturday morning. Mr. Sasi, Assembly Deputy Speaker, is 100% confident of scoring a hat-trick here. “But for a couple of PWD and rural roads, all other roads have been developed. Land acquisition for the railway overbridge has been completed and work tendered. The second phase of the taluk hospital upgrade will be completed in a year. One acre of land has been allotted for the UIT at Azhoor. We have also raised the demand for a government college in the constituency,” he says. Atop an open vehicle, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Ashanath G.S. is on a whirlwind tour of Mudakkal panchayat. Women make up a good portion of those waiting for hear her speak, and she is heartened by their response. A victory for the BJP is certain, she says, though refusing to put a number to the victory margin. Ms. Ashanath claims inadequate development in the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/close-contest-on-the-cards-in-chirayinkeezhu/article34241343.ece
05 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man found dead in hotel room||A 34-year-old man was murdered in Karamana late Saturday by a gang that is suspected to have been operating a prostitution racket in the city. Five persons including two women have been taken into custody. According to the Karamana police, Vaishak, who resides in Melarannoor, was found dead in a hotel room in Karamana. The police said he had been stabbed several times on various parts of his body including his genitals. While the police were yet to disclose the circumstances that led to the incident, an argument over a prostitution racket that was being run from an apartment in Thalliyil is suspected to have resulted in the murder. While the illicit operation is suspected to be led by one of the women who has been apprehended, Vaishak is believed to have been murdered by another person, who hails from Manacaud in the city. Arrests were yet to be recorded in the case, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-found-dead-in-hotel-room/article34241344.ece
05 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Probe in gold smuggling to continue: Sitharaman||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said the investigations by the Central agencies into the diplomatic channel gold and dollar smuggling cases will go on and those who are afraid of facing the law are ‘unleashing’ the State police against Central agencies. “There is no political connotation to the inquiry going on for months. The move by the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government for a judicial inquiry against the Enforcement Directorate was an attempt to derail the probe,” Ms. Sitharaman, who was here for campaigning for the NDA candidates, told a press conference on Sunday. Stating that there is “absolute prima facie” case in gold and dollar smuggling and even drug peddling, the Minister said, “if you are clean, prove it. If you are not, then I am sorry, this is absolutely wrong…The person who unleashes his own investigative or State police officers is the one who is frightened of facing the law. The one who is frightened, therefore retaliates not in a lawful way to threaten us. Investigation will go on.” Ms. Sitharaman said people had been caught red-handed for gold and dollar smuggling and claimed such people had patronage from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-in-gold-smuggling-to-continue-sitharaman/article34241185.ece
05 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Minor altercations||Electioneering in the Nemom Assembly constituency witnessed a tumultuous end as activists of the UDF and LDF broke into provocative revelries, resembling the prohibited ‘kottikalasham’, which prompted police intervention. The incident occurred soon after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi left the convention venue at Poojappura. While UDF workers broke into festivities close to their election office nearby, Left activists also began to engage in a noisy celebration in the area. Soon, the police and CAPF personnel dispersed the activists. Minor altercations were also reported from Neyyattinkara and Parassala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minor-altercations/article34241347.ece
05 April 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree to provide food to poll officials||Kudumbashree is readying to feed polling officials reaching polling stations and collection and distribution centres for the elections on Monday and Tuesday.Cafe units under the Kudumbashree are all geared up to serve poll officials following directions to Kudumbashree district mission coordinators by District Collectors. The women’s cafe units will provide food to poll officials reaching collection centres to take custody of voting machines and other poll material on Monday, and those deployed in polling booths for the polling on Tuesday. The district missions have handed over to the cafe units the menu and the money to be charged from officials for the dishes included in it. Arrangements have been made in each district to supply food from Monday morning itself. Breakfast, mid-morning tea and snacks, meals or vegetable biryani for lunch, tea and snacks in the evening, and rice or chapatti and curry for dinner figure on the menu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-to-provide-food-to-poll-officials/article34241168.ece
05 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||War room to clear doubts SSLC exams||A war room has been opened in the district to clear doubts about the SSLC/THSLC examinations and address complaints. The war room will function from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. from April 7 to 30. The SSLC/THSLC examinations will be held from April 8 to 29. To contact the war room, call 0471 2472732, 2472302, and 9446504874.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/war-room-to-clear-doubts-sslc-exams/article34241339.ece
05 April 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||185 cases in capital||The district recorded 185 COVID-19 cases and 152 recoveries as the number of active cases stood at 2,409 on Sunday. While 1,171 people were ordered to go into quarantine during the last 24 hours, as many as 1,300 others were permitted to conclude quarantine after completing the mandated period without exhibiting any symptoms. There are currently 16,807 people who are undergoing quarantine in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/185-cases-in-capital/article34241345.ece
05 April 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI seeks White Paper on loans, development||The Communist Party of India(CPI) has asked the YSR Congress Party government to publish a ‘white paper’ on the total amount of loans it had borrowed since it came to power and the quantum of development with regard to each sector. At a press conference in Guntakal on Saturday, CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna said that the State had borrowed to the tune of Rs. 95,000 crore at the time of the division of the State. However, as of date, the borrowings by the State government have gone up to Rs. 3.45 lakh crore, and things have come to such a dire strait that the government is unable to pay salaries till the fourth of the month, the CPI leader alleged. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy needs to reply as to how much did he spend on the development - specifically in job creation, agriculture, improvement of industrial scenario, and irrigation facilities,” Mr. Ramakrishna said at the press conference. Threat to voting right The recent measures being taken by the YSR Congress Party to ensure the Opposition parties do not exist in the State was a serious threat to the voting right of the people as the majority of the elections was being made to be decided ‘unanimously’, killing the spirit of democracy, he observed. “The Chief Minister had given a target of 80% victory to the Ministers and MLAs in the recent Urban Local Body elections and even in the current MPTC/ZPTC elections, he was expecting a 100% victory for the YSRCP,” the Communist leader added. On the issuing of notifications for MPTC/ZPTC elections , he said that it was undemocratic for the State Election Commission to conduct the elections with a notice of just eight days against a Supreme Court ruling of imposing a minimum of 4 weeks of election code of conduct. “While the SEC was supposed to conduct a meeting all political parties on April 3, she(Nilam Sawhney) announced polling dates hurriedly a day ahead of it,” he pointed out. District CPI secretary D. Jagadeesh was also present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-demands-white-paper-on-state-loans-development/article34240795.ece
05 April 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Why single-phase MPTC and ZPTC polls, ask TDP leaders||Uravakonda MLA Payyavula Keshav and senior TDP leader Kalava Srinivasulu have questioned the State government as to how can it conduct the MPTC and ZPTC elections in a single phase without the availability of sufficient police personnel, as out of the 50,000-strong force, 5,000 has gone to Tamil Nadu for elections there and another 5,000 is away from duty for various other reasons. “The polling has to be conducted in 40,000 booths, and the State is left with 40,000 police personnel. How does it plan to conduct the elections,” questioned Mr. Keshav at a press conference here on Sunday. “The YSRCP is using the police force to win elections,” alleged Mr. Srinivasulu. “That is why our leader has taken the uncommon decision of boycotting the election,” he added. The TDP leaders appealed to the party cadre to not campaign for the party candidates anywhere and that they had withdrawn from the contest. Some MPTC and ZPTC candidates had started switching loyalties to the YSRCP in the district, they alleged. Meanwhile, Tadipatri Municipal Chairman J.C. Prabhakar Reddy appealed to the voters to cast their vote in favour of the CPI(M) or the CPI candidates as his party was no more in the contest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/why-single-phase-mptc-and-zptc-polls-ask-tdp-leaders/article34240797.ece
05 April 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nandi idol goes missing from 500-year-old Chittoor temple||An idol of Nandi at a 500-year-old temple of Lord Shiva at Devalampeta village of Palamaner mandal, 50 km from here, reportedly went missing a week ago. The episode came to light on Sunday, creating a flutter in several forested villages nearby. According to the Palamaner police, the ancient Shiva temple which is nestled deep inside the forests of Jagamarla near Moghili ghat section, attracts a large number of devotees from nearby areas during the Maha Shivaratri celebrations, but would slip into silence for the rest of the year. Police team visits village A few villagers had approached the police on Saturday, saying that the idol was not to be found since March 26. A team of police visited the village to inquire into the incident. “It is a stone idol of Nandi situated in front of the main temple. Initial probe suggests that it is not clear when the idol went missing. A complaint was taken from the villagers and further investigation is on,” a police officer said. Treasure hunters could be involved In the past, incidents of breaking Nandi idols was reported from a couple of temples in Chittoor district, believed to be the act of treasure hunters. After the infamous Ramatheertham episode, the Chittoor police had swung into action and installed digital surveillance at hundreds of vulnerable temples across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nandi-idol-goes-missing-from-500-year-old-chittoor-temple/article34240713.ece
05 April 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police officer scales Island Peak||G.R. Radhika, Superintendent of Police, Cyber Crimes APCID, added another feather to her cap by climbing a lofty peak in the Himalayas in Nepal. Crossing deep crevasses and braving heavy winds, Ms. Radhika climbed up to a height of 6,080 m of the 6,189-m tall Imja Tse, also known as Island Peak, before being forced to retreat due to treacherous weather conditions. This was Ms. Radhika’s first Himalayan climb in Nepal. “Due to melting of snow below the summit’s ridge, lack of fixed ropes and heavy rock fall, climbers are unable to reach the summit this season. I profoundly thank AP Police, APCID, my family members and friends for supporting me in my quest to climb Island Peak,” Ms. Radhika said. Ms. Radhika is a 2007 batch Group-1 police officer of Andhra Pradesh. She is an avid mountaineer who has scaled summits of prominence in India and abroad. She has already climbed Mt. Everest, and has scaled six summits in six continents in pursuit of her Seven Summits challenge that involves climbing the highest peak in each of the seven continents. Her accomplishments include scaling of Mt. Golep Kangri (5,995 m) in Ladakh in 2013, Mt. Menthosa (6443) m in Himachal Pradesh in July 2014, Mt. Everest in 2016 and Mt. Kilimanjaro (5,895 m).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-officer-scales-yet-another-summit/article34241274.ece
05 April 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bid to kidnap girl||An unidentified person reportedly tried to kidnap a 10-year-old girl at Sukarlabad in the town on Sunday. He fled when the girl managed to raise an alarm, alerting passersby. According to the police, the miscreant sprayed a sedative on the girl’s face and took her on a two-wheeler. When the girl regained her consciousness, she cried out for help. The accused panicked and then pushed the girl off his two-wheeler near a temple and escaped. Following a complaint, the police launched a search for the kidnapper. “Special teams have been constituted to trace the accused. We are verifying the CCTV footages,” a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bid-to-kidnap-girl/article34241370.ece
05 April 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Bifurcation blues haunting State due to Centre’s apathy’||Panabaka Lakshmi, former Union Minster and TDP candidate in the byelection for the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat, performed multifarious roles to impress upon the voters during her hectic campaign braving the scorching summer heat, at Sullurpeta in Nellore district on Sunday. Giving a go-by to the long-winding speeches, Ms. Lakshmi interacted with small groups of people under the roadside trees as heatwave condition prevailed. She floored a group of persons by turning herself into a tender coconut vendor. The small gathering was taken by surprise when she cut tender coconuts perfectly and distributed the same among the people before picking up a conversation to understand the local problems. Promise to youth Ms. Lakshmi assured a group of unemployed youth that she would ensure that the local people got 75% of the jobs in the Sri City Industrial Park and Apache Footwear manufacturing unit. She also rode a bicycle for some distance at Tada on the Tamil Nadu border to popularise the party’s poll symbol. Earlier, she prepared tea and ‘mirapayaka bajji’, the signature snack dish of coastal Andhra, before interacting with the voters. The residuary State was unable to cope with the bifurcation blues only because of the failure of the Modi Government at the Centre to grant Special Category Status (SCS) and implement the assurances made in the State Reorganisation Act, she alleged. It was unfortunate that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who had talked big before the 2019 elections, had failed to take up the State’s cause forcefully with the Centre even after the people gave 22 of the 25 MP seats to the YSRCP, she said. Ms. Lakshmi promised to develop the Nelapattu Bird Sanctury as also the Pulicat Lake, which attract migratory birds, into a international tourist centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bifurcation-blues-haunting-state-due-to-centres-apathy/article34241287.ece
05 April 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Accord SCS to A.P. before granting it to Puducherry’||CPI(M) Central Committee member V. Srinivasa Rao on Sunday urged the people of the poll-bound Puducherry to take with a pinch of salt the BJP’s poll promise of providing Special Category Status(SCS) to the Union Territory. PM’s promise Coordinating the election campaign across the seven Assembly segments, including four in Nellore district, in support of the party nominee N. Yadagiri for the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat, Mr. Rao said it was in Tirupati that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had promised SCS to Andhra Pradesh during the run-up to the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. After coming to power, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had expressed the Centre’s inability to grant SCS to Andhra Pradesh, and put the blame on the scheme of financial devolution from the Centre to the States evolved by the 14th Finance Commission for the same, Mr. Rao recalled. The ruling BJP at the Centre should prove its sincerity by first giving the coveted status to Andhra Pradesh, which had been struggling to overcome the bifurcation blues, before going ahead with the Special Category Status for Puducherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/accord-scs-to-ap-before-granting-it-to-puducherry/article34241285.ece
05 April 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP wants one chance for ‘speedier development’||BJP MLA from Dubbak in Telangana M. Ragunanthan Rao on Sunday urged people to give one chance to the saffron party in the April 17 Tirupati Lok Sabha byelection for “speedier development of the region.” Campaigning for BJP candidate K. Ratna Prabha at Naidupeta in Nellore district, Mr. Ragunanthan Rao, who had shocked the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samiti by winning the Dubbak byelection, reasoned that one additional MP seat either to the YSRCP or to the TDP, would not make much difference, except for addition of a number. “People, for the sake of development, should give a chance to the BJP,” he emphasised. If elected, the bureaucrat-turned-politician could even become a Union Minister and contribute her mite for the development of the State, including the Tirupati region, Mr. Ragunanthan Rao reasoned. Though the people of the State gave an overwhelming number of MP seats to the YSRCP, they failed to articulate effectively the issues concerning their constituencies in Parliament, Mr. Ragunanthan Rao opined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-wants-one-chance-for-speedier-development/article34241288.ece
05 April 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Processions, celebrations mark Easter in Ongole||Hundreds of devotees from different denominations visited the Stuart Memorial Prayer Hall in Ongole on Sunday to celebrate Easter. Songs were sung in the praise of the Jesus Christ on the occasion, while live sermons were shared on the social media for the benefit of those who could not directly take part. The devotees organised a colourful procession from Kabadipalem with tableaux highlighting the five milestones in the life of Jesus, while some burst crackers to rejoice the resurrection of Jesus Christ. The festival also marked the end of Lent, a 40-day period of penance, fasting and prayer. The Jewett Memorial Baptist Church, and the Ramayapatnam Church, constructed in the year 1874 by the American Baptist Mission, were decorated on the occasion. Ongole parish priest Illuri Irudayaraj conducted a special mass at the St.Theresa Church which was attended by hundreds of Catholics. The Pentacost Church and St. John Lutheran Church were also decorated in a befitting manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/processions-celebrations-mark-easter-in-ongole/article34240799.ece
05 April 2021||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four more succumb in South Coastal A.P.||Four more persons died of coronavirus in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh in a span of 24 hours as fresh cases continued to increase rapidly in the region. The toll due to pandemic rose to 1,098 with Prakasam district accounting for 584 deaths so far and SPSR Nellore district for 514 deaths so far, a health bulletin released by the State government said. There was no let up in fresh cases as 255 persons tested positive in the last 24 hours taking the total number of active cases to 1,430 in the region. While SPSR Nellore district accounted for 857 new cases, Prakasam district for 573. There was a dip in the number of persons getting vaccinated in view of Easter. Only 3,869 persons took the jab at the 70 session sites in SPSR Nellore district and 380 persons at the 19 session sites set up in Prakasam district, health officials said. As many as 2.15 lakh persons have been vaccinated in SPSR Nellore district so far. Prakasam District Medical and Health Officer P. Ratnavalli said the district administration had identified 5 lakh persons above the age of 45. “We will cover all the persons on a saturation basis by setting up session sites in villages,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-more-succumb-in-south-coastal-ap/article34240794.ece
05 April 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan, Naidu toeing Centre’s line fearing pending cases: CPI||Communist Party of India (CPI) national secretary K. Narayana on Sunday said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu had surrendered before the Narendra Modi government, fearing their arrest in the cases pending against them in various courts. “The Chief Minister and the Leader of Opposition have chosen to remain silent at a time when injustice is being meted out to Andhra Pradesh in the form of disinvestment of public sector units,” Mr. Narayana told the media here. The CPI leader dared Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Mr. Chandrababu Naidu to fight the cases pending against them in a democratic way instead of surrendering before the Central government. “National Investigation Agency (NIA) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) —are being used against those who are questioning the policies of the Centre. The investigative agencies have become a tool to silence the dissenting voices,” said Mr. Narayana while referring to the recent raids by the NIA and CBI in the State. MPTC, ZPTC polls Referring to the TDP boycotting the MPTC, ZPTC elections, Mr. Narayana lamented that Mr. Chandrababu Naidu’s decision is an ‘act of timidity’. “The TDP should be determined to fight the challenges posed by the YSRCP instead of distancing itself from the elections,” he said. Mr. Narayana appealed to the regional political parties to join together to fight the Central government’s policies including the three farm laws and disinvestment of PSUs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-naidu-toeing-centres-line-fearing-pending-cases-says-cpi-leader/article34241276.ece
05 April 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chiru, Allu Arjun fans rise to the occasion||In the backdrop of severe shortage in Indian Red Cross Society’s blood bank, actors Chiranjeevi and Allu Arjun fans’ associations donated 150 units of blood on Sunday. Blood donation camps The fans organised blood donation camps in connection with actor Allu Arjun’s birthday to be celebrated on April 8. Chiranjeevi Yuvata State working president B.S.S. Prasad Kumar said that the fans of Chiranjeevi have been donating blood ever since the actor raised awareness among the public about its importance by establishing a blood bank in Hyderabad. Indian Red Cross Society(IRCS) Srikakulam district president P. Jaganmohana Rao thanked the association leaders and fans for rising to the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chiru-allu-arjun-fans-rise-to-the-occasion/article34241278.ece
05 April 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Utilise hundi income for temple needs: Dubbaka MLA||Dubbaka BJP MLA Raghunandan Rao said that the income from the temple hundi should be utilised only for religious purposes. Speaking to reporters during a press conference here on Sunday, Mr. Raghunandan Rao said that at least ten percent of the hundi proceeds should be set aside for promotion of Hindu dharma. He pointed out that there are several temples in both the Telugu States which are deprived of ‘dhoopa’, ‘deepa’ and ‘naivedhyams’. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) should adopt these temples and also allocate funds for their care. He further said that he would strive for the allotment of a house for every homeless poor in in his native Dubbaka constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/utilise-hundi-income-for-temple-needs-dubbaka-mla/article34240800.ece
05 April 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bypoll a referendum on SCS: MP||People should consider the Tirupati parliamentary byelection a referendum on Special Category Status, said Member of Parliament from Rajamahendravaram Lok Sabha constituency Margani Bharat. Speaking to media on Sunday, Mr. Bharat said that the by-election has attracted the attention of the entire nation. To make Prime Minister Narendra Modi feel the heat of the sentiments, people should ensure that the ruling YSR Congress Party wins the seat with a thumping majority. He took strong exception to the derogatory language used by Nara Lokesh against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, and asked him not to forget that his father and his grandfather had also served the State in the same capacity. Earlier, he had darshan of Lord Venkateswara at the hill temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bypoll-a-referendum-on-scs-mp/article34240718.ece
05 April 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Archakas suffered due to TDP decision’||Former chief priest of Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala, A.V. Ramana Deekshitulu on Sunday said that the archakas (priests) were subjected to suffering with the abolition of certain hereditary rights by the previous Telugu Desam Party (TDP). “The sudden decision had rendered many archakas jobless and several temples in the State were on the verge of closure,” said Mr. Deekshitulu, who is all set to be reinstated as the chief priest of the hill shrine. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has decided to reinstate the archakas to the posts they held prior to their abrupt retirement in 2018. Mr. Deekshitulu exuded confidence that YSRCP government would protect the legitimate rights of the archakas. ‘Technical reasons’ “It was only for some technical reasons that the relaxation in the retirement age limit of the archakas was delayed. We are optimistic that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will bring back the lost glory of all the temples in the State,” said Mr. Deekshitulu. Asked about the pink diamond issue, he refused to comment on the issue, saying that the matter is sub judice. “It is unfair to drag temples into politics for gain. We always pray for the good of the State and its heads irrespective their affiliations to any political party,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/archakas-suffered-due-to-tdp-decision/article34241329.ece
05 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||IYR sees ‘Modi wave’ sweeping across country||BJP political affairs committee (PAC) chairman and former Chief Secretary of Andhra Pradesh I.Y.R. Krishna Rao has urged the people to understand the macro picture at the national level before casting their vote at the hustings. Addressing the intellectual community of the temple city on Sunday, Dr. Krishna Rao spoke of the “pioneering steps” of the Union government and the “laudable achievements” made at the national level such as abrogation of Article 370, getting the Ram Mandir issue resolved in an amicable way and within the legal and constitutional framework, passing the CAA etc. “Pakistan, the unfriendly neighbour that has always been an irritant for us in the international affairs, is now reduced to nothing,” Mr. Krishna Rao said attributing it to the NDA regime’s ability to recalibrate international equations. The former Executive Officer of the TTD also wanted to know what the world famous religious institution had done to promote Hinduism and to thwart the attempts towards forced conversions. “Earlier, we had schemes to build temples in Dalitwadas and fishermen hamlets, train the local community in priesthood and make them administer their own temples, which helped prevent conversions to a large extent. Today, the TTD is collecting huge money from the people in the name of SRIVANI Trust for building and renovating temples, but where is the action plan? What has the TTD done so far with the money?” Dr. Krishna Rao sought to know. ‘Misinformation campaign’ Dr. Krishna Rao cautioned the intellectuals not to fall prey to the “sustained misinformation campaign” run by the regional parties through their frontal media houses to project the BJP in poor light. “Since the last general elections, the well-tutored regional media still parrots the same phrase – injustice to Andhra Pradesh. People are not naive to believe these words any more,” he pointed out. Perceiving the ‘Modi wave’ sweeping across the country, he wanted Andhra Pradesh to adjust its sail to move in the same direction to reap the benefits of the welfare measures showered upon by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iyr-sees-modi-wave-sweeping-across-country/article34241291.ece
05 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bhumana snubs BJP for using religion as a ‘political weapon’||Tirupati MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy has accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of using religion as a ‘political weapon’ against the YSR Congress Party and the State government to ‘score points in the upcoming elections’. Addressing the media on Sunday, he objected to the way the BJP leaders were repeatedly ‘casting aspersions’ on the State government without giving any proof. “The BJP is unnecessarily accusing the State government of supporting religious conversion, proselytisation, undue interference in temple issues, series of attacks on religious shrines, sacrilege of idols and so on,” Mr. Reddy said. The MLA said he was ready to discuss the State’s development and welfare schemes and dared the BJP leaders for a debate, but urged them not to view religion as a ‘resource’ to win elections. “The saffron party is trying to blowing issues out of proportion. The BJP leaders are trying to project a bleak picture of Tirumala, but the YSRCP government remains committed to the development of temples and promotion of Hindu values,” reiterated the former Chairman of the TTD trust board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bhumana-snubs-bjp-for-using-religion-as-a-political-weapon/article34241289.ece
05 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Viswam students excel at Sainik entrance test||Students of Viswam Talent School, Tirupati, won several ranks in the entrance test for admission into Sainik Schools for the academic year 2021, the results of which were released on Sunday. Students won first rank for six States. B.Mohan Reddy, T.G. Pothan Raju, S. Mohith, D. Srithik, M. Satyadeep, E. Jessica won the State-level first ranks for various schools. Similarly, 57 students including A. Yuva Satya Sai Reddy, Bhagat Vigneshwar, Y. Nikhil Vardhan Reddy, Y. Subhash Satwik, S. Rehan, V. Mokshit, Naman, Umesh Sai Chowdary, Jagat Kishore, Arihan Raghavendra, K. Vedant Reddy secured admission in Sainik Schools at Kalikiri, Korukonda, Kodagu, Bijapur, Bhubaneswar and Chandrapur. “We have been training students for such national-level entrance tests for over three decades,” said Viswam educational group’s Director N. Viswanatha Reddy, while thanking the students’ parents for thinking beyond the possible. Correspondent Tulasi N. Reddy and academic director N. Viswachandan Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/viswam-students-excel-at-sainik-entrance-test/article34240802.ece
05 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bifurcation is a non-issue today, says Chinta Mohan||Seven years after the State suffered the pangs of bifurcation, the Indian National Congress (INC) finds it a “non-issue” today. The party-led UPA regime’s decision on the reorganisation of Andhra Pradesh into two Telugu States had led its rout in both the States in 2014. Though the party’s support base witnessed erosion, and a chunk of its middle rung leadership found refuge in the two regional parties, there are quite a few hardcore leaders staying glued to its ideology. Congress Working Committee (CWC) member and former Union Minister Chinta Mohan, who is contesting as the Tirupati (SC) Lok Sabha candidate, is bent on staying afloat with the party. When the other parties were still holding their cards close to their chest, and when even the Congress had not officially named him the candidate, Dr. Mohan started moving into the constituency’s hinterland to take the party’s ideology to the masses. Maintaining that he had witnessed the pulse of the voters, especially in the SC, ST, and BC colonies and in tribal hamlets, he exuded confidence over the Congress rising on the horizon again. “Having voted for the BJP at the Centre and the YSRCP in the State, people are in tears today,” Dr. Mohan told The Hindu on the sidelines of his campaign on Sunday. Though his projection is quite hard to fathom, Dr. Mohan insists that the ground reality is far from what is being projected. On the bifurcation issue, Dr. Mohan said only two out of 100 people he had come across questioned him about the State’s division, but the remaining were more worried over the prices of essential commodities and petroleum products. “Rural voters are questioning me as to where has the ‘Hand’ symbol gone, as they are seeing only the ‘Fan’ and the ‘Cycle’, of late. ‘We want to see the helping Hand again’, is the obvious message from the voters,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bifurcation-is-a-non-issue-today-says-chinta-mohan/article34241293.ece
05 April 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Symbol worry for JSP voters||There is scope for confusion among the BJP-Jana Sena combine’s voters as the Election Commission of India has allotted the ‘glass’, the symbol of Jana Sena Party, to G. Ramesh Kumar of the Navatharam Party in the byelection to the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat. The ‘glass’ apparently fell vacant with the Jana Sena Party not fielding any candidate in the byelection, in view of its support to the BJP candidate K. Ratna Prabha. The decision is expected to cause confusion among the JSP voters, who, the party fears, may press the wrong button.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/symbol-worry-for-jsp-voters/article34241294.ece
05 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||High alert sounded in State after Chhattisgarh encounter||The police have sounded a high alert in the State in the wake of the Maoists’ encounter with security personnel on the Bijapur-Sukma district borders in Chhattisgarh on Saturday. Security has been beefed up along the inter-State borders and combing operations have been been intensified. Though the exact number of people died in the encounter is yet to be ascertained, the officials confirmed that 22 personnel of the CRPF, Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (COBRA) and the District Reserve Guard (DRG) were killed and 30 jawans were injured. Several jawans have were reportedly gone missing after the encounter and a few Naxals were also killed in the operation. Soon after the encounter, the police have intensified combing operations along the Andhra Pradesh-Chhattisgarh and the Andhra-Odisha Borders (AOB) and A.P.-Telangana borders to prevent the Maoists entering the State. “According to reports, around 500 armed Naxalites, including the cadres of People’s Liberation Guerilla Army (PLGA) and the local dalams of the South Bastar Divisional Committee attacked the combing party. Acting on a tip-off that the injured Naxalites in the operation may escape into the neighbouring States, we have stepped up vigil along the borders,” a senior police officer told The Hindu on Sunday. Security up for VIPs Security provided to all VIPs has been tightened and advisories have been issued to those on the Naxal hit-list not to enter tribal hamlets in the Maoist-hit areas, the officer said. “We have kept our forces on high alert on the Andhra Pradesh-Chhattisgarh borders and AOB. Instructions have been issued for undertaking anti-naxal operations along the borders, with the help of our counterparts in the neighbouring States,” said Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-alert-in-ap-after-chhattisgarh-encounter/article34240852.ece
05 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||AP-Transco plans 400-KV line to transmit excess solar power||AP-Transco is gearing up to develop power infrastructure for transmitting excess solar energy generated by the A.P. Green Energy Corporation’s solar parks, between coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema regions. It is also going to set up its first Gas Insulated Substation (GIS) at Tallayapallem in Guntur district for providing high-quality power and improving voltage levels in Krishna and Guntur districts. According to official sources, AP-Transco proposed to lay a 400-KV line from Talaricheruvu in Anantapur district to Podili in Prakasam district for interconnecting the coastal and Rayalaseema regions. The government is in the process of adding solar power in Rayalaseema region, where the demand for power is less than the generation, due to which more power remains to be exported to the Power Grid Corporation of India Limited network. To avoid wastage of the excess power, Transco proposes to interconnect coastal and Rayalaseema regions to transmit the excess solar power between the two regions. This helps in utilising the excess power for local requirements in various sectors, including industries, agriculture, domestic and commercial. Further, bus reactors were commissioned at 400-KV substations at Hindupur, Podili, and Rachagunneri in Chittoor district to address the high voltage problems in 400-KV lines. This facilitates a reduction in inter-State reactive power drawls, which entail penalties on that account. For evacuation of power from the 10,000 MW solar plants, which were planned for supplying free power to the farm sector, Transco prepared a transmission evacuation scheme with optimum budget by duly utilising the available resources. The evacuation facilities are being taken up at an estimated Rs. 1,349 crore in Phase-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-transco-plans-400-kv-line-to-transmit-excess-solar-power/article34241295.ece
05 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Perni slams Pawan for targeting CM||Minister for Information and Public Relations Perni Venkataramaiah on Sunday launched a scathing attack on Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan for criticising the State government while campaigning for the Bharatiya Janata Party-Jana Sena Party (BJP-JSP) combine candidate K. Ratna Prabha for the Tirupati Lok Sabha Parliamentary byelection. At a press conference, the Minister said it was more like ‘the actor was lending his voice on rent to all and sundry’. “In 2014, he aligned with the Telugu Desam Party and the BJP and raised a slogan of Congress hataao, desh ko bachaao. But in 2019, he accused the BJP of neglecting the southern States and fought the elections in partnership with the Left Parties. After facing a humiliating defeat, he once again returned to BJP,” he said. Mr. Venkataramaiah alleged that the Jana Sena chief was silent when several temples were demolished in Vijayawada during the TDP rule and now he was trying to whip up religious sentiments by alleging that 150 temples were destroyed across the State under the YSRCP rule. Referring to his allegations on the Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy murder case, the Minister said the case was being investigated by the CBI under direct monitoring by Union Home Minister Amit Shah. He said the actor had no commitment towards the people and he was seen during elections to seek votes for the party he aligned himself with.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/perni-slams-pawan-for-targeting-cm/article34240803.ece
05 April 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police counsel over 300 drug offenders||More than 300 drug offenders, smugglers, rowdy-sheeters and history sheeters, who were involved in ganja cases, were given counselling by Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) officials on Sunday. As part of operation ‘Naya Savera’, the SEB and the police bound over the drug peddlers and history sheeters and counselled them. Around 250 persons were summoned and counselled, Guntur Urban SP R.N. Ammireddy said. “The rowdy-sheeters were warned not to indulge in illegal and criminal activities or cause harm to anybody, and were asked to take care of their families. We advised them not to fall into the trap of drugs and ruin their lives. If they mend their ways, police will help them find opportunities to get settled,” Mr. Ammireddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-counsel-over-300-drug-offenders/article34241366.ece
05 April 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials make ‘ostracised’ family enter their village||A village volunteer Praveen and his family, who were ostracised by village elders for travelling in an autorickshaw shared by another family of the same village facing social boycott, re-entered Tadepalli Gollagudem on Sunday amidst police security. The ostracised family lodged a complaint with the Agiripalli police seeking justice and protection as the local residents were asked not to interact or offer any help to the family and were warned of a penalty of Rs. 10,000 in case of violations. Responding to the complaint, Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu directed the Nuzvid police to resolve the issue amicably. On Sunday, Nuzvid DSP B. Srinivasulu, Hanuman Junction CI Ramana and Agiripalli mandal Tahsildar Bharat Reddy held discussions with the village elders and the community heads after which Praveen and his family members were allowed to enter the village. The officials advised the villagers to be united and not to harass and insult people with such illegal diktats. The officers said the villagers may have to face stern action if they resorted to such acts in future. Later, the officials joined a prayer session along with the villagers and Praveen Kumar’s family members on the occasion of Easter. “The village elders have assured us that they will shun such practices and be friendly with the volunteer’s family. No case has been registered,” Mr. Srinivasulu told reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-make-ostracised-family-enter-their-village/article34241371.ece
05 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP seeks cancellation of TTD’s MoU with UIC||TDP executive secretary Buchi Ram Prasad has asked the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) and the State government to make public the details of the MoU entered into with Udveg Infrastructure and Consultancy Private Limited (UIC), which proposes to build a children’s hospital. ‘Questionable credentials’ Mr. Prasad doubted the credentials of the company and the sincerity of the government and the TTD in the issue. It was found that the company had showcased the photograph of a government stadium in Europe on its website to give a false impression on its track record, Mr. Prasad alleged, and added that the “suitcase company,” which had been started by Sanjay Kedarnath Singh in 2018, had a balance of Rs. 1 lakh in 2019 and Rs. 2,600 now. “Though the company claims to be involved in the construction, infrastructure, finance, and consulting businesses, the reality is to the contrary. A few Telugu persons are also on its board. The MoU is another attempt to loot the devotees’ money,” Mr. Prasad alleged. “The TTD has agreed to give 10 acres to the company near the Alipiri gate for the children’s hospital. The land costs between Rs. 400 crore and Rs. 500 crore. Once in its possession, the company may exploit it,” he feared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-seeks-cancellation-of-ttds-mou-with-uic/article34241082.ece
05 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bishop leads Easter celebrations||Catholic Diocese Bishop Telagathoti Joseph Rajarao led the Easter celebrations at Saint Paul’s Cathedral here on Sunday. In his message, the Bishop extended festival greetings to the devotees and appealed to the Christians to pray for a healthy society. Later, the Bishop, along with priests Kondru Simharamulu and Sanda Swamy, P. Bernard, Bhanu Yeswanth and others offered ‘samisti pujabali’. Devotees attended the church mass in large numbers and took part in celebrations to mark the resurrection of Christ.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bishop-leads-easter-celebrations/article34241369.ece
05 April 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minorities panel vice chief to visit State||National Commission for Minorities Vice-chairperson Atif Rasheed is going to visit the State on a two-day tour. Mr. Rasheed will meet the Governor on April 8 and visit the shelter homes for the homeless, oldage homes, the women empowerment and development centre in the city. He will also visit Urdu academy, Wakf Board and hold a meeting with the State’s minority commission. On April 9, he will review Central and State government schemes and will also visit a gurudwara and a church.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minorities-panel-vice-chief-to-visit-state/article34241367.ece
05 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain brings temperature down in city||The strong gales and rain, which lashed the city on Saturday evening, brought down the mercury levels and provided the much-needed respite from the summer heat. The gales, however, resulted in the uprooting of trees, breaking of branches and falling of electrical poles at some places in the city. “The rain resulted in disruption of power supply at many places, but it was restored after a few hours at most of the places and in a few areas by noon on Sunday. There was no damage to transformers,” according to an AP EPDCL source. Advertisement hoardings were ripped off by the winds at some places. Visakhapatnam city received 5 cm of rain but Visakhapatnam Airport recorded only 2.8 cm. Kurupam and Srungavarapukota, both in Vizianagaram district, also received 5 cm or rain each The maximum temperature in the city dropped to 33.4° C and at Visakhapatnam Airport to 33.8° C on April 4. and the minimum temperatures dropped to 21° C and 22.2° C respectively. Tirupati recorded the highest temperature of 42° Celsius. “There is nothing unusual about the thunderstorm activity on Saturday evening. The severe thunderstorm had formed above the forests of Paderu and Araku around 4 p.m. and moved over towards Visakhapatnam city. The think cloud and the strong squall with gales, were observed through the radar. It’s purely a local phenomena,” P.V. Rama Rao, a former Director of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), told The Hindu . Meanwhile, the IMD bulletin has forecast that thunderstorm with gusty winds, with speed up to 30 to 40 km/hr, is very likely to occur at isolated places over north coastal A.P. and Yanam on April 5. The maximum temperatures are likely to be above normal by 2° to 3° Celsius over south coastal A.P. and Rayalaseema. The weather would mainly be dry over Rayalaseema on April 5. After the heavy rain and gale on Saturday night, drain water overflowed onto the roads in many areas in the city, including One Town, MVP Colony, HB Colony and Daba Gardens, making it difficult to move on road for pedestrians and motorists. There were incidents of wall collapse at Gopalapatnam, Chinna Waltair, Duvvada and Dabagardens. People residing on hillocks were in a state of fear for almost two hours due to gale and also spent a sleepless night. A number of trees and their branches fell on roads in many areas disrupting traffic in the city. GVMC took up restoration work early in the morning. However, a number of areas are yet to be cleared of the mess.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-rain-brings-temperature-down-in-city/article34241385.ece
05 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre has no right to privatise steel plant, says Madabhushi Sridhar||Former Information Commissioner Madabhushi Sridhar said that the Centre has no right to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) without consulting any of the stakeholders. He was speaking after inaugurating a seminar organised by the State committee of the Indian Federation of Trade Unions (IFTU) at Peda Gantyada, Gajuwaka, here on Sunday. Ridiculing the move of the Centre, Mr. Sridhar said that a dog would be labelled as ‘mad’ to kill it and in the same way, the Centre was labelling public sector units (PSUs) as ‘loss making’ to hand them over to corporate companies. He alleged that those who have no human values had achieved power and were riding on the back of the common people. He questioned the government as to how far it was justified in refusing financial help to PSUs, while extending lakhs of crores of rupees to corporate companies. He alleged that it has become common for rulers to push PSUs into losses and then put them up for sale. He alleged that Modi-Shah were least bothered though one lakh farmers were protesting in Delhi. He called for united struggles for the protection of the VSP. Kolla Rammohan Rao, who had participated in the struggles for establishment of VSP, as a student leader, said that the plant was achieved after several sacrifices and it was unfortunate that there was a proposal to privatise it. Mr. Rammohan Rao recalled that the State Assembly had passed a unanimous resolution in those days. The agitation, which was started by students, was later joined by all sections of the people. Though 32 persons had lost their lives in police firing, the agitation was not stopped. MLAs and MP s had resigned in protest in those days, he added. IFTU State vice president M. Venkateswarlu presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-has-no-right-to-privatise-steel-plant-says-madabhushi-sridhar/article34241377.ece
05 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rally taken out opposing privatisation of VSP||A huge rally was taken out by different sections of the people, under the aegis of Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee, demanding continuation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) in the public sector on Beach Road here on Sunday. Hundreds of citizens, including women and children, carrying placards and banners marched on Beach Road shouting slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and demanding protection of the VSP. They also raised slogans of ‘Visakha Ukku – Andhrula Hakku’ and carried placards ‘Save Vizag Steel’. The Left parties participated with traditional beating of drums and slogans against privatisation. Some youths participated in the rally riding motorcycles with flags. The placards and banners read ‘allot captive mines to Vizag Steel Plant’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rally-taken-out-opposing-vsp-sale/article34241368.ece
05 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 235 new COVID cases, highest so far this year||The Visakhapatnam district reported 235 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours, the highest single day-tally this year so far, taking the cumulative tally to 63,111 as on Sunday morning. For the first time this year and almost after nearly six months, the district’s day tally has crossed the 200-mark. The district has reported the third highest day tally in the last 24 hours in the State, after Guntur (378) and Chittoor (338) districts, according to the State bulletin. For the fourth day in a row, the district has reported a COVID-19 death, taking the toll to 550. For the first time, the district has reported four deaths in a row this year. The district’s toll had touched the 500-mark on November 21, 2020 and the 550-mark on April 4, 2021. It took more than four months for the 40 deaths, while the last 10 deaths were reported in a span of 13 days. The number of active cases increased to 1,681 on Sunday morning. With the recovery of 95 more affected persons, the number of recoveries in the district stands at 60,880.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-235-new-covid-cases-highest-so-far-this-year/article34241380.ece
05 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM afraid of Modi, Shah, alleges Vundavalli||Former MP Undavalli Arun Kumar has said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is afraid of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Speaking at a meeting on ‘Privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant’, organised by the Writer’s Academy, at the Public Library, here on Sunday, Mr. Arun Kumar wondered as to why the Chief Minister was not pulling up the Centre on Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP) issue, when people gave the YSR Congress Party 151 seats in the Assembly. This was not expected from the son of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, Mr. Arun Kumar said. The former MP demanded that Mr. Jagan make his stand clear on whether he would stand by the people or sail with Mr. Modi and Mr. Shah. Mr. Arun Kumar demanded that a debate be held on the VSP issue in Parliament and protests be organised against privatisation of the VSP by taking the support of all those MPs, who were prepared to support the cause. He also wondered why Opposition leader and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu was not speaking against the Union government. The common people were of the view that the Chief Minister would go against the Centre for saving the VSP, he said. The Centre had already made its stand clear on VSP that it would either sell away the plant or shut it down, Mr. Arun Kumar said. He wondered whether capitalism meant handing over the steel plant to Ambani and Adani. He sought that all MPs from the State should oppose sale of the VSP. A declaration should be made on the VSP and sent to the Prime Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-is-afraid-of-modi-and-amit-shah-alleges-undavalli/article34240805.ece
05 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Country-made guns seized, 5 arrested||The district police arrested four persons, who were allegedly manufacturing and selling countrymade guns at K.Kotapadu mandal in the district on Sunday. The police seized 11 countrymade guns from them. The police also arrested a receiver, who was allegedly purchasing weapons from them. The arrested were identified as R. Appalanarasayya (62), B. Satyanarayana (45), both belonging to K. Santhapalem village of K Kotapadu mandal and M. Apparao (30) of Kothavalasa mandal in Vizianagaram district, P Sankararao (35) of Devarapalli mandal and receiver G. Gurrayya (60) of Ramachandrapuram village of K.Kotapadu mandal. Police said that the accused have been manufacturing the weapons for a long time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/country-made-guns-seized-5-arrested/article34241375.ece
05 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rotary Blood Bank felicitates Vijaya Sai||The Rotary Blood Bank team on Sunday felicitated Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy for the support extended by him in organising the largest blood donation camp. The blood bank had collected over 1,000 units of blood at the camp, which was organised in connection with the birthday of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Rotary Blood Bank chairman G.S. Raju briefed Mr. Vijaya Sai about the blood bank activities. Mr. Vijaya Sai commended the team for the excellent services being provided to the needy. A.P. Skill Development Corporation Chairman Challa Madhusudan Reddy was also felicitated. Blood Bank committee members K. Srinivas Reddy, S.R.K. Reddy and Past president P.L.K. Murthy attended. Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy, YSRCP Vizag North in-charge K.K. Raju, and YSRCP State executive committee member J. Mahesh were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rotary-blood-bank-felicitates-vijaya-sai/article34241373.ece
05 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man dies in wall collapse in Duvvada||Heavy rain accompanied with gusty winds on Saturday night reportedly lead to death of a person and at Simon Nagar in Duvvada area in Visakhapatnam city. Though the incident occurred on Saturday night, it came to light after police registered a case on Sunday. The deceased was identified as P. Bhanu Ajay (36), a resident of Simon Nagar. According to the police, Bhanu Ajay, who used to run a grocery store, along with his cousins, went to the terrace on the fifth floor to enjoy the cool breeze. Due to the strong gales, a parapet wall reportedly fell on them. Bhanu Ajay sustained severe head injuries, while others managed to escape. “He was immediately shifted to a private hospital and then referred to King George Hospital (KGH), where he was declared brought dead,” the police said. After the heavy rain and gale on Saturday night, drain water overflowed onto the roads in many areas in the city, including One Town, MVP Colony, HB Colony and Daba Gardens, making it difficult to move on road for pedestrians and motorists. There were incidents of wall collapse at Gopalapatnam, Chinna Waltair, Duvvada and Dabagardens. A number of trees and their branches fell on roads in many areas disrupting traffic in the city. GVMC took up restoration work early in the morning. The GVMC officials are yet to ascertain the loss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-dies-in-wall-collapse/article34241283.ece
05 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ZPTC, MPTC polls to be held in agency areas till 2 p.m.||District Collector V. Vinay Chand on Sunday said that the MPTC and ZPTC elections, scheduled on April 8, will be held from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the 11 mandals of Visakhapatnam agency. He said that the decision to reduce the polling time in the Agency areas was taken keeping in view the law and order situation and based on instructions from the State Election Commission (SEC).  “In case, re-polling is necessitated for any reason, the election will be held on April 9 from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m.,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zptc-mptc-polls-to-be-held-in-agency-areas-till-2-pm/article34241381.ece
05 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zoo to organise 3K run on April 8||A 3K run, Run for Wildlife, is being organised by the Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP), on the occasion of National Zoo Lovers Day on April 8. According to the zoo officials, the run would start at the main gate of the IGZP and would cover the sprawling zoo premises and return to the main entrance. In this 3-km stretch, participants can witness all kinds of wild animal species at the IGZP. Children to adults of all age groups can participate in the run, said IGZP Curator Nandani Salaria. She said that the programme is being organised to create awareness among people about wildlife. Participants would have to pay Rs. 150 for registration and they would be given T-shirts and caps. All the participants will get certificates, while the winners will receive surprise gifts. She said that interested should register their names on or before April 7 by calling on the mobile nos. 9441130894 and 9000151920.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zoo-to-organise-3k-run-on-april-8/article34241382.ece
05 April 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arrack destroyed||The district police on Sunday destroyed over 200 litres of I.D. arrack at Pesarada village of Golugonda mandal in Visakhapatnam district. Teams led by Narsipatnam CI (Rural) Srinivasa Rao also destroyed about 8,000 litres of fermented jaggery wash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arrack-destroyed/article34241383.ece
05 April 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||RBS students bag second prize in NASA contest||Ravindra Bharati School, NAD branch, secured the second prize, under Grade IX, at the NASA ICDC virtual conference 2021. The IX Grade students prepared a project entitled ‘Techniti Gi’ on the space settlement programme for which they were selected for the award. M. Chitra Nandini is the team leader for the project. The team members are K. Rohit Sai, P. Dharmender Naidu, R. Gayatri and B. Sai Ritwik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rbs-students-bag-second-prize-in-nasa-contest/article34241374.ece
05 April 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CTU launches computer classes for drivers, guards||Central Tribal University of Andhra Pradesh has launched a computer training programme for security guards and drivers on its campus as part of ensuring multitasking skills among its staff. Some of the guards are being given driving lessons while regular drivers are being directed to work in the administrative department. University Vice-Chancellor T.V. Kattimani said that the multitasking skills would enable the staff to meet different challenges and growth in their careers. The training programme in multitasking would continue for at least six months to help them gain a thorough knowledge in the subjects they are interested in. “Drivers, security guards and other employees should not retire at the same position they started in. We need to identify their hidden talent and make them earn more and get good opportunities. That is why we have launched this training programme,” Dr. Kattimani told The Hindu . University Administrative Officer N.V.S. Suryanarayana, who is in-charge of the training programme, has to submit a progress report every month to the Vice-Chancellor who would in turn come up with suggestions and changes in the training based on the interest of the employees. Interestingly, a few security guards have bought an old car to improve their driving skills. “The new training programme has been exciting for us as it is different from our routine work. We are sure to get good opportunities as the university is going to recruit more personnel in the future,” said Sankar, a security guard. University authorities felt that the multitasking skills would help CTU-AP utilise the skills of its manpower at the optimum level. The university is expected to recruit around 500 personnel for different posts in the next couple of years with the proposed permanent structures between Gajapathinagaram-Saluru Assembly constituencies of Vizianagaram district. The State government has temporarily allocated Andhra University buildings in Vizianagaram to CTU-AP for conducting classes and continuing the administrative work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-varsity-launches-computer-classes-for-drivers-guards/article34241282.ece
05 April 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP trying to gain sympathy: MLC||YSR Congress Party MLC Penumatsa Suresh Babu on Sunday alleged that the Telugu Desam Party was trying to get public sympathy with its ‘political drama’ of boycotting the ZPTC and MPTC elections scheduled for April 8. He told The Hindu here that it was the responsibility of every political party to contest the elections. He alleged that the TDP was afraid of a comprehensive defeat in the ZPTC and MPTC elections after the spectacular victory of the YSRCP in the municipal elections. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s flagship programmes secured victory for the YSRCP in the panchayat and municipal elections. And the same result is anticipated now,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-trying-to-gain-sympathy-mlc/article34241280.ece
05 April 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘TDP’s move exposed YSRCP at national level’||The Telugu Desam Party MLC and spokesperson Dwarapureddy Jagadish on Sunday defended the party’s decision to boycott the ZPTC and MPTC elections. He told The Hindu over the phone that the decision had exposed the YSR Congress Party’s ‘atrocities’ and ‘undemocratic’ practices at national level. He alleged that officials had altered election results at many places during the panchayat and municipal elections and the same might be repeated in the ZPTC and MPTC elections. “The State government is harassing even elected representatives of the TDP with false cases. In this horrible scenario, the party took this brave decision to protect the leaders and the cadre,”. said Mr.Jagadish. He said that many top leaders like Mayavati and Mamata Banerjee also boycotted elections when ruling parties indulged in large-scale violence to ensure victory for their candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdps-move-exposed-ysrcp-at-national-level/article34241279.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Joyous day||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/joyous-day/article34240808.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five COVID deaths in State||The overall positivity rate of the 1.52 crore samples including the 31,072 samples tested in the past day was put at at 5.97%. On the other hand, the number of active cases reached  10,300. The active cases increased tenfold in a month and the last the State managed over 10,000 active cases was in the last week of November. As many as 842 patients recovered in the past day. Chittoor reported three more deaths while Visakhapatnam and Nellore reported one each. More than 77% (1,341 cases) of the infections were reported from five districts. Guntur again topped the districts in the single-day tally with 378 new infections. It was followed by Chittoor (338), Visakhapatnam (235), Krishna (226) and Nellore (164).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-covid-deaths-in-state/article34241284.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paying tributes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/paying-tributes/article34241388.ece
05 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS records 1,321 COVID cases, biggest one-day jump this year||COVID-19 cases in Telangana increased by over 200 in a single day. After 1,078 infections being detected on Friday, 1,321 persons tested positive for the coronavirus on Saturday. Five more COVID patients died, taking the toll to 1,717. With this, over 1,000 cases were reported for the second consecutive day since November 19 last year. While 62,973 persons were examined, results of 2,070 were awaited. Of the new 1,321 cases, the highest of 320 positives were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, followed by 144 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 121 from Rangareddy and 96 from Nizamabad. On Friday, 75 persons in Nizamabad had been detected with the virus. Health officials said there are no clusters, and that the cases are sporadic. Four districts continued to report only single-digit cases — Mulugu, Warangal Rural, Jogulamba Gadwal and Bhadadri-Kothagudem. On Saturday, only two were diagnosed with the virus in Mulugu, six each in Bhadradri Kothagudem and Jogulamba Gadwal, eight in Warangal Rural. Till April 3 this year, 1,03,92,927 samples were put to test, leading to the detection of 3,12,140 infections. Of the total cases, 7,923 were active while 3,02,500 have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-records-1321-covid-cases-biggest-one-day-jump-this-year/article34241110.ece
05 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hi-Tech City RUB to be opened today||A major bottleneck in road communication over the 10.25 km Gachibowli - JNTU corridor will be resolved on Monday with the inauguration of a rail under bridge (RUB) near Hi-Tech City railway station. Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao will not only inaugurate this project but a ceremonial hall in the seventh phase of Kukatpally Housing Board and a multi-purpose function hall in the fourth phase. He will also lay the foundation stone for a road in the fifteenth phase. With the opening of the RUB which was constructed at a cost of Rs. 66.59 crore, the movement of traffic was expected to further ease in the corridor as the vehicular movement on the existing Rail Over Bridge (ROB) near Hi-Tech City railway had reached maximum capacity. The length of the RUB is 410 mts, width 20.60 mts, carriage way of RUB and approaches was 9 mts bi-directional and service road width was 9 mts on Hi-Tech City side and 11 mts on Kukatpally side. The corridor already had multi-level flyovers which were constructed and opened to traffic under Strategic Road Development Plan works at almost all junctions -- Bio-Diversity, Mind Space, Ayyappa Society and Rajiv Gandhi statue -- which significantly eased traffic movement in the corridor. A major problem faced till now beneath the railway line along which the RUB was constructed was flooding of rain water even if there was a slight rainfall. The traffic in general would come to a standstill creating a gridlock situation in the vicinity which will be resolved now. It will be conflict free corridor hereafter. In view of the geographical constraints at the site for disposal of storm water by gravity and perennial seepage of water from the vicinity to the valley of the RUB, a RCC sump with a capacity of 800 kilo litres was constructed beneath the approach on the service road towards Kukatpally side. Two sensor responsive 40 HP sumps were installed to bail out the storm water during the downpour. It was planned to utilise the storage of fresh water in the sump for watering of plants in the nearby locations of Moosapet daily. About 35,000 to 40,000 liters per day of water seepage was noticed in the valley.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hi-tech-city-rub-to-be-opened-today/article34241123.ece
05 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Emotion, development dose to be KCR’s weapon for bypoll||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will boost the TRS party’s campaign in the Nagarjunasagar bypoll with a public meeting in Halia on April 14 with a specific target of negating any emotional support for Congress candidate K. Jana Reddy. Party leaders revealed that though the CM was quite happy with the ongoing campaign, he doesn’t want to leave any scope for a repeat of the Dubbak bypoll result where the party was overconfident despite the strong challenge from the BJP during the campaign. Mr. KCR did not campaign in Dubbak despite requests from the party MLAs as he was sure of a win even if it was by a reduced margin. The BJP won with a small margin of 1,079 votes but interestingly it covered the 62,500 margin with which later, Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy had won in 2018 elections. Many believe that a public meeting by the CM would have plugged that small margin. Jana Reddy a veteran However, the opponent in Nagarjunasagar is no greenhorn either and the TRS is pitted against seven-time MLA and senior leader K. Jana Reddy of the Congress. Apart from his strong connection with the constituency, Mr. Jana Reddy is also exploiting the sentiment that he was defeated last time and this may be his last direct election thus connecting with the voters. Mr. KCR is well aware of this political strategy that might work for Mr. Jana Reddy and doesn’t want voters to deviate from TRS on this emotional angle, a senior leader told The Hindu . There is no better leader in Telangana than KCR to connect with people emotionally and the public meeting would be precisely to negate Jana Reddy’s emotional appeal. Yadavas vs other BCs The TRS leadership has put in senior Ministers and also MLAs for each mandal considering the caste equations. A senior leader on condition of anonymity said that the late Nomula Narsimhaiah had rubbed other BC groups on the wrong side by openly supporting only the Yadava community in the constituency during his tenure. In fact, there was a demand from several BC leaders that they would oppose if the party candidate was from the Yadava community. “It was also one of the reasons why the party supremo did not reveal the candidate’s name till the last minute keeping everyone guessing,” a leader argued. “We also couldn’t annoy the numerically strong Yadavas. We couldn’t even afford division of Yadava votes and that is why a lot of effort went to bring in BJP aspirant Anjaiah Yadav into our fold.” Given these multiple factors of the complex political situation, the Chief Minister has decided to give the final dose of Telangana and development emotion, which he is pretty good at, through the public meeting. CM may not personally target Mr. Jana Reddy but reel out the improvement of irrigation facilities after the formation of Telangana. KTR’s absence TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao is conspicuous by his absence from the Nagarjunasagar byelection campaigning baffling the party cadre. However, a senior leader said a road show is being planned after CM’s meeting where he will connect with the youngsters who the party feels has been siding with the BJP in the last few elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/emotion-development-dose-to-be-kcrs-weapon-for-bypoll/article34241138.ece
05 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||One exam, two different score cards||Two different score cards for the same exam have been sent by the National Testing Agency (NTA) to a student appearing for the All India Sainik School Entrance Examination. The results were declared recently and the student, Kasukurthi Adarsha, became aware of the anomaly after she couldn’t find her name on the merit list despite having secured the 45the rank at the all-India level. Adarsha scored 216 marks and was ranked 45th in the country as per the first score card that she had downloaded immediately after the results were announced. Setback after setback However, she was surprised when she didn’t find her name on the merit list at the Kalikiri Sainik School in Chittoor district that she opted for while filling up the application form. Her parents enquired about her admission with the school stating that students with lesser marks had found a place on the merit list. For its part, the school informed them that Adarsha did not secure the marks that she was claiming. The surprised parents then checked the NTA website once again to find to their horror that her mark sheet was totally different with just 98 marks to her credit. The difference was 118 marks on the same hall ticket number and the registration number. No clarification yet Despite efforts to reach the NTA for clarification, nothing positive came of it. Her parents are surprised over the ‘horrendous mistake’ in a prestigious exam such as this one conducted at the all-India level. This was the first time that the NTA was entrusted with the job of conducting the test. Earlier, the test used to be conducted by the Sainik Schools themselves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/one-exam-two-different-score-cards/article34241114.ece
05 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PJTSAU to make farming future-ready||Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU), which has already been tasked to prepare training programmes for farmers to be imparted through Rythu Vedikas, is planning to get the manpower ready for operating drones to be used plant protection measures by introducing a short-term certificate course in this regard. The university administration is in talks with the GMR Aviation Academy and is planning enter into a memorandum of understating with the latter for introducing the certificate course in the university. Practical training classes as part of the certificate course are likely to be handled provided by the academy with the help of simulators. “In tune with the State government’s plans to promote mechanisation in farming along with the use of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) not only to overcome the increasing shortage of labour but also to improve the quality of the produce, we have decided to develop framework for drone application in agriculture and demystify the technology with valid scientific backing,” university Vice-Chancellor V. Praveen Rao told The Hindu . Keeping in view the keen interest evinced by the State government in employing drones in agriculture, particularly in the plant protection measures including detection of pest and insect attacks and remedial measures such as spraying of pesticides, the university has been working in the area for the last couple of years. “We have secured the approval from the Director General of Civil Aviation recently to intensify our research in use of drones in agriculture. In fact, PJTSAU is the first university in the country get such an approval,” the V-C stated. The university has already completed aerial mapping, delineation and digitisation of boundaries of the PJTSAU main campus, agricultural research stations (ARS) and krishi vigyan kendras (KVKs), used drones to spray fluid requirements on rice crop at the Rice Research Centre on the main campus and evaluated performance of drones vis-a-vis traditional spraying operations on management of safflower at ARS Tandur, Mr. Praveen Rao explained. Besides, the university has signed a MoU with MIT Anna University to take forward advances in drone technology for the benefit of farmers and stakeholders in Telangana. “Requirement of manpower to handle drones used for plant protection activities would be very high and our effort to introduce the course is to meet such a demand,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pjtsau-to-make-farming-future-ready/article34241107.ece
05 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three held for cheating woman of Rs. 1.20 crore||Three persons from Madhya Pradesh, who cheated a city-based woman of Rs. 1.20 crore on the pretext of online trading, were arrested by the Hyderabad Cyber crime police. The accused are Trun Prajapati (24), Bablu Chouhan (26) and Sandeep Bansode (27), all from Indore. On March 1, the victim approached police stating that she received notification through Facebook ID 'Sakshi Mehta’ that she is a consultant in share trading business with the Company Central Trade Research with their office at Vasant Kunj, New Delhi. Online trading They telephoned the victim and asked her to open a D-mat account for online trading and promised her of huge profits. “Believing her, the woman accepted and transferred Rs. 5 lakh for trading. After that Sakshi Mehta told her that she got Rs. 88 lakh profit in the trading and to claim the profit, she needs to pay the amount as per company rules,” Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said. The woman transferred Rs. 1.20 crore into the bank accounts provided by the fraudsters and got cheated. Based on her complaint, a case was registered and the accused were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/3-held-for-cheating-woman-of-rs-120-cr/article34241127.ece
05 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Village courts sought for speedy justice||Forum for Good Governance (FGG) has, through a letter on Saturday, appealed to Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to take urgent steps to establish ‘Grama Nyayalayas’ or village courts for speedy and easy access to justice system in rural areas. To provide access to justice at the grass-roots level, the Law Commission of India, in its 114th report, then requested the Central government to establish the village courts. Accordingly, Parliament had enacted the Gram Nyayalayas Act in 2008. A general consensus was reached in a conference of Chief Ministers and Chief Justices in 2009, to bring the Act into force from October 2 the same year. The Centre had undertaken to bear all the non-recurring expenses for establishment of village courts, apart from footing 50% of the recurrent expenditure. No action However, in Telangana State, there had been no action on the file for the next decade. It was only on February 1, 2019, that the Department of Law issued orders sanctioning establishment of 55 village courts in various parts of the districts. A year later, the Finance department sanctioned appointment of 55 Grama Nyayadhikaris and 225 supporting staff for the village courts. For the last one year, there has been no action on the file, with the Law department transferring the matter to the General Administration department (GAD), and the latter not initiating any action, the letter mentioned, while seeking the Governor’s intervention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/village-courts-sought/article34241133.ece
05 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Poor suffering from heat complications||People who are homeless started to suffer from heat-related complications such as diarrhoea, dehydration, besides others. The ‘Street Medicine’ programme team, organised by Aman Vedika, who attend the homeless, said that they started to observe these complications. Around 40 degrees temperature was recorded in Hyderabad on Saturday. Since they are forced to rely on hard labour such as work at construction sites, they are directly exposed to sun. This leads to high chances for heat stroke or other severe reactions. Consultant doctor working for the programme, Dr Rajendra Arasam said that they are giving medicines and other resources to help them recover. “We also explain them about the preventive measures to be taken,” he said. Health coordinator at the programme, K Paul Isaac, said that people without homes are explain ed about the samount of water they have to consume regularly while working. “A few do not drink water and consume alcohol after work. We explain them that this should not be done,” Mr Paul said. As part of Street Medicine, the organisation holds mobile clinics in a van at places where people without homes are concentrated. The clinics are held late in the evening which is the time when the homeless return from work. Rama Rao, who lives by side of the road in Chaderghat, said that he visits the clinic regularly. On Thursday, he consulted the doctor complaining of body aches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/poor-suffering-from-heat-complications/article34241118.ece
05 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two held for stealing woman’s debit card||Two youngsters from Andhra Pradesh, who stole the debit card of a woman and spent the money in Goa, were arrested by the Rachakonda Cyber Crime police here on Sunday. The accused, Poolakunta Srinivasulu (28), a mason from Anantapur and Avija Uday Manish (19), a private employee from Kurnool, came to Hyderabad, in search of job and were staying at a hostel in Ameerpet. "There they became acquainted with the victim's friend Ganesh of Bhimavaram," police said. Ganesh introduced the duo to his friend and they frequently visited her place. In February this year, the victim asked the accused to come to her home to pick up a puppy. When they went to her house, they asked Rs. 500 for auto charges. As she ran out of cash, she gave her phone and shared ATM and UPI PINs to them to transfer money online. "They took advantage and transferred Rs. 5,000 from her account. They also stole her bank card from the hand purse and went to Goa, where they spent Rs. 3.10 lakh from her card," the investigators said. Later, they went back to their native places.  The accused went to Goa and spent Rs. 3.10 lakh from the victim’s card. Investigators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2-held-for-stealing-womans-debit-card/article34241126.ece
05 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hyderabad may get rain||There could be some relief from the current sweltering heat being experienced in the twin cities with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasting a few spells of rain or even thunder showers and partly cloudy sky on Monday. But, there might not be any major change in day or night temperatures that will remain at 39 degrees and 24 degrees respectively. The maximum temperature has been recorded at 38 degree Celsius and minimum of 24 on Sunday. The weather pattern is likely to remain the same till Tuesday for the rest of Telangana too, and it will be followed by dry weather again for the remaining week. TS Development Planning Society (TSDPS) has recorded the highest day temperature at Kagaznagar with 42.3 degrees, and in the GHMC area with 41 degree Celsius at Secunderabad on Sunday. It has forecast a relatively dry weather for the next few days with maximum temperatures expected to be in the range of 38-41 degree Celsius and minimum temperatures in the range of 21-24 degree Celsius in many districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-likely-to-get-rain/article34241135.ece
05 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Free power to hair cutting saloons, laundries, dhobi ghats||The State government has extended free power supply, up to 250 units per month, to hair cutting saloons, laundries and dhobi ghats with effect from April 1. A government order to this effect was issued late on Sunday night following Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s decision in the matter after perusing the representations by barbers and washermen’s associations. A release of the Chief Minister’s Office said the decision will apply to all saloons, laundries and dhobi ghats from villages to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits. It was taken to aid the barbers and washermen utilise power-aided devices in their profession. Since the upgradation of technology has happened in all trades, several devices have penetrated into professions of caste-based trades also. They eased physical strain on users and were financially viable, the note added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/free-power-to-hair-cutting-saloons-laundries-dhobi-ghats/article34241119.ece
05 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||500 tablets for students||Cognizant, in partnership with Nirmaan Organization, donated Rs. 1 crore-worth 500 tablets and 50 internet-enabled laptops to government schools as part of the ‘Digital Inclusion’ initiative of the company’s employee-led volunteering programme. The devices were presented to schools at a function at Zilla Parishad Boys High School, Malkajgiri. This initiative is to benefit students of classes 9 and 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/500-tablets-for-students/article34241112.ece
05 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Polling stations of GP, mandal vacancies by April 15||The final ward-wise gram panchayat electoral rolls for ordinary and casual vacancies will be published by the District Panchayat Officers (DPOs) concerned on April 12 and the territorial constituency wise rolls of MPTCs and Adilabad ZPTC will be published on April 15 by the MPDOs and CEO of Adilabad ZPP. According to a circular issued by the State Election Commission on Saturday, the names of polling stations for the vacancies will be published on April 14. Preparation of the draft list of polling stations will be completed by April 6, draft publication of list of polling stations on April 7, and the claims and objections will be received from April 7 to 10. Meeting with representatives of political parties will be held on April 9, disposal of objections and claims will be done on April 11 and approval of the list of polling stations by the district election authority will be done on April 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gp-electoral-rolls-on-april-12/article34241132.ece
05 April 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Realty firm axes teak trees on 64 acre layout||Forest officials seized 2,000 logs of teak that were shaped out of a large number of felled trees at a real estate venture in Bomraspet village, one km from Keesara, along the Shamirpet Outer Ring Road. The assessment of the number of trees that were felled on the 64 acre layout made by a real estate firm for plotting and sale will be completed on Monday afternoon, according to the Divisional Forest Officer of Medchal, A. Venkateswarlu. He said the firm had not sought forest permission to chop off the trees which had now resulted in having to face fine for the lapse. The department would have given permission like any other venture if it was applied. Now, the firm will not only be given a target to plant trees at an alternate site which was a condition for giving permission but pay the fine. Mr. Venkateswarlu added that the logs with an average size of six to seven ft were made by the firm for sale. They were being numbered as part of the procedure to assess the value.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/realty-firm-axes-teak-trees-on-64-acre-layout/article34241121.ece
05 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||page 2 Call Health||CallHealth has introduced ambulance booking feature on its platform by integrating multiple providers. “Initially, we intend to help customers ‘Discover the Ambulance Providers’ and understand their commercials. Soon, we will progress to a real-time integration of ambulances so that customers can precisely predict the Expected Time of Arrival and live-track movement of the ambulance,” said Hari Thalapalli, CEO, CallHealth. The services will be available in Hyderabad and later, expand across India in phases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-2-call-health/article34241111.ece
05 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Date extended||The last date for submission of online applications for admission to Class V in Social, Tribal, BC and General Welfare Residential Educational Institutions for the academic year 2021-2022 has been extended from April 3 to 15. Students of Class IX in the 2020-2021 academic year are eligible to apply. A toll free number, 1800 425 45678, has been given for queries. Requested to visit the following websites for details: www.tswreis.in, http:/tgcet.cgg.gov.in, http: /mjptbcwreis.telangana. gov.in, http: /tgtwgurukulam.telangana. gov.in, http:/ tresidential.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/date-extended/article34241134.ece
05 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Profit up (briefly)||The Karimnagar District Cooperative Central Bank has made a profit of Rs. 51.12 crore in 2020-21 as against Rs. 35 crore in 2019-20. The non-performing assets of the bank decreased from 2.15% in 2019-20 to 1.75% in 2020-21. The bank did a business of Rs. 3,973 crore in 2020-21, including deposits of Rs. 1,903 crore and loans of Rs. 2,070 crore, with an overall growth of 16%. Chairman Konduru Ravinder Rao congratulated officials, managing panel and CEOs for performance despite financial stress due to COVID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/profit-up-briefly/article34241125.ece
05 April 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||IPS officers transferred||The State government, on Sunday, effected a minor reshuffle of IPS officers. Hyderabad Joint Commissioner of Police (Special Branch) Tarun Joshi has been transferred and posted as Commissioner of Warangal, relieving IG (CID) P. Promod Kumar from full additional charge. Adilabad Superintendent Vishnu S. Warrier, who was also holding full additional charge of Nirmal district, has been transferred and posted as Commissioner of Khammam. He would be replacing Tafseer Iqbal, who was not given any posting as of now. The government is yet to appoint new officers in place of Mr. Joshi and Mr. Warrier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ips-officers-transferred/article34241139.ece
05 April 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Swimming to better physical and emotional health||The Nagarjuna Sagar Project (NSP) left canal hosted a mega swimming event with scores of people of all ages swimming a distance of several kilometres from Teldarpalli in Khammam rural mandal to Ramanagutta in Khammam urban mandal here on Sunday. The event was held under the aegis of the town-based Khanapuram Haveli Swimming Association and saw enthusiastic participation of nearly 100 persons including several children. It concluded at Ramanagutta locality. The participants received a thunderous reception when they reached the closing point in the NSP canal after swimming a long distance in about three hours. The event was organised to promote swimming as a means to improve overall health and physical fitness besides preventing drowning incidents and busting stress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/swimming-to-better-physical-and-emotional-health/article34241331.ece
05 April 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Vishnu S Warrier is new police commissioner||Vishnu S Warrier, Superintendent of Police, Adilabad district, an IPS officer of 2013 batch, has been appointed as the new Commissioner of Khammam Police Commissionerate. He will succeed the present incumbent Tafseer Iqbal, an IPS officer of 2008 batch, who has been transferred.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vishnu-s-warrier-is-new-police-commissioner/article34241336.ece
05 April 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Crop ploughed over, land forcibly taken for R&R Colony||On Sunday morning Markanti Narasimhulu, a farmer of Mutrajpally in Gajwel municipality limits, went to his field as usual. To his shock and surprise, his entire three acre farm with standing paddy crop was completely damaged. Not only his farm, but also his brother Ayodhya’s four acres land and three acres land of B. Aagamma — a total of 10 acres land — was totally ploughed over and levelled by revenue officials under police protection. The farm owners claimed that the officials have taken over the land from using force and not following the process of land acquisition under Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act 2013 (LA Act- 2013). Already 12 acres of land belonging to M. Narasimhulu, Balaraju, Rajaiah, Balamallu, Veeraiah and Sattaiah was acquired by government and a compensation of Rs. 6 lakh per acre paid to them in 2019. The land is being used to build the Rehabilitation and Resettlement Colony for the oustees of Mallannasagar in Toguta and Kondapaka mandals. The farmers were unwilling to sell their lands to the government as the price being offered to them was unrealistic and nowhere near the existing market price. The land in the ares commands more than Rs. 50 lakh per acre in the open market. The Markanti family is losing land the second time in three years. Their main grouse is that with the amount that is being paid as compensation by the government they would never be able to buy farmland again. “We are not even being allowed to question the government. I along with three others were taken away to Gajwel police station and were released after six hours when we went to our fields. These are patta lands and being enjoyed since generations,” Mr. Narasimhulu told The Hindu . He has also posted a video in social media stating that officials would be responsible if something goes wrong with his family as they were left with no options. Revenue officials, when contacted, informed that they have acquired about nine acre land under compulsory land acquisition from the family of Narasimhulu and the compensation amount was deposited with Land Acquisition Authority after notification was issued. Hence, they have every right to take over the land, the official claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/crop-ploughed-over-land-forcibly-taken-for-rr-colony/article34241335.ece
05 April 2021||Siddipet,TELANGANA||Necklace Road to be inaugurated tomorrow||The newly-established and decorated Necklace Road at Komaticheruvu in the district headquarters will be inaugurated by Finance Minister T. Harish Rao on April 6. In this regard, all the arrangements are in place.  The 4-km. necklace road is dotted with red coloured iron pillars. Synthetic cycling track and walking track are in place along the road so as to give a pleasant experience for walkers and cyclists. Open gym facility is also provided for the health conscious people. In addition to CC cameras, police outpost will also be established here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/necklace-road-to-be-inaugurated-tomorrow/article34241333.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Same in some ways||A tradition set by Congress candidate K. Jana Reddy in the byelection to Nagarjunasagar Assembly constituency of offering prayers at a temple of Hanuman in an interior village to mark the launch of his election campaign has become a trend-setter.  His rivals Nomula Bhagat of TRS and Ravi Kumar of BJP fell in line and did the same ahead of launching their campaign. Coming to the significance of the temple, it is located in the last village of the constituency in the north-eastern direction, which is considered auspicious. Therefore, Mr. Jana Reddy always visited the temple in a thatched roof in his 43-year political career at the beginning of his campaign. Going by the success rate of Mr. Reddy (he won seven Assembly elections), his TRS rival in 2018 polls, Nomula Narsimhaiah, also offered prayers at the same temple and won. Surprisingly, Mr. Narsimhaiah joined TRS just before polls from CPI (M), whose leaders were not known to practice religion strictly.   BJP candidate for Sagar by-poll Dr. P. Ravi Kumar is employing unique methods to win over the electorate during the ongoing campaign. As a candidate of the ST community, he is dancing and singing with them while visiting their habitations (thandas) apart from speaking to them in their language. However, when he visited his native Palugu thanda in Tripuraram mandal, he could not control his emotions before his own near and dear ones and sought their blessings by weeping inconsolably, stating it was with their blessings and support that he had come this far. Other parties in the fray, particularly TRS, Congress and TDP, have a different view on the BJP candidate’s campaigning with the observation that it is his helplessness that was making him weep before his communities.   Unemployed youth aspiring government jobs appear to be facing a piquant situation as far as age is concerned. Youth, who are waiting for commencement of recruitment process, are demanding that the government announce relaxation of age for recruitment. The demand follows the recently-issued notification fixing the maximum age limit for general category candidates at 34. This is in contrast to recruitment drives in the past when the government gave 10 years relaxation in the maximum age limit. Students of general category who are anticipating more notifications to follow are a worried lot as they could be deprived of the opportunity if the relaxation is not continued. With ministers’ repeatedly asserting about issuance of a slew of notifications in the near future, the government hopefully clarifies its stand on the age criterion so that aspirants can continue to focus on preparing for competitive exams.  (N. Rahul, B. Chandrashekhar and   M. Rajeev)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/same-hues-in-matters-of-religion/article34241136.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Staying cool||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/staying-cool/article34241131.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||In praise of God||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/in-praise-of-god/article34241116.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Readers Mail||It is heartening to note that the Chief Secretaries of AP and Telangana are to virtually meet on April 6 to sort out bilateral issues which include apportionment of institutions not listed anywhere. In this regard, I would like to highlight the manner in which TS government wound up the Government Institute of Printing Technology located on 14-acre prime land in East Marredpally. It was done discreetly through a government memo when in actuality and as per Reorganisation Act, it should have been done as a collective action. As per the Act, AP students have the provision to study for 10 years i.e. up to 2024, but instead, it was closed in early 2019. The AP government should revive this institute and facilitate the students to benefit by establishing an exclusive college for themselves in Amaravati or somewhere else. I request both governments to help interested students as 100% employment is guaranteed in this industry. D. Nagarjuna, Kushaiguda    Recently, I visited the railway reservation counter near Maitrivanam complex at Ameerpet to book a ticket. I intended to make the payment with my credit card when I was told that there are frequent problems with card payment. Sometimes, tickets are not printed even after card payment is accepted and that I may have to remake the payment to get the ticket, with the amount to be refunded later. On one hand, the Centre advises digital transactions and on the other, we have these issues. I request railway officials concerned to kindly set right this technical anomaly. K.Durga Prasad Rao, Srinagar Colony    I have observed that department stores and banks have done away with safety precautions such as hand sanitisers and temperature control observation of visitors despite the raging second wave of coronavirus. In many bank branches, safety measures are being ignored with ATM and deposit machines located in congested corners making it impossible to protect oneself from coming in contact with others. B. Rajendra Prasad, Ramakrishnapuram    It is good to see Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao and Health Minister Eatala Rajendra always wearing masks fully covering mouths and noses even while speaking even though they are frequently moving in risk zones of hospitals and mass gatherings. But, many other ministers and Opposition leaders either don’t wear mask at all or don’t wear it properly. Given the alarming second wave of coronavirus, leaders should wear masks compulsory fully covering mouth and nose, and this would serve as a good example for citizens to follow. T.Kailash Ditya, Barkatpura  (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns. They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk-at-thehindu.co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/readers-mail/article34241113.ece
05 April 2021||Mumbai,||Vaze case: NIA seizes documents suggesting ‘bribe’ paid to ‘officials’||The ongoing probe into the security scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house and the alleged murder of businessman Mansukh Hiren has led the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to documents that show some payments, suspected to be bribe money, being made to officials in the Mumbai Police and the administration, officials said. They said the NIA was scrutinising the documents unearthed during a raid on Thursday on a club at Girgaum in south Mumbai to probe further the role of now-suspended police officer Sachin Vaze, who is in the custody of the Central agency till April 7. One of the documents showed the name of the office as well as officers by designation and there was an amount mentioned against their names, and the same had been tabulated month-wise, the officials said. The officials suspect that the amounts mentioned against office and officers could be the bribe money paid every month. Before sharing further details, the NIA is likely to seek an explanation from the club owner and others about the documents. The officials said that if needed the documents would be shared with Income Tax or CBI officials for further probe as the NIA was mandated to probe anti-terror cases only. They said the club was frequented by Mr. Vaze who had even got Naresh Gor and co-accused Vinayak Shinde employed there. Both of them are in the NIA custody at present. The NIA had on Thursday also seized documents pertaining to SIM cards procured through Mr. Gor for his personal use. Mr. Gor was alleged to have procured the SIM cards from Ahmedabad in Gujarat and these were handed over to Mr. Vaze through Mr. Shinde, the officials said. One of these SIM cards was used by Mr. Vaze to give a call to Hiren, which turned out to be the last call before the businessman was killed. The body of Hiren, who was in possession of the SUV used in the security scare incident, was found in a creek in the Mumbra town of Thane district on March 5. Hiren was allegedly killed by Mr. Vaze after reports started surfacing that the case may be handed over to the Central agency for probe. Initial investigations suggested that Hiren was called to a place where he was made unconscious with the help of some drugs before being smothered to death. His vehicle was found outside Mr. Ambani’s house in Mumbai on February 25 with gelatin sticks and a threat note. The NIA has said in the court that Mr. Vaze had taken the SUV from Hiren before allegedly planting the explosives and parking it outside Mr. Ambani’s house on February 25. Mr. Vaze was arrested on March 15 by the NIA. The Maharashtra ATS, which was initially probing the Hiren murder case, had arrested Mr. Gor and Mr. Shinde.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/vaze-case-nia-seizes-documents-suggesting-bribe-paid-to-officials/article34241198.ece
05 April 2021||Mumbai,||Kidnapped four-month-old girl rescued; four arrested||Three women and a man were arrested on Sunday for allegedly kidnapping an infant from Deonar area of Mumbai, police said. The four-month-old girl had gone missing on Thursday and her kin approached the police claiming they suspected one Sharmeen and her husband Siddique Khan had kidnapped her, an official said. “On that basis, we questioned Ms. Sharmeen and Mr. Khan, and we got to know that the child had been handed over to an Antop Hill-based woman named Farzana Sayyed Shaikh. She had given the baby further to one Asha Pawar of Chembur,” he said. Ms. Pawar passed on the baby to a woman called Julia Fernandes, a resident of Matunga, who, on questioning, led the police to the infant in Bengaluru, the official said. “The child was reunited with her parents. Ms. Sharmeen, Mr. Khan, Ms. Shaikh and Ms. Pawar have been arrested. More arrests are likely in the case,” the Deonar police station official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/kidnapped-four-month-old-girl-rescued-four-arrested/article34241196.ece
05 April 2021||Mumbai,||Akshay Kumar tests positive||Actor Akshay Kumar on Sunday said that he had tested positive for the novel coronavirus and was under home quarantine. The 53-year-old took to Twitter to share his diagnosis. “I wish to inform everyone that, earlier this morning, I have tested positive for COVID-19. Following all the protocols I have immediately isolated myself. I am under home quarantine and have sought necessary medical care,” he wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/akshay-kumar-tests-positive/article34241203.ece
05 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cases touch 4,000 mark, Delhi records highest deaths in a day||The Capital recorded 4,003 new COVID-19 cases and 21 deaths on Sunday, according to a health bulletin issued by the government. The bulletin also stated that 86,899 tests were conducted in 24 hours with a positivity rate of 4.64 %. Of the total tests conducted, 54,472 were RTPCR and 32,427 were rapid antigen. This was the highest number of deaths recorded this year with the toll same as that which was recorded on January 1. The last time the city recorded more than 4,000 cases was on December 4 — 4,067 cases. There are 13,983 active cases in the city up from 12, 647 reported on Saturday. Out of the total cases, 7,144 are under home isolation. The Capital has 6,131 hospital beds available for COVID-19 patients out of which 2,727 are occupied. The rest of the patients are at dedicated COVID care centres and COVID health centres. The city on Saturday had reported 3,567 new cases and 3,594 on Friday. The number of cases had seen a surge during the week as on March 28, the day before Holi, 1,881 cases were reported with a positivity rate of 2.35%. The number of active cases then was 7,545. The containment zones rose to 2,917 on Sunday from 2,618 on Saturday. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday had said the Delhi government is not planning any lockdown in the wake of the fourth wave of COVID in the Capital. He said that if needed, his government will only do it after consulting with the public. He said the government is testing, tracing, and isolating aggressively and wherever there seems to be a need for demarcation of containment zones, it would be done to prevent the further spread of the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/virus-cases-cross-4000-mark-city-records-highest-deaths-in-a-day/article34241013.ece
05 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||In 2-day drive, 173 eateries fined for flouting COVID guidelines||In the wake of surge in COVID-19 cases, the Delhi police have intensified drive against people flouting social distancing norms. They had launched a two-day special drive (on Saturday and Sunday) to crackdown on those violating COVID norms. The officers on Sunday said they have fined more 173 establishments for the same. Out of these, 13 were banquet halls owners, 58 restaurant owners and three night club owners, they added. The drive, in which people were also fined for not wearing masks and spitting in public areas, was conducted in places with high footfall, including markets on Friday and Saturday. A senior officer said FIRs were registered against the owners of Jain Chawal Wala at Connaught Place, Informal Restaurant at Janpath, Classic Chicken Restaurant at Shaheed Bhagat Singh Marg and Choice Chicken Corner Kalina at Gole Market for not observing COVID-appropriate behaviour. The cases were registered under IPC Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), said Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Vikas Kumar. They also have been booked under Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, he added. Nine fined Rs. 2K each Besides them, nine persons were fined Rs. 2,000 each for not wearing mask in Khan Market and three others for the same reason at the Ashoka Hotel in Chanakya Puri, Mr. Kumar said. In south-east district, 10 FIRs were registered, and 330 people fined for violating COVID norms. Several night clubs, including the M House Club and Bar and Roar Night Club at Eros Hotel in Nehru Place, were fined for not maintaining social distancing and serving hookahs, said DCP (South-East) R.P. Meena. Municipal corporations and the excise department have been asked to cancel their licences, he said. Besides the Epidemic Diseases Act, they have been also booked under the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act, Mr. Meena said. He said a case has also been registered against Boken Cafe for not following COVID-19 protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/173-eateries-fined-for-flouting-norms-during-two-day-drive/article34241007.ece
05 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Upgrade underground parking to decongest Connaught Place’||To decongest traffic and ensure no unauthorisied parking at Connaught Place (CP), the Delhi Traffic Police submitted a proposal to civic authorities to upgrade the “underutilised” underground parking near Palika Bazaar, said officers on Sunday. They said traffic congestion at CP, especially during weekends, is primarily due to shortage of parking space and less room on footpaths because of encroachment by hawkers. “We want to get the underground parking as well as the multi-level parking properly utilised,” a senior traffic police official said. He also said at present, the underground parking area in Palika Bazaar is being used only 40% . “Even the multi-level parking system at Baba Kharak Singh Marg is being utilised for only about 20-30% while the surface parking is being fully used,” the official added. The Traffic Police said it has conducted a series of meetings with officials of New Delhi Traders Association (NDTA) and the NDMC over the past two months regarding a proposal to upgrade the parking facility at CP. He said the Traffic Police suggested the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) to fix slightly higher parking charges for vehicles, which are parked for more than four hours. Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic-Southern Range) S.D. Mishra said: “We want to create a deterrent and send this message across that unauthorised parking on the road will not be tolerated.” The plan to make CP a vehicle-free zone, to decongest the heritage shopping arcade continued to be only on paper due to stiff resistance from traders, inadequate parking facilities and lack of a foolproof traffic management plan. ‘Pathetic condition’ During the meetings, NDTA General Secretary Vikram Badhwar had pointed out that one of the main reasons for the underutilisation of underground parking adjacent to Palika Bazaar was its “pathetic condition”. “There is a safety issue involved as there is no proper lighting, especially on the lower floors. The vagabonds defecate and urinate there. The staircases also needed immediate repair. There was no lift for the elderly or the disabled person,” he had said. Responding to this, the traffic officials said women, differently abled persons and the elderly can park their cars at surface-level parking but the NDTA should try to convince others to start using the underground parking. “We have emphasised on the need to encourage the shopkeepers, owners of commercial establishments and their employees to park their vehicles at the underground parking area,” the traffic official said. The traffic police has also suggested the NDMC to have fixed rates for underground and surface-level parking. Citing encroachment by hawkers, the traffic officials said the matter has been highlighted during the meetings and the NDMC is supposed to take appropriate action.  There is a safety issue [at underground parking] involved as there is no proper lighting, especially on the lower floors. Vikram Badhwar   NDTA General Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/upgrade-underground-parking-to-decongest-connaught-place/article34241011.ece
05 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||FIR lodged against AAP MLA for threatening religious leader||Taking suo motu cognisance of a video and a tweet, the Delhi Police on Sunday said an FIR has been registered against AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan for allegedly threatening religious leader Narsinghanand. This comes a day after an FIR was filed against the religious leader on the complaint of Mr. Khan. A case under Sections 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 153 A (promoting enmity between different group on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Parliament Street police station for holding out threat to a speaker in an earlier surfaced video, a senior officer said, adding that the matter is being probed. On Saturday, an FIR was registered against the religious leader for allegedly hurting the sentiments of the Muslim community on a complaint from Mr. Khan, the police said. Mr. Khan had uploaded a video on social media in which he said he had submitted a complaint against Narsinghanand. In a video circulating on social media, which was purportedly shot during an event at the Press Club, the religious leader is seen uttering blasphemous words against the Muslim community. “Taking cognisance of a video circulating on social media of a conference that took place at the Press Club, a case under relevant sections has been registered at the Parliament Street police station and investigation taken up,” a senior officer had said. Mr. Khan had said: “The appeal is to take strict action against this impudence. People like Narsinghanand are not fit to live in the society. These people are spoiling the atmosphere of the country.”  The appeal is to take strict action against this impudence. People like Narsinghanand are not fit to live in the society. These people are spoiling the atmosphere of the country Amanatullah Khan AAP MLA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/fir-lodged-against-aap-mla-for-threatening-religious-leader/article34241001.ece
05 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Metro to convert remaining fleet to 8-coach trains||The Delhi Metro on Sunday announced that it is undertaking the conversion of its remaining fleet of six-coach trains into eight-coach trains by adding 120 additional coaches on the Red, Yellow and Blue Lines of its network. The conversion, it said, is expected to be completed by the end of this year, after which all the trains running on these lines will be eight-coaches only. It added that the activity is being carried out to increase the carrying capacity of the three main corridors of the Delhi Metro which contribute to almost 40-50% of passenger utilisation every day. “By the end of this month, the process of converting all twelve six-coach trains on Yellow Line into eight-coaches will be completed, thereby taking the total number of eight-coach trains on this line to 64. Subsequently, remaining nine six-coach trains on the Blue Line and 39 six-coach trains on the Red Line will be converted into eight-coach trains by the end of this year, taking the total number of eight-coach trains on these lines to 74 and 39 respectively,” the Delhi Metro said. The Red, Blue and Yellow lines of the Delhi Metro were made operational under Phase-I and were built on Broad Gauge having provision of running trains up to eight-coach formation. Rest of the lines subsequently taken up in Phase-II and Phase-III are all built on Standard Gauge having provision of running trains up to six-coach formation only.  The conversion is expected to be completed by the end of this year, after which all the trains running on these [Red, Yellow and Blue] lines will be eight-coaches Delhi Metro||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/metro-to-convert-remaining-fleet-to-8-coach-trains/article34241004.ece
05 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||JNU lists COVID-19 protocols, makes masks mandatory for all on campus||To deal with the rise in COVID-19 cases, the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Sunday issued a circular, listing measures to be followed on campus. The measures include mandatory thermal screening and wearing masks among others. “Students and employees will be allowed in hostels, administrative buildings, school buildings, Dr B.R. Ambedkar Central Library and spaces, including shopping complexes and walking on the road, only if they wear masks,” the circular read. It added that ahopkeepers, canteen staff, and faculty have also been instructed to wear masks at all times. “Any violation would attract closure of shop or canteen for two days initially. Further violation will be dealt with strictly as per guidelines and norms of the government of India, the Delhi government and the University notification, etc”, the circular warned. Hand sanitisation and thermal screening have been made mandatory at all key points, including at schools, special centres, hostels, the administration building and the central library, it added. “Vendors will not be allowed in science schools, Advanced Instrumentation Research Facility (AIRF), special centres, administration building and other establishments unless authorised by the relevant respective offices,” the circular said. The reopening of the university guidelines may be revisited, it said if cases rise exponentially.  DU issues guidelines On Saturday, Delhi University issued guidelines advising students to stay at home or their hostels and avoid physical presence for their academic work unless “very essential”. The university also canceled booking of conference centre and seminar hall for any functions till further notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/jnu-lists-covid-19-norms-for-all-on-campus/article34241005.ece
05 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU teachers threaten to go on strike from April 12||The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) on Sunday said that it will resume its strike from April 12 if the university fails to take concrete steps to safeguard interest of employees and colleges. In a letter to V-C P.C. Joshi, the teachers demanded that the university, as the custodian of colleges and employees, should take concrete steps which ensures that 12 DU colleges, funded by the Delhi government, are governed within the framework of the DU Act and Ordinances. The DUTA said that it further demands that the university convenes emergent meetings of Executive Council to pass resolutions against Pattern of Assistance and appointment of senior administrative officers in the 12 DU Colleges. “It was decided and communicated to staff associations that while teachers will return to their classes from April 1, the DUTA shall resume the strike from April 12 in case the university fails to take concrete steps to safeguard interest of employees and colleges,” the DUTA said. DUTA has been protesting for over three weeks against the appointment of senior administrative and the issue of a ‘Pattern of Assistance’ document in 12 Delhi government-funded DU colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/du-teachers-threaten-to-resume-strike-from-april-12/article34241003.ece
05 April 2021||New Delhi,||BJP hits at AAP govt. for not ‘building any hospital’||The BJP on Sunday hit out at the Aam Aadmi Party-ruled government, alleging that it did not build any hospital and flyover during its rule between 2015 and 2019. Citing replies to two RTI queries filed in 2019 by Tejpal Singh, a city resident seeking information about healthcare and infrastructure initiatives by the Delhi government, the BJP’s national media in-charge and chief spokesperson Anil Baluni said by making “false” claims about development works, AAP has cheated the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-hits-at-aap-govt-for-not-building-any-hospital/article34240999.ece
05 April 2021||Thane,||2 child marriages foiled in Palghar||Two child marriages were foiled at separate places in Palghar district on Sunday, officials said. The first incident occurred at Chendavane village in Wada tehsil, Shahapur tehsildar Nilima Suryavanshi said. “A teenage girl, who studies in Class IX, was about to be married off by her parents. Just when the marriage was about to be solemnised, revenue officials reached the spot and stopped it,” she said. The second incident involved a 17-year-old girl studying in Gotheghar ashram school, who is a resident of Jawhar. “Her marriage was foiled in the nick of time at Tilonda village,” another official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/2-child-marriages-foiled-in-palghar/article34241195.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Brazen disregard for compliance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/brazen-disregard-for-compliance/article34241202.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Hunger pangs||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hunger-pangs/article34241009.ece
05 April 2021||Amman,||Jordan Prince Hamzah under ‘house arrest’||Jordanian authorities said on Sunday they foiled a plot to “destabilise” the kingdom involving a half-brother of King Abdullah II and arrested at least 16 suspects. Hamzah bin Hussein — a former Crown Prince stripped of that title by the monarch in 2004 — and the others had worked with foreign parties to “undermine the security” of Jordan, Deputy Prime Minister Ayman Safadi said. Prince Hamzah, 41, had on Saturday released a video message via the BBC, in which he accused Jordan’s rulers of nepotism and corruption and charged that he had been placed under house arrest. Multiple arrests In his message, sent via a satellite link from his Amman palace, the Prince lashed out at Jordan’s “ruling system” and said several of his friends had been arrested, his security detail removed and his Internet and phone lines cut. He denied being part of "any conspiracy or nefarious organisation" but said the country of 10 million people had "become stymied in corruption, in nepotism and in misrule" and that nobody was allowed to criticise the authorities. The official newspaperAl-Raiwarned on Sunday that Jordan’s “security and stability” were a “red line that must not be crossed or even approached”. Washington and Gulf allies stressed their support for the pro-Western government in Amman, seen as an anchor of stability in the West Asia. Official news agency Petra said among those arrested for “security reasons” were former close aides to the royal family Bassem Awadallah, chief of the royal court in 2007-2008, and Sherif Hassan bin Zaid. Mr. Safadi said on Sunday an additional 16 suspects had been arrested. Wicked slander: Queen Hamzah’s mother, Queen Noor, tweeted that she was “praying that truth and justice will prevail for all the innocent victims of this wicked slander. God bless and keep them safe”. Prince Hamzah is the eldest son of the late King Hussein and American-born Queen Noor. King Abdullah had appointed Prince Hamzah, a popular figure close to tribal leaders, Crown Prince in 1999 in line with King Hussein’s dying wishes, but in 2004 stripped him of the title and gave it to his own eldest son Hussein. A Jordanian analyst said Prince Hamzah had recently “stepped up his criticism of what he described as corruption within the government in front of his circle of friends”. According to the same source, “there is certainly resentment on his part, because he has never digested losing his title of Crown Prince”. U.S. State Department spokesman Ned Price said Washington was “closely following” the events in its close regional ally. The UAE and Saudi Arabia were quick to voice their support for Jordan’s King and all steps taken to ensure stability, as were the Arab League and the Gulf Cooperation Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/jordan-prince-hamzah-under-house-arrest/article34240703.ece
05 April 2021||Jakarta,||Over 41 dead in Indonesia flash floods||Landslides and flash floods from torrential rains in eastern Indonesia killed at least 41 people and displaced thousands, the country’s disaster relief agency said on Sunday. More than two dozen others were still missing. Mud tumbled down from surrounding hills onto dozens of homes in Lamenele village shortly after midnight on Adonara island in East Nusa Tenggara province. Rescuers recovered 35 bodies and at least five injured, said Lenny Ola, who heads the local disaster agency. Flash flooding killed at least six people elsewhere, according to the National Disaster Mitigation Agency. Relief efforts were hampered by power cuts, blocked roads covered in thick mud and debris as well as the remoteness of the area surrounded by choppy seas and high waves, said the agency’s spokesperson, Raditya Jati. Seasonal downpours cause frequent landslides and floods, killing dozens each year in Indonesia, a chain of 17,000 islands where millions of people live in mountainous areas or near fertile flood plains. Indonesia’s disaster agency lowered the death toll late on Sunday to 41— down from 44. At least 27 people were still missing. The bodies of three people were recovered after being swept away by floods in Oyang Bayang village, where 40 houses were also destroyed, Ms. Ola said. In another village, Waiburak, three people were killed and seven remained missing when overnight rains caused rivers to burst their banks, sending muddy water into large areas of East Flores district, Ms. Ola said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/over-41-dead-in-indonesia-flash-floods/article34240702.ece
05 April 2021||Lahore,||Hafiz Saeed’s 5 aides jailed||A Pakistani anti-terrorism court has sentenced five accomplices of Mumbai attack mastermind Hafiz Saeed’s Jamaat-ud-Dawah (JuD) to nine years of imprisonment each in a terror financing case. Three of them — Umar Bahadar, Nasarullah and Samiullah — have been convicted for the first time since the Anti-Terrorism Court (ATC) in Lahore pronounced its verdict some time ago in the terror financing cases registered by the Counter-Terrorism Department (CTD) of the Punjab police. The other two — JuD spokesperson Yahya Mujahid and senior leader Prof Zafar Iqbal — had already been convicted for many years in other terror financing cases. ATC Lahore Judge Ejaz Ahmad Buttar on April 3 handed down nine-year jail term to each of them. The Judge also ordered a six-month jail term to Saeed’s brother-in-law Hafiz Abdul Rehman Makki in the same case. “The court found the JuD/LeT leaders guilty of offence of terrorism financing. They had been collecting funds and unlawfully financing the proscribed organisation, LeT [Lashkar-e-Taiba]. The court has also ordered confiscation of assets made from funds collected through terrorism financing,” the CTD said. The JuD leaders were presented in the court amid high security and the media was not allowed to cover the proceedings. The ATC had sentenced the LeT founder, Saeed, for a collective imprisonment of 36 years on terror finance charges under sections 11-N of Anti-Terrorism Act 1997 in five cases so far. Saeed’s jail terms will run concurrently. That means he will not stay in jail for many years. He is serving his term in Lahore’s Kot Lakhpat jail along with other convicted JuD leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hafiz-saeeds-5-aides-jailed/article34240707.ece
05 April 2021||Taipei,||Taiwan crash: truck driver offers apology||A maintenance worker whose runaway truck sparked Taiwan’s worst rail disaster in recent decades made a tearful apology on Sunday as investigators said the train driver had little time to react to the collision. At least 50 people were killed and more than 200 were injured in Friday’s crash, which sent a packed eight-car train hurtling into the sides of a narrow tunnel near the eastern coastal city of Hualien. Investigators say the Taroko Express hit a truck on the line moments before it entered the tunnel. The vehicle slipped down a steep embankment and prosecutors are working to determine whether the driver either failed to secure the parking brake or if it suffered a mechanical failure. On Sunday, driver Lee Yi-hsiang read out an emotional statement. “I am deeply remorseful and want to express my most sincere apologies,” he said, his voice cracking with emotion. “I will cooperate with the investigation by police and prosecutors to take the responsibility I should take,” he added. Mr. Lee, 49, was part of a team who regularly inspected Taiwan’s mountainous eastern train line for landslips and other risks. He was questioned over the weekend by prosecutors and released on bail by a court pending enquiries. Taiwanese media reported on Sunday that he was taken back into custody because he was deemed a flight risk and had a previous conviction for forgery. Hong Young, chairman of Taiwan Transportation Safety Board, told AFP that investigators were combing through the train’s recording devices as well as CCTV footage from the front car. “According to the testimonies by some passengers, they heard the horn being sounded and it is believed that the train driver had spotted an object of obstruction on the track,” Hong Young, chairman of the Taiwan Transportation Safety Board, said. But the train driver — who was among those killed — would have struggled to stop a collision. “It’s believed the train driver might have only had 10 seconds at most to react and there was not enough distance to emergency brake,” he added. Some survivors reported that the train did not appear to slow down before striking the truck.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/truck-driver-makes-tearful-apology-over-taiwan-rail-crash/article34240708.ece
05 April 2021||PESHAWAR,||Pakistani judge, three kin shot dead||An anti-terrorism court judge and three members of his family, including wife and a two-year-old grandson, were shot dead after unidentified gunmen attacked their vehicle while they were travelling from the Swat Valley to Islamabad, police said. Two security guards who were part of the judge’s convoy were also injured in the shootout. The gunmen sprayed the vehicle of judge Aftab Afridi with bullets, killing him, his wife, daughter-in-law and a two-year-old grandson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistani-judge-three-kin-shot-dead/article34241160.ece
05 April 2021||Baghdad,||Two rockets land near Iraq airbase||Two rockets landed on Sunday near an Iraqi air base just north of Baghdad where American trainers are present, causing no casualties or damage, an Iraqi official said. Major Gen. Tahseen al-Khafaji said the rockets landed outside Balad air base after midday. The attack was the first on an Iraqi base housing U.S. troops since an assault last month on a base in western Iraq that houses U.S. contractors and coalition troops. One contractor died after 10 rockets slammed into the base, raising concerns over a new round of escalating violence. It followed U.S. strikes on Iran-aligned militia targets along the Iraq-Syria border in late February in retaliation for another deadly attack on a base in Iraq.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/two-rockets-hit-near-iraq-airbase/article34240706.ece
05 April 2021||Washington,||NASA’s Ingenuity helicopter dropped on Mars’ surface ahead of flight||NASA’s Ingenuity mini-helicopter has been dropped on the surface of Mars in preparation for its first flight, the U.S. space agency said. The ultra-light aircraft had been fixed to the belly of the Perseverance rover, which touched down on the Red Planet on February 18. A “MarsHelicopter touchdown confirmed!” NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory tweeted on Saturday. “Its 293 million mile (471 million km) journey aboard @NASAPersevere ended with the final drop of 4 inches (10 cm) from the rover’s belly to the surface of Mars today. Next milestone? Survive the night.” Ingenuity had been feeding off the Perseverance’s power system but will now have to use its own battery to run a vital heater to protect its electrical components.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nasas-ingenuity-helicopter-dropped-on-mars-surface-ahead-of-flight/article34240705.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Going beyond Tamil Nadu’s ‘freebies’ narrative||Disparaging references to “freebies” are a popular trope of media coverage of elections in Tamil Nadu. This Assembly election is no different: free data, free tabs, free washing machines were in the news as political parties released their election manifestos. Electoral promises serve as a road map for elected governments and deserve greater scrutiny. I took a quick look at the full manifestos in English of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (https://bit.ly/3wkSBzP), the Indian National Congress, the Makkal Needhi Maiam (https://bit.ly/2PQfaeS) and the Bharatiya Janata Party. (Unfortunately, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) does not have an English version.) The 17,000-plus word manifesto of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) is the most detailed. It mentions “welfare” 55 times, followed through with frequent mentions of education/school (61 times), women/girl/female (60 times), and of food/health/nutrition (17 times). The counts of these words in the manifestos of other parties pale in comparison ( see table ). In the case of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress, there is little difference (e.g., education appears 23-24 times; women 14-15 times). The Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM), a new party headed by actor Kamal Haasan, made news when it announced a compensation for women’s unpaid, primarily domestic, work. The party has a very lean manifesto (two documents, 2-3 pages each) that barely discusses the topics listed above. Simple word counts can only tell us so much — filling pages is hardly the point of an election manifesto. Studying them allows us to get a sense of how substantive the promises are and how deep is the understanding of issues. For instance, in the case of the BJP, one of the welfare-related promises is merely that “Adi Dravidar Welfare will be renamed as “Scheduled Caste Welfare Department””. In contrast, in the corresponding section, the DMK includes a promise of reservations in government jobs for Adi-Dravidars, scholarships for girls from certain subgroups, hostel accommodation and food allowance, and so on. The manifesto also clarifies which promises apply to children born of inter-caste marriages. Interestingly, the BJP promises to transfer panchami land to Dalits. Dalit/land activists have questioned the promise because a BJP leader from Tamil Nadu, as Vice Chairperson of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes, had ignored petitions to the Commission on precisely this issue. With this promise, apart from wooing Dalit voters, the BJP is probably trying to keep alive an allegation — denied by the DMK — that the DMK’s Murasoli office is on panchami land. A pioneer State As a development economist working on social policy, Tamil Nadu is of great interest. From school meals, canteens (or community kitchens) and maternity entitlements,it has pioneered some of the best welfare programmes. Following in that tradition, the DMK has the most comprehensive, if modest, vision for a welfare state (in its manifesto): 150 days of National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA) work instead of just 100 per year per family and a fair wage (Rs. 300 per day). Reintroduction of urad dal in the Public Distribution System has been promised. For children’s nutrition, it propose to add milk in school meals; Tamil Nadu already serves eggs every day. Running a programme well, requires decent work conditions for staff; the DMK promises pensions and gratuity for anganwadi and mid-day meal workers. For women, among the most significant promises is one to increase maternity entitlements under the Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy scheme, from Rs. 18,000 to Rs. 24,000 per child. In State government jobs, the party proposes to increase paid maternity leave from nine to 12 months. Besides this, it promises to set up nursing stations with privacy. Exclusive breastfeeding for the first six months is among the most important needs of a child. In a society where women are not to be confined to their homes because they bear the main responsibility of child rearing, the promise of nursing stations is not trivial. There is also a proposal to set up 500 new Kalaignar canteens (modelled on Amma’s canteens, pioneered by former Chief Minister and AIADMK leader J. Jayalalithaa). The Congress manifesto does not mention NREGA — an Act that was passed by its own government under the United Progressive Alliance-1; and as far as the PDS is concerned, that section in the manifesto is populated with three seemingly random points: “steps will be taken < to provide free rice; along with free rice>, lentils, cooking oil and other essential groceries” (emphasis added). (To be fair, the English version of the Congress manifesto is an abridged version of the Tamil manifesto; however, it does come across as a hastily “Google translated” document.) This is not to say that all manifesto promises are laudable. Just to give one example: as in Haryana’s widely criticised, possibly unconstitutional move to reserve jobs for locals,the “DMK assures to introduce legislation to reserve 75 percent of private sector jobs for locals.” It is a misguided, impractical promise that could lead to corruption and red tape without any substantive gains. Exacerbating inequality The DMK manifesto also betrays how deeply ingrained inequality is in our society. It promises an enhanced compensation of Rs. 24,000 for women as maternity entitlement in the unorganis̥ed sector. This will still not bring their entitlements on a par with those of women in, say, government jobs, who are entitled to 26 weeks paid leave under the Maternity Benefit (Amendment) Act 2017 (and who are being promised 12 months by the DMK). While the first is necessary, the second will increase inequality. Finally, there are glaring blindspots: apart from ignoring health care in a pandemic year, the insidious use of Aadhaar in welfare and beyond has not been opposed. Need to refocus The main reason for dwelling on the details of the manifestos is that the mainstream English media rarely goes beyond the ‘freebies’ narrative: free washing machines, “free data”, etc. In earlier elections, free rice, fans and mixer-grinders made news. Other important promises that could touch, and likely improve, the lives of millions rarely make headlines. For instance, given the nationwide farmer protests, the proposals on agriculture in the DMK manifesto should have been debated. Among other promises, it includes the promotion of cooperatives for fairer marketing mechanisms. Similarly, it mentions jobs/employment more often (66 times) than welfare (55), but we have not heard what these promises are. An assurance to redress these problems is at least a recognition the problem exists. The argument here is not that merely making progressive promises will ensure their implementation, nor is the idea to create an impression that politics in Tamil Nadu is people-centred or clean. The concern is that by allowing ourselves to be drowned in the freebies narrative, we are giving political parties a free pass at a crucial juncture. Reetika Khera is Associate Professor (Economics) at the Indian Institute of Technology Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/going-beyond-tamil-nadus-freebies-narrative/article34240688.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||In Tamil Nadu, environment is good politics||Environmental promises have made a visible entry into Tamil Nadu’s politics, along with a guarded valourisation of farmer and fisher rights over big-ticket infrastructure and industrial projects. All key parties in the 2021 Assembly polls barring the AIADMK dedicated a section for “environmental protection” in their manifestos. Setting aside the justified cynicism about fulfillment of poll promises, the appearance of environment as a political concern worth flagging signals a welcome cultural shift in Tamil politics. It would be a folly to dismiss these promises as tokenism. That would disregard the power of earlier culture-shaping projects such as the Self-Respect Movement and the depth of Tamils’ linguistic identity in birthing local brands of environmentalism. Agriculture, rather than industry, as a defining identity of Tamil Nadu has found new currency. Politics responsive to protests However, two anxieties mar the positivity of these political developments. One is that an environmentalism rooted in healthy self-respect should not degrade into a ‘blood and soil’ subset of a chauvisnistic Tamil nationalism. This fear, though, is mitigated by a dominant discourse that draws from inclusive traditions of Periyar, Ambedkar and even Marx. The second is an ominous certainty that the political class does not understand the urgency and magnitude of the planetary ecological crisis. More than a new awakening within the political class, the shift is proof that politics in Tamil Nadu is populist and responsive to people’s aspirations articulated primarily through the medium of protests. Protests and agitations have shaped Tamil political culture. The decade has been especially busy. If anti-Hindi agitations launched the Dravidian era in politics, it would not be an overreach to say that the anti-nuclear protests from 2011 to 2013 launched a movement with a distinctly Tamil flavour to protect land, water and livelihoods from state-supported corporate grabs. The non-violent sit-in by fishers against the Kudankulam nuclear plants in the coastal hamlet of Idinthakarai failed to stop the project, but it forced a nationwide debate on nuclear energy and the right of people to participate in environmental decision-making in the face of obstinate, powerful and irate adversaries. The fallout of the protests left even avowedly pro-nuclear parties like the CPI(M) and agnostic pro-industrial parties like the DMK with weaker appetites for nuclear projects. Cultures are products of intersectionalities. The genetic make-up of themes portrayed as environmental in political manifestos are drawn not merely from campaigns against power plants, expressways, ports and polluting industries, but also from the gene pool of earlier and coterminous social protests and events. Consider the string of major protests between 2009 and now: against the Sri Lankan war and Mullivaikkal massacre; against nuclear projects; against coal-bed methane extraction in the delta; against Unilever’s mercury pollution in Kodaikanal; by fishers to save Ennore Creek from industrial encroachments; pro-Jallikattu; against hydrocarbon extraction in Neduvasal, Pudukottai, which subsequently spread like wildfire through other delta districts; against Sterlite, crony capitalism and industrial pollution; by farmers against the Salem-Chennai expressway; by fishers and farmers against the International Container Transhipment Terminal in Kanniyakumari; and against Adani’s Kattupalli port expansion. The State and Central governments are adversaries in each of these campaigns. Many in Tamil Nadu view the Union government as north India-centric, and indifferent, if not inimical, to the interests of southern States. Each of the above projects is seen as a grandiose Central government imposition that hurts local ecologies, farmers and fishers to squeeze out value for distant beneficiaries. Climate crisis Meanwhile, extreme weather events have been posting annual reminders of the looming climate crisis: the Chennai floods (2015), Cyclone Vardah (2016), Cyclone Ockhi (2017), Cyclone Gaja (2018), Chennai’s Day Zero and water scarcity (2019). The muted and muddled responses of Centre and State to these disasters has also reinforced arguments of neglect by the Centre and mishandling by the State. Against the backdrop of this bleak canvas, it is refreshing that at least four parties – DMK, Naam Tamilar Katchi, Makkal Needhi Maiam and Pattali Makkal Katchi – have dedicated environmental wings with youngsters at the helm. Aided by a vengeful climate and restive communities, the youthful environmental wings, one hopes, will improve the ambitions of their parties and help the political class appreciate the gravity of the unfolding ecological disaster. That will happen only if the young leaders in these parties are rooted in an understanding of social justice, caste hierarchies and the history of progressive Tamil movements, as articulated by intellectuals like Thol. Thirumavalavan of the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi. Without that, environmentalisms rooted in notions of cleanliness, purity and meritocracy run the risk of becoming elite oppressions. The future is fearsome. A recent article in American Geophysical Union’s journal warns of sweeping heat waves. Leave alone “future consequences of continued warming, some areas in [South Asia] are already getting exposed to deadly heat stress conditions even at the current warming levels,” the article reports. Even if temperature rise is kept to 1.5°C as targeted in the Paris Accord, coastal Tamil Nadu can expect lethal heat waves every two years. At current emissions rates, the world will exceed the 1.5°C danger threshold by 2030. Averting catastrophic change by keeping to the threshold is possible only if emissions are cut by 7.6% every year for the next decade. That’s difficult; emissions fell by a meagre 6.4% percent in 2020 despite the pandemic-induced economic lockdowns, scientific journal Nature reports. Modern economy is fatally coupled to planet-threatening carbon emissions and degrading land use change. In 2019, 11,258 experts from 153 countries issued a ‘Warning of a Climate Emergency’. “Our goals need to shift from GDP growth and the pursuit of affluence toward sustaining ecosystems and improving human well-being by prioritising basic needs and reducing inequality,” they wrote. In prioritising agriculture, forests, fisheries and water over hydrocarbon extraction, expressways and megaports, Tamil Nadu’s politics may have flagged just such a value shift. Politics, with its embedded values of people’s aspirations and relationship to land, is deep. The environmentalism of parties, politicians and manifestos, however, is shallow and demands work. The same parties that condemn the Kattupalli port and the expressway contradict themselves with uncreative promises of coal-fired power plants, energy-guzzling desalination plants and a second international airport in Chennai. Communities have their work cut out. They have to forge a path of radical departure from the ecocidal growth-obsessed economic pathway, and urge their leaders to follow. That is a gargantuan task considering that this pathway to avoiding ecological collapse would be, to put it mildly, economically inconvenient. Nityanand Jayaraman is a Chennai-based writer and social activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-tamil-nadu-environment-is-good-politics/article34240699.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The Kerala Model at the crossroads||Will the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) be re-elected in the upcoming polls in Kerala, or will the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) return to lead the government? The election results will have a major bearing on the path of development that the State would take in the coming years. While Kerala’s achievements in human development are well-known, there is a widespread misconception that Kerala has not had much economic growth. The ‘Kerala Model’ showed that a country or a region need not wait till it becomes rich to bring about significant improvements in people’s material conditions of living, and that people’s movements can be the driving force of such changes by forcing governments to adopt redistributive measures and other programmes. When growth picked up Economic stagnation in the 1970s and 1980s led many observers to predict the collapse of the Kerala model. They argued that the slow-growing State would not have the money to continue financing its welfare programmes. But a fundamental change occurred by the late 1980s — Kerala’s economic growth picked up. Growth in agricultural incomes and in remittances provided the spur for a ‘long boom’ in the subsequent decades. While services grew the fastest, the secondary sector (which includes manufacturing, construction, etc.) also experienced significant growth; the proportion of the workforce engaged in the secondary sector, which was 20% in 1987-88, grew to 32% in 2018-19. While Kerala’s per capita income was almost 10% lower than the all-India figure in 1989-90, it was 65% higher than the all-India figure in 2019-20. During this period, Kerala’s education and health indicators continued to improve, and its social security programmes continued to expand. But public schools and public hospitals often fell into disrepair, with inadequate facilities forcing many people to turn towards private service providers. The number of students enrolled in public schools fell steeply. Investments in infrastructure However, the last five years have seen major investments to build up infrastructure in public schools and public hospitals. More than 45,000 classrooms in 4,752 public schools have been turned ‘hi-tech’, while new, bigger and better buildings have been constructed for public schools. These efforts have had a major impact: the number of students in public schools began to increase from 2018-19 onwards. This was taking place for the first time in more than 25 years. Similar infrastructural upgrades have been made in the case of public hospitals too, which was an important factor that allowed Kerala to fight the novel coronavirus pandemic relatively well. Investments that came in through the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) provided the most crucial element which made these investments possible. Apart from schools and hospitals, KIIFB funding is being used to build economic infrastructure such as roads, bridges, industrial parks, the massive public sector Internet project K-FON, or the Kerala Fibre Optic Network, and TransGrid 2.0 — a project to improve the power transmission network in the State New funding arm All these constitute a major change from the earlier scenario when Kerala found it difficult to fund capital expenditure that is necessary to upgrade its infrastructure. Continuous assaults on fiscal federalism, and the Centre putting harsh limits on States’ borrowing have made things very difficult for State governments. The Goods and Services Tax has dealt a terrible blow to the ability of the States to tax commodities according to their own specific conditions and development priorities. It is in this context that the KIIFB was brought in as a major funding arm of the Kerala government. The KIIFB raised funds from the financial market and made them available to the government to finance infrastructure projects which otherwise would have taken decades to materialise. Repayment of the loans is ensured by the government legally committing to pay a portion of its revenue from the motor vehicle tax and the petroleum cess to the KIIFB every year. The idea is that higher capital investments would help stimulate economic growth, which would in turn lead to higher tax revenues as well. The real risks Concerns have been raised whether Kerala is taking on unsustainable levels of debt. The KIIFB loans are not part of public debt, and even if they are included, they would make only a marginal difference to the stock of outstanding debt. Data show that there have been several years during the past three decades when the ratio of Kerala’s outstanding debt to gross State domestic product (GSDP) was higher than it is today (36%). Those years followed a period in the late 1990s when there were serious setbacks to the commodity-producing sectors of the economy (prices of major cash crops had crashed). The current period is also similar, with the State having had to endure severe floods in 2018 and 2019, and the pandemic-induced worldwide recession. These led to huge unforeseen expenses, even as economic growth and tax revenue growth suffered. Rather than debt, therefore, the real risks are likely to be associated with shocks to the economy — such as natural disasters, job losses in the West Asian countries where a lot of Keralites work, or contractionary fiscal policy by the central government — which could adversely impact economic growth. Even then, Kerala will be better prepared to face the eventualities if it has better infrastructure, and a better-educated, more highly skilled and healthier workforce. Competing visions The Left Democratic Front’s ambitious vision of the future of the Kerala economy is reflected in its manifesto. It lays much emphasis on substantially raising enrolment in higher education along with improving its quality, and on fostering the systematic application of science and technology in a range of sectors. How the benefits of the growth that will occur would be distributed across different sections of society will depend, among others, on the intervention of various organised sections of the working people, particularly to support and expand the role of the public sector and cooperatives. The United Democratic Front has also come up with its manifesto, and it has not fallen behind in promising a number of welfare measures. But a coherent strategy regarding the path that Kerala should take is yet to be articulated by the UDF. If past experience is any indication, the UDF at the helm would mean less planned intervention by the government in the sphere of the economy and less attention to the public sector. That approach, however, is likely to be inadequate to meet the challenges that lie ahead. Apart from considerations of equity, the added risk of climate change which brings with it phenomena such as more frequent extreme weather events point to the need for an even greater, not lesser, role for planning and social oversight over the process of economic development in the State. Subin Dennis is an economist at Tricontinental Research. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-kerala-model-at-the-crossroads/article34240691.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Seeing things as they are||In any election season, journalists navigate minefields — rampant misogynism, partisan considerations, ideological affiliations, and selective leaks. Reporters often develop a framework to evaluate the claims of political parties and institutions. Transgressions by political parties are generally easy to spot — misogyny, for instance, is a trait shared by most political parties. However, institutional failures are generally masked. For instance, how can one explain the bizarre development where electronic voting machines (EVMs) were found in a vehicle linked to a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate in Assam? How can one understand the Election Commission of India (ECI)’s decision to impose a two-day ban on A. Raja of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and commute the ban to a day for the BJP’s Himanta Biswa Sarma? If the ECI can accept Mr. Sarma’s apology, what prevented the constitutional body from not acknowledging Mr. Raja’s apology to the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu? A chronicle of the times I drew my personal framework for political reporting from George Orwell. He was a master of labelling. The collection of his journalistic writings is called Seeing Things As They Are . His fundamental contention is that journalism, if it has to be a chronicle of the times, should observe and record every transgression without fear and should resist wearing a narrow nationalistic lens that not only distorts the truth but also never provides a way out from messy reality. He took care to make a fine distinction between his journalism and his literary pursuits, though both were tied together by his respect for human dignity and self-respect. In his great dystopian novel, 1984 , the opening sentence made it clear that it was fiction and not reportage. The magnificent line was: “It was a bright cold day in April, and the clocks were striking thirteen.” In the elections to the four States and one Union Territory, Indian journalists have managed to document rather successfully the transgressions of political parties. However, they have dealt with institutional failures with kid gloves. One element of ‘seeing things as they are’ is to call out when the emperor has no clothes. The ECI used to be seen as an institution that protects and nurtures the democratic aspirations of more than a billion people. The constant erosion of its moral standing is undermining our democracy in more ways than one. From allocating symbols to holding elections in several phases, the electorate never suspected the motives of the ECI until recently. If every move of the constitutional body is viewed with suspicion, then the time has come for journalists to say in an unambiguous manner that the ECI should not only function in a fair manner but also be seen as functioning in a fair manner. More questions than answers On the question of the presence of the EVMs in a BJP candidate’s car in Assam, the ECI provided an explanation that begs more questions than answers. There are protocols for EVMs and they are constantly updated by the ECI. What was clearly evident is that the ECI did not follow any of its own protocols while transporting the EVMs in Assam. Instead of answering the difficult questions posed to it, it used a news agency close to the ruling party at the Centre to come up with a vague explanation. It said that the vehicle in which the EVMs were kept broke down and so the officials took a lift in a passing car which happened to be owned by a BJP candidate. Apart from the fantastic nature of the explanation, accountability was shifted from the top to the bottom tier and the ECI suspended four polling personnel. Good journalism It is in this context that Orwell’s ‘seeing things as they are’ assumes significance. Instead of glossing over major failures, the media needs to scrutinise the steady decline in adhering to institutional protocols and good practices. Good journalism often takes a cue from literature and literary giants to understand our immediate reality. Citizens expect journalists to conduct an in-depth inquiry to either validate or repudiate these assertions. Salman Rushdie, on the 40th anniversary of his celebrated novel Midnight’s Children , observed: “All of India belonged to all of us, or so I deeply believed. And still believe, even though the rise of a brutal sectarianism believes otherwise… But right now, in India, it’s midnight again.” It seems that Mr. Rushdie is seeing things as they are. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/seeing-things-as-they-are/article34240695.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||A road map for tolerance||Every year on March 21, a global movement gathers to fight prejudice and intolerance by marking the International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination. This provides an opportunity to explore the nuanced causes and consequences of modern racism, and renew an important commitment to combat discrimination. Racial discrimination, beyond being a breach of human rights, has harmful effects on human health and well-being, and risks wider disruptions to social cohesion. The words of former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan remain pertinent: “Our mission is to confront ignorance with knowledge, bigotry with tolerance, and isolation with the outstretched hand of generosity. Racism can, will, and must be defeated.” Forms of racism Current forms of racism and discrimination are complex and often covert. Public attitudes to anti-racism have improved, as expressions of racist ideology have become less socially acceptable. Yet, the anonymity of the Internet has allowed racist stereotypes and inaccurate information to spread online. At the onset of the pandemic, traffic to hate sites and specific posts against Asians grew by 200% in the U.S. In India and in Sri Lanka, social media groups and messaging platforms were used to call for social and economic boycotts of religious minorities, amid false information accusing them of spreading the virus. Structural forms of discrimination, including micro-aggressions and everyday indignities, remain widespread. The use of new technologies and artificial intelligence in security raise the spectre of ‘techno-racism’, as facial recognition programmes can misidentify and target racialised communities. Prejudiced attitudes and discriminatory acts, whether subtle or overt, aggravate existing inequalities in societies. A study published by The Lancet drew attention to the social dimension of the COVID-19 pandemic and the greater vulnerability of ethnic minorities, who have been disproportionately affected. The World Health Organization has cautioned on the dangers of profiling and stigmatising communities that can lead to fear and the subsequent concealment of cases and delays in detection. Women and girls also carry a double burden of being exposed to racial and gender-based prejudices. Racial discrimination deepens and fuels inequality in our societies. To contribute to this important discussion and signify the need for urgent work, UNESCO’s headquarters in Paris hosted a Global Forum against Racism and Discrimination on March 22, 2021, in partnership with the Republic of Korea. The Forum gathered policymakers, academics, and partners to initiate a new multi-stakeholder partnership on anti-racism. The new proposed road map to tolerance calls for a multisectoral effort to tackle the root causes of racism through anti-racist laws, policies and programmes. The way forward UNESCO’s actions against racism through education, the sciences, culture, and communication offer an example of a way forward. UNESCO promotes the role of education in providing the space for young people to understand processes that sustain racism, to learn from the past, and to stand up for human rights. Through new approaches to inter-cultural dialogue and learning, youth and communities can be equipped with skills to eradicate harmful stereotypes and foster tolerance. UNESCO also offers master classes to empower students to become champions of anti-racism in their schools and communities. The International Coalition of Inclusive and Sustainable Cities provides an additional platform for city-level planning and a laboratory for good practices in the fight against racism. Recent and new manifestations of racism and discrimination call for renewed commitments to mobilise for equality. Racism will not be overcome with mere professions of good faith but must be combatted with anti-racist action. A global culture of tolerance, equality and anti-discrimination is built first and foremost in the minds of women and men. Eric Falt is the Director and Representative of the UNESCO New Delhi cluster office||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-road-map-for-tolerance/article34240696.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||A walk-back||President Joe Biden allowed a ban on issuance of H-1B visas for skilled workers to lapse at the end of March 2021, a move signalling his intent — articulated as a campaign promise last year — to pull the U.S. back from harsh immigration rules imposed by his predecessor, Donald Trump. Mr. Biden’s action will have a significant and favourable impact for Indian nationals seeking employment with U.S. tech firms, given that they were the largest demographic to benefit from this visa annually; they garnered approximately 70%.of the 65,000 H-1B visas annually made available to private sector applicants other than students. By some estimates, H-1B visa applications of up to 219,000 workers were likely blocked as a result of Mr. Trump’s proclamation last June, halting the processing and issuance of non-immigrant work visas of several types. The stated aim was to prevent foreign workers from cornering jobs in the context of the economic distress associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. Yet, this raised genuine questions about whether such rules would set back the U.S.-India relationship by impacting Indian IT services exported to the U.S. These totalled approximately $29.7 billion in 2019, 3.0% ($864 million) more than 2018, and 143% greater than 2009 levels. Not only did the CEOs of Silicon Valley tech titans protest the clampdown on a key source of skilled labour driving their core operations, but some universities also filed lawsuits challenging a subsequent student visa ban last year, leading to a partial walk-back on the rules for the latter. In allowing the ban on H-1B visa issuance to expire, Mr. Biden has walked a fine line between restoring the inflow of skilled workers into the U.S., a source of productivity increases for its labour force, and not being seen as aggressive in unwinding Trump-era immigration policies. On the one hand, Mr. Biden clearly recognises that there are limits to the Trumpian dogma of economic protectionism — especially during a period of economic crises such as the present — where there will be fewer jobs to reserve for Americans if the size of the pie is not increased through economic growth momentum built on a diverse and skilled workforce. Nevertheless, the Biden White House has clearly not forgotten the nearly 74 million votes for Mr. Trump in the 2020 presidential election, a fact that perhaps makes it unwise to explicitly reject the ‘America First’ ideology, even if that motto is no longer alluded to on Pennsylvania Avenue. It would in this regard be reasonable to expect that the Biden administration will continue to push gradual reforms that nudge the U.S. economy and global strategic position back toward an ethos of multilateral cooperation and bilateral progress with countries such as India, while however retaining a sharp emphasis on policies that further U.S. national interest in a dramatically transformed post-COVID world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-walk-back/article34240682.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||A good start||It is binding on a welfare state to take care of every single citizen. Securing the wellbeing of every one, particularly those unable to help themselves, irrespective of whether they constitute a critical mass or not, is important. The recent notification of the National Policy for Rare Diseases 2021 after various interventions, including the court, is pegged on this principle of inclusion. A good start, it offers financial support for one-time treatment of up to Rs. 20 lakh, introduces a crowdfunding mechanism, creates a registry of rare diseases, and provides for early detection. In its final form, however, the policy has left the rare diseases lobby sorely disappointed on a crucial note. Rare diseases are broadly defined as diseases that infrequently occur in a population, and three markers are used — the total number of people with the disease, its prevalence, and the availability/non-availability of treatment options. WHO defines rare disease as having a frequency of less than 6.5-10 per 10,000 people. As per an estimate, there are 7,000 known rare diseases with an estimated 300 million patients in the world; 70 million are in India. According to the Organization for Rare Diseases India, these include inherited cancers, autoimmune disorders, congenital malformations, Hirschsprung’s disease, Gaucher disease, cystic fibrosis, muscular dystrophies and Lysosomal Storage Disorders (LSDs). Much of the effort in the sector, from the medical side, has been to evolve formal definitions, in the hope that it would support the development of and commercialisation of drugs for treatment, and improve funding for research on rare diseases. Patient support groups have worked towards drumming up funding assistance for the treatment — one time or continual. The notification of the Policy comes as a logical conclusion to a long-fought battle, and yet, stops short of delivering the complete mandate. As per the Policy, diseases such as LSD for which definitive treatment is available, but costs are prohibitive, have been categorised as Group 3. However, no funding has been allocated for the immediate and lifelong treatment needs, for therapies already approved by the Drugs Controller General of India. Experts point out that the costs to help already-diagnosed patients might be in the range of Rs. 80-Rs. 100 crore annually. If the Centre can extend the cost-sharing agreements that it has worked out with Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, with other States too, its share of the annual costs will be halved. The Centre can, however, still set aside a substantial corpus to fund life-saving treatments, even as it rolls out the policy. Doing so will not only complete a job well begun — even if not yet half done — but also cement its commitment towards the welfare of every single citizen in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-good-start/article34240683.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Burma politics||The general Council of the Burmese Association have passed resolutions regretting Burma Government’s repressive policy and suggesting postponement of rural self-government until the constitutional reforms become a fact. The meeting also urged the British Parliament, Secretary of State for India and Governments of India and Burma to stop all repressive measures in Burma and that if sedition and unrest follow repression the Government would be responsible for all consequences of such measures. The newspaper “New Burma” suggests that the people should prepare themselves economically and otherwise for non-cooperation when the time comes for that policy to be put into practice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/burma-politics/article34240692.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||U Thant’s refusal||Over 200 people of East Pakistan demonstrated in front of the United Nations yesterday, demanding U.N. intervention to stop genocide in Bangla Desh [United Nations, April 4]. The demonstrators also sought a meeting with the U.N. Secretary-General, U Thant. Their spokesman, Dr. Alamgir said the group had had several telephonic conversations with U Thant’s aides, including Mr. Robert Muller, Director of the Secretary-General’s office, and that Mr. Muller had informed them that “U Thant cannot see us.” Speaking to newsmen yesterday Dr.Alamgir characterised U Thant’s remarks through his spokesman on Thursday as “meaningless.” (U Thant had said on Thursday: “If the Government of Pakistan were to request the Secretary-General to assist in humanitarian efforts he would be happy to do everything in his power in this regard.”). Dr. Alamgir asked newsmen, “Have you seen anywhere in the world a butcher seeking help of others to come and help those he is butchering? What a travesty of the U.N.’s role.” The demonstrators asked for U.N. recognition for Bangla Desh, for a Security Council meeting and conferring on Bangla Desh membership of the United Nations. They also demanded that U Thant report to the Security Council under Article 99 of the U.N. Charter and arrange to despatch a U.N. team to Bangla Desh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/u-thants-refusal/article34240693.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Are you retirement-ready?||Are you nearing retirement or aiming for an early retirement? If so, are you retirement-ready? In this article, we discuss why it is important for you to address your emotional readiness in addition to your financial readiness for a comfortable retirement. Financial readiness Retirement planning typically refers to determining the amount you require at retirement to lead a comfortable living post-retirement. This requires you to assume a life expectancy — number of years an individual is likely to live. In addition, you have to estimate your monthly expenses to maintain your desired standard of living and the rate of inflation through your working life and into retirement. Needless to say, any or all these variables can change adversely during your working life. And that means you could fall short of accumulating enough money at retirement to lead your desired lifestyle post-retirement. To reduce this risk, you have to adjust the estimated value of your retirement portfolio at some pre-defined frequency. Suppose you determine at age 35 that you need five crore when you retire at 60. You have to revise this estimate, preferably, every three-five years till you reach age 45, and then review this number every year till age 60 for significant changes in the input variables. All this to stay on course and get yourself financially ready for your retirement. And this is the relatively easy part of retirement planning! Emotional readiness Your physical health is a function of your emotional well-being. And your emotional well-being depends on the quality of your retired life. You are productively engaged all through your working life. After retirement, you have no formal work and only leisure. For those who are not emotionally-ready for retirement, a typical retired life would involve watching television and taking care of grandchildren. The issue is that routine is bad for the brain; it leads to rapid cognitive impairment or dementia not to mention other health issues. And that has severe financial consequences. At the extreme, poor emotional well-being could lead to rising healthcare cost. What if healthcare insurance is not enough cover these rising costs? An individual may then be forced to fund healthcare cost from savings set aside for lifestyle expenses. Needless to say, that could impact the quality of retired life because of poor health and less resources for discretionary expenses. So, unless you plan carefully as to how you want to spend your retired life, just being financially-ready may not be enough. One way to achieve emotional well-being is to explore leisure activities that can keep you engaged during your retired life. Such activities include gardening, active volunteering and having a strong social group of like-minded people. You should engage in such activities during the last five years of working life to get a perspective on how to engage yourself during your retirement. Your emotional well-being is even more important if you are aiming for early retirement. Remember, work is not just about earning money, but also about being productively engaged during the day. That is why it is important that you aim for early financial freedom, not early retirement. Most individuals engage an investment advisor to become financially ready for retirement. However, not many plan for their emotional readiness. You should seek professional counselling during the last five years of your working life to become emotionally ready for retirement, if required.  (The author offers training programmes for individuals for managing their personal investments)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/are-you-retirement-ready/article34240681.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||loose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-change/article34240679.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Mary Kom wins Sportstar of the Decade honour||M.C. Mary Kom, the six-time boxing world champion, won the Sportstar of the Decade award at the 2021 Sportstar Aces – Giants of the Decade edition on Sunday. Big, big motivation “I am so happy, and I wish to achieve more in the upcoming tournaments. This is a big, big motivation for me,” said Mary Kom. “This award is huge. I have been fighting for so long, almost 20 years. Being a woman, a girl, a mother — is not an easy task. Fight like a woman, that is my biggest message to all.” Abhinav Bindra, the only Indian to win an individual Olympic gold medal, was conferred the Inspirational Giant of Indian Sport honour. “I’m extremely humbled to receive this award. My gratitude to the jury, to Sportstar and the entire Hindu Group for deeming me worthy of an honour such as this,” Bindra said. Former World No. 1 K. Srikanth and reigning badminton World champion P.V. Sindhu bagged the Sportsman and Sportswoman of the Decade (Racquet Sports) titles. “I used to read the [ Sportstar ] magazine [in 2005-06] because it used to cover a lot of sports news,” said Srikanth. “I always dreamt of being there one day and today, to receive this award, from Sportstar is a very big achievement. I’m really happy and honoured to receive it.”  Sindhu’s 2019 World Championship victory and Viswanathan Anand’s 2017 World Rapid chess championship win were adjudged Moments of the Decade. “I must say that Sportstar has been very, very encouraging and supportive of not only me but all athletes. The World Championship win in 2019 was one of the biggest moments of my career... it was my first World Championship gold medal,” Sindhu said. Recalling his World Rapid triumph in 2017, Anand said: “I am very proud to have won the Moment of the Decade award. I remember that day as if it were yesterday. I remember coming out, and maybe for the second time in my career, actually pumping fist. It was a very special moment for me because it had not been a great month till that point.” Phenomenal National badminton coach P. Gopi Chand, who bagged the Coach of the Decade Trophy, said: “I remember receiving this award in 2001 as a Sportsperson of the Year, and 20 years later to get this award from Sportstar is really phenomenal.”   The final list of Sportstar Aces Awards winners   Sportsman of the Decade (Racquet Sports):  K. Srikanth  Sportswoman of the Decade (Racquet Sports):  P.V. Sindhu  Coach of the Decade:  P. Gopi Chand  Moments of the Decade: P.V. Sindhu’s 2019 World Championship triumph and Viswanathan Anand’s 2017 World Rapid win  Inspirational Giant of Indian Sport: Abhinav Bindra  Sportstar of the Decade: M.C. Mary Kom||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mary-kom-wins-sportstar-of-the-decade-honour/article34240828.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Battle-tested SRH has most bases covered in quest for second title||Sunrisers Hyderabad stands apart from the rest of the teams thanks to a very strong leadership group and the ability to play as a unit under pressure. The highly experienced coaching staff, comprising head coach Trevor Bayliss, who guided England to the 2019 World Cup win, mentor V.V.S. Laxman and bowling coach Muttiah Muralitharan, is capable of providing the right solution to any crisis. These characteristics, combined with the quality to produce match-winners consistently, make the 2016 champion a strong contender once again this season. New additions Kedar Jadhav and Mujeeb Ur Rahman enhance the balance and experience. Batting top-heavy Like in the past, the batting is top-heavy and perhaps over-dependent on the brilliance of the trio of captain David Warner, Jonny Bairstow and Kane Williamson. Explosive England opener Jason Roy has replaced Mitchell Marsh in the squad, but it is anybody’s guess as to how many games he will get unless the ‘big three’ at the top have a dismal run. With Afghan leg-spinner Rashid Khan being a certainty for all the matches given his awesome reputation and record, the think-tank might even struggle to fit in West Indian all-rounder Jason Holder. It’s an abundance of riches, especially with the internationals. It is imperative that Manish Pandey and Vijay Shankar, who had their moments last season, carry their weight in the middle-order. For, one drawback in the past has been the failure of the Indian batsmen to raise the bar consistently. Depth and variety But the bowling, thanks to its depth and variety, can challenge the best of the line-ups. Bhuvaneshwar Kumar looked fully fit, showcasing his efficacy in the series against England. And, with left-arm pacer and yorker specialist T. Natarajan full of confidence after making an impact for India, SRH will have one of the edition’s most lethal bowling combinations, especially at the death. Then, there is the tried and trusted duo of pacers Sandeep Sharma and Siddarth Kaul. The fact that someone like Afghan off-spinning all-rounder Mohammad Nabi struggles to find a regular spot in the playing eleven is an indication of how formidable the bowling attack is. The ability to bounce back from seemingly hopeless situations is another feature which makes SRH an exceptional side. It just cannot be written off. This is primarily because the team management ensures every player is mentally and physically fresh for any challenge. As Laxman says, the team takes it match by match. The first target is to make the play-offs; only after that will SRH train its focus on the business end.   X-factor   Rashid Khan: The brilliant Afghan leg-spinner, with his quickish action and hard-to-pick variations, can induce mistakes even from well-set batsmen. As a result, opposition teams are often forced to treat the innings as 16-over contests, with batsmen prioritising survival over scoring during his spell. That SRH has a tough time on the rare occasion he fails is proof of his influence||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/battle-tested-srh-has-most-bases-covered-in-quest-for-second-title/article34240765.ece
05 April 2021||Rajkot,||Railways proves unstoppable||The formidable Indian Railways once again clinched the National One-Day title, cruising to a seven-wicket victory over Jharkhand in the final here on Sunday. In the 14 editions of the National One-Dayers, the Railway women have reached the final 12 times and won as many crowns, proving their consistency and superiority. Such was Railways’ control over the proceedings that it chased down the target of 168 in only 37 overs and without needing its best batter Mithali Raj to take guard. Patient knock India international Punam Raut’s patient 59 off 94 balls laid the platform for the chase before all-rounder Sneh Rana finished things in style, smashing an unbeaten 34 off 22 balls. Apart from her breezy knock, Sneh was also the most successful Railways bowler, taking three for 34 with her handy off-breaks. It was a thoroughly professional performance in all departments from Railways after Jhakhand had opted to bat. As many as six Jharkhand batters couldn’t cross double figures while three couldn’t even open their accounts. Indrani shines Indrani Roy (49, 77b, 3x4), Jharkhand’s best batter in the tournament, wasn’t at her fluent best but hung around and did her bit.  The scores:   Jharkhand 167 in 50 overs (Indrani Roy 49, Sneh Rana 3/33) lost to Railways 169/3 in 37 overs (Punam Raut 59, S. Meghana 53, Sneh Rana 34 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/railways-proves-unstoppable/article34240810.ece
05 April 2021||CHENNAI,||Proactive TNCA vaccinates staff||With the COVID-19 cases on the rise yet again, the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association has been proactive by vaccinating its entire staff ahead of the IPL that will begin in Chennai on April 9. Recently, 10 groundstaff at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai had tested positive. It is understood that all the TNCA staff were administered the first dose of the vaccine nearly two weeks ago. With the cases rising in Chennai too, the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium groundmen are being tested every three days. Chennai will host 10 games in IPL-14, including the season-opener between Mumbai Indians and Royal Challengers Bangalore. The last game at the venue will be played on April 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/proactive-tnca-vaccinates-staff/article34240918.ece
05 April 2021||KOCHI,||Blasters down 10-man Threads||Kerala Blasters FC defeated a 10-man Golden Threads FC by a lone goal for its first win in the seventh Ramco Kerala Premier League football at the Maharaja’s Stadium here on Sunday. Sudheesh strikes Nihal Sudheesh scored the match-winner in the 55th minute off a penalty. But minutes before that, towards the end of the first half, Threads defender Joseph Tetteh was given the marching orders — his second yellow — for bringing down Blasters midfielder O.M. Asif. Blasters climbed a rung to fourth with four points in Group B while Threads dropped a spot to fifth. Adheeb Basheer scored twice in the space of seven minutes as Tirur's SAT blanked Thrissur's FC Kerala 4-0 in a Group A contest at Thrissur’s Corporation Stadium. Matches are being played during weekends in this edition of the KPL.  The results: Group A (Thrissur): SAT, Tirur 4 (Muhammed Nisham 27, P.A. Nazar 61, Adheeb Basheer 74 & 81) bt FC Kerala, Thrissur 0.   Group B (Kochi): Kerala Blasters FC, Kochi 1 (Nihal Sudheesh 55) bt Golden Threads FC, Kochi 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blasters-down-10-man-threads/article34241158.ece
05 April 2021||BENGALURU,||Devdutt Padikkal tests positive, in quarantine||Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) batsman Devdutt Padikkal has tested positive for COVID-19, RCB stated on Sunday. The southpaw, who tested positive on March 22, has been in mandatory quarantine at his residence here, a RCB media release stated. The 20-year-old will be fit to join the RCB bio-bubble once his RT-PCR tests are negative. The RCB medical team is in touch with Padikkal to ensure his safety and well-being. Padikkal is not among the 11 RCB players who are part of a training camp at Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research in Chennai. RCB opens its IPL campaign against Mumbai Indians at M.A. Chidambaram Stadium (Chennai) on April 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/devdutt-padikkal-tests-positive-in-quarantine/article34240761.ece
05 April 2021||JOHANNESBURG,||Fakhar’s sensational knock in vain||South Africa levelled the series with a 17-run win in the second ODI against Pakistan at the Wanderers Stadium on Sunday despite a spectacular innings by Pakistan opener Fakhar Zaman. 10 sixes, 18 fours Fakhar hit 193 off 155 balls with 10 sixes and 18 fours, but lacked support as Pakistan made 324 for nine in reply to South Africa's 341 for six. Pakistan’s chances seemed to have evaporated when speedster Anrich Nortje dismissed captain Babar Azam for 31 in his first over and followed it up with two quick wickets as the visitors were reduced to 85 for four. However, Fakhar launched an astonishing assault to keep Pakistan’s hopes alive until he was run out in the last over. Earlier, Quinton de Kock (80, 86b, 10x4, 1x6), captain Temba Bavuma (92, 102b, 9x4), Rassie van der Dussen (60) and David Miller (50 n.o.) hit half-centuries for the hosts who were asked to take first strike. van der Dussen’s 60 came from just 37 balls with six fours and four sixes and Miller’s 50 from 27 deliveries with three fours and three sixes as South Africa finished with a flourish.  The scores: South Africa 341/6 in 50 overs (Quinton de Kock 80, Temba Bavuma 92, Rassie van der Dussen 60, David Miller 50 n.o., Haris Rauf 3/54) bt Pakistan 324/9 in 50 overs (Fakhar Zaman 193, Anrich Nortje 3/63). Series level 1-1.   Third ODI: April 7, Centurion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fakhars-sensational-knock-in-vain/article34240767.ece
05 April 2021||London,||Man City and Bayern march on relentlessly||Without all the injuries, perhaps Liverpool would not be surrendering the Premier League title so easily to Manchester City. Liverpool’s 3-0 victory over Arsenal on Saturday was a reminder of the quality that saw the champions still leading the standings in December before imploding. Now it is City 17 points in front of Manchester United after winning 2-0 at Leicester. It means the win at the Emirates Stadium, secured by Diogo Jota’s double and Mohamed Salah’s strike, only pushed Liverpool up to fifth place. After not scoring in his opening 39 league games for Manchester City, backup left back Benjamin Mendy has now scored twice in his last six as Pep Guardiola’s side closes in on a third title in four seasons. Leon Goretzka scored for Bayern Munich to take a giant step toward a record-extending ninth consecutive Bundesliga title with a 1-0 win at Leipzig on Saturday. Goretzka’s 38th-minute strike was enough for Bayern to move seven points clear of second-place Leipzig with seven games of the season remaining.   The results:   Premier League: Southampton 3 (Armstrong 31, Ings 42, Redmond 66) bt Burnley 2 (Wood 12-pen, Vydra 28); Newcastle 2 (Joelinton 28, Willock 85) drew with Tottenham 2 (Kane 30, 34).   LaLiga: Alaves 1 (Lejeune 86) lost to Celta Vigo 3 (Nolito 8, Aspas 14, Santi Mina 20).   Saturday: Premier League: Leicester 0 lost to Manchester City 2 (Mendy 59, Jesus 74); Arsenal 0 lost to Liverpool 3 (Jota 64, 82, Salah 68).   LaLiga: Osasuna 0 drew with Getafe 0.   Serie A: Torino 2 (Sanabria 27, 46) drew with Juventus 2 (Chiesa 13, Ronaldo 81); Bologna 0 lost to Inter Milan 1 (Lukaku 31).   Bundesliga: RB Leipzig 0 lost to Bayern Munich 1 (Goretzka 38).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/man-city-and-bayern-march-on-relentlessly/article34240770.ece
05 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indian squad for Olympics named||World Championship silver medallist Anjum Moudgil has been deprived of a chance to compete in air rifle in the Tokyo Olympics, and the honour has been bestowed on World No. 1 Elavenil Valarivan. Quota swapped In the selection committee meeting held on Sunday, the National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) opted to swap the quota won by Chinki Yadav in women’s 25-metre sports pistol with Anjum in order to facilitate the latter to compete in the rifle 3-position event along with Tejaswini Sawant. Chinki had won the gold in the recent World Cup. Anjum will also get to shoot in the mixed air rifle event along with Deepak Kumar. Elavenil and Divyansh Singh Panwar have been named as the first team for mixed air rifle. Manu Bhaker will shoot air pistol and sports pistol apart from the mixed air pistol event with Saurabh Chaudhary. Phenomenal year  Olympian Apurvi Chandela, who has had a phenomenal year in 2019 winning two World Cup gold medals, with a world record to boot, will shoot only air rifle and not the mixed event. “The National selection committee’s main focus was to select the strongest squad for the Games and to ensure that the most consistent performers in each event, during the Olympic cycle, do not miss out. “We are confident that these shooters will deliver,” said the NRAI president Raninder Singh in a statement. The reserves have been announced for each event, considering the uncertain global scenario with the pandemic. The reserves will get to train on par with the Olympic bound athletes in the run up to the Games.  The team (along with reserves):   Men: 10m air rifle: Divyansh Singh Panwar, Deepak Kumar.   Reserves: Sandeep Singh, Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar.   50m rifle 3-position: Sanjeev Rajput, Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar.   Reserves: Swapnil Kusale, Chain Singh.   10m air pistol: Saurabh Chaudhary, Abhishek Verma.   Reserves: Shahzar Rizvi, Om Prakash Mitharval.   Skeet: Angad Vir Singh Bajwa, Mairaj Ahmad Khan.   Reserves: Gurjoat Singh Khangura, Sheeraz Sheikh.   Women: 10m air rifle: Apurvi Chandela, Elavenil Valarivan.   Reserves: Anjum Moudgil, Shreya Agrawal.   50m rifle 3-position: Anjum Moudgil, Tejaswini Sawant.   Reserves: Sunidhi Chauhan, Gaayathri NIthyanandam.   10m air pistol: Manu Bhaker, Yashaswini Singh Deswal.   Reserves: P Shri Nivetha, Shweta Singh.   25m sports pistol: Rahi Sarnobat, Manu Bhaker.   Reserves: Chinki Yadav, Abhidnya Patil.   10m air rifle mixed team: Divyan Singh Panwar, Elavenil Valarivan; Deepak Kumar, Anjum Moudgil.   10m air pistol mixed team: Saurabh Chaudhary, Manu Bhaker; Abhishek Verma, Yashaswini Singh Deswal .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-squad-for-olympics-named/article34240831.ece
05 April 2021||HYDERABAD,||Orange Army determined to make its presence felt||The Orange Army will not be there in the stands to cheer Sunrisers Hyderabad in the IPL starting on April 9 in the wake of no entry for spectators at the stadia for the first-half of the tournament. The members of Orange Army are determined to make their presence felt and lend support to the David Warner-led former champion with live engagement sessions wherein fans will interact with core team of the club. “The video content will be posted on YouTube constantly to provide more details on the season’s progress. Similarly, Instagram and Facebook will provide a portal to voice everyone’s opinion,” said Deepthi Sarikonda, a resident of Bowenpally. The fan club will also organise meet-ups during matches in collaboration with screening partner B-Dubs. “The members of Club are going to miss being in the stadiums and roaring their hearts out for SRH,” said Rakshit Dharma, a Sunrisers fan. However, the Orange Army is making sure they extend full support by posting personalised video messages and good-luck texts across different social media platforms. “This makes the campaign even more special as the fan club aims at making total use of the platforms available propagating the mantra ‘Mana Mantra, Mana SRH’,” said Manish Singh of Puranapul.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/orange-army-determined-to-make-its-presence-felt/article34241101.ece
05 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fairy-tale finish for Niki Poonacha||When one persists, fortune favours in the most improbable of times. Former National champion Niki Poonacha had a fairy-tale finish as he beat fourth seed Oliver Crawford of USA 6-3, 7-6(5) in the final of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament at the DLTA Complex on Sunday. “I am very happy with this trophy. I had no expectations coming into the tournament. I had retired in the last tournament in Pune with a wrist injury. My hope was to stay pain-free”, said the 25-year-old after his second trimph on the professional tour. Niki, who had claimed his first title as a qualifier in Indonesia in 2018, had won the Nationals in 2019. During the pandemic, he stayed fit by training at Rohan Bopanna Tennis Academy in Bengaluru. Focused “I haven’t had good results in the last six weeks. Once I started winning here, I kept my focus to one match at a time, playing without any expectations,” said Niki. He was treated by physio Anand Dubey right through the tournament and even hough the pain had gone away, there was a heavy taping on his forearm as a precautionary measure. Though Niki served big and stroked with purpose, there was no doubt Crawford, who had won last week in Pune, was off colour, quite uncharacteristically on the important points. Change in fortunes The twist to the tale came in the ninth game of the second set, when, facing three set points at 3-5, 0-40, Niki managed to hold serve with one of his six aces in the match. In the tie-break, Crawford led 4-2 and the only point the American won in the next six was through a double fault by Niki. “I will train for three weeks in the academy before planning my next series of tournaments,” said Niki.  The result (final):   Niki Poonacha bt Oliver Crawford (USA) 6-3, 7-6(5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fairy-tale-finish-for-niki-poonacha/article34240972.ece
05 April 2021||Mumbai:,||Iron Age wins main event||Trainer Imtiaz Sait’s Iron Age (K. Bhagat up) won the Seth Ramnath Daga Trophy, the main event of Sunday’s (April 4) races. The winner is owned by Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farms Pvt. Ltd., Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP, M/s. Vikram D. Shah & S.R. Sanas. Apprentice jockey Kirtish Bhagat rode two more winners on the day.  1. FLAREON PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: WHO DARES WINS (Nirmal) 1, Gusty Girl (Ayyar) 2, Multimoment (C.S. Jodha) 3 and Royal Castle (J. Chinoy) 4. Sh, 3-1/4 and 1-3/4. 1m, 11.26s. Rs. 54 (w), 17, 16 and 24 (p). SHP: 39, FP: 330, Q: 118, Tanala: 1,437 and 616. Favourite: Sufiyah. Owners: Mr. Maloji Bhosale, Mrs. Rajlaxmi M. Bhosale, M/s. Jiyaji Bhosale & Rishikesh Bhosale. Trainer: Adhirajsingh Jodha.  2. DR A H SAYED PLATE (1,600m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: HIOCTANE (K. Bhagat) 1, Memorable Moments (Dashrath) 2, Marrakesh (C.S. Jodha) 3 and Adonijah (T.S. Jodha) 4. 1, 1-1/2 and Lnk. 1m, 39.59s. Rs. 19 (w), 12, 10 and 13 (p). SHP: 26, FP: 44, Q: 24, Tanala: 74 and 38. Favourite: Hioctane. Owners: Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy and Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: P. Shroff.  3. SETH RAMNATH DAGA TROPHY (1,000m), Cl. I, rated 80 and upward: IRON AGE (K. Bhagat) 1, Silver Flames (Kaviraj) 2, Hidden Gold (Zervan) 3 and Mystic Bay (C.S. Jodha) 4. 1-1/2, Lnk and 2. 57.81s. Rs. 16 (w), 13 and 22 (p). SHP: 37, FP: 161, Q: 38, Tanala: 193 and 63. Favourite: Iron Age. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farms Pvt. Ltd., Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP, M/s. Vikram D. Shah & S.R. Sanas. Trainer: Imtiaz Sait.  4. JEHANGIR P DUBASH CUP (1,600m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: RAMBUNCTIOUS (K. Bhagat) 1, Speed Air (Sandesh) 2, Summer Night (C.S. Jodha) 3 and Shamshir Sword (Chouhan) 4. 1/2, Snk and 2-1/4. 1m, 38.95s. Rs. 25 (w), 17 and 18 (p). SHP: 32, FP: 157, Q: 64, Tanala: 363 and 131. Favourite: Shamshir Sword. Owners: Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy and Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co Pvt. Ltd.Trainer: P. Shroff.  5. R J KOLAH TROPHY (1,400m), (Terms) 3-y-o only: THE AWAKENING (Yash Narredu) 1, Count Of Savoy (C.S. Jodha) 2, Red Merlot (J.Chinoy) 3 and Love Warrior (Chouhan) 4. 4-3/4, Nose and Lnk. 1m, 25.82s. Rs. 16 (w), 13, 10 and 14 (p). SHP: 40, FP: 59, Q: 24, Tanala: 109 and 47. Favourite: The Awakening. Owners: Mrs. B.E. Saldhana, Ms. Ameeta Mehra rep. Mehra Stud and Agritcultural Farms Pvt. Ltd., M/s. Prashant S. Deshpande & Achuthan Siddharth. Trainer: M. Narredu.  6. J RUSTOMJI SOPARIVALA TROPHY (1,000m) (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: CHAMPERS ON ICE (S. Amit) 1, Galloping Glory (Bhawani) 2, Marvellous (Chouhan) 3 and Nishk (Ajinkya) 4. Not run: Impermanence and Anastasia. 3/4, 3/4 and 1/2. 59. 76s. Rs. 74 (w), 16, 108 and 14 (p). SHP: 211, FP: 1,946, Q: 836, Tanala: 12,985 and 1,855. Favourite: Marvellous. Owners: M/s. Dinsha P. Shroff, Munchi P. Shroff, Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt. Ltd. & Mrs. Lynn Deas. Trainer: Dallas Todywalla.  7. FLAREON PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: PERFECT PERFECTO (Shubham) 1, Stick To The Plan (Ajinkya) 2, On Va Danser (J. Chinoy) 3 and Streek (Zervan) 4. 2-1/2, 1-1/2 and 1-1/4. 1m, 11.16s. Rs. 392 (w), 32, 20 and 18 (p). SHP: 44, FP: 2,931, Q: 672, Tanala: 11,695 and 5,012. Favourite: Victoria Peak. Owner: Mrs. Sandhya Suman. Trainer: S. Waheed.  8. R R KOMANDUR PLATE (1,200m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46: JETFIRE (P. Dhebe) 1, Oui Sauvage (Sandesh) 2, Judy Blue Eyes (S.J. Sunil) 3 and Arc Shine (Merchant) 4. Not run: Seniority. Sh, Nose and 2-3/4. 1m, 11.53s. Rs. 93 (w), 24, 14 and 62 (p). SHP: 45, FP: 354, Q: 66, Tanala: 24,949. Favourite: Oui Sauvage. Owners: Mr. Prashant Nagar and Mr. Aditya M. Jadhav rep. SKJ Racing and Breeding Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. Ranjit Kapadia. Trainer: A.M. Jadhav. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 2,27,451 (2 tkts.) and 30%: 4,534 (43 tkts.). Treble: (i) 4,960 (2 tkts.), (ii) C/F. Super Jackpot: 100% C/F.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/iron-age-clinches-main-event/article34240881.ece
05 April 2021||DUBAI,||Double delight for Bhagat||World No.1 Pramod Bhagat won the men’s singles gold in the SL4 category at the Dubai Para Badminton tournament, defeating compatriot Nitesh Kumar 21-17, 21-18 in the final, on Sunday. SL4 players could have an impairment in one or both legs and a minimal impairment in walking/running balance. They must play standing. Bhagat then paired up with Manoj Sarkar to clinch the doubles gold in SL4-SL3 category by beating Sukant Kadam and Nitesh Kumar 21-18, 21-16. Bhagat along with Palak Kohli won a bronze in mixed doubles. Kadam runner-up World No. 5 Sukant Kadam lost in the SL3 men’s singles final against Lucas Mazur of France 15-21, 6-21. India finished with 21 medals — 5 gold, 6 silver, 10 bronze — in the tournament. “After such a long gap, this is a very good return, winning two gold medals which will help me a lot in the build up to the Paralympics. “I hope to continue this kind of performance in the Paralympics,” Bhagat said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/double-delight-for-bhagat/article34240812.ece
05 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||IOA Ethics Commission orders Bhanot off all posts||For a long time now, Lalit Bhanot has been one of the most powerful figures in Indian sports regardless of the regime in power. Things, however, seem to be getting tougher. The IOA Ethics Commission, in its meeting on March 9, has ruled that Bhanot will cease to be a member of any committee of the Olympic body with immediate effect as an interim measure pending a final adjudication on charges of impropriety in his appointments. The Commission has also sought details from Bhanot on his positions in the Athletics Federation of India (AFI). Interestingly, the Commission order also noted that IOA president Narinder Batra had informed its chairman Justice (Retd) V.K. Ghupta on February 17 that Bhanot had resigned from all IOA posts on Oct.5, 2020 and that his resignation shall be treated as accepted with immediate effect. The IOA website, however, continues to list Bhanot as member of several committees including chairman of the Tokyo Olympics Preparations Committee. As per the order Bhanot had, in his previous reply to the commission, sought and received three weeks’ time to submit documents to substantiate his submission. The original complaint had been filed by S. Ganesh Moorthi in May 2020 questioning Bhanot’s continuation despite IOC’s directive to not involve charge-framed individuals in sports administration. The same had been red-flagged by BJP leader and Ethics Commission member Sudhanshu Mittal in his letter to the IOC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ioa-ethics-commission-orders-bhanot-off-all-posts/article34240841.ece
05 April 2021||New Delhi,||IWL play-offs postponed||The upcoming play-off matches of the Indian Women's League (IWL) have been postponed owing to a surge in COVID-19 cases, the All India Football Federation (AIFF) said on Sunday. The matches were scheduled to be held here from April 7 onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/iwl-play-offs-postponed/article34240813.ece
05 April 2021||OMAN,||Nethra moves to first place||Nethra Kumanan jumped to first from fourth by finishing second and first in third and fourth races in the laser radial class of the Asian Olympic sailing qualification championships on Sunday.  The results (overall, placings of Indians): 49er: Men: 4. Varun Thakkar & K.C. Ganapathy. 49er FX: Women: 4. Ekta Yadav & Ritika Dangi. Laser radial: 1. Nethra Kumanan; 3. Ramya Saravanan; 4. Harthita Tomar. Laser standard: 3. Vishnu Saravanan; Windsurfing: RS: X: Men: 6. Ebad Ali; 7. Jerome Kumar; RS: X: Women: 3. Ishwariya Ganesh .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nethra-moves-to-first-place/article34240829.ece
05 April 2021||Mumbai,||Shooting coach Sanjay passes away||Noted shooting coach Sanjay Chakraverty, who has given India some of its finest shooters, including guiding the likes of Olympic medallist Gagan Narang and Anjali Bhagwat, died here on Saturday night. He was 79. In a career spanning four decades, the Dronacharya Awardee has helped many aspiring shooters, who went on to make it big in the sport. The National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) condoled the demise. The news of his death was first conveyed by Olympian Joydeep Karmakar on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shooting-coach-sanjay-passes-away/article34240830.ece
05 April 2021||Mount Maunganui,||Aussie women break ODI record||The Australian women’s cricket team won its 22nd consecutive match and surpassed Ricky Ponting’s 2003 side to set a new ODI record in a six-wicket victory against New Zealand on Sunday. The tourists were rarely troubled with player of the match Megan Schutt taking four wickets to restrict New Zealand to 212 all out after Australia captain Meg Lanning elected to bowl first in the opening game of a three-match series. Alyssa Healy (65), Ellyse Perry (56 not out) and Ashleigh Gardner (53 not out) helped chase down the target with 69 balls to spare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aussie-women-break-odi-record/article34240768.ece
05 April 2021||GURUGRAM,||Shruti too good for Renne||Shruti Ahlawat was in irrepressible form as she outplayed top seed Renne Singla 6-1, 6-0 in the final of the Rs. 1,00,000 AITA women’s tournament on Sunday. The 14-year-old Shruti, who has won 22 of her 24 matches and clinched three titles in five tournaments on the international junior circuit, displayed her potential on the women’s circuit. She dropped just eight games while winning five matches. In the final two rounds, Shruti lost just one game!  The results: Final: Shruti Ahlawat bt Renne Singla 6-1, 6-0; Semifinals: Renne bt Steisha Buddhala 6-1, 6-2; Shruti bt S. Srinidhi 6-0, 6-0; Quarterfinals: Renne w.o. Radhika Yadav; Steisha bt Rishita Vyas 6-2, 4-6, 6-4; Shruti bt Tamanna Takoria 6-1, 6-1; Srinidhi bt Kiran Kalkal 6-0, 6-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shruti-too-good-for-renne/article34240970.ece
05 April 2021||DINDIGUL:,||Deepak and Aashiq in the limelight||K. Deepak Kanna's six-wicket haul was the highlight of NPR's five-wicket win over Sri Vasantha's Sweets in the DDCA first division league. In another match, K. Aashiq's five-wicket haul set up Vignesh Sports Club's five-wicket victory over Yuvaraj.  The scores:   Sri Vasantha's Sweets 109 in 26.3 overs (A. Ranjan 58, K. Deepak Kanna 6/16) lost to NPR 114/5 in 24.5 overs.   Yuvaraj 107 in 25.1 overs (A. Pradeep Kumar 34, K. Aashiq 5/36) lost to Vignesh SC 110/5 in 21.2 overs (N. Balasubramani 37 n.o., R. Durgainathan 3/38).   St. Peter's 299/7 in 45 overs (N. Murugesan 38, M. Boopathi Vaishna Kumar 77, M. Abdur Rahim 43, M. Mohamed Raffik 84, A. Sheik Fareeth 3/62) bt NPR 178 in 38.3 overs (C. Pothiyalagan 46, P. Ramesh 34, M. Mohammed 4/37).   Vignesh SC 280 in 42.3 overs (K. Aashiq 60, K. Vinoth Kumar 75, A.R. Sivamurugan 61, S. Kashpar 4/42) bt Vignesh Sports Juniors 115 in 32 overs (S. Karthick Saran 34, R. Ramthilak 3/24).    Dinesh's allround show (43 & five for 39) went in vain as Kumar Memorial lost to Tigers-B by three wickets in the JSW-SDCA third division league.  The scores:   II div.: Steels RC 219 in 45 overs (C. Premkumar 57, A. Selvakumar 47, M. Rajesh 4/56, M. Dinesh Kumar 3/24) bt Tigers XI 140 in 45 overs (M. Rajesh 43, A. Selvakumar 4/45).   Dirty Dozen 147 in 45 overs (S. Vijay 51, D. Sivaraman 3/32, M. Jayadevan 3/25) lost to Vampire 149/6 in 29.1 overs (M. Premkumar 39, M. Ponnumani 33, S. Vivek 3/24).   III div.: Kumar Memorial 181 in 45 overs (Dinesh 43) lost to Tigers-B 182/7 in 35.5 overs (S. Sathiyamoorthy 71, Bharath Krishna 42, Dinesh 5/39) .      Blue Golden defeated KM by five wickets in the Thanjavur DCA A-division league.  The scores: KM 145/8 in 25 overs (V. Sabarish 29 n.o., P. Sakthi 29, Vengatesh 3/26) lost to DCC 146/5 in 23.1 overs (Kavinraj 41 n.o.).   KM 113 in 24.4 overs (K. Anbalagan 44, V. Sabarish 26) lost to Blue Golden 114/5 in 17.4 overs (Manoj 36, Suriya 30, P. Sakthi 3/47).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deepak-and-aashiq-in-the-limelight/article34240930.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Suryavanshi Foundation lifts title||Dweep Gehlot’s unbeaten 68 and Kirit Kaushik’s three for 18 powered Suryavanshi Foundation past Crescent Academy by six wickets in the Marathon tournament. Krish Sharma was named the best batsman, Rohit Gehlawat the best bowler, Jatin Yadav the best wicketkeeper and Arav Rana the player of the tournament.  The scores: Crescent Academy 155 in 28 overs (Sambhav Jain 34, Kirit Kaushik 3/18) lost to SCF 156/4 in 23 overs (Dweep Gehlot 68 n.o., Naman Mittal 39 n.o.) .      Ayush Doseja and Qamran Iqbal hit centuries to help Ravi Brothers beat Sanskar Cricket Academy by 49 runs and advance to the pre-quarterfinals of the 31st all-India Om Nath Sood memorial tournament.  The scores: Ravi Brothers 314/4 in 40 overs (Ayush Doseja 106, Qamran Iqbal 105, Sanyem Arora 71 n.o., Vikas Rathore 3/50) bt SCA 265/7 in 40 overs (Parth Bali 59, Kavya Gupta 37, Ronit Beri 35) .    Pranci Kumar slammed home four goals and Khushi three as Royal Rangers FC thrashed Girls United FC 10-0 in a Football Delhi League match at the Ambedkar Stadium. In another match, Hops FC won 3-0 against Punjab Heroes.  The results: RRFC 10 (Pranci Kumar 4, Khushi 3, Kanchan Rawat 2, Divya Khand) bt GUFC 0; Hops FC 3 (Jyoti, Santosh, Karuna) bt PHFC 0; Jaguar FC 0 drew with Growing Stars SC 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/suryavanshi-foundation-lifts-title/article34240969.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Former India Davis Cupper Udaykumar passes away||A.J. Udaykumar, the former India Davis Cupper, passed away at his residence in the city on Saturday night. He was 89. In the early 1950s, he was a dominant collegiate player, representing Presidency College in Chennai with distinction in the inter-collegiate events. Udaykumar went on to be ranked No. 2 in India between 1955 and 1958, winning the all-India hard court singles and doubles titles in 1957 and represented the country in Davis Cup in 1956 and 1957, winning both his matches. In 1960, he lost to Chuck Mckinley of the USA in four sets in the first round of Wimbledon. In 2018, Tamil Nadu Tennis Association honoured him as a Legend from the State as he had represented India in the Davis Cup. The TNTA in a statement condoled his demise.   Challengers defeated Southern Railway 5-2 in the N. P. V. Ramasamy Udayar Hockey Cup on Sunday,  The results: Challengers 5 (Ganesh 2, Sunil Moorthy, Veerathamizhan, Arun Kumar) bt S. Rly 2 (M. Iyappan 2); GST & Central Excise 5 (Sathyarajan, Balaji, Allen Rajesh, P. Vignesh, Pichumani) bt CHA u-21 2 (D. Aravindrajan, E. Sandeep) .     N.K. Soundermani’s five-wicket haul was the highlight of Kumbhat CC’s five-wicket win over Venkat CC in a fifth division Championship match of the TNCA league recently. Prabhu Balachandiran’s six for 37 was the highlight of Reserve Bank’s thrilling three-run win over BRC in a III-A contest.  The scores: III-A: Reserve Bank 134 in 49 overs (N. Lokesh 37) bt Bhimannapet RC 131 in 39.1 overs (R. Dinesh 45, Prabhu Balachandiran 6/37).   IV div.: Relegation playoff: Vigneswara CC 282/9 in 50 overs (R. Abinandh 95, K.R. Shrreyas Raghavan 69, V.R.S. Guru Kedarnath 43, H. Sathish Babu 37, P. Vignesh 4/57) bt Fox Trotters 140 in 30.1 overs (M. Dhinakaran 49, R. Aarudhra Simhadev 30, I. Selva 3/27).   V div.: Championship: Venkat CC 112 in 34 overs (S. Senthil Kumar 52, N.K. Sounderamani 5/16) lost to Kumbhat CC 113/5 in 20.1 overs (R. Santhosh 42, R. Hrishikesh Trilochan 32) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-india-davis-cupper-udaykumar-passes-away/article34240880.ece
05 April 2021||Thrissur:,||Facile win for Athreya||Krishna Narayanan (104) and Dathan (102) slammed centuries as host Athreya CA crushed YCC, Paravoor, by 171 runs in the Athreya Trophy under-22 cricket tournament at Athreya CA ground here on Sunday. Athreya amassed 338/7 in 30 overs and bundled out YCC for 167 runs to score a convincing win. In another match, Muthoot CA edged out Trident CA by eight wickets.  The scores: Athreya CA, Thrissur, 338/7 in 30 overs (K.P. Dathan 102, Krishna Narayanan 104, Ujwal Krishna 84, K.D. Gokul 3/59) bt YCC, Paravoor, 167 in 28.4 overs (K.D. Gokul 50 n.o., Arjun Venugopal 3/11, A.K. Akarsh 3/32).   Muthoot CA, Ernakulam, 137 in 27.3 overs (Rohan Nair 50, Devaprasad 4/31, P.M. Mohanlal 3/36) bt Trident CA, Thrissur, 129/7 in 30 overs (T.K. Akshay 31, Ashwin Anand 30, Basil Mathew 3/25).    Minnu Mani made 52 off as many balls to set up Emerald’s 31-run win over Amber in the KCA Pink Challengers Women’s T20 tournament here on Sunday. Later, T. Shani made an unbeaten 45 off 59 balls to guide Ruby to a six-wicket victory against Sapphire.  The scores: Emerald 136/2 in 20 overs (Minnu Mani 52, M.P. Vaishna 38, Divya Ganesh 28 not out) bt Amber 105/5 in 20 overs (Aleena Surendran 41, J.S. Deepthi )30.   Sapphire 87/4 in 20 overs lost to Ruby 88/3 in 20 overs (T. Shani 45 not out).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/facile-win-for-athreya/article34241156.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Sandeep scalps five||Ch. Sandeep’s five for 17 helped Gosports record an eight-wicket win over Maverick Cricket Club in the KDCA B-Division T20 league championship for the Devineni Venkataramana and Pranitha memorial Trophy at Mulapadu on Sunday. In another match, Pawan D Power scored a 39-run win over Crick Raisers XI. Monday is a rest day.  The scores: Maverick 112 in 19.4 overs (Ch. Sandeep 5/17) lost to Gosports 115/2 in 15.3 overs (V. Sagar Reddy 61 n.o., Gagan 35 n.o.).   Pawan D Power 159 in 19 overs (P. Yuva 43, U. Rama Krishna 3/33) bt Crick Raisers XI 120 in 18.5 overs (Ashok Kumar 4/18).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sandeep-scalps-five/article34241272.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: Elite KCM under-18 league, KCM Sports Foundation, Ponmar, 8 a.m.  Hockey: N.P.V. Ramasamy Udayar Cup, Indian Bank vs CHA u-21 (2.30 p.m.); ICF vs SRM IST (4 p.m.), N. P. V. Ramasamy Udayar Centre (Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education & Research), Porur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article34240876.ece
05 April 2021||Paris,||Kenya’s Ruth Chepngetich smashes half marathon world record||Kenya’s Ruth Chepngetich set a women’s half marathon world record on Sunday with a time of one hour four minutes and two seconds in Istanbul. The marathon world champion sliced almost half a minute off the previous best mark of 1hr 4:31 set by Ethiopia’s Ababel Yeshaneh in February 2020. AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kenyas-ruth-chepngetich-smashes-half-marathon-world-record/article34240817.ece
05 April 2021||INDORE,||CK Nayudu's daughter, commentator Chandra Nayadu dead||Chandra Nayudu, daughter of India’s first Test captain C.K. Nayudu and a cricket commentator, passed away here on Sunday after a prolonged illness. She was 88. According to experts, Chandra had done her first commentary during a match between Ranji champion Bombay (now Mumbai) and MCC in Indore in 1977.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ck-nayudus-daughter-commentator-chandra-nayadu-dead/article34240819.ece
05 April 2021||MUMBAI,||We want to go all the way this season: Kaif||Delhi Capitals’ assistant coach Mohammad Kaif said most of his players are in good rhythm going into the IPL as they aim to go one better compared to last time when Mumbai Indians dashed their dreams of a maiden title. “We have the players to win the title,” said Kaif.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-want-to-go-all-the-way-this-season-kaif/article34240759.ece
05 April 2021||KOLKATA,||Adapting to a situation is the key: Gill||“Strike-rate is kind of overrated,” asserted Kolkata Knight Riders’ young star Shubman Gill. “It’s all about how you adapt to a certain situation. If the team demands you to play with a strike rate of 200 you should be able to do it. If the team demands you to play at a strike rate of 100, you should be able to do it”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/adapting-to-a-situation-is-the-key-gill/article34240763.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||His boundless grace||The Brahma Sutra, also known as the Vedanta Sutra, explains the philosophy of the Upanishads while trying to consolidate the various strands of the orthodox systems of thought. The main theme of the Brahma Sutra is to encourage man to strive for the ultimate goal of human existence, liberation from samsara, and hence the many commentaries and interpretations also deal with this extensively. Among these, the one by Srikantacharya expounds the Siva Advaita system that is the basis of Saivism and establishes the supremacy of Siva as the Highest Truth, pointed out Srimati R. Mathangi in a discourse. The acharya puts forth his arguments by drawing from the statements of the Vedas on Brahman. For instance, Brahman is described as ‘Sarvajnan,’ one with absolute omniscience. This implies that Brahman is always aware of all the past, present and future. Nothing can exist beyond His awareness. This is far ahead and beyond the best of human reach. Moreover, His awareness is not the result of any of the means, such as the senses, mind, intellect, etc, by which human beings assimilate knowledge. Another unique aspect of Brahman is the state of Nityatriptatvam, the state of being ever satisfied. Unlike us who chase our life’s goals and pursuits, there is nothing further to be attained by Brahman at any point of Time. Other special attributes that are His swabhava, His very nature, are His jnana and His Shakti. There is no loss to either of these at any time and none can fathom the extent of His never ending powers. The acharya shows that by propitiating Siva and remaining devoted to Him one can win His grace and be guided to tread the path to Moksha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/his-boundless-grace/article34240755.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 07:48 IST,||Sudoku — April 5, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-april-5-2021/article34241412.ece
05 April 2021||GURUGRAM,||Not quite a meaty affair||Mohammad Yusuf, 69, running “New Pakija Hotel” at Jama Masjid meat market on Old Railway Road here, earns barely enough to make both ends meet. He cannot afford to shut his shop even for a single day. But, with the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram officials visiting the market every Tuesday for the past two weeks, asking the shopkeepers to shut their establishments, he is left with no choice. The elderly said he had been running the hotel for over five decades, but it was for the first time that the authorities had imposed the order to shut it once in a week. Adding to woes Mr. Yusuf said that his hotel remained shut for two months during the COVID-19 lockdown, and now the civic body had come with a new ruling to shut it every Tuesday. He said that he hardly made Rs. 1,000-1,500 per day. He recalled how a bunch of municipal officials came to the market, housing 20-odd shops, two weeks ago and again this past week asking the shopkeepers to shut their shops. “It is only the Muslim customers who come on Tuesdays. There are no Hindus. So what’s the point in making us shut the shops,” a disappointed Mr. Yusuf asked. Just opposite the “New Pakija Hotel”, Farman runs “Bilal Kureshi meat shop”. He said he incurred a loss of over Rs. 2,000 on account of closure of his shop for a single day. The daily rent of his shop is around Rs. 500, besides he also needs to pay the two employees. Mohammad Aijaz, a customer, said that his religion did not bar him from consuming non-vegetarian food on any day of the week, but he was still “fine” with the order prohibiting the sale of meat on Tuesdays in the city. Anoop Aggarwal, owner of Mughal Hotel in the market, is more vocal in his criticism of the civic body.  Interfering move He said that it amounted to interfering with the eating habits of the individuals. “What to eat and what not to eat is one’s personal choice,” said Mr. Aggarwal. He said that his business was, in fact, brisk on Tuesdays. He said that the municipal officials asked him to close his hotel, but he argued with them saying that the hotels were outside the ambit of the order. “I keep my hotel open on Tuesdays, but with the other shops in the market remaining closed the footfall is less,” said Mr. Aggarwal, running the hotel for around two decades. Jama Masjid meat market president Tahir said that many meat shop owners had applied for licences last year, but were yet to get one. He feared that they would be impacted since the civic body had increased the fine 10 folds for running shops illegally and they ran the risk of being sealed. Parveen, manager at Green Chick Chop meat shop in Sector 15 Part-2, said the sales on Tuesdays were almost one-third compared to the rest of the week and therefore, the order did not hurt them much financially. The staffers at “Sardar A Pure Meat Shop” in the market said they kept the shop closed on Tuesdays due to slow business. Other penalties The general meeting of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram’s House on March 18 had unanimously decided to keep all meat shops shut on Tuesdays, besides imposing a fine of Rs. 5,000 on illegal shops and sealing them. The House also decided to increase the annual licence fee from Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 10,000. The MCG had granted licence to only 129 meat shops in 2017-18, though the number of meat shops in the city could run into several hundred. Ashwani Sharma, Councillor for Ward No. 23, who supported the resolution, argued that the decision was taken in the interest of the shopkeepers since the business was anyway slow on Tuesdays. “Since a majority of meat consumers are Hindus and they don’t usually consume meat on Tuesdays, the demand is less on Tuesdays. Had the House decided to shut the shops on the weekend, it would have caused more financial loss to the shopkeepers” said Mr. Sharma. He, however, added that the implementation of the order was almost nil and that he would move the court to ensure its implementation, if required. Ashish Singla, MCG Chief Medical Officer, said the civic body was within its powers to declare one day of the week as non-meat day as per the Haryana Urban Local Bodies bylaws, 2008.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/not-quite-a-meaty-affair/article34240997.ece
05 April 2021||Ghazipur,||Farmers protest against ‘attack’ on Tikait’s convoy||Farmers of western Uttar Pradesh held a mahapanchayat at Ghazipur border on Sunday after Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait’s convoy was allegedly attacked in Rajasthan’s Alwar district on Friday. Naresh Tikait held the mahapanchayat as Rakesh Tikait was in Gujarat to strengthen their movement against the farms laws. A large group of bikers from Sambhal district in Uttar Pradesh arrived at the Ghazipur border in support of farmers. More than 100 bikers wearing black bands to mark their protest against farm laws reached the border. “We have come here for our leader Rakesh Tikait who is fighting for te farmers’ rights. It was a shameful act done by the BJP workers to suppress the voice of farmers. We have come to attend the mahapanchayat to show the strength of the protesting farmers and their support for their leader [Rakesh Tikait],” said Bhoopender Singh, a farmer. BKU media coordinator Dharmendra Malik said that they will be organising mahapanchayats to raise their voice against the farm laws. This time, however, they called to protest against the Mr. Tikait’s convoy attack. Demand action “We demand strict action against the people behind the attack on Rakesh Tikait. The government should ensure security to farmers’ leaders. During the meeting, all of the attendees have agreed upon intensifying the movement,” said Mr. Malik. Mr. Malik added that at the time when temperature is touching 40 degrees Celsius and people are preferring to stay indoors, farmers are sitting in open at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu borders. On April 2, farmers had blocked traffic at Ghazipur border after Mr. Tikait’s convoy was allegedly attacked in Rajasthan. Traffic movement on the highway had remained affected for an hour. “We have come here to support our brothers [farmers]. On the way, we met farmers in Dasna, Hapur and other places and asked them to come out in support of the farmers. We have also educated them about the hidden clauses of farms laws and why it will completely destroy grassroot farmers,” said Satender Singh, a protester. Another protester, Shiv Charan, a resident of Sambhal said that if they failed this time then the government will sell away the land to corporate houses and no one will ever be able to protest against the government. “We are the backbone of this country. The government should call the farmers and discuss a way out by withdrawing the laws at the earliest,” said Mr. Charan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-protest-against-attack-on-tikaits-convoy/article34240993.ece
05 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||RT-PCR report must for travellers to Assam||Assam’s Health and Family Welfare Department has issued an order making it mandatory for air and train passengers from Karnataka and Maharashtra to carry a negative RT-PCR report “in view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases in some parts of the country”. The April 3 order almost coincided with State Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma claiming “there is no COVID-19 in Assam” and it was unnecessary for people to wear masks. “All air passengers from Mumbai and Bengaluru disembarking in any airport in Assam will mandatorily carry a negative RT-PCR report conducted within 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey. The test report should be verifiable using QR code or otherwise,” the order from the department’s Principal Secretary said. Testing at airport “Airlines are to allow boarding only to those passengers at Mumbai and Bengaluru who are carrying the negative RT-PCR report,” the order said, adding that those without a satisfactory test report would have to undergo paid COVID-19 testing at the airport. Such passengers will also have to wait in a designated location on the airport premises at their own expense till the test results are available. If the test is positive, a passenger will have to shift to home isolation or a hospital, the government order said. “Passengers arriving in trains originating from or transiting through Maharashtra and/or Karnataka will undergo screening for symptoms on arrival at railway stations in Assam,” a separate order said. According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Assam had 1,945 active COVID-19 cases with 36 of them detected on April 3. The infection has claimed the lives of 1,107 since April 2020 in Assam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rt-pcr-report-must-for-travellers-to-assam/article34241045.ece
05 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Employer can reject candidate acquitted of serious crime: SC||The Supreme Court has held that a public employer can reject a candidate as unsuitable if he had, in the past, been acquitted of a serious crime merely on the benefit of doubt. A Bench, led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, said an acquittal on the benefit of doubt is quite different from an honourable acquittal. “The mere fact of an acquittal would not suffice but rather it would depend on whether it is a clean acquittal based on total absence of evidence or in the criminal jurisprudence requiring the case to be proved beyond reasonable doubt, that parameter having not been met, benefit of doubt has been granted to the accused,” the Supreme Court said. Mode of acquittal A person should be honourably acquitted of a heinous crime to be considered eligible for public employment. “An accused who is acquitted after full consideration of the prosecution evidence and prosecution has miserably failed to prove the charges levelled against the accused, it can possibly be said that the accused was honourably acquitted,” the Court explained in a recent judgment. Besides, the Supreme Court observed that “acquittal in a criminal case does not automatically entitle a candidate for appointment to the post”. “Employer would be well within his rights to consider the antecedent and suitability of the candidate. In this context, it was held that the employer is entitled to take into account the job profile for which the selection is undertaken, the severity of the charge levelled against the candidate and whether the acquittal in question was an honourable acquittal or was merely on the ground of benefit of doubt as a result of composition,” Justice Kaul, who authored the judgment for the Bench, said. Word of caution The court, however, reminded employers that the rejection should not be mechanical. “Since employment opportunity is a scarce commodity in our country, with large numbers of aspirants applying, there could not be any mechanical or rhetorical incantation of moral turpitude to deny appointment... much would depend on the facts of a case,” the judgment quoted from a precedent. The case concerned a man acquitted of murder after witnesses turned hostile in Rajasthan in 2009. He was part of a group of people who ran a tractor over a woman and later knifed people who tried to resist them. The man later applied for a constable’s job in the State police, but was rejected due to his antecedents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/employer-can-reject-candidate-acquitted-of-serious-crime-sc/article34240985.ece
05 April 2021||GUWAHATI,||Congress dividing people, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday accused the Congress of adopting divisive policies to rule over the people and said the grand old party lacks vision for the development of Assam. He also called Congress leader Rahul Gandhi an occasional tourist at a BJP rally in western Assam’s Sorbhog before cutting short his campaign due to the Maoist attack in Chhattisgarh. Sunday was the last day of campaigning for 40 of Assam’s 126 Assembly seats in the third and final phase of polling. “The Congress cannot solve any problem because it has no vision for development and believes in keeping the people divided. Their leader Rahul Gandhi too comes as a tourist to the State,” Mr. Shah said, claiming only the NDA’s “double-engine government” can ensure development in Assam. Accusing the Congress of giving a free hand to poachers in the Kaziranga National Park, he said the rhino — Assam’s pride — would have been a thing of the past had Congress continued to rule the State. He exuded confidence that the BJP and its allies “achieved majority to form the next government” in the two phases of voting on March 27 and April 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/congress-dividing-people-says-amit-shah/article34240966.ece
05 April 2021||New Delhi,||HC asks Centre to treat CRPF officers’ plea as representation||The Delhi High Court has asked the Centre to treat as representation a petition by group of officers of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) raising the issue of acute stagnation suffered by Directly Appointed Assistant Commandants. A Bench of Justices Manmohan and Asha Menon said, “We direct that the respondent committee while carrying out the cadre review exercise would consider the present writ petition as a representation and take the same into account.” The petition was filed by the officers working in the rank of Assistant Commandant in Executive Cadre in the CRPF. They contended that that “as on date, they have put more than 10 years of service [2008 UPSC Notification Batch] and nine years of service [2009 UPSC notification batch] but have not earned any promotion till date”. They pointed out that going by the “current calculations/scenario made after determining number of vacancies, superannuation and promotion it comes to fore that the petitioners would not be getting promotion for next five-six years or even more”. Officers’ contention The officers contended that they “may get their first promotion only after putting more than 15 years or more of service despite working in Executive Cadre [an organised Group A Service] which is the main pillar and main workhorse on which all other auxiliary branches of the CRPF sustain”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-asks-centre-to-treat-crpf-officers-plea-as-representation/article34240987.ece
05 April 2021||New Delhi,||Adoption authority gets HC notice on plea||The Delhi High Court has issued notice to the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA) on a plea by a Hindu couple, living in the U.S., seeking a no-objection certificate (NOC) to adopt a child born to Christian parents. “The present petition raises an issue of enormous importance as it relates to a legal vacuum in respect of adoptions carried out prior to the coming into force of the Juvenile Justice [Care and Protection of children] Model Rules, 2016... in respect of a child born to Christian parents, as in the present case,” Justice Prathiba M. Singh remarked in a March 15 order. As per the couple, they adopted a minor child, who was born on December 11, 2014, from Ferozepur Punjab. The biological parents of the child got the legal formalities done for completion of adoption of the child with them by preparing an adoption deed which was signed and executed between the biological and the adoptive parents of the child. The adoption deed was duly witnessed by the village sarpanch as well as the relative – social worker and was also registered on December 18, 2014 under the provisions of the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act (HAMA), 1956, the couple said. Issue with passport As the couple are U.S. citizens and their parents resides in Kerala, the child has since the adoption been living in Kerala with grandparents. The couple said they have been unable to obtain a passport for the child till date. Now the child herself is aged more than six and the couple claim that they are visiting her regularly, on an annual basis, and are also in touch with her through electronic platforms In the meantime, the couple took various steps for seeking a declaration of parenthood, including the filing of a civil suit before a Court in Ferozepur. However, the Court refused to grant the declaration on the ground that the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act, 1956, does not apply to Christians. The couple contended that in order to obtain a passport for the child, they approached CARA in October 2016 to get an NOC. However, CARA rejected the application and in addition initiated action against them, the relative who helped in the adoption, and also the grand parents of the adopted child. They argued the mere fact that the adoption deed was registered under HAMA, ought not to be used to invalidate legality of the adoption, as the child is happily living with the grandparents and is in complete protection and care of the adoptive parents. “The welfare of the child is paramount in such cases and the validity of the rejection of the NOC by CARA is to be examined by the Court,” Justice Singh said while posting the case for further hearing on April 22. “No coercive measures shall be taken pursuant to the letter dated March 2, 2020, against the petitioners, the child, their relatives, or any person who facilitated the adoption...,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/adoption-authority-gets-hc-notice-on-plea/article34240988.ece
05 April 2021||Kolkata,||Furore over bandaged leg of West Bengal CM||A video of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee moving her injured leg to and fro sitting on a wheelchair has sparked a fresh war of words between the Trinamool Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party. The 30-second video clip that appears to be shot inside a Trinamool Congress party office was shared on social media by a BJP spokesperson.  ‘Cheap politics’ While the BJP claimed that going by the video it does not look that Ms Banerjee’s leg injury is serious, the Trinamool Congress has accused the saffron party of “cheap politics”. The Chief Minister suffered an injury on March 10 while campaigning in Nandigram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/furore-over-bandaged-leg-of-west-bengal-cm/article34240965.ece
05 April 2021||NEW DELHI,||Temperatures likely to rise in coming days||The minimum temperature in Delhi rose to 14 degrees Celsius on Sunday which was five degrees below the normal after a low of 11.7 degrees Celsius, which was seven degrees below normal on Saturday. The MeT Department has forecast that cool winds that brought about the fall in the minimum temperature had abated and that the temperatures were likely to rise in the coming days. The maximum temperature on Sunday was recorded at 36.7 degrees Celsius, which was three degrees above normal for the season. The temperature had fallen in the national capital over the week after the hottest day in March in 76 years was recorded on March 29 when the city experienced a heat wave as the temperature shot up to 40.1 degrees Celsius. The weather forecast for Monday reads “partly cloudy sky with the maximum and minimum temperatures hovering between 37 and 17 degrees Celsius respectively”. The partly cloudy sky is likely to continue for two more days with “thundery development” on Wednesday, it said. The sky is expected to be clear on Thursday with strong surface winds. The maximum temperature is likely to stay between 35 and 38 degrees Celsius and is unlikely to reach 40 degree Celsius mark in the coming week as it did on March 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/city-temperature-likely-to-rise-in-coming-days/article34240994.ece
05 April 2021||LUCKNOW,||13 workers injured in U.P. scaffolding collapse||Thirteen labourers were injured, five of them seriously, after a scaffolding collapsed on them during maintenance work at a power plant in Uttar Pradesh’s Sonbhadra district on Sunday, the police said. The incident took place at the privately-run Lanco Anpara Power Limited Project in the district, located on the eastern fringes of the State. Around 2.45 a.m., some workers were doing maintenance work in the boiler of the plant, when suddenly the shed collapsed, said the site manager, S.K. Dwivedi. While eight injured labourers were discharged after treatment at the site, the other five, aged between 20 and 34, were admitted to a hospital, the company running the plant said. Out of danger All are out of danger as per doctors, said the government. No worker was trapped, said Amrendra P.D. Singh, Superintendent of Police, Sonbhadra. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath instructed an Additional Chief Secretary-rank officer to probe the incident and fix accountability for the same with immediate action, the government said in a statement. A joint probe team, consisting of officials of NTPC and Utpadan Nigam, has been formed under Sub-Divisional Magistrate Ramesh Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/13-workers-injured-in-up-scaffolding-collapse/article34240984.ece
05 April 2021||April 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Hunger pangs||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hunger-pangs/article34241043.ece
05 April 2021||New Delhi,||Support pours in from youth in last leg of ‘Switch Delhi’ campaign||The last leg of the eight-week-long ‘Switch Delhi’ campaign for promoting the adoption of e-vehicles gained “overwhelming support” from youth, a Delhi government said on Sunday. Hundreds of youth in Delhi took the ‘Switch Delhi’ pledge to make their first vehicle an electric one, it said. Various events were organised on the eighth week of the campaign for creating awareness among youngsters about the monetary and environmental benefits of electric vehicles witnessed various events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/support-pours-in-from-youth-in-last-leg-of-switch-delhi-campaign/article34240989.ece
05 April 2021||GURUGRAM,||Govt. lost trust of people: RS MP Hooda||Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda on Sunday said the government might have won trust vote in the Haryana Assembly, but it lost the trust of people. Addressing the Kisan-Mazdoor Traders Conference at Jat Bhawan in Karnal, Mr. Hooda moved a no-confidence motion against the government in a public meeting, which was unanimously passed by the massive crowd. Speaking at the meeting, Mr. Hooda said the BJP had won all 10 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha election, but Ministers were unable to enter many villages and added that the BJP must introspect why this situation had come up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-has-lost-trust-of-people-rs-mp-hooda/article34240998.ece
